-- Twitter's Financing Round Is Said to Value Company at More Than $3 Billion
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-12-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/twitter-s-financing-round-is-said-to-value-company-at-more-than-3-billion.html
Twitter Inc. is considering a funding
round that would value the company at more than $3 billion as
investors clamor for a stake in the social-networking service,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  The financing may include new investors, such as venture-
capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Russian
investment company Digital Sky Technologies, said two of the
people, who declined to be named because the fundraising isn’t
public.  Sean Garrett , a Twitter spokesman, declined to comment.  Fresh funding would help Twitter broaden its service and
attract more users, now numbering more than 175 million, while
lessening pressure to do an initial public offering. In October,
Twitter named operations head  Dick Costolo  as chief executive
officer, after he helped the company start an advertising
program that attracted companies such as Starbucks Corp. He
replaced co-founder  Evan Williams .  Started in 2006, San Francisco-based Twitter raised $100
million in September 2009, when it had about 25 million users.
That round included T. Rowe Price Group Inc., Insight Venture
Partners, Spark Capital and Institutional Venture Partners. The
valuation was about $1 billion, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time. In January, Costolo said that an IPO is
still “way out” for Twitter.  Redesigned Site  The service, embraced by actors, politicians, athletes and
company executives, lets users broadcast messages of no more
than 140 characters. In September, Twitter revamped its website
to make it easier to post photos, video and maps directly on the
page. The redesign also gives marketers a new way to use
multimedia in online promotions.  The company needs cash to expand its workforce and build
data centers to handle increasing traffic. Twitter said in July
it was opening its own  managed data center  in Utah and that it
planned to add similar data centers in the next 24 months.  Twitter ranks third globally among social-networking sites,
topping News Corp.’s MySpace, according to ComScore Inc. in
Reston, Virginia. Facebook Inc. is No. 1, and Windows Live
Profile from Microsoft Corp. is second.  Twitter’s fundraising efforts were  previously reported  by
the TechCrunch and AllThingsDigital blogs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  