-- Euro Heads for Fourth Weekly Loss on European Debt Crisis; Won Strengthens
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-03T06:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/yen-set-for-weekly-gain-as-korean-tensions-europe-debt-spur-safety-demand.html
The euro headed for a fourth weekly
decline against the dollar on speculation European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will today refrain from announcing
new measures to combat the region’s debt crisis.  The single currency was poised for its longest run of
weekly losses since May versus the greenback after Standard &
Poor’s said it may cut Greece’s credit rating as proposed
European Union rules threaten to hurt bondholders. South Korea’s
won rose, headed for a weekly gain, as overseas investors
boosted their holdings of the nation’s shares for a third day.  “The ECB’s measures do not fully address liquidity or
solvency concerns that have damaged market sentiment,” said
 Yuki Sakasai , a currency strategist at Barclays Bank Plc in
Tokyo. “We suspect this points to further euro weakness for the
time being, although the chances of a sharp decline have been
reduced by continued progress on sovereign issues.”  The euro traded at $1.3222 as of 6:41 a.m. in London from
$1.3209 in New York yesterday, having declined 0.2 percent this
week. The single currency was at 110.49 yen from 110.73 yen,
down 0.8 percent this week. The yen was little changed at 83.58
per dollar from 83.82.  The euro was poised for a second weekly decline versus the
yen after Trichet stopped short of announcing any new steps to
contain Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis at the ECB’s monthly
policy meeting yesterday in Frankfurt.  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 1 percent and extended an emergency loan program
to combat “acute” market tensions. Trichet will speak today at
the central bank’s monthly news conference in Paris.  Markets ‘Disappointed’  “Hopes that ECB President Trichet would announce a step up
in purchases of sovereign debt to stabilize these markets were
disappointed,”  John Kyriakopoulos , Sydney-based head of
currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd., wrote in a
research note today. “The euro dived to as low as $1.3060 from
$1.3175 just before Trichet’s press conference.”  Concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen has shifted to
Portugal and Spain since Nov. 28, when the region’s governments
gave Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($112 billion) rescue package.  Greece’s ‘BB+’ long-term sovereign rating was placed on
“CreditWatch” with negative implications, S&P said in a
statement yesterday from Madrid. The rating company said it was
assessing credit implications of the so-called European
Stability Mechanism that may govern European Union sovereign
bonds beginning in July 2013.  Won Gains  The won strengthened for a third day as funds based abroad
bought $373 million more Korean shares than they sold yesterday,
the biggest net purchases in almost three weeks, exchange data
show. The  Kospi  index of shares posted its highest close since
Nov. 10 on optimism that tensions between North and South Korea
are easing.  “We haven’t seen North Korean retaliation, which they
pledged to do after the attack, and the lack of negative events
let risk aversion subside,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “Positive
sentiment globally boosted appetite for risk assets like the
Korean won.”  The won rose 0.9 percent to 1,138.55 per dollar, having
advanced 1.9 percent this week.  Losses in the  dollar  were tempered as economists said a U.S.
report today will show employers added workers for a second
month. Employment increased by 150,000 in November, after rising
151,000 in October, according to a Bloomberg survey before
today’s Labor Department report.  ‘Payrolls to Improve’  “There are expectations for payrolls to improve, given
recent U.S. data have gotten a bit better,” said  Osao Iizuka ,
head of foreign-exchange trading at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co.,
Ltd. in Tokyo. “With 10-year Treasury yields rising beyond the
3 percent level yesterday, this is positive for the dollar and
negative for the yen.”  Treasuries fell yesterday, pushing the 10-year note yield
above 3 percent for the first time since July. ADP Employer
Services reported on Nov. 1 that employment increased by 93,000
last month, the most since November 2007.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, slid 0.1 percent to
80.189, set for a 0.2 drop this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Tokyo at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 