-- Hyundai Motor Targets Expanded SUV Sales to Sustain U.S. Growth
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-12-03T04:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/hyundai-motor-targets-expanded-suv-crossover-sales-to-sustain-u-s-growth.html
Hyundai Motor Co. , the fastest
growing mass-market automaker in the U.S., expects sales of its
sport-utility and crossover vehicles to rise faster than its
cars in 2011.  “We have lots of upside opportunity on the car-based,
light truck side of the market, in crossovers,” U.S. Chief
Executive  John Krafcik  said in an interview yesterday in La
Jolla, California. Hyundai’s share of U.S. retail car sales is
about 7 percent and it’s about 2 percent for light trucks, he
said.  The Seoul-based company this week said U.S. sales rose 45
percent in November and 23 percent in 2010’s first 11 months.
The Sonata sedan, with a 65 percent gain this year, led the
increase, along with Genesis luxury cars and Elantra compacts.  The automaker’s accelerating U.S. sales have been fueled by
new models with enhanced designs, improved quality and prices
typically below those of competing  Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Honda
Motor Co.  models. Hyundai’s growth also coincides with Toyota’s
efforts to reassure buyers about its quality after record
recalls and the yen’s rise to a 15-year high against the dollar,
which trims the competitiveness of Japanese exporters.  Light trucks, including SUVs, crossovers, minivans and
pickups, have been the fastest growing vehicles in the U.S. this
year, rising 18 percent through November, while industrywide car
sales grew only 5.4 percent, according to Autodata Corp.  ’Dramatic Gains’  “Cars are where our dramatic volume gains came from, but
we’ve been underrepresented on the growth side with crossovers
and SUVs,” Krafcik said. To remedy that, the company is seeking
ways to boost production of its Tucson and Santa Fe models and
increase supply of the 7-passenger Veracruz model.  “I’m not saying we need to add incremental products, but
that we’ve got to find a way to get some more capacity so we can
sell more of those products,” he said.  Hyundai  rose  2.8 percent in Seoul trading to 182,500 won as
of 1:17 p.m. The shares have risen 51 percent in 2010.  The company estimates the U.S. auto market will expand by 1
million units in 2011 to 12.5 million cars and light trucks, up
8.7 percent from about 11.5 million this year, he said.  Krafcik spoke after a briefing with reporters on the 2011
Elantra that Hyundai began selling in the U.S. late last month.
The car, built at Hyundai’s Montgomery, Alabama, plant for the
first time, is designed to win sales from Toyota’s Corolla and
Honda’s Civic, the top-selling U.S. small cars.  Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit is in Fountain Valley,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  