-- Hyundai E&C Falls as Hyundai Group Submits Details on Stake Purchase Plan
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-12-03T07:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/hyundai-e-c-falls-as-hyundai-group-submits-details-on-stake-purchase-plan.html
Hyundai Engineering & Construction
Co.  fell the most in almost two weeks in Seoul after Hyundai
Group gave shareholders documents supporting its funding plan
for buying a stake in the builder, damping speculation the deal
may fall apart.  South Korea’s biggest  construction company  fell 2.7
percent, the biggest decline since Nov. 22, to 65,400 won at the
3 p.m. close of trading in Seoul.  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. ,
Hyundai Group’s largest unit, dropped 2.8 percent to 44,400 won.  Hyundai Group said today it gave shareholders selling 35
percent of the builder information showing that it didn’t use
shares of the construction company or other units as collateral
for a loan. The documents may ease the sellers’ concerns about
Hyundai Group’s ability to pay for the deal even as the
builders’ other shareholders worry about how much extra money
the group will be able to invest in the company following a
deal, said  Kang Seung Min , an analyst at NH Investment &
Securities Co.  “Investors still have doubts about how Hyundai Group will
repay debts used to buy the builder without hurting the
financial health of its units or Hyundai Engineering,” the
Seoul-based analyst said. The documents today “strengthen
speculation that the deal may go through,” he said.  Loan Agreement  Hyundai Group said it didn’t include a copy of the 1.2
trillion won ($1 billion) loan agreement with Paris-based
Natixis SA in the documents it handed over. The shareholders
will review the submission before deciding what steps to take
next, said Korea Exchange Bank, one of the sellers.  Hyundai Group offered about 5.5 trillion won for the
controlling stake in the builder, two people familiar with the
matter said on Nov. 16, the day the group was name preferred
bidder. That’s more than double the market price.  The bid was about 400 billion won higher than an offer made
by Hyundai Motor Group, said the people. Hyundai Motor Group and
Hyundai Group, once part of the same business group, made rival
offers for the builder, extending a decade-long family feud.  The  shareholders  selling the stock said on Dec. 1 that
Hyundai Group had until Dec. 7 to submit information about the
loan agreement and other information showing how it will pay for
the stake in the builder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 