-- First credit, now recession worries hit LBOs
-- By  Jonathan Keehner  and  Michael Flaherty
-- Fri Sep 7, 2007 5:49pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/09/07/businesspro-privateequity-recession-deal-idUSN0722836220070907

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A slew of private equity deals already 
under financing pressure from the credit crunch now face added 
concerns over a potential recession. 

  The primary worry warts trying to renegotiate the deals 
have been banks wanting new financing terms to help them unload 
the more than $330 billion of leveraged buyout debt they're 
currently stuck with.  But now private equity firms may be having second thoughts 
of their own about the deals as the specter of an economic 
downturn brings the possibility of lower cash flows or losses.  U.S. employers cut payrolls in August for the first time in 
four years, according to jobs data released on Friday -- 
sparking talk of a potential recession.  This comes at a tough time for private equity firms, which 
are already trying to work around the credit crunch that hit 
the buyout market this summer.  "I've got to believe that if you have a signed agreement, 
you're pretty nervous right now," said Ian Snow, CEO of SPG 
Partners, a $660 million private equity fund.  Snow said he hasn't seen conclusive evidence that the 
economy is heading for a recession, but added that "private 
equity investors are treading lightly around areas related to 
financial services and segments related to housing."  Friday's jobs report heightens the prospect of private 
equity firms renegotiating terms on certain deals, as seen in 
Home Depot Inc's ( HD.N ) recent supply division sale, and 
underscores the possibility of banks and firms exiting deals 
through breakup fees.  Until now, private equity firms were seen as holding 
reluctant banks to the terms on which they had agreed. But if 
the economy spirals into a recession, it'll likely be the 
private equity firms seeking the exit doors.
  RECESSION CONCESSIONS  A sudden economic downturn could even cause Kohlberg Kravis 
Roberts & Co. to relent with its bankers on the $26 billion 
leveraged buyout of payment processor First Data Corp FDC.N. 
KKR and the banks are negotiating terms on that deal, with KKR 
showing so far no sign it is willing to budge.  "When people are spending less, that affects First Data's 
revenue," said John Kraft, an equity research analyst covering 
payment processors at brokerage D.A. Davidson & Co.  If the economy slows, KKR will not find itself with a 
lemon, Kraft said, but he added that current market conditions 
may prompt a renegotiation.  "KKR could go to First Data and say: 'If we have to, we'll 
walk away' -- and First Data might then be more willing to sell 
at $32 a share instead of $34," he said.  "If the deal got canceled, First Data would be worse off 
than if the deal had not been announced."  Another private equity deal with heightened exposure to a 
severe economic downturn is Blackstone Group's ( BX.N ) $20 
billion takeover of Hilton Hotels Corp HLT.N.  Recessions tend to hit hotel companies hard because travel 
and leisure spending dries up.  Blackstone Group offered to buy the company in July for a 
40 percent premium -- at a time when the stock had already 
roughly tripled in the previous five years.  "It's very difficult to back out of these deals," said 
Robert LaFleur, a hotels and gaming analyst with Susquehanna 
Financial Group. Any attempts to back out of these deals now 
would likely land the parties in court, he said.  Because private equity firms often hold onto companies for 
several years, they are usually insulated from short-term blips 
in the economy.  "When you buy a business, you really do buy it for 3 to 5 
years. You expect ups and downs, that's the beauty of private 
ownership over public ownership," said the CEO of a nearly $2 
billion private equity fund who did not want to be identified.  One month of jobs data is hardly enough to have him worried 
about a recession he said, though he said one industry did look 
to be in tough shape.  "If you own something in the homebuilding sector, you're 
probably scratching your head right now," he said.  (Additional reporting by  Dan Wilchins  and  Chris Reiter )  (For more M&A news and our DealZone blog, go to 
 here )