-- The little book that says "quit"
-- By  Yinka Adegoke
-- Sat Jun 23, 2007 10:50am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/23/businesspro-books-dip-dc-idUSN1945870120070623

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - At some stage in everyone's career 
comes a desire to throw down tools and walk away, and plenty of 
motivational books say you should resist that temptation. Now, 
a new book says quitting can be a good strategy. 

  The central premise of "The Dip -- A Little Book That 
Teaches You When To Quit" (Portfolio) is that in all walks of 
life -- work, leisure, relationships or business -- you will 
encounter what author Seth Godin calls a dip.  A dip is a "common sinkhole that trips up so many people," 
he says. It is the long slog between starting and mastery. It 
is the difference between the beginner technique and the more 
useful "expert" approach in, say, skiing or fashion design.  Winners quit fast and quit often and only stick when they 
find the right dip to conquer, Godin says.  Most CEOs of Fortune 500 companies have been through a huge 
dip before getting to where they are today, says Godin. After 
all, if it weren't for the dip, there wouldn't be the scarcity 
that creates the value for which the CEO is paid.  Of course, most people do quit when faced with challenges 
or difficulties. The problem, Godin writes, is that they don't 
plan when to quit. If quitting was part of the strategy then 
individuals and companies would be more successful.  For example, a business moving into a new market should 
plan when to quit to ensure that it never settles for 
mediocrity.  Procter & Gamble ( PG.N ) has killed "hundreds of products" 
to concentrate on successes, he notes. Starbucks Corp. ( SBUX.O ) 
dropped its music CD-burning stations.  If "The Dip" sounds contrarian, that is something of a 
theme for Godin, who is the author of other books with 
counter-intuitive titles, like "All Marketers Are Liars" and 
"Small Is the New Big."  Its anecdotal style, friendly charts and graphs will remind 
some readers of last year's popular business book "The Long 
Tail" by Chris Anderson. Yet its philosophy is the opposite, 
because "The Dip" champions the champions while "The Long Tail" 
champions the little guy.  In Godin's view it's really only worthwhile being No. 1 in 
a market or at least having a real shot at being No. 1.  If you have a shot at being number one then it's worth 
"leaning into the dip" says Godin. He cites Microsoft Corp. 
( MSFT.O ), which he says failed twice with Windows, four times 
with Word and three times with Excel but slogged through the 
difficult dip to success.  The Dip is a mere 80 pages long and is in a pocket-sized 
format reminiscent of Spencer Johnson's 96-page "Who Moved My 
Cheese?," a motivational book on how to cope with change that 
has sold more than 21 million copies since 1998.  The last page of "The Dip" encourages the reader to write 
in the names of friends or co-workers who need to learn about 
quitting, a marketing ploy that may help it emulate the viral 
success of "Who Moved My Cheese."