-- New York Times Settles Gatehouse Copyright Lawsuit
-- Erik Larson
-- 2009-01-26T22:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-01-26/new-york-times-settles-gatehouse-copyright-lawsuit-update3-.html

          
          
             New York  Times Co., owner of the
Boston Globe, must change the way it publishes online links to
 Gatehouse Media Inc. (GHSE) ’s content under a settlement of a lawsuit
accusing the Times of copyright infringement.  
 The accord, which doesn’t include money damages, prevents
New York Times from using an automated service to locate new
Gatehouse news stories and bars the publisher from circumventing
Gatehouse security measures to block copying of headlines and
lead paragraphs, according to a  document  signed yesterday by the
companies and posted on the New York Times Web site.  
 “It strikes me as largely a victory for Gatehouse,” David
Ardia, director of the Citizen Media Law Project at Harvard Law
School’s Berkman Center, said today in a phone interview. “They
may need to write their own headlines and leads to link to
Gatehouse stories.”  
 The agreement means U.S. District Judge William Young, who
was handling the case, won’t decide whether the widely used
practice of posting competitors’ news headlines and lead
sentences as links can be challenged in U.S. courts. A trial in
the case was scheduled to begin today in  Boston .  
 Although New York Times will be allowed under the deal to
link to Gatehouse news stories, the accord doesn’t specify what
security measures Gatehouse might take or prohibit New York
Times from using any Gatehouse content, Ardia said.  
 ‘Tea Leaves’  
 “It’s clear the parties haven’t fully resolved all the
issues in a way they’re comfortable laying out in a long
settlement agreement,” Ardia said. “We’re reading the tea
leaves and they haven’t fully settled.”  
 A formal written settlement agreement between the
publishers will be reached by Jan. 30, the companies said.  
 “The agreement makes clear that neither party is foregoing
any right that they have under copyright law,” said Michael Kwun, a lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an
advocacy group that isn’t involved in the case. “There’s
nothing to stop the New York Times from continuing to use links
to Gatehouse articles.”  
 New York Times agreed to stop using Gatehouse’s content
alert service known as an RSS feed -- technology that
automatically informs  Internet users  when new content is posted
on their favorite Web sites.  
 Without the RSS feed, New York Times will have a more
difficult time finding new Gatehouse news stories and it may
reduce the number of stories it links to, according to Kwun.  
 RSS Feeds  
 “The labor used to link to Gatehouse articles was very low
because it was easily done with a computer-processed format,”
Kwun said. “New York Times has agreed not to use that
shortcut.”  
 New York Times also agreed to remove by March 1 all
Gatehouse content already gathered using an RSS feed and posted
on Boston.com, the Web site for Boston Globe.  
 Gatehouse, owner of more than 90 newspapers, filed the
lawsuit in December, accusing the Boston Globe of drawing
readers and advertising revenue away from Gatehouse’s
publications specializing in local news for dozens of
 Massachusetts  towns.  
 Anthony Scibelli, Gatehouse’s lawyer with the firm Hiscock
& Barclay LLP in Boston, declined to comment.  
 Gatehouse claimed New York Times ignored cease-and-desist
letters and evaded computer-security measures. Boston.com has
been expanding into so-called hyper-local news coverage with Web
pages devoted to individual Massachusetts towns.  
 News stories whose headlines and lead sentences were copied
by Boston.com include articles about high school sports, city
budget gaps and a local dog show, according to the complaint.  
 Industry Practice  
 New York Times spokeswoman Catherine Mathis said in an
e-mailed statement after the lawsuit was filed that the disputed
practice is no different from that at hundreds of other news Web
sites, and that linking to competitors’ sites benefits the
original news provider.  
 Mathis didn’t immediately return a message today seeking
comment on the settlement. New York Times lawyer Parker Bagley,
of Goodwin Procter LLP in New York, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  
 Gatehouse had sought a court order barring New York Times
from linking to its sites or posting headlines from its news
stories.  
 Gatehouse raised $248.4 million in an October 2006 initial
public offering to pay lenders including Fortress Investment
Group Inc. The shares sold for $18 each. Gatehouse last traded
at 6 cents in over-the-counter trading on Jan. 23.  
 New York Times fell 3 cents to $5.72 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m.  
 The case is Gatehouse Media Massachusetts I, Inc. v. The
 New York Times Co. (NYT) , 1:08-cv-12114, U.S. District Court, District
of Massachusetts (Boston).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in Boston at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        