-- Virgin America Seeks End to U.S. Ownership Objection
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2009-09-03T22:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-03/virgin-america-seeks-end-to-u-s-ownership-objection-update2-.html

          
          
             Virgin America  Inc., the carrier
partly owned by U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson , asked U.S.
regulators to reject claims from  Alaska (ALK)  Air Group Inc. that it
violates laws limiting foreign ownership.  
 Virgin America said it complies with U.S. law concerning
such restrictions, according to a filing today with the
Transportation Department in  Washington .  Alaska  is using
“inaccurate facts and misrepresentations” in alleging
violations, Burlingame, California-based Virgin America said.  
 Federal law prohibits citizens of other countries from
controlling domestic airlines or owning more than 25 percent of
voting stock. Virgin America has defended against challenges
from U.S. carriers since before it began flights in 2007. Alaska
Air filed its most recent challenge Aug. 21, asking regulators
for a public review of Virgin America’s ownership.  
 “Alaska’s renewed motion should be recognized and
dismissed for what it is: political and public posturing
designed to do nothing more than make a headline and attempt to
harm a new competitor,” Virgin America said in the filing.  
 Alaska Air competes with Virgin America on flights in the
western U.S. and across the country.  
 “We continue to have concerns about Virgin America’s
compliance with U.S. foreign ownership laws required of all
domestic carriers and ask that the DOT hold all airlines to the
same standard of compliance,” Bobbie Egan, a spokeswoman for
Seattle-based Alaska Air, said in an e-mail.  
 U.S. Review  
 Bill Mosley , a Transportation Department spokesman,
declined to comment on the filing. All documents filed in
response to Alaska Air’s request are under review, he said.  
 In the most recent filing, Alaska Air maintains that
sometime during 2008, Virgin America revised its financial
structure so that the balance of control “has come perilously
close to reverting” to Branson’s Virgin Group Ltd.  
 Alaska Air’s two earlier requests were made in March and
February. The Air Line Pilots Association, Association of Flight
Attendants-CWA and the  Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association 
this week all filed documents supporting Alaska’s request for a
public review of Virgin America’s ownership.  
 Virgin America Chief Executive Officer David Cush said in
June that the airline expects to add at least one more U.S.-
based investor this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        