-- DaimlerChrysler hires ex-FBI head Freeh amid probe
-- 
-- Tue Dec 26, 2006 11:04am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/26/businesspro-daimlerchrysler-investigatio-idUSN2628284220061226

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - DaimlerChrysler AG DCXGn.DE DCX.N 
has hired former FBI Director Louis Freeh to serve as an 
independent monitor as it concludes a two-year internal 
investigation into cases of suspected bribery by company 
representatives, the automaker said on Tuesday. 

  The hiring of Freeh was first reported by the Detroit News, 
which said that by bringing on an independent watchdog in 
Freeh, DaimlerChrysler hoped to minimize any sanctions it might 
face from U.S. government regulators.  DaimlerChrysler spokesman Han Tjan said Freeh's hiring as a 
consultant was one step in an effort to investigate the 
suspected bribery and to take steps to prevent future such 
cases.  "The internal investigation is still ongoing and we are 
determined to act to address all of the issues we've 
identified," Tjan said. "We are taking these matters extremely 
seriously."  DaimlerChrysler first disclosed in March that it had found 
evidence that company representatives made "improper payments" 
to foreign officials in "Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe," but 
provided no further details at the time.  The Detroit News quoted unnamed people familiar with the 
investigation as saying that the probe had uncovered "multiple 
instances" of bribery by company officials.  The newspaper reported that the findings and related 
documents had been turned over to federal officials.  The bribery case is the target of a civil investigation by 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a criminal 
probe by the Justice Department.  A spokesman for Freeh, who left the FBI in 2001 and who now 
works as an independent legal consultant, could not be 
immediately reached.  The case stems from a lawsuit filed in federal court in 
Detroit in 2004 in which a former company accountant claimed 
that he was fired in part because he had complained to 
superiors about secret bank accounts kept by the company's 
Mercedes unit.  That lawsuit was settled out of court for undisclosed terms 
last year.  A second whistleblower case was settled by DaimlerChrysler 
earlier this month, the Detroit News said.  DaimlerChrysler, which owns the Auburn Hills, 
Michigan-based Chrysler Group, could face charges under a 1977 
U.S. law that bars companies from paying foreign bribes.  In Germany, by contrast, bribing foreign officials and even 
deducting such payments from taxes was legal until 1999.  The Detroit News said DaimlerChrysler's internal probe had 
found that the bribes were seen at Mercedes as "an accepted way 
of doing business in many countries."  In DaimlerChrysler's annual report, which was filed in 
March, the world's No. 5 automaker disclosed that U.S. 
financial regulators and criminal investigators were looking 
into potential violations of anti-corruption laws.  In addition, DaimlerChrysler said then that it faced 
possible tax liabilities for misclassifying or omitting 
commissions and other payments and expenses.  It said it had taken charges related to these issues and 
had reduced its 2005 operating profit by the equivalent of 
about $21 million.  Shares of DaimlerChrysler were up 22 cents at $61.02 on the 
New York Stock Exchange.  The bribery probe is one of a number of difficulties 
DaimlerChrysler has faced this year, including weaker U.S. 
sales, a costly overhang of unsold Chrysler vehicles and U.S. 
marketing campaigns that faced criticism for failing to connect 
with consumers.