-- GM blasts proposed change in U.S. fuel economy rules
-- 
-- Tue Dec 26, 2006 12:23pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/26/businesspro-gm-fueleconomy-dc-idUSN2638051220061226

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - A proposal to increase the U.S. fuel 
economy standards would force Detroit-based automakers market 
to "hand over" the market for trucks and sport utility vehicles 
to Japanese manufacturers, a senior General Motors Corp.( GM.N ) 
executive said. 

  Bob Lutz, GM's vice-chairman and the head of the company's 
global product development team, said the proposed changes to 
the government's Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) 
standards would represent an unfair burden on the traditional 
Big Three automakers.  "For one thing, it puts us, the domestic manufacturers, at 
odds with the desires of most of our customers, namely larger 
vehicles," Lutz said in a year-end posting on a Web site 
maintained by GM.  He added: "That effectively hands the truck and SUV market 
over to the imports, particularly the Japanese, who have earned 
years of accumulated credits from their fleets of formerly very 
small cars."  Lutz, a long-time critic of government fuel economy 
regulations, compared the attempt to force carmakers to sell 
smaller vehicles to "fighting the nation's obesity problem by 
forcing clothing manufacturers to sell garments only in small 
sizes."  A group called the Energy Security Leadership Council, 
which includes more than a dozen prominent U.S. executives and 
retired military officers, issued a report earlier this month 
calling on the U.S. Congress to take steps reduce the reliance 
on imported oil.  The group called for tougher fuel economy regulation, 
including a 4 percent annual increase in CAFE standards, which 
have been held essentially flat for the past decade.  In a related move, the Consumer Federation of America 
released a study last month showing that nine of 13 major 
automakers had a fleetwide average fuel economy performance 
that was lower in 2005 than it had been a decade ago.  Auto executives have argued that the industry's flat 
overall fuel economy in recent years reflects the strong 
preference for trucks and SUVs by American drivers, a point 
Lutz made in his Internet posting.  "As long as (gas) is around $2 per gallon here, people will 
exercise their freedom to buy the vehicle they want, V8 engine 
and all," he said. "Forcing us to alter the fleets to hit some 
theoretical average won't change what consumers want, or what 
they'll buy."  GM said last month that it would launch an electric hybrid 
vehicle, a step many environmentalists have hailed as a way to 
reduce both oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.  Lutz said GM would provide more details on its development 
efforts in that area at the Detroit Auto Show in early January, 
but he said much of the available technology to improve gas 
mileage was already on the road.  "There is no technological bag of tricks that enable much 
better fuel economy than we have today," he said. "Despite what 
the alarmists may think, we don't have any magic 100-mpg 
carburetor that we're holding back because we're in bed with 
the oil companies."  The U.S. CAFE standard, which applies only an average 
across the fleet of vehicles, is currently 27.5 miles per 
gallon for cars and 20.7 miles per gallon for trucks and SUVs 
weighing less than 8,500 pounds.  Under the 30-year-old law, automakers face fines for 
failing to make the average fleet standard. Automakers can also 
earn CAFE "credits" to offset shortfalls in future years, a 
situation that applies to Japan's Toyota Motor Corp. ( 7203.T ) 
and Honda Motor Co.( 7267.T )