-- Storms, housing hit retail sales: report
-- By  Ilaina Jonas
-- Tue Dec 26, 2006 10:59am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/26/businesspro-usa-retail-dc-idUSN2634069020061226

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Bad weather that kept shoppers away 
from the malls combined with a weak housing market to take some 
of the wind out of U.S. holiday sales, a private report showed, 
although consumer electronics did well. 

  From the day after Thanksgiving through December 24, 
adjusted retail sales, excluding automobiles, grew about 3 
percent, compared with last year's 5.2 percent growth, said 
SpendingPulse, the retail data service provider for MasterCard 
Advisors, which calculates retail sales figures based on credit 
card shopping.  "I think a lot of people were hoping that the end of the 
season would really bail out a lot of the apparel sectors," 
said Michael McNamara, vice president of research and analysis 
for MasterCard Advisors. "The disruptive weather didn't help."  Warm weather wilted sales of cold-weather clothing, 
McNamara said. The weak housing market, which prevented home 
owners from taking out home equity loans also dragged on retail 
sales, especially in furniture, he added.  But consumer electronics and luxury goods did well, with 
online shopping another bright spot for retailers.  Holiday sales, especially during the final week, can have a 
material impact on an array of retailers including, Gap Inc. 
( GPS.N ), Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ), high-end handbag and 
accessories maker Coach Inc.( COH.N ), and department store 
operator Federated Department Stores Inc. FD.N  Credit card company Visa USA would also lower its forecast 
for holiday spending, the New York Times reported.  Based on purchases by credit and debit card holders, Visa 
said sales in November and December rose 6.5 percent from last 
year, down from its initial forecast of a 7.5 percent gain, the 
paper reported. Last year, sales rose 8.3 percent.
  ONLINE SHOPPING  Buyers who couldn't make it to the malls booted up their 
computers and went shopping online, McNamara said.  "E-commerce was a pleasant surprise in the second half of 
the season," he said. Growth in online shopping for the season 
was in the high-teens.  Although the e-commerce growth was a bit lower than last 
year, McNamara cautioned against comparison because of the 
small base for this relatively recent way of shopping.  Consumer electronics led the way as gifts in demand, the 
data showed. Luxury goods -- priced over $1,000 -- also were in 
high demand, although excluding jewelry would have given an 
even higher increase.  In general, men's apparel also sold well, as did footwear.  Sales growth for children's and women's apparel, however, 
was weak, he said.  At the lower end of the price spectrum, sales picked up 
toward the end of the holiday shopping season as retailers 
slashed prices to move merchandise. But overall, the higher end 
of the market outperformed the lower end.  The best holiday retail performance was turned in by the 
U.S. Mountain region, with sales growing 8.2 percent despite a 
blizzard late in the shopping season, MasterCard Advisors said.  The densely populated Northeast saw sales rise 7.9 percent 
from last year. But sales in the central Great Plains region 
limped along, up just 0.6 percent, while sales on the West 
Coast declined 1.7 percent because of inclement weather in the 
Pacific Northwest.  SpendingPulse uses MasterCard information to extrapolate 
total retail sales. Its figures were adjusted to allow for a 
31-day holiday season, compared with 30 days in the 2005 
season. Unadjusted, national retail sales grew 6.6 percent in 
2006, the figures showed.  (Additional reporting by  Megan Davies  in New York)