-- Gift cards, cold give stores one last chance
-- By  Emily Kaiser
-- Tue Dec 26, 2006 11:14am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/26/businesspro-usa-retail-outlook-dc-idUSN2634708120061226

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Colder weather and huge demand for gift 
cards should give retailers one last chance this week to make 
up for slack December sales growth, but it may be too little, 
too late to rescue fourth-quarter earnings. 

  The weekend before Christmas, which typically includes the 
busiest shopping day of the year, did little to alleviate 
concerns that holiday spending would come up short of 
expectations.  "Based on our channel checks, shoppers were out and they 
were buying, but not at the level we had expected, especially 
at many of the apparel driven retailers," Roth Capital Partners 
analyst Elizabeth Pierce wrote in a note to clients.  "Although results were softer than we expected over the 
weekend, we believe it is premature to 'call' the holiday 
season given the increasing popularity of gift cards," she 
added.  Retailers record revenue from gift cards when the cards are 
redeemed, not when they are sold. That can deflate traditional 
holiday season sales but lift results in late December and into 
January.  Many retailers held back some winter merchandise so that 
they could show something new after Christmas, hoping that 
shoppers armed with gift cards would pay full price for items 
such as coats and sweaters -- two categories that have suffered 
through an unusually warm December.  Planalytics, which tracks weather-related spending, 
predicted a gradual trend toward more seasonable winter weather 
through the first half of January.  Holiday sales from the day after Thanksgiving through 
Christmas Eve grew about 3 percent, well behind last year's 5.2 
percent growth rate, according to SpendingPulse, the retail 
data service provider for MasterCard Advisors.  Holiday season sales rose 6.6 percent without adjusting for 
an extra sales day between Thanksgiving and Christmas, 
MasterCard's SpendingPulse said.  "If MasterCard is calling 6.6 percent (growth) 
disappointing, we'll take disappointing every year," said Scott 
Krugman, spokesman for the National Retail Federation trade 
group, which expects holiday sales growth of about 5 percent.
  CLOTHES SHOPPING?  Final December sales figures won't be released until next 
week, but apparel stores appeared to be among the biggest 
disappointments in the vital Thanksgiving-to-Christmas holiday 
season, and some chains have already slashed prices in a 
last-ditch effort to tempt shoppers.  "From our checks days before Christmas, women's specialty 
retailers in most cases threw in the towel early," CIBC World 
Markets analyst Roxanne Meyer wrote in a note to clients on 
Tuesday.  That could pressure fourth-quarter profits. December is the 
biggest earnings driver in the period, which for most retailers 
ends in January.  CIBC's Meyer said apparel retailer Talbots Inc. began 
taking post-Christmas markdowns as early as December 18. 
Another clothing chain, Christopher & Banks Corp., said last 
week that fourth-quarter earnings would be lower than Wall 
Street analysts had expected.  Analysts said demand for consumer electronics may have 
fizzled out last weekend after a strong start that was driven 
by demand for discounted flat-panel televisions.  "Even typical holiday shopping procrastinators seemed fewer 
and further between, with parking lots of malls and strip malls 
relatively easy to navigate (as) opposed to typical jams," 
Kaufman Bros. analyst SooAnn Roberts wrote in a research note.  Online sales remained strong, however, with Amazon.com Inc.  reporting its busiest day of the holiday season on December 
11. The retailer said it shipped more than 99 percent of orders 
in time to meet holiday deadlines worldwide. On the peak day, 
it shipped more than 3.4 million units.