-- Innovation, design freshen "Made in Taiwan" tech label
-- By  Sheena Lee
-- Tue Dec 26, 2006 2:13am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/26/businesspro-taiwan-tech-design-dc-idUSTP31373720061226

 

 TAIPEI  (Reuters) - Taiwan's computer makers are morphing 
from simple contract manufacturers into designers and 
innovators as they fight for survival in a competitive sector. 

  Four out of five new notebook computers are now designed on 
the island, as firms making everything from cellphones to PCs 
move from a "do what you're told" mentality to a "let's 
innovate" one, transforming the "Made in Taiwan" label.  The change is partly driven by new business opportunities, 
but also by sheer competition as companies try to set 
themselves apart with their innovative design.  Some of the world's top electronics makers, from PC makers 
Dell Inc. DELL.O and Hewlett-Packard Co. ( HPQ.N ) to cellphone 
makers Nokia ( NOK1V.HE ) and Motorola MOT.N, are looking to 
domestic behind-the-scenes players with names like Quanta 
Computer Inc. ( 2382.TW ) and Asustek Computer Inc. ( 2357.TW ) to 
not only make, but also design their latest gadgets.  Dell, the world's top PC maker, said that over 50 percent 
of its notebook PCs are now designed in Taiwan by its locally 
based team working closely with its manufacturing partners.  Dell, whose top Taiwan manufacturing partners include 
Quanta, set up its design center in Taiwan in 2002 with 50 
people for PC and notebook development.  Since then the facility has grown more than six-fold to 330 
staffers.  "We still plan to further expand our design team in Taiwan 
as it is an important part of our business," said Shane Cheng, 
Dell's regional director.
  VALUE ADDED  As competition in the fast-paced IT world intensifies, 
Taiwanese firms are trying everything they can to give their 
clients added-value services.  Taiwan computer makers such as Quanta, Asustek and Lite-On 
Technology Corp. ( 2301.TW ) have all created their own design 
teams, earning reputations as new product pioneers and winning 
awards in global competitions.  "Over 80 percent of the world's notebook computer design is 
outsourced to Taiwan now," said JP Morgan analyst Alvin Kwock.  Having design teams close to the manufacturers has also 
become more strategically logical for foreign tech firms, said 
Kwock. Most final production is done nearby, in mainland China.  Contract makers are using their design capability to 
distinguish themselves from one another, realising 
sophisticated design capabilities can attract customers who 
want everything from MP3 players to mobile phones and laptop 
computers.  "At some point you can't compete on cost alone, so you have 
to turn to design," said Markus Wierzoch, a product design 
manager for Asustek.  The move to design marks a coming of age for Taiwan firms, 
which have migrated from pure manufacturing work, or Original 
Equipment Manufacture (OEM), in the 1980s to a new type of 
work, called original design manufacturing, or ODM, starting in 
the 1990s.  As competition heats up, the level of design services 
offered in Taiwan has increased as well, as players try to 
distinguish themselves in industries where margins are already 
razor-thin.  As a result, the island is earning a name for its new 
generation of young engineers and designers who are winning 
awards in global competitions for their work.  "Perceptions regarding Taiwan's design has really changed a 
lot in the past five years or so," said Wierzoch.  While awards may be a pat on the back, the Taiwanese firms 
are less motivated by prestige and payment than by sheer 
necessity.  Quanta Computer, the world's largest notebook contract 
maker, whose main clients include Dell and Hewlett-Packard, 
said its design development services are provided almost free 
of charge for big customers since competition is so intense.  "It is what Taiwan makers have to do to survive," said JP 
Morgan's Kwock.