-- Wall St ponders tilt in Fed balance
-- By  Pedro Nicolaci da Costa
-- Tue May 8, 2007 12:45pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/08/businesspro-usa-fed-risks-dc-idUSN0847350520070508

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Some investors think it's time for the 
Federal Reserve to recognize a pullback in inflation by moving 
to a "neutral" risk assessment in its statement. 

  Things have been going according to plan for Fed Chairman 
Ben Bernanke. Since taking office last year, he has been saying 
slower economic growth should bring inflation under control.  It has. The latest readings show that prices outside food 
and energy are rising at a rate just above 2 percent, the top 
of the central bank's presumed comfort range.  Meanwhile, growth has eased to its slowest pace in four 
years, with gross domestic product expanding a meager 1.3 
percent in the first quarter.  This transition would seem to warrant some sort of nod from 
Fed officials in the upcoming policy pronouncement, to be 
released after the central bank's rate decision on Wednesday.  "The time has come to officially acknowledge the obvious," 
said David Rosenberg, chief North American economist at Merrill 
Lynch. "Inflation risks no longer are greater than growth 
risks. In fact, a solid case can now be built that the opposite 
is true."  Indeed, the Fed has already taken a modest step toward 
legitimizing this more "balanced" state of affairs. Following 
its last meeting, the central bank continued to highlight 
inflation as a predominant concern but dropped a reference 
hinting at the possibility of "additional firming."  Is it now prepared to take the full plunge? Recent speeches 
from Fed officials, including an unusually hawkish note from 
the normally dovish San Francisco Fed President Janet Yellen, 
would indicate otherwise.  But analysts note talking tough on inflation is part of 
policy-makers' mandate, and such warnings should therefore not 
be taken too literally.  They say the failure to embrace the shifting economic 
outlook would deal a blow to the credibility of a Federal 
Reserve that has made clarity of communications a top priority.  "The economy has been weaker than forecast for a year, and 
inflation has fallen faster than forecast in the past six 
months," said Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN 
Financial. "But the Fed is likely to maintain its bias against 
inflation out of a genuine, though misguided, concern."  The central bank's list of worries include a tight labor 
market and rising energy costs, which some think could 
translate into stronger inflation readings down the line.  According to this view, the Fed would not want to bind its 
own hands in case of a renewed spike in prices.  "Although March inflation was quite favorable, there has 
been only one data point since the last meeting and we don't 
look for the committee to latch on too strongly to that one 
point," said Michael Feroli, economist and resident Fed-watcher 
at JP Morgan.  For bond investors, whose buying and selling helps set 
market interest rates, a true shift toward a neutral balance of 
risks would spark a rally -- at least in the short-term.  At the very least, it would convince traders the Fed wants 
to cut rates sooner rather than later.  But FTN's Low reminds the market that the Fed's fight 
against inflation, overzealous as it might sometimes seem, is 
in bondholders' best interest.  "It's critical to remember that inflation -- not the FOMC 
-- is the enemy of fixed-income returns," he said.