-- Allianz Calls Profit Targets `Much More Challenging'
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2008-03-20T17:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-20/allianz-calls-profit-targets-much-more-challenging-update3-.html

          
          
             Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe 's biggest insurer,
said the crisis in financial markets makes it more difficult to
meet its goal of 10 percent profit growth through 2009.  
 The target has ``become much more challenging'' because of
the ``continuing crisis in the financial markets and the
difficulty of assessing its impact on the real economy,'' Chief
Executive Officer Michael Diekmann said in the insurer's  annual
report  published today.  
 Net income at Munich-based Allianz rose 13.5 percent to a
record 7.97 billion euros ($12.4 billion) last year as insurance
earnings helped cushion writedowns at the banking division, which
consists mainly of Frankfurt-based  Dresdner Bank . Operating profit
increased 9 percent to 10.9 billion euros, and the insurer
reiterated a target to raise it an average of 10 percent a year
from 2006 through 2009.  
 ``The surprise is not that Allianz could miss its targets but
if it were to meet them, which we expect would lead to significant
estimate increases,'' Goldman Sachs analysts Richard Burden and
Kemide Senbanjo wrote in a note to clients today. ``This morning's
comments should provide further support to the arguments for
reducing exposure to the banking activities within the group.''  
 Allianz rose 1.7 percent to 112.82 euros in  Frankfurt  today,
valuing the company at 51 billion euros. The shares are down 24
percent this year.  
 Last week, Allianz announced that it will separate its
unprofitable investment bank,  Dresdner Kleinwort , from Dresdner's
other units to pursue a possible sale of the securities unit and a
merger for the retail unit.  
 `Well Positioned'  
 Diekmann said Feb. 21 the company is ``well positioned'' for
2008 even as developments in financial markets ``will have a
stronger impact on business results than usual.''  
 In today's annual report, Diekmann reiterated earlier remarks
and said he has ``to place a special caveat on our outlook for the
banking sector'' because of market uncertainties and potential
further markdowns.  
 Diekmann added that Allianz's operating profit target ``is
subject to a normal level of operating profit contribution from
Dresdner Bank.''  
 Dresdner had between 300 million euros and 400 million euros
in additional writedowns in the first quarter based on market
prices at the end of January, Chief Financial Officer Helmut Perlet said last month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Adrian Cox at   acox2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        