-- Each lost Wall St job costs NYC 2 other jobs: study
-- By  Joan Gralla
-- Wed Oct 3, 2007 6:33pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/03/businesspro-newyorkcity-economy-dc-idUSN0324022520071003

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - New York City could lose two jobs for 
every one cut on Wall Street, while anecdotal evidence shows 
that both residential and commercial markets might finally be 
starting to cool, a new report said on Wednesday. 

  Capsizing financial and real estate markets could torpedo 
the city budget.  "Barring a Wall Street (and Main Street housing market) 
miracle, the city faces a potential deficit reaching 5 percent 
of city-funded spending this year or more," the Manhattan 
Institute's report said.  Next year, there could be an even bigger deficit of 7 
percent to 12 percent, the nonprofit research group warned.  Wall Street companies can produce up to one-fifth of city 
tax revenues. These employers added 20,000 workers from 2003 to 
2006, causing other firms to hire 40,000 employees, the report 
said. Until scorched by the summer mortgage meltdown, this 
sector seemed poised to match or top 2006's record bonuses.  But now banks and brokerages are slashing tens of thousands 
of jobs, and Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who had to close a $5 
billion deficit when his first term began in 2002, might again 
have to raise taxes or cut spending, the report said.  "New York began fiscal year 2008 in the thrall of an 
unprecedented tax boom, one not seen even in the torrid 
mid-1980s," the report said.  It bashed the mayor for missing a chance to slash what it 
said he calls "uncontrollable costs" that consume half of the 
city-funded budget. Those expenses are Medicaid, pension and 
health benefits, and debt repayment.  "Bloomberg leaves a legacy to his successor: a projected 50 
percent increase in outstanding debt," the report added.  Wall Street bonuses last year totaled $24 billion, giving 
the city an additional $500 million of tax revenue, according 
to the report by the Manhattan Institute, which says it 
supports "greater economic choice and individual 
responsibility."  The city's fiscal years start on July 1.
  BONANZA FROM BIG SPENDERS  Traders, bankers, and brokers are all quite well-paid, and 
their free-spending ways create so-called indirect jobs, in 
restaurants and shops, for example. Financial workers' lofty 
paychecks have driven apartment prices and rents much higher.  Their demand for apartments -- and their growing employers' 
need for more office space -- has also construction to 
skyrocket.  A Bloomberg spokesman had no immediate comment on the 
report.  The mayor, a former Republican turned independent, says he 
has worked hard to wean the city from its addiction to Wall 
Street's profits.  At an Economist conference on Tuesday, the two-term mayor 
estimated the city had about 500,000 manufacturing workers, 
some of whom have helped revive the Garment District.  Like many other U.S. clothing makers, New York firms for 
the past few decades have moved overseas, saying brutal cost 
competition forced them to turn to lower-paid workers.  Bloomberg said the city has transformed into a high-end 
design center, which offers stars, like Oscar de la Renta, the 
accomplished seamstresses needed for last-minute alterations.  The mayor also says he has safeguarded the city's financial 
health by prepaying debt and saving $2.5 billion for retired 
workers' medical care.  The Manhattan Institute, however, said his current budget 
hikes spending to 11.2 percent of personal income tax revenue 
-- the highest since the October 1987 stock market crash.  Still, personal income tax revenues have topped forecasts 
by about 6 percent so far this year, including an extra $51 
million in September, said Marcia Van Wagner, a financial 
analyst for Democratic Comptroller William Thompson.  "The signs are pointing in multiple directions; our job 
here is to really keep an eye on the data and figure out 
fundamentally what is going on," she said, noting that 
September's corporate and real estate tax data will not be 
available until later this month.