-- SCA Wins EU Approval to Buy P&G's Tissue Division
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2007-09-05T20:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-05/sca-wins-eu-approval-to-buy-p-g-s-tissue-division-update2-.html

          
          
             Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAB) ,  Europe 's
biggest tissue maker, won European Union approval to buy Procter
& Gamble's European tissue business.  
 Svenska Cellulosa, also known as SCA, announced the approval
in a statement today. In March, the Stockholm-based company said
it would acquire the unit from P&G, the largest U.S. consumer
products maker, for 512 million euros ($700 million) in cash to
add higher-margin branded tissues. The deadline for the ruling
was extended until today for the EU to gather more information.  
 SCA wants to be the leader in the tissue category in Europe.
The purchase gives it exclusive rights to sell Bounty kitchen
towels and Charmin bathroom tissue in Europe as well as ownership
of the Tempo pocket handkerchief brand, which is also sold in
 Hong Kong .  
 The EU approval requires SCA to sell the Softis brand
handkerchief  business  in Germany and Austria that accounts for
annual sales of more than 20 million euros.  
 SCA said  the purchase  will boost its market share of the
tissue category in Europe to ``slightly below'' 29 percent, said
Par Altan, a company spokesman reached today by telephone.  
 SCA fell 1.5 kronor, or 1.2 percent, to 123 kronor in
 Stockholm . P&G, based in Cincinnati, rose 1 cent to $65.46 at
4:01 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Decisions on possible restructuring of the unit and
information on cost savings from combining operations will come
at a later date, SCA said. The P&G division includes five
factories in Europe and about 1,100 employees and had sales of
about 500 million euros, the Swedish tissue maker said in March.  
 Procter & Gamble (PG)  said then it wanted to focus on the paper
towel and tissue businesses in the U.S., Canada and  Mexico  under
the Bounty, Puffs and Charmin brands.  
 On Sept. 3, SCA named Boliden's Jan Johansson as its new
chief executive officer with the mandate of increasing sales
outside the U.S. and western Europe.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at   anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        