-- U.S. Retail Sales May Have Advanced 2.5% in August
-- Heather Burke
-- 2007-09-05T20:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-05/u-s-retail-sales-may-have-advanced-2-5-in-august-update4-.html

          
          
             U.S.  retail sales  in August may
have climbed as much as 2.5 percent from a year earlier as
back-to-school shoppers hunted for discounts on clothes.  
 Sales at stores open at least a year probably rose 2
percent to 2.5 percent last month, the  International Council of
Shopping Centers  and UBS Securities LLC said today in a
statement. Same-store sales increased 3.8 percent in August
2006.  
 Books and computers were in demand during the back-to-school season, the retail industry's second-biggest sales
period behind the December holidays, the ICSC said. Consumers,
concerned about lower home values and the rising cost of
credit, looked for discounts on jeans, blouses and graphic T-shirts at retailers such as  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)   
 ``The consumer is being more cautious,'' said  Eric Beder ,
a retail analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York.
``Just like Christmas, they are waiting until the last minute
and looking for the best price.''  
 Sales for the seven days through Sept. 1 climbed 2.3
percent from a year earlier, and 0.2 percent from the previous
week, the ICSC and UBS said today. The group tracks  same-store
sales , a key measurement of a retailer's performance because it
excludes locations that have recently opened or closed.  
 Another retail sales survey showed a 2.7 percent gain last
week from a year earlier. Retailers reported increased
purchases of school supplies, children and juniors' clothing,
according to the Johnson Redbook Index. Bargain seekers lifted
demand, and monthly sales climbed 2.4 percent, Johnson Redbook
said.  
 Consumer Confidence  
 U.S.  consumer confidence  declined in August to the lowest
in a year, according to the Reuters/University of Michigan
final index of consumer sentiment. The number of Americans
entering into contracts to buy previously owned homes plunged
in July by the most since records began in 2001, the National
Association of realtors reported today.  
 ``There's obviously some pullback in spending,'' ICSC
Chief Economist  Michael Niemira  said in an interview. ``As
overall spending slows, stores' execution matters more to get
people in the stores.''  
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  lowered its full-year earnings
forecast last month after sales of apparel and home goods
faltered. Costco Wholesale Corp., the largest U.S. warehouse
retail chain, and BJ's Wholesale Club Inc. today reported
August sales that trailed analysts' estimates.  
 The ICSC's August results are preliminary. The group will
issue a final figure for the sales it tracks at 60 chains
tomorrow, when many U.S. retailers, including Wal-Mart and
 Target Corp. (TGT) , issue their monthly sales report. Johnson Rebook
measures same-store sales at general-merchandise retailers
representing about 9,000 locations.  
 Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, fell 85 cents, or
2 percent, to $42.45 at 4:01 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. Costco dropped $2.61, or 4.2 percent, to $59
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Standard & Poor's Retail
Index dropped 1.7 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Burke in New York at 
 hburke2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        