-- Universal considers free music partnership: source
-- By  Yinka Adegoke
-- Mon Oct 15, 2007 5:39pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/15/industry-universal-totalmusic-dc-idUSN1534104520071015

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Universal Music Group is in 
discussions with other major labels to launch an online music 
subscription service that will be initially free with some 
digital players, a source familiar with the talks said on 
Monday. 

  Called Total Music, the service is aimed at boosting 
Universal's digital media revenue as CD sales plummet, the 
source said. It could also help reduce the leverage that Apple 
Inc has on the digital music market.  Doug Morris, chief executive of Universal, the world's 
largest music company, has been speaking with Sony BMG Music 
Entertainment and Warner Music Group about the proposed 
service, the source said. Another source said such talks had 
been taking place.  Morris has also met with Microsoft Corp chief Bill Gates in 
the last fortnight, according to the first source.  All the companies declined comment.  Music executives have said the lack of stronger competition 
in the digital music market, dominated by Apple's iPod player 
and the iTunes online store, has hampered growth.  A service like Total Music could allow music labels to cut 
exclusive deals with hardware partners, such as Microsoft, 
which is still trying to gain traction for its Zune media 
player, or with wireless phone companies like AT&T Inc.  Total Music is envisioned as a service integrated into new 
digital devices, the first source said. For example, a phone 
would have a 'Total Music' on-screen button offering a large 
library of music for a free promotional period, which may be as 
long as six months to a year. Executives are betting that 
subscribers will be willing to pay a monthly charge after they 
get used to the service.  Though the talks, reported by BusinessWeek on its Web site 
over the weekend, are still at an early stage, the music 
companies expect device makers or wireless service providers to 
underwrite promotion costs, the source said.  All the major music companies are exploring new business 
models, such as selling music in the social networking space 
and backing more advertising-supported services.  Universal, owned by French media giant Vivendi, indicated 
its plans in July when it refused to sign a long-term deal with 
iTunes in order to have the right to sign exclusive 
partnerships with other players.  The company, whose artists include Black Eyed Peas, Amy 
Winehouse and 50 Cent, has worked with its peers to launch 
digital services in the past. In 2001, while reeling from the 
impact of millions of fans illegally trading songs online 
through file-sharing service Napster, they clubbed together to 
set up two different digital services.  One service called PressPlay was backed by Sony and 
Universal, while the other called MusicNet was backed by EMI 
Group, Warner and BMG.  Both services were eventually sold.