-- ‘Chicago’ Team Zaps ‘Scottsboro” Tale With Song, Dance: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-11-01T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/-chicago-duo-zaps-grim-scottsboro-tale-with-song-dance-jeremy-gerard.html
When a slinky prostitute recants the
testimony that has helped send nine innocent young black men to
jail, the Dixie prosecutor hardly skips a beat.  He breaks into “Financial Advice,” a smarmy ode on the
power of “Jew money” to explain his star witness’s sudden
change of heart. A guilty verdict affirms the wisdom of his
tactical shift.  So goes “The Scottsboro Boys”  the valedictory musical of
 John Kander  and  Fred Ebb  (who died in 2004), the refreshingly
twisted team responsible for such no silver-lining, anti-smiley-
face Broadway shows as “Cabaret” and “Chicago.”  Unveiled last spring in a smashing production overseen by
director-choreographer  Susan Stroman , “The Scottsboro Boys,”
seemed an unlikely candidate for transfer to the commercial
arena. Here it is anyway, subtly but smartly retooled, in the
intimate  Lyceum Theatre .  It’s still smashing, and it’s still shocking.  Deploying little more than an ensemble of gifted performers
and a dozen painted chairs, the musical tells the Depression-era
story of those nine men falsely accused of rape in Alabama.
Trial after trial brings them no relief, not even after their
defense is taken over by Samuel Leibowitz, a pinko Jewish lawyer
from New York.  Risky Bet  Kander and Ebb, along with book writer David Thompson, took
the enormous risk of gussying up this bleak story in the
tatterdemalion of a minstrel show. With the exception of John
Cullum, who serves as the Interlocutor, all the major roles are
played -- and played brilliantly -- by black actors. In the key
part of prisoner Haywood Patterson, cast newcomer Joshua Henry
adds a fiery mix of anger and frustration.  The story is wrenching and the songs rank with Kander and
Ebb’s most gorgeous; “Southern Days” -- which starts out as a
riff on “My Old Kentucky Home” and, with its lynching imagery,
ends up echoing Billie Holiday’s “Strange Fruit” -- still
gives me nightmares.  At the Lyceum Theatre, 149 W. 45th St. Information: +1-212-
239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com 
Rating: ****  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 