-- `India's Buffett' Follows Role Model With Charity Lunch on EBay
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-11-02T08:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/-india-s-buffett-jhunjhunwala-follows-role-model-with-ebay-charity-lunch.html
Billionaire investor  Rakesh Jhunjhunwala , who was named India’s  Warren Buffett  by Forbes
magazine, followed the example of the Oracle of Omaha by
auctioning a charity lunch for 1.4 Million rupees ($31,517).  The online  auction , which started on Oct. 26 and ended
today at noon, attracted 90 bids on  EBay Inc. ’s Indian  website ,
raising money for the Children’s Movement for Civic Awareness.
EBay spokeswoman Deepa Thomas said the winner, a stock market
analyst based in the western Indian state of Gujarat, wished to 
remain anonymous.  Jhunjhunwala, 50, will meet the winner and as many as nine
guests for a 3-hour lunch at a five-star restaurant to be agreed
by him and the top bidder, EBay said on its website.
Jhunjhunwala or his associates will pay for the cost of the meal,
EBay said.  “I have been supporting many charities in the past and
this one is for a friend who runs the Bangalore-based charity
for civil rights awareness among children,” Jhunjhunwala said
in a phone interview before the auction closed. “I will spend
quality time with the winner who bids generously and provide
insightful investment guidance.”  Buffett, the world’s third-richest person, promised to give
99 percent of his fortune to charity and teamed up with
 Microsoft Corp.  co-founder  Bill Gates  to persuade billionaires
to give at least half their wealth to philanthropy. In his 11th
annual charity-lunch auction on EBay in June, Buffett raised a
record $2.63 million for San Francisco-based  Glide Foundation , a
favorite charity of his first wife, Susan, who died in 2004.  Bull Run  Jhunjhunwala predicted Indian stocks would drop two months
before the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark  Sensitive Index 
peaked in January 2008. The index has more than doubled since he
told investors in December the same year that India would see
“the mother of all bull runs in the next four or five years.”  The Sensex climbed to the highest level in more than 2 1/2
years on Oct. 14 while the rupee has jumped 4.8 percent this
year as overseas investors bought stocks worth a record 1.14
trillion rupees.  Jhunjhunwala developed a childhood fascination for stocks
by watching his father, a retired tax commissioner, juggle
market investments, he said in an interview with Bloomberg News
in 2005. After graduating with honors from  Sydenham College of
Commerce and Economics  in Mumbai, he borrowed $100 from a
brother-in-law in 1985 and began buying shares at age 25.  Buffett Inspired  “It’s a fantastic opportunity,” Thomas, senior manager of
corporate communications and pop culture for EBay’s India,
Philippines and Malaysia units, said before the auction closed.
“I think he is inspired by Warren Buffett.”  Jhunjhunwala has said his strategy of picking stocks early
in a growth cycle is inspired by U.S. billionaire  George Soros 
and Hong Kong investor  Marc Faber .  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ’s
Buffett is his other role model. Forbes ranked Jhunjhunwala as
937 in its list of global billionaires this year with an
estimated fortune of $1 billion. Buffett was No. 3 with $47
billion.  Jhunjhunwala’s meal could cost as much as 7,000 rupees per
person at a venue like the Taj Mahal Palace hotel’s Zodiac Grill
on Mumbai’s waterfront, a favorite meeting place of the city’s
business and entertainment elite, where a seven-course dinner
includes dishes such as vodka-scented tuna and foie gras pate
stuffed with chicken.  Bachchan, Ambani  The Indian billionaire joins Bollywood film star  Amitabh Bachchan  and  Mukesh Ambani , Asia’s richest man, in raising money
for philanthropy in the world’s second-most populated nation.
Indians spent about $7.5 billion on charity in 2009, according
to a March  report  by Boston-based business consulting firm Bain
& Co. That compares with $300 billion contributed by the U.S. in
the period.  The Mumbai-based GiveIndia charity raised 1.2 million
rupees last year by auctioning an opportunity to participate in
a cricket coaching camp with the sport’s leading run-scorer
 Sachin Tendulkar . The lunch with Jhunjhunwala is the most
expensive item ever sold on EBay India, Thomas said.  Bachchan, who was named the “Greatest Star of the
Millennium” by British Broadcasting Corp. online users in 1999,
will attend his first auctioned lunch after he raised about 1
million rupees for charity last month.  Whirlpool of India Ltd., a unit of Benton Harbor, Michigan-
based Whirlpool Corp., was the winning bidder for the lunch with
the actor, who hosted the Indian version of “Who Wants to Be a
Millionaire?” said Hema Lumba, a volunteer with national
charity the  Joy of Giving Week .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  