-- ‘Saw 3-D’ Is No. 1 Weekend Film With $24.2 Million
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-01T20:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/-saw-3-d-is-no-1-film-with-24-2-million-on-halloween-weekend.html
“Saw 3-D,” the seventh of the
torture movies featuring the killer Jigsaw, won the Halloween
weekend gorefest, bringing in $24.2 million for  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp.  in U.S. and Canadian theaters.  “Paranormal Activity 2” dropped to second with $16.5
million,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The latest “Saw,” the first one shot using three-
dimensional technology, benefited by opening a week later than
“Paranormal Activity 2,” the follow-up to last year’s low-
budget hit. “Saw 3-D” is billed as the last in the series of
films that have opened in late October since 2004. Together, the
first six brought in about $370 million  domestically , according
to researcher Box Office Mojo.  “‘Saw 3-D’ did better than the last ‘Saw’ movie but it
didn’t restore the franchise’s former glory,” said  Brandon Gray , president of Sherman Oaks, California-based  Box Office
Mojo . “The numbers nationally weren’t terribly exciting, which
is to be expected when you only have one new nationwide
release.”  The weekend’s top 12 films grossed $86.6 million, up 4.5
percent from the same period last year, according to
Hollywood.com. This year’s total increased to $8.78 billion
through yesterday, up 3.3 percent from a year earlier. Total
attendance is down 1.9 percent.  Jigsaw Killer  Saw’s Jigsaw, played by Tobin Bell, places his victims in
traps that force them to make morbid tradeoffs to survive. The
movie, which makes use of 3-D by sending body parts flying,
brings back characters from earlier “Saw” installments. “Saw
VI,” released last year, had the lowest tally of the franchise
opening with $14.1 million.  “Paranormal Activity 2” has taken in $65.7 million in two
weeks for Viacom Inc.’s Paramount Pictures, on a budget
estimated at $2.75 million by the  Internet Movie Database . The
first “Paranormal Activity” took in $183 million worldwide,
according to Imdb.com.  In “Paranormal Activity 2,” a family hears strange noises
at home and, fearing intruders, sets up a series of video
cameras, only to discover more sinister activity.  The action comedy “Red” stayed in third place, adding
$10.7 million in ticket sales for a domestic total of $58.8
million for the film, distributed by Summit Entertainment.  “Red,” based on a graphic novel, stars  Bruce Willis  and
features  Helen Mirren ,  Morgan Freeman  and  John Malkovich .  ‘Jackass 3-D’  The stunt movie “Jackass 3-D” fell to fourth place from
second, adding $8.5 million in sales to boost its total to
$101.7 million. The Paramount Pictures film opened two weeks ago
as the top movie in the U.S. and Canada, taking in $50 million
for the debut weekend.  Clint Eastwood ’s “Hereafter” fell to fifth place from
fourth in its second weekend of wide release, adding $6.4
million in ticket sales for Warner Bros. The movie, starring
 Matt Damon  as a blue-collar worker with psychic powers,
increased its sales total to $22.3 million.  Next weekend, Warner Bros. will release “Due Date,” a
comedy starring  Robert Downey Jr.  and Zack Galifianakis.
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.’s  “Megamind,” featuring the
voices of  Tina Fey  and  Will Ferrell , will also enter theaters.  “The first weekend of November is effectively the start of
the holiday season and it’s no exception this year,” Gray said.
“If ‘Due Date’ and ‘Megamind’ take off it could be an up
weekend over the previous year.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Oct.
29 to 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony Palazzo  in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 