-- Every Parent Can Use This World Series Reminder: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-11-01T03:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/a-world-series-reminder-all-parents-can-use-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Watching the Major League Baseball
postseason, all those crowds, all those parents and kids sharing
high-fives and hugs, it was impossible not to think of Dana
Inman.  I met Inman, a devout fan of the Texas Rangers, two years
ago on the uptown No. 4 subway, destination Yankee Stadium,
which is now a parking lot. Stadiums, like everything else, have
expiration dates. No one knows that better than the itinerant
Inman, who was in New York paying homage to her late son,
Dustin, who from the time he was a kid had always wanted to
visit every big-league ballpark.  Dustin made it to Cleveland, Chicago’s Wrigley Field and
Arlington, Texas, which is the epicenter of the baseball world
these days as the Rangers, a franchise that declared bankruptcy
earlier this season, qualified for their first World Series.
Inman was there, in person, when the Rangers beat the Yankees.
The win triggered memories of loss.  “It’s bittersweet,” Inman said, “because my son wasn’t
there.”  How her son Dustin, a three-sport star who always sported
his Rangers cap, would have relished this World Series, even
though Texas trails three games to one after last night’s 4-0
loss.  How he would’ve rejoiced at the sight of his favorite
player, the drug addict who turned his life around, shedding
tears because the high point of his career triggered memories of
the low point in his life.  How Dustin, who died in a 2007 motorcycle accident at the
age of 25, would have liked this manager,  Ron Washington , who is
about so much more than a dalliance with cocaine. He would’ve
adored pitcher  Cliff Lee , who recognizes that athletic
achievement, even at the highest level, won’t define a person.  Teams to Love  Dustin would’ve loved this team, too. Not just for its
winning, mind you, but, more importantly, how it goes about
winning.  Come to think of it, Dustin would’ve liked the Giants, too.
It wasn’t long ago that San Francisco baseball was defined by
one slugger,  Barry Bonds , whose ego was about the only thing
bigger than his drug-enhanced biceps.  Bonds had his space in
the clubhouse. Enter at your own risk. There was Bonds and
everyone else. That isn’t a team.  These Giants, much like the Rangers, are an example of the
whole being greater than the sum of its parts. They do the
little things, which are big things. Most importantly, they like
each other.  Dustin was the rare athlete that hated to lose but knew
winning wasn’t everything. The 6-foot-2, 230-pounder liked to
win, sure, but not at the expense of sportsmanship. The concepts
of team and togetherness mattered more to Dustin than any final
score ever could.  ‘Like a Team’  “Dustin’s whole thing about sports, and what he would love
about this team, even though there are some great players,
there’s no one person’s ego that’s taken over,” Inman said.
“They play like a team.”  If the Rangers have a superstar it’s  Josh Hamilton , a
leading candidate for American League Most Valuable Player. It
was Hamilton who, after receiving the championship series MVP
trophy, said he didn’t want to talk about himself. His
preference was to discuss the contributions made by his
teammates.  “Dustin truly knew what it meant to work together to
obtain a goal never thought imaginable,” Inman said.  Inman has a particular affinity for Hamilton because her
son had an affinity for the player whose career was almost
derailed by drugs.  Back Story  Dustin learned of Hamilton’s back story while on a job
interview for an engineering position in Cincinnati. He was
ecstatic that this highly touted prospect who seemingly lost
everything had found a roster spot with the Cincinnati Reds.
Always a sucker for the underdog, for perseverance, Dustin
called his mother and told her about this non-Ranger worth
watching.  Not long after that Dustin was gone and Hamilton was traded
to Texas.  “I felt a connection to Josh the moment he arrived,” she
said.  Inman recently attended her son’s 10-year high-school
reunion. While looking through his keepsakes Inman found a
bumper sticker from  1996 , the year the Rangers won the American
League West. She also came across a box of baseballs inscribed
with her son’s signature.  “He signed them like he was a major-league player,” she
said. “Like he was Babe Ruth or something.”  Kid at Heart  Dreaming big and sports have always gone together. So, in
memory of her son Inman started the Kid at Heart Foundation,
which this weekend will hold its first fundraiser in conjunction
with the  Buffalo Wild Wings Inc.  restaurant chain. The
foundation’s aim is to provide sporting equipment to kids whose
families can’t afford it. Maybe the next great baseball player
will get his start here.  As for the Rangers, they’ll have Lee on the pitcher’s mound
tonight in the first of three must-win situations.  Inman, meantime, allows herself a fleeting moment to ponder
a championship parade, at which, if history is any guide,
families will gather to celebrate their favorite team’s
accomplishment. Lots of smiles, laughter, high-fives and hugs.  And on the other end of the telephone more tears from a
mother who would give anything to share this, win or lose, with
her son. It’s something to remember, but not dwell on, the next
time you and yours visit the ballpark.  (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  