-- Absa to Offer Mortgages on Tax Law: Islamic Finance (Correct)
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-11-03T07:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/absa-of-south-africa-to-offer-mortgages-after-new-tax-law-islamic-finance.html
(Corrects global sales in 14th paragraph of story first
published yesterday.)  Absa Islamic Banking, a unit of South
Africa’s third-largest bank, plans to offer Islamic mortgages
after the government introduces new tax rules next year.  The Treasury department said in August it will forgo
charging tax on three Islamic structures to allow home loans.
The government may sell Islamic bonds after deciding whether to
make tax amendments in the middle of 2011, said Absa Islamic
Managing Director Amman Muhammad, who is also a participant in
the Treasury’s discussions on Islamic finance. Absa Islamic is a
unit of Absa Group Ltd., which is controlled by Barclays Plc.  While its 737,000 Muslims account for just 1.5 percent of
the country’s population according to CIA World Factbook, South
Africa is seeking to access a growing industry with global
assets of $1 trillion. Albaraka Bank Ltd., a unit of Manama,
Bahrain-based Albaraka Banking Group BSC and the African
nation’s only Shariah-compliant financial institution, will
increase its capital next year to finance expansion, the group’s
Chief Executive Officer Adnan Yousif said Oct. 31 in Kuwait.  “The minute the minister announces the first changes, we
want to be in a position to start offering this product,” said
Johannesburg-based Muhammad in an interview in Dubai Oct. 27.
“The tax amendments level the playing field, so if a customer
chooses to bank Islamically, there should be no extra-burden
from a tax perspective.” Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan is
expected to announce the tax changes in February, possibly
sooner, Muhammad said.  Tax Exemption  The National Treasury and the South African Revenue Service
didn’t respond to requests by e-mail and telephone for comment.  In the new tax plan, the Treasury will deem profit made
from murabahah, mudarabah and diminishing musharaka deals as
interest, exempting proceeds below 22,300 rand ($3,206) annually
for investors under 65 years of age from being taxed, according
to documents the Treasury e-mailed to Bloomberg on Oct. 20.
Currently there are no tax exemptions on Islamic products, said
Tasneem Gangat, an income tax consultant with Grant Thornton
South Africa, part of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  Transactions in Islamic finance are based on the exchange
of assets rather than interest to comply with Shariah
principles. A mudarabah is a partnership in profit, whereby one
party provides capital and the other provides labor.  The taxation changes come as South Africa’s economy
expands. The National Treasury raised its economic growth
estimate to 3 percent this year from 2.3 percent in its medium-
term budget statement on Oct. 27. It forecasts growth of 3.5
percent for next year. The country is the continent’s biggest
economy.  Creating Funds  Albaraka, which has assets of about $400 million according
to Yousif, plans to have 15 branches within two years, he said
in a phone interview from Manama yesterday. “There are good new
laws waiving a lot of restrictions,” he said. The tax changes
“will encourage many Islamic institutions to create funds,” he
said.  Banks that don’t comply with the religion’s ban on interest
are also looking to benefit from the industry. “I am aware of
at least one bank that is planning to open an Islamic window
toward the beginning of next year,” Tapie Marlie, Cape Town-
based tax director for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said in a
phone interview Nov. 1. The trend to offer a so-called Shariah-
compliant window is likely to grow in the short to medium term,
he said.  Global sukuk returned 12.3 percent this year, according to
the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. Bonds in developing
markets gained 16.6 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index shows. Islamic bonds in the GCC returned 12.6
percent, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index shows.  Global Sales Fall  The difference between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate has narrowed
28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, in the fourth quarter
to 345 on Nov. 1, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s widened 20 basis points in the
fourth quarter to 392 today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note
due in June 2015 fell 1 basis point to 2.46 percent today,
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc show.  Global sales of sukuk fell 29 percent to $13.5 billion so
far this year from $19.1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Islamic bond market “is probably where the growth for
Islamic banking is going to be in the next three to five years”
as the government seeks alternative forms of funding, Stuart
Grobler, head of the banking and financial services division at
The Banking Association South Africa, said in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg yesterday. He was unable to provide
statistics on the nation’s Shariah-compliant banking industry.  ‘Seriousness’  “The Islamic products offered by the South African banking
industry are still fairly new and fairly diverse,” Grant
Thornton’s Gangat said in a telephone interview Oct. 26. “There
is no existing tax legislation on Islamic finance.”  The country is also working on tax changes to facilitate
wakalah and ijarah transactions, Absa’s Muhammad said.  “Given the seriousness the South African government has
shown, I wouldn’t be surprised if we see the first national
sukuk come through” after the tax changes to ijarah are
completed, he said. Most sukuk are based on ijarah, a sale and
lease agreement as in real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  