-- Madagascar Government Awards Contract to Curb Smuggling of Tortoises, Gold
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2010-11-01T18:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/madagascar-government-awards-contract-to-curb-smuggling-of-tortoises-gold.html
Security at  Madagascar ’s eight
international airports will be managed by a private company for
the first time, as the country seeks to curb smuggling of goods
ranging from tortoises to gold and precious stones.  SRDI SA, based in Luxembourg, was awarded a 15-year
contract, Transport Minister Rolland Ranjatoelina said in an
interview on Oct. 28 in Antananarivo, the capital. The company
will start helping manage security later this month, he said.  “There are so many of our country’s resources leaving
illegally,” Ranjatoelina said. “Between 10 to 15 percent of
our GDP” is smuggled out of the Indian Ocean island nation
annually, he said.  Last month, 411 rare tortoises were returned to Madagascar
after being seized at Kuala Lumpur airport in Malaysia. The
animals, which included radiated, spider and angulated
tortoises, were destined for China, where they sell for
thousands of dollars as exotic pets, according to the
International Fund for Animal Welfare.  Drugs, arms and explosives coming from Somalia, foreign
currencies, gold and other stones were also being transported to
Madagascar and smuggled out to Europe and other parts of Africa
by plane, SRDI President Jean Marc Demoulin said in a phone
interview today.  Agreement to Invest  Madagascar, with a $9 billion economy, is the world’s
largest vanilla grower and one of the biggest producers of
sapphires. The country also produces amethysts, emeralds, rubies
and ornamental stones such as agate and quartz, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey .  SRDI was given the security contract after agreeing to
invest $8 million in staff training and equipment over the next
four years, said Douan Clarisse, managing director of Madagascar
Civil Aviation. In return, the company will receive $900,000
annually from ticket taxes, he said.  “SRDI will take airport security in hand from Nov. 10, but
only by working with the security forces such as police and
civil servants already in place,” who will gradually be
replaced by 300 SRDI employees, Clarisse said in an interview.
The company will take over full responsibility for security in
March, he said.  The initiative will increase long-haul flight prices by
$15, while airline companies operating in Madagascar will
benefit from lower insurance, Clarisse said, without providing
further information.  ‘Anything You Want’  Madagascar hired SRDI after the  International Civil
Aviation Organization  asked its 190 member countries to conform
to security clauses in its charter, Clarisse said. Ivato
International Airport in Antananarivo is among the facilities
that will be managed by the company, he said.  “At Ivato airport you can exit with large amounts of cash,
tortoises, anything you want,” Clarisse said. “There is no
control there.”  SRDI may expand to the Comoros Islands and is sending a
delegation to Maputo, Mozambique next week to meet with the head
of the country’s civil aviation, Demoulin said. It is also in
talks to provide security for Djibouti airport, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 