-- Adnoc Unit May Build Artificial Islands to Drill for Oil off Abu Dhabi
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-11-01T13:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/adnoc-unit-may-build-artificial-islands-to-drill-for-oil-off-abu-dhabi.html
Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Co. is
assessing the feasibility of building two artificial islands off
the emirate’s coast so that drilling crews can explore for oil
at an untapped field, a senior executive said today.  The company, known as Adma-Opco, estimates that crude from
this undersea field and from two others where it is conducting
tests will add a combined 270,000 barrels a day in production
capacity. Adma-Opco has a nominal production capacity now of
600,000 barrels a day, Chief Executive Officer Ali Rashid Al-
Jarwan said at a conference in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the
United Arab Emirates.  Adma-Opca, a unit of Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., the state-
run producer known also as Adnoc, will decide early next year
whether to build the islands. The targeted increase in capacity
would become available by 2017, Al-Jarwan said.  The construction of artificial islands will enable Adnoc to
cut costs by 30 percent at a separate project called Zakum
Development Co., which includes  Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Adnoc’s
projects manager Salah Al-Bufalah said in October 2009.
Zakum could save billions of dollars by building islands to
support offshore drilling equipment instead of using offshore
rigs, Frank Kemnetz, Middle East vice president of Exxon
Mobil Upstream Ventures, said on Nov. 10 of last year.  OPEC Output Quota  Adma-Opca is also expanding production at existing fields,
which it expects will contribute 100,000 barrels a day in
additional capacity by 2014, Al-Jarwan said. The company is
producing below its nominal capacity because of the output quota
the U.A.E. faces as a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, he said.  Oil producers in the Persian Gulf are seeking to increase
capacity on expectations that demand will recover from the
global economic slump. Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s biggest producer,
has expanded its output capacity to more than 12 million barrels
a day. Abu Dhabi, the largest of the seven sheikhdoms comprising
the U.A.E., aims to increase its capacity to 3.5 million barrels
a day by 2018 from about 2.8 million barrels.  The U.A.E. is the third-largest member of OPEC, which
supplies about two-fifths of the world’s oil. Abu Dhabi holds
more than 90 percent of the country’s oil reserves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Abu Dhabi at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 