-- Madoff Aide Bongiorno, Husband Seek to Block Seizure
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/madoff-aide-bongiorno-husband-seek-to-block-seizure.html
Former  Bernard Madoff  aide  Annette Bongiorno  and her husband asked a federal judge to halt the U.S.
government from seizing homes in Florida and New York and more
than $2 million in cash.  Bongiorno, who worked for Madoff for 40 years, and her
husband Rudy, a former electrician with the New York City
Department of Transportation, filed papers yesterday in
Manhattan federal court contesting the government’s seizure
attempt.  “This is simply procedurally the first step to challenge
the government’s forfeiture action,”  Roland Riopelle , a lawyer
for the couple, said in an interview.  In their court filing, the couple asserts ownership to cash
held in several bank accounts, homes in Boca Raton, Florida, and
Manhasset, New York, two Mercedes Benzes, and a Bentley.  Government lawyers sued in June seeking to seize assets
allegedly tied to Madoff’s fraud. She hasn’t been criminally
charged in the case.  Annette Bongiorno knowingly aided Madoff’s fraud by
communicating with clients, answering questions about their
investments and overseeing the preparation of phony account
statements, trade confirmations and other records, prosecutors
said in a complaint.  “In fact, as Bongiorno knew, no such securities
transactions were being conducted,” prosecutors alleged.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year federal prison term in
North Carolina after pleading guilty to running the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history from his firm, Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC.  Edeli Rivera, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in New York, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. $304,041.01 on Deposit at Citibank
N.A., 10-cv-04858, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 David Glovin  in U.S. District Court in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 