-- AIFAM Starts Fund of Hedge Funds, Targets $150 Million From Japan Pension
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-01T01:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/aifam-starts-fund-of-hedge-funds-targets-150-million-from-japan-pension.html
AIFAM Inc. , a New York-based hedge
fund with about $600 million in assets, started a fund of
hedge funds that invests in managers who use a long-short
equity strategy, as it aims to raise money from Japanese 
pension funds.  The AIFAM Hedged Equity Fund started today with $17
million of internal capital and is expected to increase
assets to about $50 million by the end of March through
allocations from Japanese pension funds, said  Takuma Aoyama ,
chief investment officer of AIFAM, which is 24.9 percent
owned by  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc.  The fund, which will have
a maximum capacity of about $1 billion,  will aim to raise
about $150 million in the first year, he said.  AIFAM joins firms seeking to tap Japan’s more than 60
trillion yen corporate pension market by offering alternative
investments. Japan’s retirement funds, faced with expected
changes in accounting rules that will weigh on their earnings,
are seeking to diversify investments away from traditional
asset classes such as bonds and equities after two decades of
slumping stocks and low government bond yields.  “Japanese pension funds are faced with serious
problems,” Aoyama, 43, who founded the firm in 2001, said in
an interview in Tokyo. “We’re not making any promises that
we’re going to offer a fund that will not be affected by the
market moves at all, but instead, we’re going to offer a fund
that will allow investors to shrink their losses with the
same capital they may invest in other asset classes.”  Japanese Pensions  The fund targets an annual return of about 6 percent,
Aoyama said, adding that Japanese pension clients are trying
to achieve about 2 percent to 5 percent annual return in
their portfolios.  AIFAM has offered the fund-of-hedge-funds long-short
strategy to existing clients in the form of managed accounts
tailored for each investor since 2006 and has yielded an
average 2 percent to 3 percent return since then, he said. In
a short sale, traders borrow stocks and sell them in the hope
they can buy them back cheaper.  The new fund of hedge funds will invest in about 12 to
15 global long-short equity funds, about five of which invest
only in specific industries such as technology, financial and
health care, Aoyama said. Investors use funds of funds to
spread their money across a variety of holdings, relying on
managers to investigate individual funds.  The fund will avoid investing in emerging managers and
only invest in funds that can be redeemed in a month to keep
the portfolio liquid, Aoyama said.  New Rules  AIFAM will not charge performance fees to avoid its
fund-management team trying to achieve higher returns for
better fees, Aoyama said. It will only take management fees
and focus on cutting risks for Japanese clients.  The fund also will invest in funds that enable investors
to hedge against declining stock prices, such as so-called
 volatility  long funds, he said.  The likely introduction of International Financial
Reporting Standards, which will require current pension
losses to be posted on a company’s balance sheet instead of 
being spread out over a longer period, will prompt Japanese 
pension funds to seek alternative investments, Aoyama said.  Japanese pension funds are seeking steady returns to
fund retiree benefits in an aging society. The 10-year
Japanese government bond  yield  is hovering at around 0.9
percent, while the stock benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
is a quarter of its 1989 peak.  Mizuho Global Alternative Investments Ltd. , a wholly
owned unit of Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., last month said it
aims to raise 100 billion yen in three years to help Japanese
pensions invest in hedge funds.  Vivace Capital Management Co. , a Japanese hedge fund,
aims to triple assets managed for the nation’s pension funds
to 50 billion yen in two years by providing tailored
strategies for pensions rather than pooling their money into
one hedge fund.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the prices of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 