-- Russia's Mail.ru IPO Said to Receive Orders Near High End of Price Range
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-11-02T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/mail-ru-said-to-have-orders-for-stock-close-to-top-end-of-ipo.html
Mail.ru Group Ltd. , a Russian
investor in Facebook Inc., has buyers for all the stock in its
$876 million London initial public offering close to the top 
of the price range, two people familiar with the IPO said.  The banks arranging the sale, including New York-based
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley and Russia’s VTB Capital, received orders for the shares
toward the high end of the $23.70 to $27.70 range, according to
the people, who declined to be identified because the
information is private. The deadline for taking orders in the
offering of 31.6 million global depositary receipts is Nov. 8,
one of the people said.  The offering from Mail.ru, partly owned by billionaire
 Alisher Usmanov  and South Africa’s Naspers Ltd., comes after
share sales by emerging-market companies attracted more money
than industrialized nations for the first time in at least a
decade last quarter. Moscow-based Mail.ru’s revenue will climb
51 percent this year, while Russia’s economy will grow at almost
twice the pace of the U.S. in 2011, estimates compiled by
Goldman Sachs and Bloomberg show.  “It’s a bet on potential growth,” said  Josef Schuster ,
the Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital Management LLC, which
oversees $3 billion. “First it’s an expanding internet company
in a major emerging market; second, it has stakes in hot
internet companies like Facebook.”  Leonid Solovyev, a spokesman for Mail.ru in Moscow,
declined to comment.  Facebook, Zynga  The company owns 2.4 percent of Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook, the world’s largest social networking service,
according to an Oct. 11 statement. Mail.ru also has a 5.1
percent stake in Chicago-based Groupon Inc., the daily deal
website with 20 million subscribers, and 1.5 percent of Zynga
Game Network Inc. in San Francisco, the maker of the
“FarmVille” and “FrontierVille” games.  Mail.ru’s revenue may increase 51 percent this year to $301
million, while earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization are likely to rise 70 percent to $104 million,
analysts at Goldman Sachs said in a note last month.  Russia’s economy will grow 4.3 percent next year, compared
with 2.4 percent for the U.S., according to economists’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for the IPO is mostly from U.S. and European
institutional investors, one of the people familiar with the IPO
said.  MakeMyTrip  “Mail.ru is especially attractive to foreign funds as you
rarely see a good quality Russian internet company in the
market,” Schuster said. “It’s scarcity value like what we saw
in MakeMyTrip Ltd.’s IPO.”  MakeMyTrip  of Gurgaon, India, the country’s largest online
travel company, surged 89 percent on its first day of Nasdaq
Stock Market trading in August after  completing  the first U.S.
IPO by an Indian company since 2006.  Mail.ru’s IPO, if successful, will be the biggest in the
U.K. since  Nathaniel Rothschild’s  mining fund, Vallar Plc,
raised $1 billion in July. The sale would also be the largest
overseas share offering by a Russian company since Moscow-based
 United Co. Rusal  raised $2.24 billion in Hong Kong in January.  Companies in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 21 countries
raised $141 billion through IPOs and additional sales last
quarter, more than double the amount in industrialized
countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 