-- Emerging Markets Junk Narrows Gap With Investment Grade
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-11-02T16:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/airline-debt-takes-off-as-passenger-traffic-profits-rise.html
The yield gap between junk-rated
company bonds and investment-grade debt in emerging markets is
near the  smallest  since June 2008 as less creditworthy borrowers
benefit most from cash pouring into developing countries.  The spread has narrowed to 225 basis points, or 2.25
percentage points, from this year’s high of 314 basis points on
June 8 amid a worldwide rally in corporate bonds. The gap
reached 217 on Oct. 15, a 28-month low and the smallest since
before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Bondholders are seeking out riskier, higher-yielding
securities as central banks’ attempts to stoke economic growth
by keeping down interest rates also curb returns on investments
such as government debt. Bonds sold by issuers such as Argentine
heavy-steel goods producer Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona SA
returned 22.4 percent this year including re-invested interest,
compared with 9.16 percent for the broader corporate market,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “People literally cannot buy enough” junk bonds of
companies in developing nations, said  Steve Gooden , managing
director of emerging markets in London at Macquarie Group Ltd.,
Australia’s biggest investment bank. Investors are buying
corporate junk notes from such nations because high-grade supply
can’t keep up with demand, he said.  Investors seeking alternatives to near-zero interest rates
in the U.S., Europe and Japan pumped a net $39.5 billion into
developing-nation bond funds in the first nine months of the
year, headed for the biggest-ever annual inflow, according to
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  Sales Increase  That’s helping to stoke bond sales, with emerging-market
corporate issuance in dollars and euros climbing to an all-time
high of $164 billion this year, $25 billion more than in all of
2007, the previous record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company debt instead of similar-maturity
government bonds rose 1 basis point to 165 basis points, down
from this year’s high of 201 on June 11, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.463 percent, from 3.448 percent on Oct. 29.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell for a second day. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 0.97 basis point to a mid-price of 93.4 basis points as
of 11:50 a.m. in New York, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd.  Jefferies Offering  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched the lowest in
more than five months Oct. 26 at 92.5 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Jefferies Group Inc., a New York-based securities firm
that’s expanding investment banking, plans to sell $350 million
of five-year notes. The debt will rank as senior unsecured
obligations, Jefferies said today in a regulatory filing. The
notes may yield 275 basis points to 280 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to a person familiar with
the offering.  Posco, Pescarmona  The difference between the yields on the $37 million of
11.25 percent 2014 bonds sold by Industrias Metalurgicas
Pescarmona, the speculative-grade Argentine steel company, and
$700 million of 8.75 percent securities due 2014 issued by
Pohang, South Korea-based steelmaker Posco, fell to 670 basis
points on Oct. 1, the lowest ever.  Posco is rated A by S&P, while Pescarmona was upgraded by
to B+ from B- on Sept. 15, when the spread with the Posco bond
was 760 basis points, Bloomberg pricing data show.  The spread between speculative-grade notes in Barclays
Capital’s U.S. Corporate High Yield Index and those in the
JPMorgan Corporate EMBI High Yield Index of developing-nation
bonds is 153 basis points, down from as much as 327 basis points
in December 2008.  Yields on developed-nation sovereign debt have also
tumbled, with the benchmark  10-year Treasury  falling to 2.57
percent from as high as 3.99 percent in April.  Emerging-market nations will grow 6.4 percent in 2011,
while developed economies will expand 2.2 percent, the
International Monetary Fund said last month.  Developed economies’ central banks have also helped fuel
the rally in emerging-market company debt, by keeping interest
rates low in an attempt to quicken the recovery. The Federal
Reserve has kept its target overnight lending  rate  between banks
at a record-low zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, while
the European Central Bank’s main refinancing rate has been at an
all-time low of 1 percent since May 2009.  “There’s a good chance that high-yield bonds continue to
stay here, or grind in a little tighter in the spread,” said
 Esther Chan , a London-based portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset
Management Ltd., the U.K.’s largest independent money manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  