-- Allied Irish Puts Plan to Sell U.K. Unit `On Hold' After Little Interest
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-01T16:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/allied-irish-puts-plan-to-sell-u-k-unit-on-hold-after-little-interest.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc , seeking to
raise 10.4 billion euros ($14.4 billion), put plans to sell its
U.K. unit “on hold” after failing to get satisfactory offers,
Chairman  David Hodgkinson  said.  “It couldn’t be sold on satisfactory terms,” Hodgkinson
told reporters at a shareholder meeting in Dublin today convened
to approve the sale of the bank’s 22 percent stake in U.S.
lender  M&T Bank Corp.  He said the company will “re-examine all
the options” for the U.K. division, which comprises a British
commercial bank and a consumer lender in Northern Ireland.  Allied Irish is selling assets to meet capital targets set
by the country’s financial regulator after racking up losses in
the collapse of the country’s real estate bubble. The sale of
the lender’s stake in M&T raised 900 million euros of capital
and the sale of its Polish unit, agreed in September, a further
2.5 billion euros. The U.K. unit had been on sale since March.  Allied Irish said last month its chairman and managing
directors would step down as it detailed plans to raise 5.4
billion euros in a share sale backed by the state. Hodgkinson, a
former chief operating officer at  HSBC Holdings Plc , replaced
 Dan O’Connor  as executive chairman last month. The lender is
seeking a new chief executive officer, Hodgkinson said today.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said last month the
government will likely end up with a majority stake in Allied
Irish by the end of the year. The state’s overall voting rights
will be kept below 75 percent, Allied Irish Chief Financial
Officer  Bernard Byrne  said at today’s meeting.  The state could be left with a 90 percent stake in the
lender if no Allied Irish shareholders exercise their rights to
buy the new shares for 50 euro cents apiece, according to
 Sebastian Orsi , an analyst with Dublin-based securities firm
Merrion Capital. Allied Irish climbed 1.1 percent to 34.1 cents
at 4:04 p.m. in Dublin trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  