-- Madoff, Halliburton, Wells Fargo in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-01T10:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/halliburton-wells-fargo-merck-commscope-oracle-black-in-court-news.html
Irving Picard, the trustee overseeing
the bankruptcy of Bernard Madoff’s investment firm, spent $26.9
million in the six months ended Sept. 30 while recovering
$849,000 for victims of Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, according to a
report filed in Manhattan federal court.  Picard has recovered a total of about $1.5 billion for
creditors of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, he
said in a filing with U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland made
public Oct. 30. The trustee said he evaluated 14,030 investor
claims as of Oct. 22 and approved 2,280. He has committed to
paying $738 million on behalf of the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., which is obligated to compensate cheated
investors as much as $500,000 on most claims, according to the
report.  The largest component of the expenses for the half-year
period is $15.8 million in legal fees to Picard’s firm, Baker &
Hostetler LLP. Most of the money recovered in the six-month
period, $771,000, came from Madoff investors who received
preferences, or payments, in the 90 days before the bankruptcy
filing, according to Picard’s report.  “I have nothing to add to the report and exhibit,” Picard
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Madoff, 72, was arrested in December 2008 and charged with
securities fraud for directing the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S.
history. He pleaded guilty in March 2009 and is serving a 150-
year prison sentence.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to Picard. Investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Halliburton Ordered to Turn Over Cement in Probe  Halliburton Co.  was ordered to turn over cement used on the
Deepwater Horizon project in connection with a probe into the
cause of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. A federal judge in New
Orleans issued the order on Oct. 27.  The release of the court order on Oct. 29 follows the Oct.
28  National Oil Commission  report that Halliburton cement used
on the  BP Plc  well in April was unstable but used anyway.  The court order by U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier of New
Orleans requires Halliburton to turn over “certain materials”
used in the cementing jobs on the Deepwater Horizon project to
federal investigators from the U.S. Coast Guard and the
Department of the Interior.  “It is further ordered that no destructive testing on the
cementing components will be conducted without further order of
the Court,” said Barbier, who also is overseeing civil
litigation arising from the oil spill.  “Halliburton will comply immediately with Judge Barbier’s
order issued earlier today and expects the government to
retrieve these items next week,”  Halliburton spokeswoman Cathy
Mann said in an e-mail.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 2:10-md-02179,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Ohio’s Cordray Asks for Affidavits by ‘Robo-Signer’  Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray asked judges in his
state for copies of foreclosure affidavits filed in their courts
that are signed by a woman he identified as a “robo-signer”
for  Wells Fargo Bank NA .  Cordray sent a letter to 133 judges asking for information
on any cases that involved Xee Moua, a Wells Fargo vice
president of loan documentation. Cordray sent a separate letter
to Wells Fargo & Co. asking the bank to vacate any foreclosure
judgment in Ohio involving incorrect affidavits.  Moua gave a deposition in a Florida case in March in which
she testified that “statements made by her in sworn affidavits
were false,” Cordray said in the letter. Moua said she wasn’t
familiar with the books and records related to the transactions
an affidavit covered, according to Cordray.  “These are crucial misstatements that are an affront to
our legal system,” he wrote. “If you become aware of
affidavits Ms. Moua signed in any foreclosure cases filed in
your Court, I would appreciate receiving copies of such
affidavits.”  Tom Goyda, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said the company’s
policy is “to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
and to follow required court procedures” and that executives
“intend to cooperate” with Cordray’s inquiries.  Wells Fargo , the biggest U.S. home lender, said Oct. 27
that it will file supplemental foreclosure affidavits to courts
in about 55,000 proceedings after finding some statements “did
not strictly adhere to the required procedures.”  For more, click here.  Merck Legal Costs for Vioxx Reduce Profit 6 Years After Recall  Merck & Co.  set aside $950 million to resolve a criminal
probe into the Vioxx painkiller it withdrew six years ago,
raising potential legal costs to $7.7 billion.  The legal reserve contributed to a 90 percent decline in
third-quarter income to $342 million, the Whitehouse Station,
New Jersey-based drugmaker said in a statement on Oct. 29.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, pulled Vioxx from
the market in 2004 after a study showed it doubled the risk of
heart attacks and strokes. The company previously paid $4.85
billion to settle thousands of lawsuits claiming injuries and
another $1.9 billion for legal costs. The new legal reserve will
cover an “anticipated resolution” of a probe by U.S.
prosecutors into research and marketing of Vioxx.  Merck previously disclosed that federal prosecutors in
Boston had identified the company in March 2009 as a target of a
grand jury investigation, and that witnesses had been called in
the probe. It also said that certain cities in Europe were
weighing whether to bring criminal charges.  “Our discussions with the government are ongoing, and
until they’re concluded, there can be no certainty about a
definitive resolution,” spokesman Ron Rogers said in an
interview.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  CommScope Sued Over $3.9 Billion Carlyle Buyout  CommScope Inc.  was sued by a shareholder over claims that
the Carlyle Group’s $3.9 billion buyout of the
telecommunications-equipment maker undervalues the company.  Carlyle, the world’s second-largest private-equity firm
after Blackstone Group LP, said Oct. 27 that it would buy
Hickory, North Carolina-based CommScope for $31.50 a share in
cash. Shareholder Dennis Rice accused the buyout firm and
CommScope directors of taking advantage of a drop in company
shares, in a Delaware Chancery Court complaint in Wilmington.  “Carlyle recognized CommScope’s solid performance and
potential for growth and determined to capitalize on the recent
downturn in the company’s stock price at the expense of
CommScope’s shareholders,” lawyers for Rice said in the Oct. 28
complaint. “Company executives are favoring Carlyle over other
potential bidders.”  The offer represents a 36 percent premium to the closing
price on Oct. 22, the last trading day before CommScope said it
was in talks to be acquired by Washington-based Carlyle.  The deal would be the biggest takeover in the
telecommunications-equipment industry in at least two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Four deals disclosed in
the industry in the last year have been valued at $1 billion or
more, with an average premium paid of 43 percent.  CommScope Chief Executive Officer Frank Drendel and other
directors would fare better than shareholders in the proposed
deal, Rice said in the complaint.  A CommScope spokesman, Rick Aspan, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  The case is Rice v. CommScope Inc., CA5936, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Hands’s EMI Claim on Citigroup Limited to $2 Billion  A New York judge ruled that Terra Firma Capital Partners
Ltd. founder Guy Hands will get no more than $2 billion in
damages, one-fourth of what he was seeking, if he wins a case
against  Citigroup Inc.  over the acquisition of EMI Group Ltd.,
the Financial Times reported.  Hands says he wouldn’t have bid 265 pence a share for EMI
in May 2007 if he hadn’t received three phone calls from David
Wormsley, the head of Citigroup’s U.K. investment-banking
operations at the time.  Judge Jed Rakoff, who had presided over the case for the
past two weeks, ruled out using a lost profit theory as a basis
for damage calculation, the newspaper reported. If a fair market
value theory proposed by Hands’s lawyer is accepted, Citigroup
may be exposed to a $2 billion damages claim, the newspaper
said.  Andrew Dowler, a London-based spokesman at Terra Firma,
declined to comment when contacted by phone.  Wormsley denies giving bid information to Hands and
Citigroup on Oct. 18 called Terra Firma’s allegations
“categorically untrue.”  Oracle Loses Bid to Delay Trial on SAP Download Damages  A federal judge denied  Oracle Corp. ’s request for a three-
day delay of a trial over whether rival SAP AG should pay
damages because a now-defunct unit improperly downloaded Oracle
software.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
California, ruled Oct. 29 that the trial will begin today with
jury selection. She denied SAP AG’s request that she order both
companies to refrain from speaking outside the courtroom about
the case.  Oracle sued SAP in 2007 over downloads by a software
maintenance unit called TomorrowNow. SAP said there were
“inappropriate” downloads and said in court papers that it may
owe tens of millions of dollars in damages. Oracle is seeking
billions.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Black Wins Reversal of 2 of 4 Counts, Resentencing  Conrad Black won his appeal of two of his 2007 convictions
and lost on two others, in a ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals
in Chicago that may send him back to prison.  A guilty verdict for obstruction of justice, for which the
former Hollinger International Inc. chairman received the
longest sentence, was upheld Oct. 29, as well as one of three
fraud counts. The court reversed two fraud counts.  A three-judge appeals panel, ruling on Black’s case for the
second time, said he and his co-defendants can be retried on the
charges for which convictions were overturned. The same panel
upheld his conviction in 2008, triggering a U.S. Supreme Court
appeal.  U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve in Chicago, who presided
over the trial, sentenced Black to 6 1/2 years in prison for the
obstruction count and five years on the fraud counts to run
concurrently. He served more than two years before gaining bail
pending the outcome of his appeal in July.  The ex-publisher and author, along with three other
Hollinger executives, was convicted for participating in the
theft of $6.1 million from the Chicago-based newspaper publisher
after an almost four-month trial.  “Today’s decision was all that could have been expected
and is a gratifying elimination of the main remaining charges,”
Black’s office said in a statement. “All of the defendants are
innocent of all allegations, civil and criminal, and are
reviewing the next steps in this very long and exacting process
of achieving complete vindication.”  The Supreme Court in June returned the case to the Chicago
tribunal after narrowing the scope of a federal statute under
which Black, his co-defendants and -- in a separate case --
former Enron Corp. Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Skilling were
convicted.  Black can be retried on the two crimes for which
convictions were canceled, according to the opinion written by
Circuit Judge Richard Posner. Prosecutors “may wish” to
conserve resources and proceed directly to the resentencing, he
wrote.  The government will tell the trial court its intentions
“at the appropriate time after we have studied the opinion
carefully,” the Justice Department said in a statement.  “We will be reviewing the court’s opinion and will proceed
as appropriate,” Black’s appellate counsel Miguel Estrada, a
partner in the Washington office of Los Angeles-based Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, said in a phone interview.  The case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, 08-1030, 08-1072 and
08-1106, U.S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals (Chicago).  For more, click here.  Ex-Morgan Stanley Broker Gets One Year in Scheme  A former broker for  Morgan Stanley  and  Bank of America
Corp.  was sentenced to one year and a day in prison for
receiving kickbacks in a stock-loan scheme.  Salvatore Zangari, 34, was sentenced Oct. 29 by U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn, New York. When he
pleaded guilty April 15, Zangari admitted that he conspired in a
plan that resulted in the payment of sham fees to a purported
stock-loan finder. The scheme lasted from March 2004 to December
2005, prosecutors said.  “Stupidity. I really can’t sit here and justify what I
did,” Zangari told the judge when asked why he participated.  Zangari’s guilty plea marked the 32nd conviction obtained
as part of an investigation of the stock-loan industry,
according to Robert Nardoza, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn. The probe focuses on allegations that
employees took bribes or purported finder fees, often when no
services had been rendered.  Zangari’s crime called for a sentence of 1 1/2 to 2 years
under federal guidelines, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Zangari, 10-cr-00255, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Westgate Capital’s Nicholson Sentenced to 40 Years for Fraud  Westgate Capital Management LLC founder James Nicholson was
sentenced to 40 years in prison after pleading guilty to
defrauding investors in a Ponzi scheme.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan imposed the
sentence at a hearing Oct. 29 in Manhattan. The government had
requested a term of 45 years; Nicholson’s lawyers asked Sullivan
to sentence him to 10 years.  Prosecutors claimed Nicholson’s fraud cost investors $141
million. Defense lawyers claimed in court papers that investors
lost no more than $50 million.  Nicholson, 44, of Saddle River, New Jersey, admitted he
lied to investors about stock trades, the returns on his
investments and the amount he had under management. He said he
controlled $50 million to $60 million, while telling investors
he had $900 million under management, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Nicholson, 09-cr-414, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Alstom’s Bid to Block Eurostar Contract Dismissed  Alstom SA  failed to win an injunction from a London judge
blocking Eurostar Group Ltd. from buying trains from  Siemens AG .  Justice Geoffrey Vos at the High Court in London refused to
grant the French company a temporary injunction that would have
barred Eurostar from signing a contract with Siemens until a
full trial could take place. Alstom has claimed it would suffer
“serious and irreparable harm,” if the German company were
allowed to win a bid for trains to operate in the tunnel under
the English Channel.  While Alstom made valid arguments about the fairness of
Eurostar’s bidding criteria, Vos said it would be “unjust” for
him to “freeze the tendering process.” If he did, it might
take as long as a year before Eurostar could place the order.  Eurostar  said Oct. 7 it would buy 10 trains from Siemens in
a contract worth 600 million euros ($834 million) to add routes
and fend off competition from Germany’s  Deutsche Bahn AG , which
plans services via the tunnel from 2013. A lawyer for Alstom
argued earlier this week the company’s rights to transparency
and non-discrimination under European Union rules were violated
by Eurostar’s bidding process.  “Alstom will pursue alternative legal options to uphold
its position,” the company, based near Paris, said Oct. 29 in a
statement following the ruling, adding that it “has already
submitted its case to the European Commission.”  Eurostar will postpone signing the contract until Nov. 2 to
give them time to file papers, the company’s lawyer Michael
Bowsher said.  Siemens is “very pleased that the injunction has been
refused,” spokeswoman Anja Uhlendorff said in an e-mailed
statement. “We look forward to proceeding and signing the
contract with Eurostar once the legal process permits.”  For more, click here.  White-Collar Criminals May Use Age to Seek Lighter Sentences  Elderly people convicted of financial fraud and other
federal crimes will be more likely to invoke their age in
seeking lower prison terms due to a change in U.S. sentencing
guidelines set to go into effect Nov. 1, Bloomberg News’ Thom
Weidlich reports.  The amendment states that age may be relevant in
calculating sentencing ranges. The current language says age is
“not ordinarily relevant.” Some high-profile defendants such
as  Adelphia Communications Corp. ’s John Rigas and former
Illinois Governor George Ryan were in their 70s and 80s when
sentenced.  “These sentences can turn into death sentences for
individuals who are older,” Jeff Ifrah, co-author of “Federal
Sentencing for Business Crimes,” said in a phone interview.
“You’ll start seeing defendants” ask for lower departures from
the normal guideline “based on age in the appropriate
circumstances.”  White-collar defendants tend to be older than those
convicted of other federal crimes. Almost half of all defendants
sentenced last year for tax offenses and 28.3 percent for money
laundering were older than 50, the most of any age category in
statistics compiled by the  U.S. Sentencing Commission .  Last year, only 2.6 percent of defendants got a downward
departure from the guideline range due to age, according to the
commission.  The amendment changes the guidelines to say that “age
(including youth) may be relevant” if age is a factor “to an
unusual degree.”  Laura Sweeney, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the
guideline change.  For more, click here.  Candys Win Suit Over Ex-Chelsea Barracks Worker Bonus  The design firm founded by Christian Candy and his brother
Nick won a lawsuit against the former development director for
the  Chelsea Barracks project  in London, who had sued over an
unpaid bonus.  Candy & Candy Ltd. doesn’t have to pay a 160,000-pound
($255,000) bonus to Andrew Locke, because he wasn’t employed on
the date the bonus would have been owed, the U.K. Court of
Appeal ruled Oct. 29.  Locke was hired by the Candys on Sept. 17, 2007, and fired
by the firm on Sept. 7 the following year. The firm paid Locke
six months’ salary after he was fired, under the terms of his
contract. The company didn’t pay the 160,000-pound bonus because
Locke hadn’t been employed for a full year.  Locke declined to immediately comment after the ruling.
Stafford’s request for permission to appeal the judgment was
denied. He can still apply directly to the U.K. Supreme Court to
hear the matter, the judges said.  Candy & Candy “has always maintained that it acted
properly and in accordance with Mr. Locke’s contract of
employment and that he was not entitled to the bonus he
claimed,” the firm said in an e-mailed statement. “We hope
that this is now an end to the matter.”  The case is Locke v. Candy & Candy Ltd., A2/2010/0807,
Court of Appeal, Civil Division (London).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  H&R Block Suit Against HSBC Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  H&R Block Inc. ’s lawsuit against  HSBC Holdings Plc  was the
most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last
week. The suit, by the biggest U.S. tax-preparation firm, was
filed in federal court in St. Louis on Oct. 15. It alleges the
bank violated a contract to provide tax refund loans through
2013.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service has said it will no
longer help banks including HSBC and  Republic Bancorp Inc. 
underwrite tax refund loans that lawmakers and consumer groups
say carry unfairly high interest rates.  The case is HRB Tax Group Inc. v. HSBC Bank USA NA, 10-cv-
01946, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St.
Louis).  For more, click here.  On The Docket  Judge Orders Regulators, Drilling-Ban Foes to Court on Nov. 9  The U.S. judge overseeing legal challenges to the Obama
Administration’s deep-water drilling ban ordered government
regulators, environmentalists, politicians and oil industry
groups opposed to the moratorium to a conference in New Orleans
federal court on Nov. 9.  “The court would like to know what issues remain to be
resolved in each case,” U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman said
in an order issued Oct. 29.  It’s the first time Feldman has asked parties involved in
all four lawsuits related to the administrative policy
restricting drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet to assemble
together in his court. The order includes environmentalists who
sued in Washington federal court this month to force Interior
Secretary Kenneth Salazar to restore the ban he rescinded.  The Obama Administration first restricted deep-water
drilling in May, after the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig
caused the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Feldman threw
out that first ban in June, calling it overly broad, and Salazar
instituted a second, similar ban in July. Salazar withdrew the
latter ban this month after determining the industry has made
progress on improving offshore drilling safety and oil-spill
response capabilities.  The cases are Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC. v, Salazar,
2:10-cv-1663; Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-1941; State
of Texas v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-2949, all U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans), and Center for
Biological Diversity v. Salazar, 1:10-cv-1787, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 