-- Ambac Pursuing Restructuring Through Prepackaged Bankruptcy
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d
-- 2010-11-01T20:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/ambac-pursuing-restructuring-through-prepackaged-bankruptcy.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc., whose
bond insurance unit is being restructured by Wisconsin
regulators, said it skipped a bond payment today and will pursue
a pre-packaged bankruptcy with a group of creditors.  Ambac shares plunged 50 percent after the company said in a
regulatory  filing  it will miss an interest payment due today on
$75 million of 7.5 percent notes maturing May 2023. The company,
with total debt of $1.62 billion, has a 30-day grace period
until a default is triggered and  bondholders  can accelerate full
payment, according to the filing. If it’s unable to agree to a
prepackaged filing by year-end, Ambac said it will seek
bankruptcy protection without creditor approval.  The company is seeking to restructure seven months after
Wisconsin Insurance Commissioner  Sean Dilweg  seized $35 billion
of the insurer’s policies backing mortgage securities. Dilweg
said he was splitting the insurance unit in two to segregate
contracts on which Ambac expects to pay significant claims, such
as mortgage bonds, and preserve capital to protect municipal-
bond policyholders.  “I don’t believe the holding company going bankrupt would
stop Ambac from paying claims,” said  Richard Larkin , a senior
vice president in Iselin, New Jersey, for Herbert J. Sims & Co.,
a municipal securities firm. The possible filing is “a
reflection of the fact that Ambac’s insurance arm isn’t able to
make a profit and send that profit up to the parent.”  Preserve Tax Savings  The company “has been unable to raise additional capital
as an alternative to seeking bankruptcy protection,” Ambac said
in the filing today.  By seeking a pre-packaged bankruptcy, the company is trying
to preserve potential tax savings from about $7 billion of
previous net operating losses that could reduce tax payments on
profits in future years. A bankruptcy without a plan in place
could limit the company’s ability to use the tax benefit if
stock issued to debt holders in a bankruptcy filing causes
shareholders owning 5 percent or more of the company’s stock to
increase their ownership in the company by 50 percent or more,
according to the filing.  “It’s a fragile asset, meaning it can easily be destroyed
if it’s transferred in the wrong way, as it should be,” said
 Jonathan Carmel , founder and portfolio manager at Carmel Asset
Management in New York, who owns credit-default swaps that would
pay out if the company defaults and is shorting the company’s
stock.  Hedge Funds  “Conceptually you shouldn’t have healthy companies buying
up distressed or bankrupt companies simply to gain a tax
advantage,” he said. “In this case we think there is little
value in the NOLs because we expect the operating company to
incur ongoing taxable losses and the NOLs are very difficult to
transfer to another entity.”  A group of hedge funds including Aurelius Capital
Management LP and King Street Capital LP in August filed a
motion to prevent Ambac from taking dividends or using the net
operating loss benefits without compensating the subsidiary.  Ambac  dropped  41 cents to 41 cents as of 4 p.m. in New
York. The shares had climbed 49 percent in October on optimism
that bondholders would be able to compel banks to buy back
faulty loans that were packaged in the securities the companies
guaranteed.  Credit-default swaps protecting against an Ambac default
for five years jumped 5.3 percentage points to 74.2 percent
upfront, according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5
percent a year, meaning it would cost $7.42 million initially
and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of Ambac debt.  Wisconsin insurance regulators released a  report  in May
showing that Ambac’s losses on 18 collateralized debt
obligations, or CDOs, backed by mortgages would result in claims
of as much as $8.7 billion. CDOs parcel fixed-income assets such
as bonds or loans and slice them into new securities of varying
risk intended to provide higher returns than other investments
with the same rating.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  