-- Man Group Sells AHL Fund to Singapore Retail Investors for the First Time
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-11-01T07:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/man-group-sells-ahl-fund-to-singapore-retail-investors-for-the-first-time.html
Man Group Plc , the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager, is for the first time
marketing to individual investors in Singapore a fund which uses
computer programs to identify trades in futures markets.  Singapore investors can put a minimum of S$20,000 ($15,503)
in Man AHL Trend, said the London-based manager, which completed
its  acquisition  of GLG Partners Inc. in October. AHL and other
managed futures trading programs profited in 2008 as commodities
such as crude oil rallied to records, and then collapsed.  The fund will provide a new asset class for Singapore
investors other than the traditional equities and bonds, said
Timothy Peach, head of sales for Southeast Asia at Man Group,
said at a briefing in Singapore today.  “We don’t expect a huge tsunami of money coming into the
fund initially; it is quite different from your typical mutual
fund,” Peach said.  Man Group is broadening its range of offerings after it
agreed in May to buy New York-based GLG for $1.6 billion,
creating a company with about $63 billion in assets, and easing
its dependence on  Man AHL Diversified Plc , an investment program
that accounts for more than half of Man Group’s holdings.  The hedge-fund firm said in September it estimated first-
half profit to drop by 55 percent as income from management and
performance fees declines. Investors withdrew $600 million from
Man Group in the fiscal second quarter.  AHL trades in more than 150 futures markets around the
world and seeks to profit from falling and rising market trends.
Man AHL Diversified Futures Ltd. increased about 7.6 percent in
the year to the end of August. AHL slumped 16 percent last year,
its first loss, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fund Discussions  AHL manages $21.9 billion globally, of which 60 percent are
assets from private investors including retail and high-net-
worth individuals, Peach said. The remainder are direct
investments from sovereign wealth funds, endowments, pension
funds and insurance firms, he said.  Man Group, which spent three years discussing the fund with
Singapore’s regulator, is looking at ways it can market it in
Malaysia and other countries in the region, Peach said. The fund
conforms with Europe’s Undertakings for Collective Investments
in Transferable Securities, a regulated fund format known as
UCITS III.  The fund will charge fees equal to 3 percent of client
assets and 20 percent of investment profits, Peach said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  