-- Anadarko Posts Third-Quarter Loss After Spill in Gulf of Mexico
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2010-11-01T22:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/anadarko-petroleum-posts-third-quarter-loss-after-spill-in-gulf-of-mexico.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the Texas
oil company that owns a stake in BP Plc’s damaged Macondo well
in the Gulf of Mexico, posted a third-quarter loss and missed
analysts’ estimates as costs increased. The shares fell 1.3
percent in after-hours trading.  The net loss was $26 million, or 5 cents a share, compared
with a profit of $200 million, or 40 cents, a year earlier, The
Woodlands, Texas-based company said today in a statement.
Excluding such expenses such as the drop in value of contracts,
profit was 21 cents a share, 8 cents lower than the average of
26 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil futures in New York averaged $76.21 a barrel in the
third quarter, a 12 percent increase from a year earlier. The
average natural-gas price rose 23 percent. Anadarko boosted the
midpoint of its oil and gas sales forecast for 2010 and reduced
its capital-spending midpoint. The company said costs rose 12
percent in the quarter from a year earlier, including increases
related to exploration and general and administrative expenses.  “It’s been a while since I’ve had a buy rating on this
stock, Macondo notwithstanding, because I always worried about
their cost structure,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus
Research in New York who has a “hold” rating on Anadarko
shares and owns none.  Anadarko has a 25 percent stake in  BP ’s Macondo well in the
Gulf that exploded April 20 and caused the biggest offshore oil
spill in U.S. history. BP has a 65 percent interest in the
project and is the operator. A unit of Mitsui Oil Exploration
Co., which is 70 percent-owned by Japan’s  Mitsui & Co. , has the
other 10 percent.  Withholding Reimbursement  Anadarko said in a June 18 statement that the explosion was
preventable and that BP’s actions “likely represent gross
negligence or willful misconduct.” Anadarko has said it’s
withholding reimbursement to BP for spill-related costs, citing
that company’s behavior. Anadarko said BP has billed it $2.6
billion for what BP considers to be its share of costs through
Sept. 30, according to a regulatory filing today.  The U.S. in October lifted a moratorium on deep-water
drilling that was put in place after the accident. Companies
will have to deal with higher costs and slower project
development in the Gulf of Mexico, said  Philip Dodge , an analyst
at Tuohy Brothers in New York.  “Whatever happens in the Gulf is not going to be as good
as it would have been before,” Dodge said.  Anadarko said third-quarter revenue declined 11 percent
from a year earlier to $2.55 billion.  Today’s earnings report was issued after the close of
regular trading on U.S. stock markets. Anadarko fell 81 cents in
after-hours trading to $62.35. The stock, which has 16 buy
recommendations from analysts and 13 holds, had gained 1.2
percent this year as of today’s closing price.  (Anadarko will hold an earnings conference call for
investors and analysts tomorrow at 10 a.m. New York time. To
listen, go to  http://www.anadarko.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 