-- Manchester City Players Want Mancini Out, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-11-01T11:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/manchester-city-players-want-mancini-out-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  City Revolt  Manchester City players want coach  Roberto Mancini  to get
fired, saying they’ll never win the Premier League with the
Italian in charge,  the Sun said .  Mancini has lost back-to-back games, and City players have
fought among themselves, the newspaper said. While the team
members aren’t sure who should replace the coach, they’re
puzzled by his tactics and his behavior, the newspaper said.  Liverpool Meeting  Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  will meet new club owner John
W. Henry this week and tell him the team needs to sign new
players,  the Guardian said .  The pair talk almost daily, and will sit down before the
Reds play Chelsea at Anfield next weekend, the newspaper said.  Henry “is very interested and committed and anxious to
learn more about the club and what can be done and what needs to
be done and how the club can move forward,” the manager said.  Redknapp Charge?  Tottenham coach  Harry Redknapp  may be charged by the
Football Association after questioning referee Mark
Clattenburg’s integrity because of a farcical goal by Manchester
United at the weekend,  the Daily Mail said.   United’s Nani handled the ball in Spurs’ penalty area, and
then kicked the ball into the goal as Tottenham keeper Heurelho
Gomes lined up what he thought was a free kick, the newspaper
said. The referee hadn’t blown his whistle, and allowed the goal
to stand.  “The officials will come up with a story that will make it
look right,” Redknapp said. “That’s the way it happens. He
made a cock-up, but he’ll come up with some excuse.”  Holloway’s Ways  Blackpool coach  Ian Holloway  says he wouldn’t be too upset
if his club was relegated from the Premier League,  the Sun said .  The manager said his team is good enough to stay in the
league, but players have to prove it by continuing to win
against clubs such as Liverpool, Newcastle and Wigan, where the
Seasiders have found success, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 