-- Anglo American's Platinum Unit Says Unspecified Negotiations Terminated
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-01T15:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/anglo-platinum-shares-fall-in-johannesburg-after-company-ends-its-talks.html
Anglo American Plc’s  Anglo Platinum
Ltd.  unit, the world’s largest producer of the metal, said
unspecified talks it announced on Oct. 29 ended.  “Negotiations have been terminated,” the Johannesburg-
based platinum company said in a statement today without
elaborating. Anglo American, which owns about  80 percent  of the
platinum producer, declined to say what the talks were about.  It could have been related to Anglo Platinum’s stake in
Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd., said  Sasha Naryshkine , an
investment manager at Vestact. The timing of the talks in
relation to the planned listing of Royal Bafokeng Platinum is
“too close to be a coincidence,” he said by phone from
Johannesburg today.  Anglo Platinum owns about 15 percent of  Royal Bafokeng
Platinum , which plans to list its shares in Johannesburg on Nov.
8. Anglo Platinum also owns a third of Bafokeng Rasimone
Platinum Mine, a venture in which Royal Bafokeng Platinum owns
the rest. The venture produces platinum from a mine in South
Africa, the world’s largest supplier of the metal.  Anglo Platinum this month vetoed  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd.’s  offer to buy Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine. Royal
Bafokeng Holdings, which controls Royal Bafokeng Platinum, was
“disappointed” with Anglo’s decision as it supported the
almost-20 billion rand ($2.9 billion) bid, Royal Bafokeng
Holdings Chief Executive Officer  Niall Carroll  said on Oct. 12.  Anna Mulholland, Anglo Platinum’s spokeswoman, didn’t
respond to a message left on her mobile phone today.  IPO Raising  Royal Bafokeng Platinum plans to raise as much as 3.2
billion rand through South Africa’s biggest mining initial
public offering in at least 16 years. Its main asset is its 67
percent stake in the Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine venture
that produces about 270,000 ounces of platinum group metals from
its Rasimone mine. The venture also owns the nearby Styldrift
project, where the first phase of a new mine could be built at a
cost of about 12 billion rand.  There’s an “obvious need for consolidation” in South
Africa’s platinum industry where profit is under pressure from
power and labor costs rising by several times the inflation
rate,  Leon Esterhuizen , an analyst with Royal Bank of Canada
Europe Ltd., wrote in a note last week. Potential buyers include
Impala,  Lonmin Plc , Aquarius Platinum Ltd., Xstrata Plc and
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., while takeover targets include
 Northam Platinum Ltd.  and Wesizwe Platinum Ltd., among others,
he said.  Electricity Rising  Power tariffs rose 25 percent this year and wages by at
least 10 percent, Esterhuizen said. South Africa, where the
consumer price inflation rate slowed to 3.2 percent in
September, has more than three-quarters of the world’s reserves
of platinum, used in devices that lower harmful vehicle
emissions and to make jewelry.  Platinum has gained 17 percent so far this year to
$1,707.50 an ounce in London. Anglo Platinum accounts for about
40 percent of global platinum production, while Impala, the
world’s second-biggest producer, makes up about 25 percent.  Anglo Platinum, which lost as much as 1.9 percent earlier,
gained 0.3 percent to 695 rand by the 5 p.m. close of trade in
Johannesburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  