-- Anti-Tax Activists Rebuffed at Supreme Court on Election-Disclosure Rules
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-01T14:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/anti-tax-activists-rebuffed-at-supreme-court-on-election-disclosure-rules.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  refused to
relax the disclosure requirements for groups that spend money to
influence federal elections, as the justices turned away an
appeal from anti-tax and libertarian activists.  Acting the day before the congressional elections, the high
court let stand a ruling requiring SpeechNow.org to comply with
the federal rules that govern so-called political committees.
SpeechNow is a free-speech group founded by officials from the
anti-tax  Club for Growth  and the libertarian  Cato Institute .  SpeechNow’s backers, led by David Keating, argued
unsuccessfully that those rules violated the First Amendment and
that the group should have to comply only with the less
stringent disclosure requirements that apply to other
organizations.  A U.S. appeals court disagreed in a 9-0 decision, upholding
the Federal Election Commission’s classification of SpeechNow as
a political committee. The lower court said the additional
requirements, including one mandating the disclosure of
contributions for administrative expenses, served important
interests.  “Requiring disclosure of such information deters and helps
expose violations of other campaign finance restrictions, such
as those barring contributions from foreign corporations or
individuals,” the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit
said.  The Supreme Court has allowed disclosure requirements even
while striking down restrictions on political spending by
corporations and independent groups.  Keating’s appeal contended that political groups should be
exempt from the political-committee requirements when they make
only independent expenditures -- those that aren’t coordinated
with a campaign. Keating argued that the appeals court ruling
will “chill speech that this court has long sought to protect.”  The Obama administration urged the Supreme Court not to
hear the case, saying the lower court reached the right
conclusion on that issue.  FEC rules require groups to register as political
committees if their “major purpose” involves federal campaigns.  The case is Keating v. Federal Election Commission, 10-145.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 