-- Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Grew at Slower Pace in October
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-01T13:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-slower-pace-as-recovery-cooled.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
expanded at a slower pace in October, evidence of the cooling in
the recovery that’s taken place since early 2010, economists
said before reports today.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  dropped
to 54 last month from 54.4 in September, according to the median
estimate of 64 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth. A report earlier today showed
consumer spending rose less than forecast in September and the
first drop in incomes in more than a year.  Companies are tempering orders after replenishing
inventories, at the same time growing  overseas demand  benefits
manufacturers such as  Cummins Inc.  The U.S. economy is growing
too slowly to reduce a jobless rate lingering near 10 percent,
explaining why the Federal Reserve may opt to ease monetary
policy this week.  “There has definitely been a dialing back in the pace of
manufacturing,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, whose forecast
matched the survey median. “That said, it’s still indicative of
improvement in the economy.”  Manufacturing in China expanded in October at the fastest
pace in six months, while U.K. factory growth unexpectedly
accelerated as hiring and export orders improved, separate
reports showed today.  A China purchasing managers’ index released by the
logistics federation rose to 54.7 last month from 53.8. A second
PMI, from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, jumped to 54.8
from 52.9.  U.K. Manufacturing  A U.K. gauge based on a survey of companies by Markit
Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply
rose to 54.9 last month from 53.5, according to an e-mailed
statement in London. Measures above 50 indicate expansion.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. New
York time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 52 to
55.6.  As manufacturing cools, a renewed slowdown in home sales
following the expiration of a buyer incentive is depressing
construction. Spending on all projects dropped 0.5 percent in
September, the second decline in three months, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed before a Commerce
Department report at 10 a.m.  Earlier figures from the Commerce Department showed
consumer spending rose 0.2 percent in September, the smallest
gain in the third quarter. Incomes dropped 0.1 percent, the
first decrease since July 2009.  Led by Manufacturing  The recovery that began in June 2009 from the worst
recession since the 1930s has been led by manufacturing as
 exports  climbed, business investment picked up and inventories
were replenished.  Shares of manufacturers have increased more this year than
the broader indexes. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
 Industrial Machinery  Index has gained 28 percent through Oct.
29, while the  S&P 500  has gained 6.1 percent.  Regional manufacturing measures accelerated in October. Fed
surveys last month showed New York-region factories expanded in
October at the fastest pace since June, while those in the
 Philadelphia  area grew after contracting in the previous two
months. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago said its
business barometer unexpectedly rose in October.  The economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the third
quarter as consumer spending climbed the most in almost four
years, figures from the Commerce Department showed last week.
The increase in gross domestic product compares with 1.7 percent
growth in the second quarter.  Fed on Economy  “National economic activity continued to rise, albeit at a
modest pace, during the reporting period from September to early
October,” the Fed said Oct. 20 in its latest “Beige Book”
survey of regional economies.  Central bankers meeting Nov. 2-3 are concerned economic
growth is not strong enough to reduce an unemployment rate close
to 10 percent. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 27 that
the central bank “will do all it can” to sustain the economy
recovery. Investors are anticipating policy makers will announce
another round of asset purchases after buying $1.7 trillion in
debt from December 2008 to March.  Economists  Jan Hatzius  at Goldman Sachs and  Ethan Harris  at
Bank of America predict the Fed will spread an initial $500
billion in asset purchases over six months. Hatzius forecasts as
much as $2 trillion in eventual asset purchases.  More Exports  American manufacturers are benefiting from stronger growth
overseas.  “Many of our U.S. markets remained weak as a result of the
slow recovery in the U.S. economy,”  Thomas Linebarger , chief
operating officer of Indiana-based diesel engine-maker Cummins,
said during a teleconference with analysts on Oct. 26. At the
same time, “our business, especially in the emerging markets,
has come back much faster than we had forecast.”  Mid-term elections tomorrow will determine which party
controls Congress. There is no clear consensus on which party
deserves more blame for the economy’s problems, or how best to
fix them, according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct.
24-26. It showed Republicans are poised to retake the U.S. House
without a mandate from voters to carry out their policies.  For businesses, “things are in a bit of a holding
pattern,” due to the election, uncertainty about tax policy and
government regulation, Pierpont Securities’ Stanley said. “ I
think conditions will improve going forward, but now people are
being super cautious.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  