-- Zanzibar Elects Ruling Party's Shein, Opposition Concedes Vote Defeat
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-01T20:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/tanzanian-president-leads-election-with-five-of-10-constituencies-tallied.html
Ali Mohamed Shein , the ruling party
candidate for the presidency of Tanzania’s semi-autonomous
Zanzibar archipelago, won an election held yesterday by a narrow
margin, the islands’ electoral commission said.  Shein, of the Chama cha Mapunduzi party, won 50.1 percent
of the votes cast, while his rival  Seif Sharif Hamad  of the
Civic United Front got about 49 percent, Idriss Jecha, spokesman
for the Zanzibar Electoral Commission, said by phone from Stone
Town today.  Hamad conceded defeat and said he would cooperate with the
new government during a public address, Jecha said.  Candidates running for Shein’s party captured 28 out of the
50 parliamentary seats available while Jacha’s CUF won the
remainder, he said.  Lawmakers representing the CUF will have a chance to become
cabinet ministers in Zanzibar’s government under a new power-
sharing deal agreed in a referendum in July, Jecha said.  Zanzibar is in a political union with mainland Tanzania.  Nationally,  Tanzanian  President  Jakaya Kikwete  won the most
votes in 9 of 14 constituencies in which the results from
yesterday’s election have been counted, the National Electoral
Commission Chairman  Lewis Makame  said today in Dar es Salaam.  Ibrahim Lipumba  of the Civic United Front won the most
votes in four constituencies, all of which are on Zanzibar’s
Pemba Island, Makame said. Wilbrod Slaa of the opposition
Chadema party won more than 50 percent in the other
constituency, he said. Tanzania has 239 constituencies.  Makame didn’t provide the percentage of votes obtained by
the candidates, saying those tallies will be published and the
winner announced once all ballots have been counted, probably no
later than Nov. 5. Tanzania’s size is preventing the speedy
hand-delivery of results to Dar es Salaam, Makame said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  