-- Tanzania Will Begin Announcing Election Results Today
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-01T06:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/tanzania-will-begin-releasing-results-of-president-election-this-afternoon.html
Tanzania ’s electoral authority will
begin announcing the results of yesterday’s presidential
election this afternoon.  Results are being hand delivered from across the country to
Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital, where they will be
announced from 2 p.m. today, Ruth Masham, a spokeswoman for the
National Electoral Commission, said in a phone interview from
the city.  The East African nation yesterday held a peaceful vote that
will probably hand President  Jakaya Kikwete  a second and final
five-year term to implement policies aimed at strengthening the
region’s second-biggest economy.  Kikwete, the candidate of the Chama cha Mapinduzi party,
had the support of about 71.2 percent of voters, according to an
opinion poll conducted by the University of Dar es Salaam last
month. The 60-year-old leader was trailed by five other
candidates, including Wilbrod Slaa of the Chama cha Demokrasia
na Maendeleo party, his closest challenger.  Several reports of names being excluded from the voters’
lists inside polling stations and delays are nothing to be
worried about, Paul East, former attorney general of New Zealand
and head of the Commonwealth observer mission, said yesterday.  The vote was “peaceful and orderly,” he said.  Infrastructure Spending  During his first five-year term, Kikwete increased spending
on roads and energy projects, using higher tax revenue and donor
funding, while keeping government borrowing in check.  Kikwete has pledged to maintain fiscal policies that are
expected to drive the economic growth rate to 6.5 percent this
year and 6.7 percent in 2011, the IMF said on Oct. 6. That
compares with average growth rates of 5 percent and 5.5 percent
expected in the rest of sub-Saharan Africa in the same periods.  Kikwete has scored lower marks in the war against graft, a
key platform in his 2005 campaign, after his government failed
to prosecute a number of suspects implicated in major corruption
scandals. Tanzania’s ranking slipped to 116th from 93rd on an
index of the world’s most corrupt countries compiled by Berlin-
based Transparency International.  Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-largest gold exporter after
South Africa, Ghana and Mali. Companies including  Barrick Gold
Corp. , the world’s largest producer of the precious metal, and
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  have mines in the country.  The country’s domestic product was $21.6 billion with a
gross national income per capita of $500 in 2009 for a
population of 43.7 million, according to World Bank data.  That compares with an average of $1,096 for sub-Saharan
Africa. The total size of the economy is second only to Kenya in
the East African region.  Final results are expected by the end of this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 