-- Tanzania May Increase Foreign Investment by 8.5% This Year, Official Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-01T10:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/tanzania-may-increase-foreign-investment-by-8-5-this-year-official-says.html
Foreign investment in Tanzania is
expected to rise 8.5 percent this year after the government
reversed a decision to charge tariffs on capital goods for
construction projects, the  Tanzania Investment Centre  said.  The East African nation will receive about $700 million in
investments from abroad in 2010, compared with $645 million last
year, Emmanuel Ole Naiko, the agency’s executive director, said
in an interview in the commercial hub of Dar es Salaam today.  Tanzania, East Africa’s second-biggest economy after Kenya,
is looking to attract foreign investment to improve
infrastructure and help exploit its natural resources, which
include gold and uranium. The economy may expand 6.5 percent
this year and 6.7 percent in 2011, the International Monetary
Fund said on Oct. 6.  The Ministry of Finance in July scrapped import duties on
materials for the construction of hotels, restaurants, office
towers and other building projects, Ole Naiko said. The duty had
been  raised  a year earlier to between 10 and 25 percent, the
same range as for other categories of semi-finished and finished
imports, with no clear explanation by policymakers, he said.  “When they were removed it came as a surprise” to
investors, Ole Naiko said. “Now we’ve corrected it.”  The U.S., Britain, Kenya, China, South Africa, the
Netherlands and Germany are among Tanzania’s biggest investors.  Ongoing projects involving foreign companies include the
refurbishment of a hotel in Dar es Salaam and a second one in
the northern town of Arusha, as well as the exploitation of
gold, uranium and iron ore deposits, Ole Naiko said.  Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-largest gold producer after
South Africa, Ghana and Mali.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 