-- Taqa, Etisalat Lead Loan Rebound in Gulf as Debt Crisis Ebbs
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2010-11-01T09:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/taqa-etisalat-seek-12-billion-in-gulf-loan-rebound-as-dubai-crisis-ebbs.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. , the
state-run utility known as Taqa, and  Emirates Telecommunications
Corp.  are planning at least $12 billion of loans as Dubai’s debt
crisis ebbs amid a surge in Gulf economies.  Loans to companies in the Middle East rose to $33 billion
this year from $28.4 billion in the same period of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Average interest
margins in the region fell to 2.5 percentage points from 3.5
percentage points last year, Bloomberg data show.  Shunned by lenders after Dubai World’s payment delay roiled
global markets a year ago, Gulf borrowers are regaining access
to credit. Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-
owned businesses, said Oct. 27 it secured approval from all
creditors to restructure $24.9 billion of debt. State-owned
Dubai Electricity & Water Authority sold $2 billion of bonds
last month and in September Dubai’s government raised $1.25
billion in its first bond deal this year.  “The uncertainty factor that was surrounding the Middle
East has neutralized,” said  Umer Sultan , executive director of
Europe, Middle East and Africa loan syndications at WestLB AG in
London. “With the Dubai World restructuring nearly completed,
with the capital markets opening up and people seeing that
there’s appetite for the region among non-bank investors,
lenders’ appetite is starting to grow.”  Gulf Outpacing Europe  The economies of the six Gulf Corporation Council
countries, comprising Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia
and the United Arab Emirates, are forecast to grow at an average
rate of 5.7 percent in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an average of 0.7 percent growth
in the eurozone, European Commission forecasts show. Dubai’s
 bourse  has surged 19 percent since the end of August to
1,764.54, making it the world’s third-best performer after
benchmark gauges for Argentina and Peru.  “Compared to the European economies, the Middle Eastern
economies are in growth mode,” said  Raouf Jundi , head of loan
origination, Middle East and Africa, at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in London.  Taqa, based in Abu Dhabi, said today it started syndicating
$3 billion of three-and five-year loans to refinance an existing
$3.15 billion credit line. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,
BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and Standard Chartered Plc are arranging the
deal.  Emirates Telecom, known as Etisalat, plans to borrow more
than $9 billion to buy shares in Kuwaiti phone company Mobile
Telecommunications Co., or Zain. The financing may take the form
of a short-term bridge loan that will be replaced with longer-
term financing, bankers familiar with the deal said Oct. 13.  Still Wary  Zain is also seeking a $1.5 billion credit line of its own
to refinance debt, while state-owned Saudi Arabian Oil Co. is in
talks with banks to raise at least $3 billion, according to
people with knowledge of the deal.  “The Dubai restructuring helps the mood and, over the past
year or so, banks have been able to distinguish between the
strong credits and the weaker ones,” Jundi said.  International banks are still wary of companies in Dubai
and likely to charge them higher interest margins, Jundi said.
United Arab Chemical Carriers Ltd., a Dubai-based shipping
company, signed $280 million of five-year loans in June with an
interest margin of 3.25 percentage points over the London
interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to each other.  “There are good companies in Dubai and sooner or later one
of these will be able to tap” loans again, said Jundi. “They
would have to pay a premium because of the situation surrounding
Dubai.”  There is also some time to go before the market re-opens to
private companies, Sultan said. Nearly all the larger Middle
Eastern deals, including Qatar Telecom QSC’s $2 billion loan and
a $2.5 billion credit line for Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development.
Co., both signed in May, have been to government-owned or state-
controlled companies.  “For a corporate name to come out into the international
loan market and do a full-blown syndication, I think it’s still
some time,” Sultan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 