-- Harvard, Rockefeller Are Coming Back in Vogue: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-11-01T21:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/harvard-rockefeller-are-coming-back-in-vogue-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Barack Obama ’s protocol people have
some explaining to do.  It’s grand that the U.S. president will kick off his four-
country Asia trip in  India . The biggest democracy deserves
special attention. Only it would have been better if Obama
didn’t visit this coming weekend during Diwali.  Imagine a world leader rocking up to the White House at
midday on Christmas or July 4 wondering why their U.S.
counterpart isn’t ecstatic to see them. Obama showing up in
 Mumbai  during the Hindu festival of lights is a cultural faux
pas that hasn’t been lost on the second-most populous nation.  The traveling city that is any presidential visit will ruin
the holiday for countless families, executives, police officials,
hotel staffers and street merchants. And you can imagine what
will become of Mumbai’s already snarled traffic.  This lost-in-translation moment is a metaphor for how Obama
has given short shrift to  Asia ’s other superstar. Now is an
ideal opportunity to court a rising power that may have more to
teach the world’s economies than even China.  The so-called Washington consensus of free markets,
transparency and unfettered globalization is more of a punch
line these days than a recipe for prosperity. In its place
stepped the Beijing consensus of open markets, autocratic
government and limited press freedom. Well, what about a third
way -- a Mumbai consensus?  People-Centric Model  Count  Lawrence Summers , departing director of Obama’s
National Economic Council, among those asking this question. The
former World Bank economist and Clinton administration Treasury
secretary is one of the faces of the Washington consensus and
its neoliberal policies.  In Mumbai last month, Summers talked up the merits of a
“developing state driven not by mercantilist capitalism or
exports but a people-centric focus on growing levels of
consumption based globally.” He said that “in 2040, the
discussion will be less about the Washington consensus and the
Beijing consensus than about the Mumbai consensus.”  A couple of caveats are worth mentioning here. One is that
 India  should be careful about becoming too American;
accumulating billions of dollars of debt isn’t the way to go.
Also, such comments are clearly part of a U.S. charm offensive
ahead of Obama’s trip.  Indian Alternative  Yet it’s important to highlight an alternative to the
Beijing-inspired model making the rounds. Obama’s itinerary
could be seen as a physical manifestation of his desire to
champion one. After India, he will visit Indonesia, Japan and
South Korea.  What all four have in common is democratic principles. And
each nation has probably been put off by China’s immature
reactions to territorial disputes in Asia, standoffs over
fishing vessels and rare-earth metals. China’s support for
countries like North Korea complicates efforts to address Asia’s
biggest geopolitical challenges. The absence of nuance in
China’s diplomacy may drive Asia’s democracies away.  India has much to gain from that dynamic. Yet let’s not
step too far in the direction of India gushing. China has done a
far better job of raising hundreds of millions out of  poverty ,
its infrastructure is infinitely better and its economy is
zooming along at a faster rate. About 830 million Indians live
on less than $2 a day and all too many don’t have easy access to
toilets or clean water.  Entrepreneurial Energy  For all its failings, India has an entrepreneurial energy
that’s already created world-class companies indigenously like
 Infosys Technologies Ltd.  and Wipro Ltd. It has a free and
lively press and a reasonable respect for intellectual property
rights. For all its warts, India’s economy is one in which the
energy comes more from the ground up than from the top down.  Thirty years from now, Summers says, 2010 to 2020 will be
seen as the decade that saw the emergence of India’s John
Harvards and  John D. Rockefeller s -- an intellectual and
industrial explosion that will pay dividends for many years to
come. The future may show that while India lacks a  Shanghai , it
offers a model from which other developing economies might learn.  Asia’s future lies not in its sweat shops, but in its ideas,
technologies and sciences. Success requires free access to the
debates and breakthroughs of the moment. Perhaps China can
thrive even as it censors the information and knowledge its
 Steve Jobs  wannabes need to create the next Apple Inc.  Obama’s Focus  Obama’s sudden focus on India encompasses business as well
as geopolitics. India’s capitalistic spirit and demographics
could propel it past China in the years ahead. It won’t be a
smooth ride, yet it’s one U.S. businesses want to join.  One way Obama might benefit all involved is reducing visa
costs and making the process less onerous. If you get a degree
from a U.S. university with a skill set America needs, the
government should staple a work visa to your diploma. Training
professionals and then telling them to leave is bad for
corporate America and America’s image abroad.  Another way is shining a bright spotlight on India’s
alternative to China’s development model. In the short run, it
could make up for all those lost Diwali plans. In the long run,
it might pave the way for a freer, more vibrant world.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  