-- Stocks, Oil Rise on China, Fed Speculation; JPMorgan Retreats
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-01T17:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/asian-stocks-emerging-currencies-oil-climb-on-china-manufacturing-korea.html
U.S. stocks rose, building on the
biggest September-through-October  rally  in 12 years, and
commodities climbed after China’s manufacturing strengthened and
data on American spending and incomes underscored pressure on
the Federal Reserve to boost growth. Oil gained 2.5 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced 0.3 percent to
1,187.25 at 1:22 p.m. in New York after surging 13 percent over
the previous two months. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of commodities jumped to a two-year high. Treasuries fell,
sending the 10-year yield up three basis points to 2.63 percent.
The dollar rose 0.4 percent versus the euro and 10-year Irish
bond yields  surged  to a record 467 basis points more than German
bunds amid concern the nation will struggle to fund its deficit.  The gains in stocks and commodities came after the fastest
manufacturing growth in six months signaled that China may
continue to lead the global recovery, even amid the nation’s
efforts to cool price pressures. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is
set to embark on an unprecedented second round of bond purchases
to boost the world’s largest economy, following a two-day
meeting that begins tomorrow in Washington.  “We got strong manufacturing data out of Asia,” said
 Barry Knapp , chief U.S. equity strategist at Barclays Plc in New
York. “There is this idea that global manufacturing is slowing
but it really hasn’t happened. That’s a main driver of U.S.
stocks being up today.”  Highest Since May  The  S&P 500  trimmed gains after reaching 1,195.81, its
highest level on a closing basis since May 3. Nine of 10
industry groups advanced. Intel Corp. and Microsoft Corp.
climbed more than 1.5 percent to lead gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , which advanced as much as 125.78 points, or
0.7 percent, to 11,244.27, above its highest close since the
aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in
September 2008. The gauge pared its rally to trade near the
11,170 level, up about 0.5 percent.  The surge in stocks in September and October was fueled by
higher-than-estimated profits coupled with speculation Bernanke
was prepared to pump more cash into the economy. Earnings-per-
share have topped analysts’ estimates at 80 percent of the
companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results since Oct.
7, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Net income has grown 36
percent for the group on a 9.8 percent increase in sales.  Consumer spending rose less than forecast in September
while incomes dropped for the first time in more than a year as
the U.S. economy grows too slowly to reduce a jobless rate near
10 percent, explaining why the Fed may opt to ease monetary
policy this week. Purchases increased 0.2 percent and incomes
fell 0.1 percent, Commerce Department figures showed.  Factory Data  Treasuries reversed gains after a measure of U.S. factory
output expanded faster than forecast in October, boosting demand
for higher-yielding assets. The Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index rose to 56.9 in October from 54.4 a
month earlier, the group said today. Readings greater than 50
signal growth.  Elections tomorrow may divide power in Congress, helping
the market, according to  Ken Fisher , whose Woodside, California-
based Fisher Investments Inc. oversees more than $38 billion.
There’s a 94 percent chance that the Republicans will take
control of the House of Representatives, according to bets on
Intrade, a Dublin-based online prediction market.  Emerging Markets Rally  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 1.3 percent, headed
for the biggest gain in almost three weeks. The Shanghai
Composite Index rallied 2.5 percent to the highest level since
April as the manufacturing report signaled the economy is
weathering a government clampdown on lending and real-estate
speculation.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index  jumped 1.7 percent, the most in
two months, and the won strengthened 0.3 percent against the
dollar after a bigger-than-estimated jump in October exports.
Russia’s Micex Index rose 0.7 percent to the highest level since
July 2008 as oil climbed.  Almost three companies advanced for every two that fell in
the  Stoxx Europe 600  Index, which climbed 0.2 percent after
fluctuating for most of the trading session. Xstrata Plc led
mining companies higher, rising 3.7 percent. TNT NV, Europe’s
second-biggest express-delivery company, paced declining shares,
losing 4.2 percent after releasing earnings that missed
estimates. Ryanair Holdings Plc, the region’s biggest discount
airline, slid 3.8 percent after profit lagged behind forecasts.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped 0.8 percent.  Irish bonds declined, sending the yield on the 10-year
security 22 basis points higher to 7.14 percent. The
International Monetary Fund may be running Ireland by February
if the budget, due Dec. 7, “fails to convince the financial
markets,”  Colm McCarthy , an economics professor at University
College Dublin, said in an interview with the Sunday Independent
yesterday.  Portugal, Irish Debt  Portuguese debt erased gains, with the 10-year yield rising
14 basis points to 6.07 percent, even as the nation’s government
and biggest opposition party agreed on next year’s budget.  Ireland and Greece led a surge in the cost of insuring
European sovereign debt from default on concern bondholders will
be forced to share the cost of future government bailouts.  Credit-default swaps on Ireland jumped 22 basis points to
495.5, surpassing the Sept. 27 record closing price, according
to data provider CMA. Greece climbed 37 basis points to 831.5,
the highest level since Sept. 20. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments rose 4.5 basis points to
a one-month high of 156.  Cotton rose 3.7 cents to $1.29 a pound in New York, and
copper jumped 1.4 percent to $3.787 a pound in New York. China
is the world’s largest buyer of copper and cotton. Crude oil
rallied 2.5 percent to $83.44 a barrel in New York.  The dollar strengthened to $1.3893 per euro, while
weakening against most other major currencies.  The Swiss franc weakened against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts. The Australian dollar climbed to more than 99 U.S.
cents for the first time since Oct. 26 before paring gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 