-- Asia Currencies Gain, Led by Taiwan Dollar, as China Manufacturing Expands
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-11-01T08:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/asia-currencies-gain-led-by-taiwan-dollar-as-china-manufacturing-expands.html
Asian currencies rose, led by South
Korea’s won, after reports showed China’s manufacturing grew in
October at the fastest pace in six months, brightening the
outlook for demand in the region’s biggest economy.  South Korea’s won had its largest gain in two weeks after
government data today showed overseas sales climbed last month
at the quickest rate since June, while Taiwan’s dollar rose to a
two-year high. Both economies count China as their top export
market. Regional currencies were also supported by speculation
the Federal Reserve will this week announce additional monetary
easing, spurring a flow of dollars into higher-yielding,
emerging-market assets.  “The Fed’s quantitative easing means more money will flow
into emerging countries, especially those with strong economic
performances,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Amid such speculation,
stronger data out of China adds to appreciation pressure on
regional currencies. Export-oriented economies in the region
benefit from solid growth in China.”  The won jumped 0.8 percent to 1,116.58 per dollar as of the
3 p.m. close in Seoul, Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.7 percent to
3.0960 and the Thai baht advanced 0.3 percent to 29.87. Taiwan’s
dollar added 0.3 percent to NT$30.695 after reaching a two-year
high of NT$30.441, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  Manufacturing in China expanded in October at the fastest
pace in six months, according to the findings of separate
purchasing managers’ surveys published by the nation’s logistics
federation and HSBC Holdings Plc. South Korea’s  exports 
increased 29.9 percent from a year earlier, almost double the
16.2 percent median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Dollar Printing  The Fed on Oct. 28 asked bond dealers and investors for
their forecasts on asset purchases over the next six months, a
signal for a second round of so-called quantitative easing to be
announced after a policy meeting that ends Nov. 3. The Fed
bought $1.7 trillion of debt from December 2008 through March to
help end a recession and economists at Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predict $500 billion more of asset
purchases will be announced this week.  “The market focus is on the Fed’s extra stimulus, which
will continue to put the dollar under pressure” and support
Asian markets, said  Azmi Shukri Rahman , a currency trader at
CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  Inflows, Rates  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.1
percent to 115.55. That’s just shy of an eight-month high of
115.97 reached Oct. 15.  Stock markets in India, South Korea and Taiwan attracted
more than $10 billion from abroad in October, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Foreigners bought more of Malaysia’s
government bonds than they sold for an 11th month in September,
boosting their holdings to a record 68 billion ringgit ($22
billion), according to central bank data published Oct. 29.  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010,
compared with growth of 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast in October. The U.S. and
Japan have cut benchmark interest rates to near-zero and used
money-printing to spur growth, while central banks in India,
South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand have all raised
borrowing costs this year to contain inflation, increasing
returns on their currencies.  Inflation Data  Korean inflation accelerated to a 20-month high of 4.1
percent in October, the government reported today, fanning
speculation the Bank of Korea will add to July’s increase in its
benchmark interest rate.  “Higher inflation definitely helps push the won
stronger,” said Ha Joon Woo, a currency trader at Daegu Bank in
Seoul. “This will add to criticism of the central bank for not
being able to control consumer prices.”  In Thailand and Indonesia, inflation slowed in October,
government reports today showed. Thai consumer prices rose 2.8
percent from a year earlier after climbing 3 percent in
September, while those in Indonesia gained 5.67 percent compared
with a 5.8 percent increase the previous month.  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar advanced 0.5 percent to
S$1.2912 and the Indonesian rupiah added 0.2 percent to 8,923.
China’s yuan slipped 0.2 percent to 6.6811. Financial markets
were closed in the Philippines for a public holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 