-- Latin America Mining, Steels Poised to Gain, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-01T17:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/latin-america-mining-steels-poised-to-gain-credit-suisse-says.html
Vale SA  and Grupo Mexico SAB may gain
this month as a weaker dollar boosts commodities prices and
Chinese growth accelerates, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Investors should also add to holdings of Latin American
steelmakers as the industry may rebound  in “coming months,”
analysts led by  Andrew T. Campbell  wrote in a note yesterday.
Credit Suisse raised its recommendation on mining stocks to
“overweight” and tempered its “underweight” in steels in its
November model portfolio for the region, according to the note.  “The weak dollar favors commodity prices, global leading
indicators are close to a trough, China is reaccelerating, and
valuations look reasonable,” Campbell wrote. While it’s too
soon to be bullish on steelmakers, “we are less comfortable
being out of this under-owned sector as a potential inflection
points nears.”  Campbell said Latin American raw-material exports will
benefit on demand from China, where manufacturing grew at the
fastest pace in six months in October. A purchasing managers’
index by the logistics federation rose to 54.7 from 53.8 in
September, with input prices climbing the most in six months. A
second PMI, from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, jumped
to 54.8 from 52.9.  Investors should cut holdings of Brazilian companies tied
to domestic demand that outperformed last month, such as
logistics and real-estate companies, as well as media  stocks  in
Mexico, the analysts wrote.  “Although we believe the scenario for domestic demand is
still favorable in Brazil, we have financed higher exposure to
cyclicals by trimming several domestic sectors,” Campbell
wrote. “Brazil is clearly the most attractive market in Latin
America, especially after lagging Mexico and Colombia.”  Brazil’s benchmark  Bovespa  index traded at 10.4 times
analysts’ 2011 earnings estimates after gaining 1.8 percent last
month, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compared to a ratio of 15.4 times for Mexico’s IPC, which rose
6.7 percent in the same period. Colombia’s IGBC traded at 20.1
times next year’s estimated profits at the end of last week
after surging 8.1 percent in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  