-- Australia Trade Talks With Malaysia to Be Concluded by 2011, Gillard Says
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-11-01T05:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/australia-trade-talks-with-malaysia-to-be-concluded-by-2011-gillard-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said she expects to conclude talks on a free trade
accord with Malaysia in 2011, six years after discussions began.  “We have indicated our shared commitment to doing that and
see the prospects of concluding our FTA discussions,” Gillard
told reporters today in Putrajaya, a Malaysian government
complex outside Kuala Lumpur. “I am confident that by next
year, the agreement can be concluded."  Australia began the negotiations in April 2005. Malaysia is
the country’s 11th-largest trading partner, according to the
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade  website . Two-way
commerce rose 21 percent to $7 billion in the first eight months
of the year, Malaysia’s Deputy Prime Minister  Muhyiddin Yassin 
told reporters in Putrajaya.  Malaysia agreed to study Gillard’s plan for a detention
center in East Timor to help prevent people smuggling and human
trafficking across the region, Muhyiddin said.  Gillard’s Labor government wants to build an offshore
processing center for asylum seekers trying to reach the nation
from South-East Asia. She has held talks with East Timor about
setting up a detention facility as the number of detainees in
Australia surpasses 5,000.  Australia and East Timor plan to complete a proposal on a
regional processing center by ‘‘early 2011” Immigration
Minister  Chris Bowen  told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio on
Oct 13. Australia started a policy of mandatory detention of
illegal immigrants in 1992 and Gillard, who formed a minority
government after the Aug. 21 election, vowed during her campaign
to continue that practice and house some refugees offshore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Marion Rae in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 