-- Australian House-Price Gains Slowed in Third Quarter After Rate Increases
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-01T01:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/australian-house-prices-rise-for-sixth-straight-quarter-as-melbourne-jumps.html
Australian  house-price  gains slowed
for a third straight quarter from July to September as the
central bank mulls a resumption in interest-rate increases.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities climbed 0.1 percent
from the previous three months, the Australian Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. That was the smallest advance
since the first quarter of 2009. Prices gained 11.5 percent from
a year earlier, the smallest annual rise in a year.  The data supports the view of the Reserve Bank of Australia,
that the property market shows signs of cooling. The RBA, which
boosted its benchmark interest rate in six quarter-percentage-
point steps from October 2009 to May, meets tomorrow in Sydney
to discuss rate policy.  “Rising interest rates have seen housing affordability
deteriorate,” said  Paul Braddick , a senior economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne.
“Further rate hikes in 2010-11 will hurt affordability and
maintain a cap on prices.”  The  median estimate of  16 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for third-quarter prices to be unchanged from the
previous three months, after a revised 2 percent increase in
April to June.  Melbourne, Sydney  Prices slid in five of the eight cities, and Melbourne’s
gain of 2.7 percent was its smallest in six quarters, today’s
report showed. Prices fell 2.1 percent in Brisbane, 1.4 percent
in Adelaide and Hobart, and 0.9 percent in Sydney, the first
drop in Australia’s biggest city since the first quarter of 2009.  Demand for homes surged after the government in late 2008
tripled payments to first-time buyers of new dwellings to
A$21,000 ($20,700), and doubled the grant to A$14,000 for
existing homes. Those payments were reduced in January to their
original A$7,000.  A jump in prices was among reasons central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  led Group of 20 members in raising the benchmark
rate to 4.5 percent from a half-century low of 3 percent.  “First homebuyer activity has returned to ‘normal’ levels
and the strong Australian dollar has “reduced offshore
demand,” Braddick said.  Australia’s economic growth relative to weaker expansions
in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere helped drive the local
currency to parity with the U.S. dollar on Oct. 15 for the first
time since it was floated in 1983.  RBA Outlook  Seventeen of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect Stevens and his board to leave the overnight cash rate
target at 4.5 percent, with the others predicting an increase to
4.75 percent. The decision is scheduled for 2:30 p.m. tomorrow
in Sydney.  The central bank signaled after its Oct. 5 meeting that the
decision to leave borrowing costs unchanged was “finely
balanced” with a case for an increase, as a rising currency
helped ease inflation concerns. Most economists had forecast a
quarter percentage-point rise at that meeting.  Traders estimated a 22 percent chance Stevens would raise
the benchmark rate tomorrow, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at
12:19 p.m. The odds of a rise next month were 40 percent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  