-- Australian Dollar Jumps Toward Parity After RBA Unexpectedly Raises Rates
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-02T05:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/australian-dollar-ends-three-day-advance-before-central-bank-rates-meeting.html
Australia’s dollar climbed toward
parity with the greenback after the central bank unexpectedly
raised interest rates for the first time in six months, spurring
demand for the nation’s assets.  Australia’s currency was also bolstered by speculation that
the Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan will take further
monetary-easing measures this week, helping Australia expand its
yield advantage. The Fed begins a two-day meeting today while
the Bank of Japan meets Nov. 4-5. The “risk of inflation
rising” remains, Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn
Stevens said in the statement following policy makers’ decision
to raise the  benchmark rate  to 4.75 percent.  “Clearly the RBA still has a tightening bias,” said Sue
Trinh, a senior currency strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank
of Canada. “In an environment where the Fed is mulling
quantitative easing and talk of the Bank of Japan following
closely behind and possibly even the Bank of England, the RBA
sticks out.”  Australia’s currency surged 1 percent to 99.70 U.S. cents
as of 3:56 p.m. in Sydney from 98.71 cents in New York
yesterday. It briefly rose above parity on Oct. 15. The so-
called Aussie climbed 1.1 percent to 80.30 yen.  Benchmark rates in  Australia , compared with equivalents as
low as zero in the U.S. and Japan, attract investors to the
South Pacific nation’s higher-yielding assets. The risk in such
trades is that currency market moves will erase profits.  Fed QE  “The economy is now subject to a large expansionary
shock,” Stevens said in the statement today. “The risk of
inflation rising again over the medium term remains.”  Gains in the currency may be limited as “a December rate
hike is very unlikely,” said Grant Turley, a senior foreign-
exchange strategist with Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. in Sydney. “From here it’s going to be about the U.S.
dollar and QE expectations,” said Turley, who expects some
“modest” strength in the greenback over the coming weeks.  Futures traders are betting on a 30 percent chance that
Australia’s central bank will raise again by the end of its
meeting in February.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia said today it will raise the
interest rate on its standard variable home loans by 0.45
percentage point.  The Fed will probably begin another round of unconventional
monetary easing this week by announcing a plan to buy at least
$500 billion of long-term securities, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Australian bond futures fell, with the 10-year contract for
December delivery at 94.715 on the Sydney Futures Exchange from
94.74 yesterday. The implied yield on the futures stood rose 2.5
basis points to 5.285 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 