-- Bahrain Plans Sales to End Dearth of Money-Market Tools: Islamic Finance
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-11-01T10:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/bahrain-plans-sales-to-end-dearth-of-money-market-tools-islamic-finance.html
Bahrain, the only country in the
Persian Gulf to sell Islamic debt due in six months or less,
plans to issue additional securities to help Shariah-compliant
banks invest and manage their money.  Regulators from Bahrain to Malaysia are trying to increase
the tools available to Islamic banks as a dearth of  money-market 
instruments forces the lenders to keep excess cash with central
banks or locked into longer-dated securities.  Bahrain’s product should be “like any other conventional
money-market instrument, easy and standardized,” central bank
Governor  Rasheed al-Maraj  said in an Oct. 27 interview in
Marrakesh, Morocco. “This is something that has been in the
making for a while, and we are now confident that we have
reached a level where we can bring it to the industry.”  Bahrain is the only one of the six Gulf Cooperation Council
countries to issue three- and six-month domestic Islamic bills.
The  International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp. , which is
being set up by 11 central banks in Kuala Lumpur, will sell its
first short-term bills in dollars and the next issue in euros,
Malaysian central bank Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said Oct. 28.  The United Arab Emirates is seeking to enable the
government to issue bills, central bank Governor  Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi  said in March. Islamic lenders in Indonesia
were keeping as much as 20 percent of their excess cash with the
central bank, compared with 2.1 percent at non-Islamic banks,
according to a 2006 study by the Islamic Financial Services
Board, a standard-setting body. In Pakistan, the figure was 3.8
percent against 0.3 percent. Global assets held by Shariah-
compliant financial institutions may climb to $1.6 trillion in
2012 from about $1 trillion, the body said in April.  ‘Timely Initiatives’  “These are very timely initiatives” as many banks are
“hesitant” to invest in long-term paper, said  Abdul Kadir Hussain , who manages $2 billion of mainly Persian Gulf assets as
chief executive officer of Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd. in Dubai.
“Islamic banks can’t park their liquidity in the overnight
market because it’s not Shariah-compliant,” he said in an
interview yesterday.  Global sukuk returned 12.1 percent this year, according to
the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Index . Bonds in developing
markets gained 16.4 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index . Islamic bonds in the GCC returned 12.5
percent, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, last month to 361 on
Oct. 29, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index.  Malaysia  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 dropped 3 basis points to 2.46 percent today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather than Malaysia’s widened 2
basis points to 395, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  International Islamic Financial Market , founded by the
central banks of Bahrain, Indonesia and Malaysia, plans to
create Shariah-compliant repurchase agreements to help Islamic
banks manage funds and boost trading, Chief Executive Officer
 Ijlal Ahmed Alvi  said in August.  Transactions in Islamic finance are based on the exchange
of assets rather than interest to comply with Shariah
principles. Global sales of sukuk fell 27 percent to $13.5
billion so far this year from $18.5 billion in the year-earlier
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Improving risk appetite in the Gulf after state-owned
holding company Dubai World’s agreement with creditors this year
to restructure $24.9 billion in debt bodes well for sukuk sales
in 2011, HSBC Holdings Plc and Moody’s Investors Service said
last week.  ‘Handicaps’  “Islamic banks don’t have liquid instruments to deploy
their short-term” funds, al-Maraj said. “This is one of the
handicaps they face. We wanted to have a product that is liquid,
Shariah-compliant, marketable and has enough flexibility.”  Bahrain plans to issue global sukuk next year, al-Maraj
said. The smallest oil producer among the six GCC states raised
$750 million by selling five-year Islamic securities in June
2009, according to Bloomberg data. The alliance also includes
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman and the United Arab Emirates.  The yield on Bahrain’s 6.247 percent sukuk due June 2014
fell two basis points to 2.51 percent in October, according to
Bloomberg prices. The yield reached a record low of 2.408
percent on Oct. 8, as investors bought emerging market debt.  “The idea is to keep issuing sukuk and conventional”
debt, al-Maraj said. “Over the last two years, Bahrain managed
to borrow at a very competitive price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net 
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  