-- Bain Asks JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley to Fund Its Bid for Kate Moss's Priory
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-11-01T11:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/bain-said-to-ask-jpmorgan-morgan-stanley-to-finance-bid-for-rbs-s-priory.html
Bain Capital LLC, a Boston-based
leveraged-buyout firm, asked banks to finance its bid for
Priory Group Ltd., an operator of mental-health and addiction
clinics whose clients have included  Kate Moss  and  Susan Boyle .  Bain spoke to banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Morgan Stanley about the deal, which will include a high-yield
bond, according to four people familiar with the matter. Bank of
America Corp. and Priory’s owner,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc , are also negotiating roles, said three of the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Leveraged-buyout companies announced $51 billion of
acquisitions Europe this year, compared with $15 billion a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. LBO debt is
raised in the name of the target company and repaid with its
cash flow, triggering a fall in its credit rating to junk.  “There is improved interest” in LBO debt, “albeit more on
a name-by-name basis versus the carte-blanche approach of a few
years back,” said  Jonathan Moore , a high-yield analyst at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in London.  Bain is the frontrunner to buy Priory after RBS’s talks
with other private-equity firms including Cinven Ltd., Advent
International Corp. and  Blackstone Group LP  failed. Priory
attracted offers of less than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion),
though Edinburgh-based RBS had been seeking about 1.1 billion
pounds, people familiar with the matter said in September.  RBS inherited Priory, which has treated celebrities
including supermodel  Moss  and singer  Boyle , from ABN Amro
Holding NV when it bought the Dutch bank in 2007. The lender is
reducing its balance sheet by selling assets including bank
branches and its credit-card payment processing unit after
needing the world’s biggest bank bailout during the credit
crisis.  ABN Amro purchased Priory from London private-equity firm
Doughty Hanson & Co. in 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London on 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  