-- Baoshan Says China Steel Demand to Continue at Current Levels on Car Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-01T04:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/baoshan-says-china-steel-demand-to-continue-at-current-levels-on-car-sales.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , China’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, said domestic steel demand
will be maintained in 2011 as economic growth spurs shipments to
automobile companies.  “Steel demand will keep steady next year based on our view
on the macro economy and the industry,” General Manager  Ma Guoqiang  said today in an online meeting with investors. “We
won’t see a big increase, yet we are unlikely to see conditions
worsen.”  Baoshan Steel, which controls half the local market for
automotive steel, on Oct. 29 forecast the highest profit in at
least three years on reviving demand. China’s economy may grow
9.5 percent next year, the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing  Fan Jianping , chief economist at the State
Information Center.  Baoshan  gained as much as 2.2 percent today in Shanghai
after Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. raised its rating to
“buy” from “outperform” on the improved outlook for steel
demand from automobile and home-appliance makers. The stock rose
1.5 percent to 7.28 yuan as of 12:10 p.m. local time.  “China’s auto consumption will grow steadily over a long
period,” Ma said. “Automotive steel has been one of the most
profitable products.”  China’s apparent crude steel consumption fell 4.8 percent
to 194.6 million metric tons in the July to September period
from a year earlier, according to the China Iron and Steel
Association. Demand rose 18 percent in the first five months of
2010 from a year earlier, it said  The nation’s steel output dropped to 47.95 million metric
tons in September, the lowest level this year, after the
government stepped up measures to rein in property speculation
and limited power supplies to mills.  -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Indranil Ghosh ,  Andrew Hobbs   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 