-- BG Group Says It Will Invest $15 Billion in Queensland Curtis LNG Project
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-11-01T06:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/bg-group-says-it-will-invest-15-billion-in-queensland-curtis-lng-project.html
BG Group Plc  said it will proceed
with a $15 billion liquefied natural gas venture in Australia’s
Queensland state, the biggest single investment by the U.K.-
based energy company.  BG’s Queensland Curtis LNG project faces 1,500 conditions
imposed by state and federal governments to protect the
environment and underground water supplies, the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and gas producer said yesterday.  The Australian government’s Oct. 22 approval was “the
final piece of the puzzle,”  Catherine Tanna , managing director
of BG Australian unit  QGC Pty Ltd. , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s the end of an almost three-year process of
engaging with state and federal agencies -- probably the most
rigorous assessment of any project in Australia.”  BG,  Chevron Corp. ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and  ConocoPhillips 
are among energy companies investing about A$200 billion ($198
billion) in LNG projects in Australia to tap Asian demand for
cleaner-burning fuel to curb emissions, according to figures
provided by the Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration
Association. BG seeks to become the first to convert coal-seam
gas to LNG for shipment to overseas markets, Tanna said.  While the BG development is first among the Queensland LNG
projects to reach a final investment decision, Adelaide-based
 Santos Ltd.  probably isn’t far behind in committing to a project
that may cost $18 billion,  Di Brookman , an analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets in Sydney, wrote in a report today.  BG’s Advantage  BG’s development may cost less than the one proposed by
Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer, partly because
the U.K. gas supplier can negotiate better prices with
contractors such as U.S. engineering company Bechtel Corp.,
which BG uses regularly, Brookman wrote.  BG will build two processing units with a combined capacity
of 8.5 million metric tons of LNG a year. Santos plans to
produce 7.2 million tons of LNG a year from two units at its
Gladstone venture.  Santos is a partner with Malaysia’s  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. 
and France’s  Total SA . Its shares rose 0.7 percent to A$12.71 at
the market’s 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, while the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index gained 0.8 percent.  ConocoPhillips, partner with  Origin Energy Ltd.  in the
proposed A$35 billion Australia Pacific LNG project in
Queensland, expects to receive environmental approvals within
the next month, the company said last week.  Four Years  The BG project will be built over the next four years and
is due to start fuel shipments in 2014, the company said
yesterday. It involves building a plant on Curtis Island 450
kilometers (282 miles) north of Brisbane, a 540-kilometer
underground pipeline network, and expanding production in gas
fields in the state’s Surat Basin, BG said.  BG has reached agreements to sell LNG to customers in
China, Japan, Singapore and Chile and will also provide gas to
markets in eastern Australia, the Reading, U.K-based company
 said  in a statement yesterday. The project, which will have an
operating life of at least 20 years, will likely create 5,000
construction jobs over the next four years, according to the
statement.  China National Offshore Oil Corp. will have a 10 percent
stake in the first LNG processing unit, while  Tokyo Gas Co . will
have a 2.5 percent interest in the second unit, BG said.  ‘Milestone’ for Australia  Korea Gas Corp. , the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, said
earlier this month that it’s in talks to acquire a 15 percent
stake in Santos’s Gladstone project. Korea Gas has likely agreed
to terms and is now awaiting South Korean government approval,
Citigroup’s Sydney-based analyst  Mark Greenwood  wrote on Oct.
21.  BG’s plant will have “significant potential to expand,”
the company said yesterday. The project is expected to produce a
third of Australia’s LNG in the first stage, Australian
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said at the briefing.  “This is a very significant milestone for the Australian
economy,” Swan said.  The project will account for an 11 percent boost in
Australia’s total foreign direct investment over the four years
of construction, he said in an e-mailed statement.  The Curtis Island plant will be the most efficient in
Australia and the second-most efficient in the world in terms of
greenhouse gas emissions, generating about 35 percent less than
other fossil fuels, BG’s Tanna said.  “When Australian LNG is used in place of coal to generate
electricity in customer countries, up to nine tonnes of
greenhouse gas emissions are avoided for every tonne produced in
the production, liquefaction and export process,” the industry
group said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Coal-seam gas fields in Queensland and New South Wales
contain enough gas to power a city of one million people for
5,000 years, APPEA said, citing research from the Australian
Commonwealth Scientific and Research Organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 