-- Blackstone's Wien Says Sell Treasuries, Buy Technology, Emerging Markets
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2010-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/blackstone-s-wien-says-sell-treasuries-buy-technology-emerging-markets.html
Investors should dump their holdings
in U.S. Treasuries as interest rates are due for a rebound,
while buying technology shares and emerging-market stocks,
Blackstone Group LP’s  Byron Wien  said.  “We’re getting away with murder in the U.S. with these low
rates,” Wien said in an interview on Oct. 30 in New York while
attending a conference hosted by The  Chinese Finance
Association . “You don’t want to hold long-term Treasuries
because if rates go up, you could lose money.”  Yields  on 10-year treasury notes may almost double to 5
percent as the dollar weakens and the Federal Reserve keeps
buying debt to bolster growth, Wien, vice chairman of  Blackstone
Advisory Services , said without giving a time frame. Gains in
 U.S. stocks  will slow as borrowing costs start to rise and the
housing market won’t recover until 2014, said Wien, former
Pequot Capital Management Inc. and Morgan Stanley strategist
known for his annual “Ten Surprises” forecast.  Speculation that the Fed will announce this week a program
of asset purchases known as quantitative easing has propelled
stocks worldwide while pushing 10-year yields to 2.38 percent in
October, the lowest since January 2009. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  has risen as much as 16 percent from this year’s low
in July while the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of equities in 21
nations has gained 29 percent since its 2010 low in May.  Christmas and Congress  While U.S. stocks may rise through year-end, bolstered by
“favorable” Christmas sales and congressional elections, Wien
said, further gains may be limited as the economy expands 3
percent next year, trailing growth in China and other developing
countries. In response, investors should hold 20 percent in
emerging markets while earmarking 10 percent to “high quality”
U.S. and European multinational companies, such as computer and
software makers, he said.  Wien said any quantitative easing will do little to spur
consumer spending and the government should boost infrastructure
investment to create more jobs.  Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to boost
an economy that’s growing too slowly to reduce U.S. unemployment
hovering near a  26-year high . The central bank has kept its
target rate for overnight loans between banks at zero to 0.25
percent since 2008, and bought more than $1.7 trillion in
housing debt and Treasury securities last year.  Chances  that Republicans will win control of the U.S. House
tomorrow rose to a record 93.9 percent on Oct. 29, according to
bets placed on Intrade, a Dublin-based online prediction market.
Democrats  retaining  leadership of the Senate was about 55
percent likely, Intrade data show.  Infrastructure and Gridlock  The odds that Republicans will control both the House and
the Senate are “very high” and such an outcome will help
stocks, he said.  “I don’t believe gridlock is the best possible outcome,”
he said. “We’ve got a lot to do in this country and
infrastructure is being just one of them. It’d be a good thing
if we have a system where we could work and accomplish
something, but we don’t seem to.”  Wien advised investors to put 10 percent of their
portfolios in high-yield securities worldwide, such as mortgages
and leveraged loans, and allocate 10 percent to gold and other
commodities. The rest should be invested in hedge funds, private
equities and real estate, he said.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private equity firm, hired
Wien in August 2009 to advise the company and its clients on the
economy and politics as the firm moved to expand its businesses
outside private equity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lu Wang  in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 