-- U.S. Embassy Bombing Defendant Had Explosive in Locked Cabinet, Agent Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/blasting-cap-was-found-in-u-s-embassy-bombing-suspect-s-home-agent-says.html
Ahmed Ghailani , charged in the
bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa in 1998, had a locked
cabinet in his house where an explosive blasting cap was found
during a police search, a former FBI agent told a federal jury.  Gerald Bamel, a retired special agent with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, testified yesterday about a search
conducted by FBI and Tanzanian police agents on Aug. 29, 1998,
at 15 Amani Street in Dar es Salaam where Ghailani lived.
Ghailani, the first Guantanamo Bay detainee tried in a U.S.
civilian court, is charged with conspiracy in an al-Qaeda plot
to kill U.S. nationals.  Bamel said he found the silver, cylindrical object with a
protruding white wire while searching the right side of a wooden
cabinet located in a bedroom in the house. Witnesses have
testified Ghailani kept his belongings in the right side of the
cabinet and kept it secured with a padlock.  “I took the white wire and grabbed it to see what it
was,” Bamel told the Manhattan federal jury. “It was a
blasting cap. I was afraid that it would detonate in my hands
and blow my hand off, so I immediately let go of it.”  PETN  Ghailani is on trial in New York for the Aug. 7, 1998,
bombings of the U.S. embassies in Dar es Salaam and Nairobi,
Kenya, which killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens.  Prosecutors last week showed jurors the results of tests
performed on items taken from the house, including a pair of
blue jeans, a polo shirt, 25 pairs of pants and more than 30
pieces of clothing found in a plastic bag. All contained traces
of the explosive PETN, FBI witnesses said.  A blasting cap and traces of PETN and TNT were also found
by FBI agents at 213 Illala, another address in Dar es Salaam, a
former clothing shop that prosecutors said was used to make the
bomb used in the attack of the U.S. Embassy in Tanzania, where
11 people were killed.  Kassim Juma Abdullah, Ghailani’s roommate at two different
Tanzanian residences, including 15 Amani Street, testified last
week that the wooden armoire was located in his bedroom and that
he shared it with Ghailani. Abdullah said he and Ghailani had
been roommates for more than two years beginning in 1996.  Abdullah said he kept his belongings in the left side while
Ghailani used the right side. He said Ghailani kept it padlocked
and kept the set of keys.  ‘Leaving for Germany’  Abdullah testified on Oct. 28 that shortly before the
bombing, Ghailani told him he “was leaving for Germany and
going to look for his livelihood.” Ghailani said goodbye to him
on Aug. 2, 1998, saying he was leaving the next morning,
Abdullah said.  Abdullah testified that he next saw Ghailani on Aug. 4,
looking into his side of the armoire.  “I was surprised to see him again,” Abdullah said. “I
asked him what is going on? And he said ‘I forgot something.’”  During cross-examination of Bamel yesterday by Ghailani’s
lawyer, Steve Zissou, the retired FBI agent said he didn’t know
if Tanzanian authorities had secured 215 Amani Street from being
contaminated during the three days between when they first
entered the home on Aug. 26 and when he found the blasting cap
on Aug. 29.  Crates of TNT  Before the trial began, prosecutors sought to call Hussein
Abebe, a Tanzanian miner who said he sold five crates of TNT,
detonation cord, blasting caps and detonators to Ghailani before
the bombings. U.S. District Court Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who is
presiding over the trial, barred Abebe’s testimony, saying that
Ghailani was coerced into indentifying him by the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency. The CIA subjected Ghailani to “enhanced
interrogation techniques,” the U.S. said in court papers.  Prosecutors have called witnesses to testify that Ghailani
helped buy the Nissan truck used in the Tanzania blast and that
he and a co-defendant purchased high-pressure metal tanks and
filled them with oxygen and acetylene to magnify the impact of
the blast.  Ghailani has pleaded not guilty to the charges. His lawyers
told the jury in opening statements that their client was
“duped” by other, more worldly friends who fled Africa after
the attacks.  Ghailani went to Afghanistan and worked for several top al-
Qaeda terrorists and served as a cook and bodyguard for  Osama bin Laden  in Afghanistan, the U.S. has said. He was indicted by
a federal grand jury in New York in December 1998 and captured
in Pakistan in July 2004.  In September 2006, he was transferred to Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, where he was held by the Defense Department. In June 2009,
the U.S. transferred him to federal court in New York for trial.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 