-- Bombay Exchange Halts After Fault, Ceding Ground to Rival National Bourse
-- B y   H e m a l   S a v a i   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-11-01T11:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/bombay-stock-exchange-halts-trading-for-an-hour-to-fix-snag-official-says.html
The Bombay Stock Exchange halted
trading for 2 1/2 hours today as it resolved a technical fault,
ceding further ground to the  National Stock Exchange  in a record
year for overseas buying of equities.  The exchange halted trading from 12 p.m. to resolve
“technical issues” involving “trade confirmation,” Deputy
Chief Executive Officer Ashishkumar Chauhan said. Divya Malik
Lahiri, spokeswoman at the National Stock Exchange, which
remained open, declined to comment.  The Bombay Stock Exchange, founded in 1875, is introducing
new products and cutting prices to win back market share from
its larger rival. The trading halt for a technical fault is the
first since Jan. 22, 2008, he said. The exchange’s trading
system handles more than 2.5 million trades and more than 18
million orders per day, an exchange statement said.  “The BSE is losing its charm day by day,” said  Nilesh Karani , head of business development at Magnum Equity Broking
Ltd. “The working of the NSE is much better than the BSE.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
gained 323.29, or 1.6 percent, to 20,355.63, the highest level
since Oct. 14, as of the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.  The two bourses introduced a 15-minute session since Oct.
18 where investors are allowed to put in bids before the start
of trading to reduce price swings.  Both exchanges brought forward trading hours earlier this
year by 55 minutes to 9 a.m. to boost volume. They are also
introducing new products and signing up partnerships with
bourses in markets such as Singapore and Chicago to increase
market share.  “This is a clear setback for the Bombay Stock Exchange,”
said  Kishor Ostwal , managing director of CNI Research (India)
Ltd., a publicly traded equities research provider in Mumbai.
“It’s not good for investors’ sentiment. They will move to the
National Stock Exchange, which is doing fine.”  Foreign investment into local stocks has risen 73 percent
this year to a record, making the Sensex the best performer
among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hemal Savai  in Mumbai at 
 hsavai@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  