-- Bourbon Banishes Grandpa-on-the-Porch Image With Cult Labels
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2010-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/bourbon-fights-grandpa-on-the-porch-image-with-cult-labels-john-mariani.html
It was the “burn” that was the
problem.  In the 1980s the bourbon industry was dying -- distilleries
were closing and people were being thrown out of work, said  Bill Samuels  Jr., president of Loretto, Kentucky-based  Maker’s Mark 
distillery Inc.  “The whole category was regarded as unsophisticated brown
liquor with too much burn on the palate,” Samuels told me over
dinner at Pat’s Steakhouse in Louisville, Kentucky.
“Traditional bourbons were regarded as something your grandpa
drank on the porch. Thank God for Kentucky Derby Day -- at least
a lot of bourbon got sold in mint juleps.”  Samuels, 70, with his father Bill, Sr., began trying to
bring bourbon back to favor in 1958 with their slightly sweeter
and much smoother Maker’s Mark, made in copper stills most
bourbon producers had abandoned.  The success of Maker’s Mark changed things rapidly and
Kentucky’s 10 distilleries all altered formulas, styles, and
marketing. Many came out with “small batch” and “single
barrel” styles, such as the  Buffalo Trace  Distillery owned by
the Sazerac Co., whose 2010 Antique Collection of limited-
release bourbons includes Eagle Rare 17 Year Old, George T.
Stagg uncut and unfiltered 143 proof, and William Larue Weller,
a wheat recipe bourbon also uncut and unfiltered, at 126.6
proof.  According to the  Distilled Spirits Council , in 2009, a
healthy 15 million 9-liter cases of bourbon & Tennessee whiskey
were sold in the U.S.  Rampant Competition  Facing such rampant competition, Bill Samuels knew Makers
Mark, owned by Fortune Brands, had to come up with a new product
without distancing its faithful customer base.  “We’d spent so much time and focus on simply not screwing
up the product that we didn’t innovate,” said Samuels, who once
studied rocket science, then law, before joining the family
bourbon business in 1975. “We knew we had problems with the
burn on the back of the palate, which comes mainly from grains.
We asked ourselves, can we create a bourbon in the Maker’s Mark
style people already love that is really, well, yummy.”  Together with Master Distiller Kevin Smith, Samuels sought
to intensify Makers Mark’s nose, length and style of finish.
After numerous attempts, they turned to Brad Boswell of
 Independent Stave Co. , who recommended Maker’s bourbon be
finished in the original aging barrels but with the insertion of
one-inch thick French oak staves seared (“toasted”) on both
sides, which, over two to three months further aging, imparted
considerable sweet spice to the bourbon. The result was “46.”  Robust Style  “Maker’s Mark was created in the 1950s for people who
didn’t like bourbon,” Samuels said. “‘46’ is for people who
like Maker’s Mark as well as other, more robust styles of
bourbon.”  On taking my first sip of “46,” which is named after the
special staves Boswell created, a tangy, spicy burn ran along
the edges of my palate, not the back of it. It tasted of
cinnamon and black pepper, followed by vanilla and caramel
notes, then a very long, lingering finish with all those
components in synch. It is certainly one of the best bourbons
I’ve tasted, and at only about $35 a bottle and 94 proof,
compared to the original Maker’s Mark at $25 at 90 proof, it’s
an achievement that has become a cult favorite within a few
months of release.  Samuels rolled “46” out without fanfare or advertising,
yet the 2010 supply of 35,000 cases will be sold out by January
and will soon be on allocation. Samuels notes happily that there
has been “zero negative impact on sales” of the original
Maker’s Mark brand.  Jack Daniel’s  I also tasted  Jack Daniel’s  Special Barrel Select, which is
a Tennessee Whiskey, by law made with sour mash and filtered
through a thick layer of maple charcoal before aging. Jack
Daniel’s original formula, called Old. No. 7, has been joined
by Gentleman Jack and, more recently, Single Barrel Select.  The latter was sampled as part of the 100th Anniversary of
Nashville’s grand  Hermitage Hotel , whose chef Tyler Brown
conferred with Jack Daniel’s Master Distiller Jeff Arnett to
choose a cache of just 240 bottles with a Hermitage Hotel
Centennial seal.  I found it a superb, soft but very bright whiskey, with
both an edge and a supple sweetness that gave it depth and huge
complexity. Depending on how you look at it, the availability of
this whiskey only at the hotel’s Capitol Grille and Oak Bar can
be frustrating or good reason to get into the spirit of the
hotel’s history, a place where a lot of years ago a Tennessee
girl named Dinah Shore used to croon “Skylark,” “Blues in the
Night,” and “I Don’t Want to Walk Without You.”  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle service of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 