-- Bovespa Futures Gain on Commodity Rise, Rousseff Election Win
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-11-01T12:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/bovespa-stock-index-futures-gain-on-commodity-rise-rousseff-election-win.html
Bovespa  stock-index futures rose as
commodities advanced and traders reduced bets interest rates
would increase as president-elect  Dilma Rousseff  pledged to
restrain spending.  Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron ore producer, gained in
U.S. trading as metals prices advanced. Retailer  Lojas
Americanas SA  and homebuilder  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes  may be active after Rousseff won
yesterday’s election.  “A key point to watch is whether the new government will
implement the necessary fiscal and monetary tightening to
balance the current pace of economic growth, softening the
collateral effects of rising inflation and the deteriorating
current account deficit,” wrote  Marcelo Audi , strategist at
Banco Santander SA, in a note to clients. “The next move to
watch is the appointment of cabinet members.”  Bovespa stock-index futures rose 0.7 percent to 71,965 at
8:37 a.m. New York time. The Bovespa stock index rose on Oct.
29, capping a second monthly gain, as homebuilders and retailers
rallied on easing concern policy makers will raise borrowing
costs to cool the economy. The real slipped 0.1 percent to
1.7000 per dollar today.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2012 fell 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 11.31
percent.  Copper rose in London as manufacturing accelerated in
China, the world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  Rousseff won 56 percent of the vote yesterday compared with
44 percent for  Jose Serra , the former governor of Sao Paulo
state. The Brazilian people don’t accept governments that spend
at “unsustainable levels,” Rousseff told supporters in
Brasilia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  