-- Brazil Interest-Rate Futures Yields Fall as Rousseff Vows to Curb Spending
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2010-11-01T20:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/brazil-interest-rate-futures-yields-fall-as-rousseff-vows-to-curb-spending.html
Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate
futures contracts fell to a one-week low as  Dilma Rousseff  vowed
to cap spending after being elected the country’s next
president.  Yields on futures contracts due in January 2012 fell 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 11.32 percent at 4:22
p.m. New York time. Yields on longer-dated futures also fell,
with contracts due in January 2015 dropping 9 basis points to
11.55 percent.  Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s handpicked
successor, won 56 percent of the vote yesterday compared with 44
percent for  Jose Serra , the former governor of Sao Paulo state.
The Brazilian people don’t accept governments that spend at
“unsustainable levels,” Rousseff told supporters in Brasilia.
She pledged to carry on Lula’s policies that lifted 21 million
people out of poverty since 2003 and created a record 15 million
jobs.  “There is an expectation that the fiscal side is a
priority of the new government,” said  Eduardo Castro , who helps
oversee 100 billion reais ($58.6 billion) in Sao Paulo at
Santander Asset Management, Brazil’s fifth-biggest fund manager.  Government spending rose 18.2 percent in July from a year
earlier, more than twice the 8.8 percent annual rate of economic
growth in the second quarter, raising concern that outlays will
stoke  inflation  and prompt the central bank to raise borrowing
costs. Yields on contracts due in 2015 suggest traders expect
policy makers will raise the benchmark rate about 0.75
percentage point during the next four years, from 10.75 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Spending Outlook  “Many market participants are skeptical that Rousseff will
implement tighter fiscal policy,”  Tony Volpon , a Latin America
strategist in New York at Nomura Securities International Inc.,
wrote in a note to clients. “It will be key for Rousseff to
move away from the shadow of her political patron, President
Lula, by making decisive breaks with some of the present
government’s policies and personnel.”  Investors will now be focused on who Rousseff will appoint
to head the Finance Ministry and central bank, said  Luis Fernando Lopes , who helps manage 1.1 billion reais as a partner
at Patria Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  “Yields have already factored in the promise of a tougher
fiscal stance,” he said.  Under Lula’s watch, stocks rose six-fold as the economy
expanded at almost twice the pace of the previous eight years
and inflation fell by a third from a peak of 17.2 percent.  The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.7030 per dollar at 4:26 p.m.
New York time. The currency has more than doubled since Lula
took office in January 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Josué Leonel, in São Paulo 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  