-- Brazil’s Rousseff Will Miss Lula’s Luck: Alexandre Marinis
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   M a r i n i s
-- 2010-11-01T02:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/brazil-s-rousseff-will-miss-lula-s-luck-alexandre-marinis.html
Two things are certain about Brazil’s
president-elect,  Dilma Rousseff . First, she will never be as
popular as her political patron, the legendary  Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva . Second, she will face a much tougher environment and
much bigger challenges than her predecessor.  Lula will leave office on Jan. 1 as Brazil’s most popular
president ever, and currently the most-approved leader in the
Americas. No less than 86 percent of Brazilians approve of his
work; truly a feat for someone who has spent eight potentially
reputation-wearing years in power, almost succumbed to a grave
corruption scandal in 2005 and, re-elected in 2006, faced a
major world economic crisis in 2008 and 2009.  The victory of Rousseff, who won yesterday with 56 percent
of the votes, closes out Lula’s term with a gold medal. With
keen political intuition and without consulting his party, Lula
decided long ago to make Rousseff, then his  cabinet  chief,
Brazil’s first female president. It’s quite an accomplishment
for someone like Lula, who rose from crushing poverty to become
the president of the world’s eighth biggest  economy .  Rousseff, a former guerrilla who fought and was tortured by
the military regime in the ‘70s and later became a dedicated and
respected civil servant, has never abandoned the belligerent and
often rude manner of the young. Congeniality has never been her
forte, but that made little difference to her electoral
aspirations.  Lula’s Candidate  Since Rousseff had never run for office before and was
unknown to most Brazilians, Lula had to engage in her campaign
so directly and personally that winning became an imperative. A
defeat was out of the question -- hence both master and pupil’s
fright when an issue quite unusual in Brazilian presidential
elections -- abortion -- helped push the contest to a run-off
that resulted in one of the most debasing presidential campaigns
ever. A few opinion polls in mid-October even posted a technical
tie between Rousseff and former São Paulo State Governor  Jose Serra . Despite Serra’s much greater experience, he never
threatened Rousseff seriously.  While Lula’s overwhelming popularity and the majority
desire for continuity of his policies ensured Rousseff’s
victory, his place in history will continue to be written over
the next four years while Rousseff heads the country.  That is where Lula’s political biography runs its greatest
risk. Rousseff will never be as popular as Lula, not only
because she lacks his charisma, colloquial communication style,
control of the party or acute political skills, but because she
will face much tougher domestic and international circumstances
than her predecessor.  Great Expectations  Popularity charts of all Brazil’s presidents since
democracy was restored in 1985 show that none, not even Lula,
were able to slake the initial exaggerated optimism of those who
voted them into power. Expectations for Rousseff will be great
too, in part because of the comparison to Lula.  When Lula was elected in 2002, 76 percent of Brazilians
expected his government to be “good” or “very good.” Only
three months into his administration, this percentage had fallen
by almost half to 43 percent. Former Presidents  Fernando Henrique Cardoso  (1995-2002) and  Fernando Collor de Mello  (1990-
1992) followed the same pattern, frustrating the initial
expectations of about half their constituency within two to
three months.  The vigorous growth in the world economy during most of his
two terms gave Lula the luxury of relative inaction, with the
exceptions of 2003 (when he increased  interest rates , cut
spending and passed tax and social security reforms in Congress)
and 2008 (when he took one-time measures to stimulate demand).  Few Risks  Lula was able to follow the economic recipe of his
predecessor without major risks, making a few adjustments here
and there, and was rewarded in popularity. Rousseff won’t be as
lucky.  Global growth is no longer vibrant, Brazil’s external
accounts are deteriorating fast, the country’s currency, the
real, has appreciated too much and fiscal responsibility has
been squandered. Brazil’s state development bank and other
federal banks and companies have pushed lending to unhealthy
levels. There aren’t enough  budget  funds or an established long-
term credit market to enable the private sector to finance the
massive demands for investments in offshore oil exploration, the
2014 soccer World Cup or the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics, not
to mention other important and urgent needs of the population,
especially the poor.  Rousseff will have much more work to do than Lula.
Fortunately for Brazilians, this suits her style and
personality. Unfortunately for Rousseff, the more she acts, the
more she will divide interests and the more rapidly her
popularity will erode. Fair or not, comparisons with her
predecessor are bound to happen, casting a permanent shadow over
her administration. While Lula’s popularity was measured in
yards, Rousseff will, more likely, be measured in inches.  ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Política, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Alexandre Marinis  in Sao Paulo at  amarinis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  