-- Bulgaria, Unions Agree on Overhauling Balkan Nation's Retirement System
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-11-01T14:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/bulgaria-unions-agree-on-overhauling-balkan-nation-s-retirement-system.html
The Bulgarian government, trade
unions and business lobbies agreed on an overhaul of the pension
system, raising personal contributions and fining those who fail
to pay, Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  said.  The reform package, yet to be voted on in parliament, aims
to cut a 2.6 billion-lev ($1.85 billion) state pension fund
deficit by 2017 and reach a surplus by 2035, Borissov told
reporters in Sofia today. Under the agreement, private
vocational pension funds will pay for early retirement benefits
beginning in 2015.  “The changes will ensure a stable and cost-efficient
pension system over the long term,” Borissov said. “Now that
we have rallied the support of all sides involved, the trade
unions and all business associations, I hope we’ll gain the
needed parliamentary support to pass them.”  Nine  European Union  members, including Poland and Bulgaria,
asked the bloc to change accounting rules that count money
transferred to private pension funds as spending swells budget
deficits at a time when the region recovers from the global
financial crisis. Bulgaria plans to cut its  shortfall  to 2.5
percent of gross domestic product next year from 4.8 percent in
2010.  The government backed off from an initial plan to transfer
the assets of nine private vocational retirement funds worth 500
million lev into the state pension fund to curb a widening
shortfall. The vocational funds will now transfer to the state
only the accounts of people who will retire by 2014, which
amount to 100 million lev.  Retirement Conditions  The changes envisage increasing the obligatory
contributions paid to the state pension fund by workers and
employers by 1.8 percentage points to 17.8 percent of income.
The minimum number of years for retirees to have worked for full
benefits to apply was raised to 37 years for women and 40 years
for men beginning in 2012. The retirement age was raised to 63
for women and 65 for men beginning in 2020.  Bulgaria set up private universal and professional pension
funds a decade ago to supplement the state system. Universal
funds cover 1.7 million people, while the vocational funds cover
about 100,000 workers in specific professions who are forced to
retire early, including miners and pilots. They provide benefits
until workers reach the general retirement age of 63 for men and
60 for women.  The  International Monetary Fund  urged the government on
Oct. 26 to make more sweeping changes to its public pension
system to narrow the deficit. Successive reductions in social-
security contribution rates and ad-hoc pension increases have
led to a gap in the pension system that requires about 7 percent
of GDP in transfers from the central government, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net 
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  