-- Cablevision-Fox Spat May Raise Hurdles for Comcast-NBC
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-01T20:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/cablevision-fox-new-york-blackout-may-raise-hurdles-for-comcast-nbc-deal.html
The spat between  News Corp.  and
 Cablevision System Corp.  that blacked out Fox programming for
more than 3 million subscribers may raise hurdles for  Comcast
Corp. ’s $28 billion deal to take control of NBC Universal.  Comcast, which is buying a majority stake in the media
company from General Electric Co., may receive heightened
regulatory scrutiny as a result of the dispute, said  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays Capital in New York. The
Federal Communications Commission is reviewing the acquisition.  “In light of the Cablevision-Fox dispute, there is clearly
more attention being paid to program access, making restrictions
more likely,” Ratcliffe said in an Oct. 25 note to investors.  News Corp.’s Fox blocked its programming, including two
World Series games, from Cablevision for two weeks, until
Cablevision agreed Oct. 30 to pay what it called an “unfair
price.” U.S. regulators will want to prevent Comcast from using
the threat of cutting off NBC programming to gain higher fees,
Ratcliffe said. Comcast, unlike  News Corp. , may have the added
incentive of blocking channels from rivals such as  Dish Network
Corp.  to help lure customers to its cable service.  U.S. Representative  Maxine Waters , a California Democrat,
said the Fox-Cablevision spat made her “increasingly concerned
with the potential harm” if a dispute arose between an enlarged
Comcast and competing video provider. In a letter to FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  last week, she called for
“substantive and enforceable conditions” to preserve
competition.  Sena Fitzmaurice , a spokeswoman for Comcast, said in an e-
mail that the Fox-Cablevision dispute shouldn’t affect its deal
for NBC Universal.  Jen Howard , a spokeswoman for the FCC,
declined to comment on the commission’s review.  Too Much Power?  The deal would give Philadelphia-based  Comcast , the largest
U.S. cable provider, control over the NBC network and cable
channels such as USA Network, as well as a share of the video
website Hulu LLC, the Telemundo Spanish-language network and the
Universal Studios film studio and theme parks. The FCC and
Justice Dept. are reviewing whether Comcast would have too much
power over access and pricing for TV and online programming.  Comcast said last year it wouldn’t withhold the signals of
NBC stations from rivals. The pledge is in effect as long as FCC
rules remain in place that prevent cable companies from
withholding programs they own from rivals, Comcast said. The FCC
rules expire in 2012.  Comcast’s Pledges  Though Comcast has made “good faith” pledges, regulators
will examine the potential anti-competitive fallouts of the
combination more closely, as disputes between pay-TV carriers
and programmers increase, said  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities in Denver.  The FCC will most likely place conditions on the deal that
mirror those required of  News Corp.  when it obtained a majority
stake in satellite-TV provider DirecTV in 2003, he said.  The FCC mandated that  News Corp.  accept arbitration of
disputes with pay-TV providers over fees to carry local Fox
stations and regional sports programming. The condition was
intended to prevent News Corp. from withholding Fox from its
competitors to lure viewers to subscribe to DirecTV.  News Corp.  also agreed not to black out network programming
or its regional sports networks while a dispute was being
arbitrated. Those conditions no longer apply because News Corp.
sold its majority interest in DirecTV.  The restrictions may limit Comcast’s payoff from the
planned NBC purchase, said  Ryan Vineyard , an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets in New York.  “FCC-imposed restrictions could threaten Comcast’s ability
to grow affiliate fees and profitability at the network,”
Vineyard said in a note to investors.  Removing Unique Deals?  For example, to increase distribution and advertising sales
of Comcast cable networks G4, Style, and Versus, Comcast may
want to bundle those channels with NBC’s popular cable network
USA. In order to get a distributor to agree,  Comcast  could
threaten to black out USA. That’s exactly what the FCC would be
looking to prevent, Vineyard said.  The FCC may also look to limit Comcast’s ability to price
its programming differently for different pay-TV distributors.
For example, the price of Fox broadcast differs as  News Corp. 
strikes unique deals with every distributor. Distributors
typically don’t know what others pay.  Comcast will most likely have to grant “most-favored
nation status,” or its lowest price, to all distributors
whether they are its competitors or not, Harrigan said.  Comcast lost 13 cents to $20.50 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has risen 22 percent this
year.  Hulu Impact  Regulators will also focus on how Comcast’s bid affects the
emerging Web-video market, analysts say. In its showdown with
Cablevision, News Corp. briefly blocked subscribers from viewing
Fox shows on its website and on Hulu, a free TV site.  “Fox’s decision to block online content for Cablevision
customers on Hulu accentuates the pressure on the FCC to look at
the online aspects of the deal,” Barclays’s Ratcliffe said.  There’s already heat on Comcast to ensure comparable online
and on-demand content for its competitors, he said. For example,
rivals are urging the FCC to require Comcast to give them the
same Web content that Comcast puts on its Fancast site.  Comcast’s satellite competitors  DirecTV  and Dish share
concerns over how it will use its influence online. Both
companies filed documents to the FCC requesting it make Comcast
submit fee disputes to arbitration and Dish asked the FCC to
forbid Comcast from interfering with customers’ Web service.  “Strong conditions on the merger will be necessary to
prevent Comcast from abusing its control of the broadband,”
Alison Minea, corporate counsel for  Dish , said in an Oct. 22
letter to the agency.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the Comcast-NBC Universal combination as
it is currently proposed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 