-- California Venture Capitalist Doerr Helps Fund Fight for Pollution Fees
-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2010-11-01T14:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/california-venture-capitalist-doerr-helps-fund-fight-for-pollution-fees.html
Hedge-fund manager  Tom Steyer  and
venture capitalist  John Doerr , who are defending California’s
global warming laws from a challenge at the ballot box, have
also put $1.4 million toward a fight over government fees.  Steyer, founder of San Francisco-based Farallon Capital
Management LLC, gave $1 million last week to the campaign
against Proposition 26, which would make it harder for state and
local agencies to impose regulatory fees, according to
California election records. Doerr, a partner at  Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers  in Menlo Park, gave $400,000.  Steyer and Doerr are two of the biggest donors to the
campaign against Proposition 23, an initiative on tomorrow’s
ballot to suspend the state’s planned limits on greenhouse gas
emissions from power plants, refineries and factories until the
economy improves. Environmentalists say Proposition 26, also on
tomorrow’s ballot, could create roadblocks to the pollution
limits.  “Our concern is this undermines a whole range of clean air,
clean water and public health policies, including the
implementation of climate legislation,” said Warner Chabot,
chief executive officer of the  California League of Conservation
Voters , an environmental advocacy group based in Oakland.  A committee formed by the environmental group to fight
Proposition 23 gave $300,000 last week to the campaign against
Proposition 26, which would require certain regulatory fees to
be approved by a two-thirds vote instead of a simple majority.  Fee Opposition  Oil producers  Chevron Corp.  and  ConocoPhillips  and tobacco
company  Philip Morris International Inc.  are among the
businesses that have donated money to support Proposition 26.  The California Air Resources Board, the agency in charge of
implementing the global warming law signed in 2006 by Republican
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , has already endorsed pollution
 fees  and may approve next month a cap-and-trade program which
sells some carbon dioxide permits at auction.  If Proposition 26 is approved tomorrow, it could “disrupt”
the enforcement of the agency’s greenhouse-gas regulations,
which are based on the “polluter-pays principle,” said Richard
Frank, executive director of the  Center for Law, Energy and the
Environment  at the University of California, Berkeley.  Business owners may sue the agency arguing the pollution
fees and the auction of cap-and-trade pollution rights weren’t
approved by two-thirds of the state’s lawmakers, Frank said.  Uncertainty Concern  While the lawsuits might not succeed, “just that level of
uncertainty injected into this program would cause a great deal
of delay and ambiguity,” he said.  Supporters of Proposition 26 say it closes a loophole that
state legislators and local officials have used to disguise
taxes as fees.  “The vast majority of California’s environmental fees would
not be affected under the proposition,” said Beth Miller, a
spokeswoman for the “Yes on 26” campaign. Still, if carbon
dioxide permits in the cap-and-trade program are “auctioned
off” and the revenue “used for various public policy
functions, it could be a tax,” Miller said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 