-- California Teachers' Fund May Cut Return Forecast to 7.5% Following Losses
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-11-01T16:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/california-teachers-fund-may-cut-return-forecast-to-7-5-following-losses.html
The California State Teachers
Retirement System, the second-largest U.S. public pension, will
consider cutting its expected earnings rate on investments to
7.5 percent, increasing the need for higher contributions as it
recovers from market losses.  The $132 billion pension fund’s governing board will
consider approving a new rate of return, now 8 percent, at its
Nov. 5 meeting in Sacramento, according to its  agenda . The so-
called assumed rate of return on investments is used to
calculate the size of pension contributions from employers
needed to pay retirees.  Public pension funds across the U.S. are adjusting their
assumptions following losses in the recession that within three
years may leave them $1 trillion short of the amount needed to
pay benefits, according to a National Bureau of Economic
Research  report . The largest fund, the California Public
Employees Retirement System, known as Calpers, uses a 7.75
percent assumed rate of return.  “The impact of reducing the assumed investment return and
assumed inflation rates will result in a better representation
of the fiscal condition of Calstrs benefit programs based on the
current economic outlook,” the fund’s actuary Rick Reed said in
a  report  to be presented to the board.  Calstrs, as the teachers’ fund is known, is  78 percent
funded , meaning it is short by more than $42 billion. Reducing
the assumed rate of return would lower that funding level to
74.2 percent, according to the report posted on the fund’s
website.  Higher Contributions  The fund, which provides benefits for  848,000  public-school
and community-college teachers, would need to ask lawmakers for
an increase of as much as 16.8 percent in the amount the state
and school districts pay toward employee retirement benefits if
the board adopts the 7.5 percent assumed rate of return.
Teachers are likely to be asked to pay more from their paychecks
as well.  The teachers’ fund earned 12.3 percent in the year that
ended in June, after losing 25 percent in fiscal 2009 and 3.7
percent in 2008.  Fewer than half of the public pension funds in the U.S. had
assets to cover 80 percent of promised benefits in fiscal 2009,
according to data compiled for last month’s  Cities and Debt
Briefing  hosted by Bloomberg Link.  New York’s $124.8 billion pension fund, the nation’s third-
largest, in September reduced its assumed rate of return to 7.5
percent from 8 percent. Calpers will review its 7.75 percent
rate of return in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 