-- CAPA, Subramanya to Spend $125 Million on India Aviation Training Center
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-01T09:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/capa-subramanya-to-spend-125-million-on-india-aviation-training-center.html
Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation , an
airline industry consultant, will team with  Subramanya
Construction and Development Co.  to spend $125 million building
a training facility in India to help meet the nation’s
increasing demand for flight crew and airport managers.  The CAPA AeroPark will train pilots, air traffic
controllers, cabin staff and regulators for the region at a new
campus in Bangalore, Australian Infrastructure Minister  Anthony Albanese  said in a statement today. Additional campuses will be
built in Mumbai and New Delhi, he said.  Boeing Co., the world’s largest aerospace company, in
August raised its 20-year forecast for Indian aircraft demand by
15 percent as faster economic growth encourages air travel in
the world’s second-most populous nation. India will require
1,150 new commercial planes worth $130 billion over the next 20
years, the Chicago-based company said Aug. 3, revising its
earlier demand prediction of 1,000 planes.  The facility will include simulators, a flight school and
engineering workshops linked to existing government and private
institutions, Sydney-based CAPA said in a separate statement.  “The CAPA AeroPark facility is an important regional
initiative to support the industry’s future growth through
collaboration,” Albanese said.  India expects a fourfold surge in domestic air traffic to
180 million passengers annually by 2020, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said July 3. The South Asian nation will be the fastest-
growing air travel market for 10 years, Toulouse, France-based
Airbus SAS said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  