-- Capmark Wins Court Permission to Settle Loan Dispute, Pay Goldman Unit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-01T18:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/capmark-wins-court-permission-to-settle-loan-dispute-pay-goldman-unit.html
Capmark Financial Group Inc., the
bankrupt commercial lender, won court permission to use most of
its remaining cash to pay $835 million to lenders, including
affiliates of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   The payment is part of a settlement between the company and
the lenders over a $1.5 billion loan that had been challenged by
lower-ranking creditors. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  approved the settlement today in an order issued in
Wilmington, Delaware.  “Capmark is delighted that this settlement was approved by
the bankruptcy court,” said Chief Restructuring Officer  Mo Meghji . “I believe this will pave the way for the company to
emerge from bankruptcy in the near future.”  Unsecured creditors opposed the settlement, claiming in
court papers that the company didn’t fight hard enough to get
better terms from the lenders, in part because Capmark is co-
owned by New York-based Goldman Sachs.  The creditors also had sought permission to sue the
lenders, claiming the loan wasn’t legitimate. Sontchi denied
that request.  Capmark, based in Horsham, Pennsylvania, has proposed
ending its year-old bankruptcy in part by using almost all of
its cash to repay the disputed loan.  Part of the loan already has been repaid, Capmark General
Counsel Tom Fairfield said in an interview last week. The
company planned to use $750 million in cash, plus another $85
million held in escrow to pay off the loan. Under the
settlement, Capmark agreed not sue the lenders over the loan and
the lenders agreed to cut as much as $135 million of the
principal balance.  Lower-ranking creditors wanted to sue over the loan because
they claimed it wrongly swapped unsecured debt for secured debt,
giving the lenders a higher repayment priority.  The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David E. Rovella  at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 