-- Carlyle Helps Inject $200 Million as Georgia's Brand Bank Looks to Expand
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-11-01T18:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/carlyle-helps-inject-200-million-as-georgia-s-brand-bank-looks-to-expand.html
Carlyle Group is teaming with
investors to inject as much as $200 million in Brand Group
Holdings Inc., the holding company of Georgia lender Brand
Banking Co., as the bank searches for acquisitions.  Carlyle, based in Washington, is partnering with Little
Rock, Arkansas-based  Stephens Group LLC , Nonami LLC and other
Atlanta investors to provide $125 million by the first quarter
of 2011, Brand Group said in a statement today from
Lawrenceville, Georgia. The bank has the option to receive an
additional $75 million in the next two years, Brand Group Chief
Executive Officer  Bartow Morgan  said in a phone interview today.  Brand Group will use the capital to strengthen the bank’s
balance sheet and may look for purchases in the Atlanta banking
market, Executive Chairman  John McKinley  said in a phone
interview today.  “What we have is an over-banked market, but it’s over-
banked primarily with an awful lot of small banks that either
are going to have to fail or be sold,” McKinley said. “There’s
a competitive opportunity in this market that we haven’t seen in
a while.”  Brand Bank is looking to grow organically and through
acquisitions in the northern region of Atlanta, McKinley said.  “What we’re seeing with some of these banks is they’re
trying to shrink down to their capital level, and they’re having
to do that by selling off branches and getting out of lines of
business, and those are opportunities for us,” McKinley said.  This is Carlyle’s first investment in a Georgia-based bank,
according to the company statement. The deal is subject to
regulatory and shareholder approval.  Brand Group has assets of more than $1.2 billion, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 