-- Cephalon, EBay, Oracle, AT&T: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-01T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/cephalon-ebay-kaneka-oracle-walgreen-at-t-intellectual-property.html
Cephalon Inc. , a maker of drugs to
treat chronic pain, won a court order temporarily prohibiting
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.  from selling generic copies of the
cancer-pain Fentora treatment pending a decision in a patent
case.  Cephalon, based in Frazer, Pennsylvania, sued Corona,
California-based Watson in June 2008, alleging infringement of
patents for the drug, known chemically as fentanyl buccal.  U.S. District Judge  Sue L. Robinson  held a nonjury trial in
May and Oct. 28  signed an order to block launch of Watson’s
lower-cost generic tablets “until the court issues its
opinion.” Robinson didn’ t  say when that will be.  In a post-trial brief, lawyers for Watson asked the judge
to rule that some claims of Cephalon’s patents are invalid so
they can’t be enforced.  The fast-acting drug is designed to dissolve in the mouth
and relieve sudden pain associated with cancer.  “We typically don’t comment on ongoing litigation,”
 Charlie Mayr , a Watson spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  “Certainly we welcome the court’s order,” Cephalon
General Counsel  Jerry Pappert  said in an earnings call
yesterday. He said a ruling is expected soon. A transcript was
provided by Cephalon.  The case is Cephalon Inc. v. Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
08-cv-330, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  EBay’s PayPal System Infringes Patent, Virginia Company Claims  EBay Inc. ’s PayPal online-payment business was targeted in
a patent-infringement lawsuit brought by Virginia E-Commerce
Solutions LLC.  The lawsuit, filed Oct. 29 in a U.S. District Court in
Alexandria, Virginia, claims PayPal infringed a patent related
to “conducting business in a transnational e-commerce
network.”  In dispute is patent RE40,753E, which is a reissue of
patent 6,618,705. The patent was issued in June 2009, and covers
a “method and system for conducting business in a transnational
E-commerce network.  According to the complaint, the online purchasing,
processing and payment system used by EBay and its PayPal unit
are “especially made and/or adapted for use in infringing” the
patent.  The company asked the court to bar further infringement of
the patent, and for an award of both money damages and “an
ongoing royalty rate.” It seeks a tripling of the damages, and
also asked for attorney-fee and litigation-cost awards.  Virgina E-Commerce is represented by  Terry L. Clark ,
 Matthew L. Cutler ,  Rudolph A. Telscher  and  Randy J. Soriano  of
 Harness, Dickey & Pierce PLC  of Troy, Michigan, and  Anthony G.
Simon  and  Timothy E. Grochocinski  of  Simon Law Firm PC  of St.
Louis.  The case is Virginia E-Commerce Solutions LLC v. EBay Inc.,
1:10-cv-01229-LMB-IDD, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  Kaneka Sues in Germany and France Over Coenzyme Q10 Patent  Kaneka Corp. , a Japanese diversified chemical company, said
it has filed patent-infringement cases in France and Germany
over its European patent relating to the manufacture of coenzyme
Q10.  Covered by European patent 1 466,983, Kaneka’s process
produces ubquinol, a vitamin-like nutrient and antioxidant.
Kaneka’s ubquinol product is marketed as Kaneka QH.  The European patent litigation is against Chinese
manufacturers and distributors of coenzyme Q10.  This is the third patent-infringement case Kaneka has
brought in 2010 according to the company website.  Kaneka filed one suit in Texas federal court in July,
accusing Uno & Co. of South Korea and JBS Hair Inc. of
infringing two U.S. patents for the production of flame-
retardant polyester fibers for artificial hair. The Japanese
company claimed its patents 7,759,429, and 7,759,430 were
infringed.  That case is Kaneka Corp. v. JBS Hair Inc., 3:10-cv-01430-
P, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  Also that month Kaneka sued South Korea’s  SKC Co.  of
infringing five patents covering polyimide film a material used
in the electronics industry. In dispute in that case are patents
5,075,064, 6,264,866, 6,746,639, 7,018,704, and 7,691,961.  That case is Kaneka Corp. v. SKC Kolon PI Inc., 1:10-cv-
00430-RC, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Beaumont).  Zenith Unit Sues Sony Over U.S. Patents on HDTV Technology  LG Electronics Inc.’s Zenith Electronics filed a patent-
infringement lawsuit against Sony Corp. related to technology
for high-definition televisions.  The case, filed Oct. 29 in U.S. District Court in
Texarkana, Texas, claims Sony sold products with Zenith’s HDTV
technology after its license to use the technology expired. As a
result, Sony is accused of infringing 10 U.S. patents.  The case is Zenith Electronics LLC v. Sony Corp., 5:10-cv-
00184, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Texarkana).  Pfizer Files Patent-Infringement Suit to Block Generic Viagra  Pfizer Inc. sued Apotex Inc. and  Mylan Inc ., accusing the
companies of infringing its rights to the erectile-dysfunction
drug Viagra prior to the expiration of its patent.  The case was filed Oct. 29 in federal court in Manhattan.  The case is Pfizer Inc. v. Actavis Inc., 1:10-cv-08197,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Oracle  Loses Bid to Delay Trial on  SAP  Software-Download Damages  A federal judge denied  Oracle Corp. ’s request for a three-
day delay of a trial over whether rival SAP AG should pay
damages because a now-defunct unit improperly downloaded Oracle
software.  U.S. District Judge  Phyllis Hamilton  in Oakland,
California, ruled Oct. 29 that the trial will begin immediately
with jury selection. She denied SAP AG’s request that she order
both companies to refrain from speaking outside the courtroom
about the case.  Oracle sued SAP in 2007 over downloads by a software
maintenance unit called TomorrowNow. SAP said there were
“inappropriate” downloads and says in court papers that it may
owe tens of millions of dollars in damages. Oracle is seeking
billions.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Walgreen  Sues Wegmans, Says Logo Infringes Trademarks  Walgreen Co. , the Deerfield, Illinois-based pharmacy
retailer that owns more than 7,500 stores in the U.S., sued a
New York grocery chain for trademark infringement.  Wegmans Food Markets Inc., of Rochester, New York, is
accused of introducing a new store logo that too strongly
resembles Walgreens, according to the complaint filed Oct. 27 in
federal court in Alexandria, Virginia.  The public is likely to be confused and to consider,
falsely, an affiliation or connection between the two entities,
Walgreen said in its court papers.  Wegmans, which has stores in New York, Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, Virginia and Maryland, has in-store pharmacies, and
sells many of the same categories of merchandise, according to
the complaint.  Walgreen asked the court to confirm its trademark
registrations are valid, and infringed by the grocery chain.
Additionally, it asked the court to bar Wegmans from using any
mark that’s identical or confusingly similar to the Walgreen
marks, and seeks an order for the destruction of all allegedly
infringing signage, promotional materials and labels.  Additionally, the pharmacy company asked for an accounting
of Wegmans’ profits and an award that can be attributed to the
alleged infringement, together with money damages, and awards of
litigation costs and attorney fees. Walgreen claims Wegman’s
infringement is “flagrant and deliberate” and asked that the
damages be tripled as a result.  Walgreen is represented by  Bradley C. Wright ,  Christopher
B. Roth ,  Linda A. Kuczman , and  Scott Burow  of  Banner & Witcoff
Ltd.  of Washington.  Micromax ‘Bling’ Mobile Phone Infringed Trademark, Court Says  Micromax Informatics Ltd. , an Indian supplier of mobile
phones and wireless data cards, is barred from selling or
advertising one of its mobile phones because of a court ruling
in a trademark case, India’s Economic Times  reported .  India’s Gurgaon, Haryana, state-based Micromax isn’t
allowed to use “Bling,” a name it gave a woman-oriented mobile
telephone, because it was found to infringe a trademark held by
India’s Bling Telecom, according to the Economic Times.  The Micromax Bling telephone cost about 6,500 Indian rupees
($146) and is studded with Swarovski crystals, the newspaper
reported.  Commercials promoting the Bling telephone featured
Bollywood stars Akshay Kumar and his wife Twinkle Khanna,
according to the newspaper.  AT&T Commercials Promoting Conan O’Brien Show BlackBerry Torch  Some  AT&T Co.  commercials promoting Conan O’Brien’s new
show on Turner Broadcasting System’s TBS cable network feature
 Research in Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry Torch mobile phone instead
of  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone, Product Placement News  reported .  The telephone service company, which will lose its
exclusive hold on the iPhone, has begun to promote other
providers’ mobile devices, according to Product Placement News.  AT&T is “pulling out all the stops” to distinguish itself
as something other than the iPhone’s exclusive carrier, the
trade publication reported.  The comedian, whose new late-night show begins Nov. 8, is
shown in the ads with the Torch mobile device in his hands,
according to Product Placement News.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 