-- Canada Stocks Fall, Led by Banks, Before Fed Meeting in U.S.; RIM Declines
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-11-01T21:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/cgi-group-heroux-devtek-imax-potash-saputo-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks  fell, led by
financial companies, as investors awaited the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s decision on what tactics it will use to help stimulate
the world’s largest economy.  Research In Motion Ltd., which gets most of its revenue
from the U.S., dropped 1.7 percent. Barrick Gold Corp., the
world’s largest producer, Bank of Nova Scotia and Goldcorp Inc.
fell at least 0.6 percent before the Federal Open Market
Committee meeting on Nov. 3.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  decreased 11.43
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,664.81 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.  “Everybody’s nervous about what the Fed will announce on
Wednesday,” said Stephen Gauthier, who helps manage about C$500
million ($493 million) as a money manager at Fin-XO Securities
in Montreal. “The market has rebounded sharply in the past two
months and I think we’re all just wondering what’s next. The
markets will be nervous and will move more on the downside in
the next few days because of that.”  The S&P/TSX advanced four straight months through October
as commodity prices have surged on a weaker U.S. dollar. The
greenback declined  10 percent  against a basket of world
currencies from July through October as investors speculated
U.S. Federal Reserve stimulus policies will weaken the currency
by increasing the money supply.  BlackBerry Maker  Research In Motion Ltd., which got $8.6 billion of its
$14.9 billion in sales from the U.S. last year, slid 1.7 percent
to C$57. An Oct. 29 report from two industry research groups
showed that the BlackBerry maker has the smallest market share
of the top five mobile-phone vendors, outpaced for the first
time by Apple Inc.  The  S&P/TSX Banks Index  fell 0.4 percent after ProPublica
reported that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating JPMorgan Chase & Co. over its dealings in
mortgage-backed securities. Bank of Nova Scotia dropped 0.6
percent to C$54.34. Royal Bank of Canada lost 0.4 percent to
C$54.15. Toronto-Dominion, Canada’s second-largest lender,
slipped 0.1 percent to C$73.36. Bank of Montreal, the No. 4
bank, declined 0.4 percent to C$60.01.  “I don’t think it takes much to rattle the markets,” said
Greg Eckel, who helps manage C$900 million ($886 million) as a
money manager at Morgan Meighen & Associates Ltd. in Toronto.
“It’s not surprising there are some pullbacks. Some people are
getting cautious and it looks like people are willing to take
profits rather quickly.”  Gold Shares  Twenty-one of 33 gold stocks dropped as the metal declined
on a stronger U.S. dollar. Barrick Gold lost 0.6 percent to
C$48.82. Goldcorp, the world’s second-biggest gold-mining
company by market value, decreased 1 percent to C$45.09.  Crude futures gained 1.9 percent after the Chinese
purchasing managers’ index climbed to a six-month high and the
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index unexpectedly
rose.  Suncor Energy Inc., Canada’s largest oil and gas producer,
advanced 1.1 percent to C$33.03. Talisman Energy Inc., an oil
and gas producer with operations on five continents, rallied 0.3
percent to C$18.44.  Cameco Corp ., the world’s second-largest uranium producer,
advanced 1.8 percent to a nine-month high of C$32.12 after
TradeTech LLC said its measure of uranium prices surged the most
last month since November 2008.  Lawrence B. Smith , an analyst at
Bank of Nova Scotia, raised his price estimate on the shares to
C$39 from C$31, citing higher uranium prices.  Oilseed processor BioExx Specialty Proteins Ltd. rose 8.2
percent to C$2.76. The company said a third-party review found
that its protein products and manufacturing processes don’t
violate the patents of the other company in the industry, which
it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 