-- China's Commerce Ministry Says Dollar Weakness May Worsen `Currency War'
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-01T07:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/china-says-dollar-weakness-to-intensify-currency-war-as-fed-set-to-meet.html
China’s trade ministry said prolonged
dollar weakness could escalate actions taken in a “currency
war” and add to risks for exporters.  “The continued and drastic U.S. dollar depreciation
recently has led countries including Japan, South Korea and
Thailand to intervene in the currency market, intensifying a
‘currency war’,” the Ministry of Commerce said in a trade
 outlook report  posted on its website today.  “In the medium term, the dollar may continue to weaken,
exacerbating actions related to major currencies and adding
risks to companies’ operations,” the ministry said.  China is under pressure from major trading partners
including the U.S. and Europe to let its currency appreciate
faster. Emerging economies have complained that near-zero U.S.
interest rates and Federal Reserve asset purchases have pushed
the dollar down and sent funds flooding into their markets,
stoking asset bubbles and inflation.  The Fed may unveil a second round of asset purchases, so-
called quantitative easing, after policy makers meet Nov. 2 and
3. Currency disputes are set to dominate the summit of Group of
20 leaders in Seoul from Nov. 11.  “The uneven pace of economic recovery around the world
this year has prompted major economies to increasingly adopt
self-serving macro-policies with increased trade
protectionism,” the ministry said in today’s report.  China’s exports face limited room for growth in 2011 due to
weaker global demand, rising trade disputes and higher domestic
labor and raw material costs, it added.  Dollar Index  China ran up a record $28 billion trade surplus with the
U.S. in August, according to figures released by the Commerce
Department on Oct. 14. That bolstered complaints from American
business groups and lawmakers that a weak Chinese currency gives
the Asian nation’s exports an unfair advantage.  Even as China runs a surplus, the nation has curbed
the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent against the dollar since a
June pledge to introduce more flexibility, arguing anything
other than a gradual appreciation could cause social and
economic disruption.  The Dollar Index, which gauges the U.S. currency’s value
against a basket of six counterparts including the euro, yen and
pound, has fallen more than 4 percent since Sept. 21, when the
Fed said it’s prepared to act to support the economic recovery.  The Fed’s “uncontrolled” issuance of dollars is adding to
inflation risks in China and creating difficulties for the
nation’s businesses, Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said
last week.  U.S. policies “and continued increases in commodity prices
are bringing China the shock of imported inflation,” the state-
run Xinhua News Agency cited Chen as saying at a trade fair in
Guangzhou.  Finance chiefs from the G-20 pledged to refrain from
“competitive devaluation” to ease fears of a trade war and
help curb volatility in capital flows after meeting in South
Korea last month.  -- Li Yanping . Editors:  Sunil Jagtiani ,  Paul Panckhurst   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  