-- China's Economic Growth May Face `Big Drop' as Population Ages, CIC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-01T08:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/china-may-face-big-drop-in-growth-within-four-years-cic-s-lou-jiwei-says.html
China’s $300 billion sovereign wealth
fund said there may be a “big drop” in the pace of the nation’s 
economic growth in the coming three to four years as more of the
population retires.  “We cannot use the past 15 years or 30 years as a simple
extrapolation of growth trends to forecast China’s future,”  Lou Jiwei , chairman of  China Investment Corp ., said at a forum in
Beijing today, according to prepared remarks obtained by
Bloomberg News. “If we consider the population factors and the
movement to a higher stage of development, it implies that
China’s potential economic growth rate will experience quite a
big drop in the next three to four years.”  China’s start of the one-child policy 30 years ago and
longer life spans from better medicines are set to slash the
number of working adults able to support each retired citizen.
The nation needs to quicken urbanization, undertake tax reform
and give smaller companies greater access to capital if it’s to
continue the “relatively fast” growth that’s increased the
size of the economy more than  90-fold  in three decades,
according to Lou.  Achieving an average annual growth rate of about 6 percent
over the next 20 years will allow China to become a  “high
income”  nation, Lou said. China has averaged 10 percent growth
during the past three decades.  A CIC spokeswoman said she couldn’t immediately confirm the
contents of the speech.  Population Shift  China’s population will change “drastically” as the ratio
of working adults to those 65 or older declines from 9 in 2006
to 2.5 by 2050, according to the Washington-based  Population
Reference Bureau . Individuals 65 or older will account for 24
percent of the population by 2050, rising from 8 percent in 2006,
the advocacy group said  in a report  on its website. That trend
will “endanger” the nation’s health care system, according to
the group.  As a result of its aging population, China’s economic
growth rates may slow at an earlier stage of development than in
Japan and South Korea, according to the speech transcript.  For now, China is sustaining its rebound from the financial
crisis, with a manufacturing index exceeding forecasts today and
analysts projecting 10 percent growth for 2010, up from 9.1
percent last year. The nation’s gross domestic product overtook
Japan’s to become the world’s second largest in the second
quarter of this year.  Spurring Innovation  China should introduce a property tax to provide a stable
source of funds for local governments, lower its highest income
tax rate, and extend its value-added tax beyond manufactured
goods to also include services, Lou said. Urbanization will help
China absorb more of its own production and reduce its
dependence on exports for growth, he said.  To spur innovation, China’s  stock markets  should funnel
more funds to small and medium-size enterprises, Lou said. The
nation’s markets are currently dominated by monopolies and
regulatory barriers, he said.  “Difficulties of financing small and medium-sized
enterprises haven’t been resolved,” Lou said. “This greatly
restricts the development of smaller creative companies and
represses the whole society’s creative potential,” he said in a
speech entitled “China’s economy in the next 15 years.”  Rising income inequality may also undermine economic growth,
by bringing about social and political instability, Lou said.  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance by  Kevin Hamlin . Editors:
 John Liu ,  Paul Panckhurst .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  