-- China Manufacturing Posts Biggest Gain in Six Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-01T09:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/china-s-manufacturing-growth-accelerates-more-than-estimates-in-october.html
China’s  manufacturing  expanded at the
fastest pace in six months in October, indicating the economy
can bear more gains in the yuan and interest-rate increases to
cool price pressures.  A purchasing managers’ index released by the logistics
federation rose to 54.7 from 53.8 in September, with input
prices climbing the most in six months. A second PMI, from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, jumped to 54.8 from 52.9.  Asian stocks rallied on signs of sustained momentum in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy. China may secure growth
of 10 percent this year even after raising interest rates last
month for the first time since 2007, according to the median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Economic activities remained strong, while inflation
pressures continued to mount,” said  Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
“Inflation is far from peaking, which could invite another
interest-rate hike by December.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  closed 2.5 percent higher,
after climbing 12 percent last month as the best global
performer. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index also rose.  The reading in the logistics federation’s PMI compared with
53.8 for both the previous month and the median forecast of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  An index of input prices rose to 69.9 in October from 65.3
in September, the biggest gain of 11 sub-indexes. Manufacturers’
new orders are near boom levels, boosted by domestic spending,
including the construction of welfare homes and accelerated work
on stimulus projects, the logistics federation said.  Export Orders  In contrast, a measure of new export orders slipped to 52.6
from 52.8. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  Today’s reports added to a central bank statement last week
in highlighting the economy’s momentum. Growth quickened in the
third quarter from the second, the People’s Bank of China
estimated, without giving a number.  Inflows of money from abroad are complicating management of
the economy after a record expansion in credit in 2009 that
added to asset-bubble risks. Inflation accelerated to 3.6
percent in September, the fastest pace in 23 months, and
property prices have made record gains this year.  On Oct. 19, the central bank raised rates from crisis
levels. It severed the yuan’s peg to the dollar in June, letting
the Chinese currency gain more than 2 percent since then.  Overheating Risks  In the first three months of 2010, an 11.9 percent
expansion from a year earlier fueled concern that the Chinese
economy faced overheating risks. Growth slowed to 10.3 percent
in the second quarter and 9.6 percent in the third as the
government reined in credit growth. An energy-efficiency drive
in industry and a crackdown on real-estate speculation may also
cap the nation’s expansion.  Manufacturing growth “is set to moderate in the coming
months” because of rising commodity prices and government
measures including last month’s interest-rate increase and
restrictions on property purchases,  Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based
economist at BNP Paribas, said before today’s release.  Crude steel output fell in September from a year earlier as
mills such as  Hebei Iron & Steel Co.  cut production due to power
usage limits. Heavy industry will continue to report weaker
gains in output because of the energy campaign, National Bureau
of Statistics spokesman  Sheng Laiyun  said Oct. 21.  The government-backed PMI, released by the Beijing-based
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing and the National
Bureau of Statistics, covers more than 820 companies in 20
industries, including energy, metallurgy, textiles, automobiles
and electronics. The HSBC survey covers more than 400
manufacturing firms.  -- Li Yanping  and  Zheng Lifei . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Lily Nonomiya .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  