-- China Stocks to Extend Rally on ‘Turnaround,’ BNP Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-01T03:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/china-s-stocks-to-extend-rallies-on-improved-earnings-bnp-paribas-says.html
China’s stocks  will extend the
steepest rally in 15 months after companies reported improved
cashflow in the third quarter, according to BNP Paribas.  “The market is only going to go up from here,”  Erwin Sanft , head of China and Hong Kong research at BNP, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. Operating cashflows rose 45
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, he said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 12 percent in October,
the second-biggest gain among 88 global stock gauges tracked by
Bloomberg. Chinese stocks benefited from surging fund flows into
emerging markets as companies from Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd. to SAIC Motor Corp. reported higher-than-estimated earnings.  BNP joins Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in predicting Chinese
stocks will extend gains. The CSI 300 Index, which represents
the 300 biggest companies in China, may rise to 4,300 by next
year, Goldman Sachs analysts led by  Helen Zhu  wrote in a note.
That’s 27 percent higher than the Oct. 29 closing level.  Chinese company earnings are “coming in strong,”
especially for the nation’s lenders, the analysts said. They
upgraded bank stocks to “overweight” from “neutral.”  “In the third quarter we saw the big turnaround,” Sanft
said. The country’s banks look “very cheap” given their profit
growth, he said.  Agricultural Bank of China and Bank of China Ltd. reported
third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as the
nation’s economic growth helped bolster credit demand and curb
defaults.  Factory Output  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in six
months in October, the logistics federation said today in an e-
mailed statement. The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 54.7,
compared with 53.8 for both the previous month and the median
forecast of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A reading
above 50 indicates an expansion.  The 915-stock Shanghai measure, which tracks companies
traded on the bigger of China’s two exchanges, had its best
monthly showing since July 2009, when government spending and
record bank lending drove the index to a 15 percent gain. The
 MSCI China Index , which tracks mostly Hong Kong-traded Chinese
companies, has advanced 7.5 percent this year.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai, Linzie Janis in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  