-- China Should Purchase Gold, Oil to Avoid Dollar Losses, CCB's Shao Writes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-01T04:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/china-should-buy-gold-oil-to-avoid-dollar-losses-china-business-reports.html
China should purchase gold and oil
overseas with its foreign-exchange reserves to avoid losses from
a weakening dollar, according to a newspaper commentary by Shao
Fenggao, an official at China Construction Bank Corp.  The  Dollar Index  has slumped as the Federal Reserve may
announce a second-round of quantitative easing this week,
according to the commentary published in the China Business News
today. No information was given on Shao’s role within the
world’s second-largest lender by market value.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest,
surged by a record to $2.65 trillion at the end of September,
according to an Oct. 13 statement from the People’s Bank of
China. Meng Qingfa, a researcher at the China Chamber of
International Commerce, wrote last week in the International
Business Daily that China should increase its gold holdings.  The large amount of foreign-exchange reserves meant that
China needed to make contingency plans for an inevitable further
depreciation of the dollar, Shao wrote in the commentary, which
ran on the newspaper’s opinion pages. China should buy more
strategic resources such as gold and oil overseas instead of
acquiring only financial assets, he wrote.  Spot gold has surged 24 percent this year and traded at a
record $1,387.35 an ounce on Oct. 14, according to Bloomberg
data. Oil futures in New York have gained 3.1 percent this year,
and traded at $81.82 a barrel at 12:07 p.m. in Shanghai. The
Dollar Index, which gauges the U.S. currency’s value against a
basket of six counterparts, fell for a third day.  Asset Bubbles  China should also place stricter controls on inflows of so-
called hot money, which can create asset bubbles that hurt the
local economy, Shao wrote in the commentary. The nation’s hot-
money inflows totaled about $53 billion in September, Shao wrote,
without saying how the figure was calculated.  Federal Reserve policy makers meet tomorrow and Nov. 3 to
assess the state of the U.S. economy and decide on policy,
according to the data on the Bloomberg. Estimates of the size of
the next round of asset purchases range from $1 trillion at Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc, according to notes from the banks. Economists at both firms
agree the Fed may start with a $500 billion plan.  -- Feiwen Rong  and  John Liu . Editors:  Jake Lloyd-Smith ,  Richard Dobson   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  