-- China Pacific Insurance Stock Falls in Hong Kong After Profit Declines
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-01T03:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/china-pacific-insurance-shares-fall-after-third-quarter-profit-drops-64-.html
China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co. ,
the nation’s third-biggest insurer, fell in Hong Kong trading
after saying that profit for the three months ended Sept. 30
slumped 64 percent due to larger reserves.  The  stock  fell as much 3 percent and traded 1.2 percent
lower at HK$31.75 as of 11:29 a.m. local time, trimming this
year’s gain to 2.8 percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 2
percent. Bigger rival  China Life Insurance Co. , which last week
reported a 3.4 percent profit rise, rallied 2.8 percent.  Pacific Insurance joined bigger rival Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co. in reporting a profit decline after setting aside
more funds last quarter to cover future claims as bond yields
dropped and a  stock-market rally  buffered the effect of reserves
accumulation on profits.  “The results were slightly below our expectations,”
Guosen Securities Co. analysts  Shao Ziqin  and  Tong Chengdun 
wrote in an e-mailed note. “The fourth quarter should be better
than the third quarter” because of factors including a stock-
market rally and higher interest rates.  Under Chinese accounting-rule changes effective this year,
life insurers are calculating reserves by using the 750-day
average of three-year government bond yields, which dropped
about 15 basis points as of Sept. 30, according to  Robert Hu , a
Shanghai-based analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co., as
record bank lending helped drive up bond prices.  Pacific Insurance’s reserves jumped 72 percent to 15.9
billion yuan in the third quarter, the company said in an Oct.
29 statement.  Net income  fell to 886 million yuan ($133 million).
Ping An, China’s second-largest insurer, reported a 26 percent
profit decline after reserves doubled.  Pacific Insurance reported 244 million yuan in fair-value
gains on investments, reversing a restated 2 million yuan loss a
year earlier, as the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 11
percent. Net premiums earned rose 39 percent to 28.4 billion
yuan.  -- Zhang Dingmin . Editors: Gregory Turk, Malcolm Scott.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  