-- China Coal Prices Rise to Nine-Month High on Expectations for Cold Winter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-01T07:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/china-coal-prices-rise-to-nine-month-high-on-expectations-for-cold-winter.html
Coal prices at Qinhuangdao port, a
benchmark for China, rose to the highest in nine months on
expectations of a colder-than-usual winter.  The price of power-station coal with an energy value of
5,500 kilocalories per kilogram rose 2.7 percent to between 755
yuan ($113) and 775 yuan a metric ton as of today, compared with
a week earlier, according to data from the China Coal Transport
and Distribution Association. That’s the highest since Feb. 8.  China will likely have abnormally low temperatures this
winter because of the La Nina weather pattern, the official
Xinhua News Agency said in August. Coal prices have gained 7
percent since the start of September, when power stations
started stockpiling coal for the winter, data from the
association showed.  “There’s some speculation in commodities markets of a
harsh winter and that’s helping coal prices,”  David Fang , a
director at the Coal Transport and Distribution Association,
said by telephone from Beijing. “Prices should top 800 yuan a
ton this winter based on our expectations of fundamental demand,
barring unforeseen situations like natural disasters.”  China’s power supply and demand are expected to remain
balanced in winter and spring, the National Development and
Reform Commission said on Oct. 29. About 80 percent of the
country’s electricity is fueled by coal.  Coal inventories at power plants supplying China’s grid
operators rose 6.6 percent in the month through Oct. 10 to a
total of 62.8 million tons, latest data from the China Coal
Transport and Distribution Association showed. That’s enough for
21 days of consumption, compared with 18 days a month earlier.  -- Baizhen Chua  in Beijing. Editors:  Clyde Russell ,  Alex Kwiatkowski .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  