-- McKesson to Purchase US Oncology in Deal Valued at $2.16 Billion
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-01T20:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/mckesson-agrees-to-buy-us-oncology-in-transaction-valued-at-2-16-billion.html
McKesson Corp. , the biggest U.S. drug
distributor, agreed to buy closely held US Oncology Inc. for
about $560 million to expand in cancer care and medicines.  McKesson will pay cash for the deal, valued at $2.16
billion, including $1.6 billion in debt,  John H. Hammergren ,
chief executive officer of the San Francisco-based company, said
today on a conference call. Oncology’s community-based cancer
treatment and research network operations are owned by New York-
based private equity firm Welsh Carson Anderson & Stowe.  US Oncology, based in The Woodlands, Texas, will be merged
into McKesson Specialty Care Solutions, a unit formed in 2008
following  acquisitions  of Oncology Therapeutics Network and
National Oncology Alliance. The deal strengthens McKesson’s
position in cancer drug distribution, said  Helene Wolk , an
analyst at New York-based Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “With new therapies coming to market and the increased
incidence of the disease, oncology will be important to McKesson
in terms of market growth,” Wolk said today in an e-mail.
“This business is very synergistic from a distribution
perspective, but it also brings clinical services such as
reimbursement expertise and physician network development that
should be valuable to McKesson’s distribution customers.”  Specialty Distributor  McKesson will remain the second largest distributor of
specialty drugs with the acquisition, trailing  AmerisourceBergen
Corp.  in Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania. The leader has about a 55
percent share of the market, with McKesson at 16 percent and US
Oncology at 9 percent, according to  David Larsen , an analyst at
Leerink Swann & Co. in Boston, in a note today.  US Oncology  is affiliated with more than 1,300 physicians
in 39 states, said Jennifer Horspool, a company spokeswoman, in
a telephone call. It includes Texas Oncology, based in Dallas,
with more than 240 oncologists and sites of care throughout
Texas.  US Oncology provides services to affiliated doctors, who
pay a fee to join. Services include access to an electronic
medical records network, an oncology drug purchasing
organization, reimbursement and care management, clinical
research and information on new therapies and a portal that
allows physicians to collaborate in real time.  The deal, expected to close by the end of the year, will
be “modestly beneficial” to  earnings  starting in the fiscal
year beginning in April, McKesson said.  ‘Well-Supported’  “The transaction can be well supported within McKesson’s
credit profile and ratings, given its high cash balances, good
free cash flow generation, and the ability to reduce funding
costs at US Oncology,” said  Joel Levington , managing director
of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in
New York, in an e-mail today.  McKesson rose $1.90, or 2.9 percent, to $67.88 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The company has
gained 8.6 percent so far this year.  McKesson works with about 1,000 oncologists now, providing
services to for about 17 percent of all cancer patients in the
U.S., Hammergren said on the call. The combined company will
expand to almost 3,000 oncologists, he said.  Bruce Broussard , US Oncology’s chief executive officer,
cited the push to reduce U.S. health spending in announcing the
agreement. Broussard will head up McKesson’s specialty
pharmaceutical unit, to be based in The Woodlands, Texas.  Physician Customers  “With the health-care marketplace moving rapidly toward
reimbursement based on quality and cost-effectiveness, our
physician customers need access to deep clinical, operational
and information technology capabilities to create integrated
networks that continually enhance the quality of care in a cost-
efficient manner,” he said in the statement. “In joining
McKesson, we are building the scale and expertise necessary to
empower our customer base to shape the future of health care.”  Almost 12 million Americans had cancer, as of 2007, and an
estimated 1.53 million people will be diagnosed this year,
according to the  National Cancer Institute . People born today
have a 41 percent chance of developing some type of cancer
during their lives.  All of US Oncology’s debt will be refinanced or repaid, the
companies said. An investor relations official at New York-based
Welsh Carson didn’t immediately return a phone call today.  In the deal, McKesson was represented by New York law firm
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom, while US Oncology was
represented by Boston law firm Ropes & Gray, which has a long-
standing relationship with Welsh Carson, according to  Chris Tofalli , a spokesman for Ropes & Gray.  US Oncology was represented by investment bank Morgan
Stanley and McKesson was represented by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Both investment banks are based in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 