-- Cleopatra Bio Discovers Wealth, Brains Behind Asp-Bitten Bosom
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2010-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/cleopatra-bio-discovers-wealth-brains-behind-asp-stricken-bosom-review.html
In “ Cleopatra: A Life ,” Stacy
Schiff handles the politics of the ancient world from 48 to 30
BC with the immediacy she might bring to a book about the
Clinton or Bush administrations.  For two millennia, according to  Schiff , the Egyptian queen
has suffered from an image problem -- largely because what we
know about her comes not from Egyptian historians but from Roman
ones, who had an agenda.  Schiff’s enthralling book has its own feminist agenda: to
save this “capable, clear-eyed sovereign” from the slanders of
history.  “Citing her sexual prowess,” Schiff complains acidly of
the writers before her, “was evidently less discomfiting than
acknowledging her intellectual gifts.”  Cleopatra was superbly competent, commanding Egypt’s
military, regulating its economy, presiding over its temples (as
high priestess and goddess) and negotiating with foreign powers.  “How wealthy was she?” Schiff asks. “Into her coffers
went approximately half of what Egypt produced” -- a fabulous
amount that made her “incomparably richer than anyone else in
the Mediterranean.”  During the 22 years of her reign, the Roman state was
racked with civil wars. One war ended in 48 BC, when Julius
Caesar defeated Pompey the Great, whom he chased to Egypt, where
Pompey was murdered and Caesar was captivated by the 21-year-old
Cleopatra. He was 52.  Enter Mark Antony  Caesar was assassinated in 44 BC. In the war that followed,
the autocrats -- chief among them the rivals Mark Antony and
Octavian -- defeated the republicans.  With their treasury depleted, the victors desperately
needed Cleopatra’s money. She needed Roman favor for her empire
to flourish.  In 41 BC, in Tarsus, she met Antony, making what Schiff
describes as the most spectacular entrance in history.
( Shakespeare  lifted Plutarch’s description of it for the “ barge
speech ” in “Antony and Cleopatra.”) Thereafter they were
partners and lovers.  Nearly a decade later, Octavian finally declared war. He
routed the lovers at the Battle of Actium, in late 31, closing
in on them in Alexandria the following summer. Antony killed
himself on Aug. 1, 30 BC, Cleopatra on Aug. 10 (probably, Schiff
shows, by means of poison, not an asp).  Note the month. Octavian became Augustus Caesar, and
“Augustus’s ego is embedded in the calendar, where it remains
to this day, commemorating the fall of Alexandria.”  Wickedest Woman  Cleopatra, meanwhile, became “the wickedest woman in
history” (as  Cecil B. DeMille  called her when he was offering
the role to  Claudette Colbert ), because that was the image that
suited Augustus’s purposes.  He was a master of spin, and Schiff never has to belabor
the point to bring out the parallels with present-day
Washington. Ruthless, calculating and blandly mendacious, he was
the  Dick Cheney  of Rome. The warm, impetuous and foolhardy
Antony could have been its  Bill Clinton .  More than a biography, Schiff has written a Fodor’s of the
ancient world, with stops in its most famous cities: Rome,
Athens, Jericho and, of course, Alexandria, “a scholarly
paradise with a quick business pulse and a languorous resort
culture ... a city of cool raspberry dawns and pearly late
afternoons.”  After Cleopatra’s death, Egypt was downgraded to a Roman
province. Its capital declined; much of it slipped into the sea
and remains either underwater or buried under the modern city,
which barely remembers it today.  “Cleopatra” is published by  Little, Brown  (368 pages,
$29.99). To buy this book in North America, click  here . Rating
***  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 