-- Clinton Urges Cambodians to Seek Partners Beyond China in Asia-Pacific
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-01T09:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/clinton-urges-cambodians-to-seek-asian-partners-avoid-dependence-on-china.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
urged Cambodians to pursue a variety of partnerships throughout
the Asia-Pacific region and not become over-reliant on China.  “You don’t want to get too dependent on any one country,”
Clinton said in response to a question about China’s influence
during a meeting in Phnom Penh today with Cambodian youth. “You
want to look for partnerships that cut across regional
geographic lines.”  Clinton’s Cambodia visit is part of the Obama
administration’s drive in Asia to affirm U.S. leadership and
provide a counterpoint to China’s rising clout. Both China and
the U.S. are working to extend their influence in Cambodia, said
 Ernest Bower , director of the Southeast Asia program at the
 Center for Strategic and International Studies , a policy group
in Washington.  “There has been a real battle between China and the U.S.
over the hearts and minds of Cambodians,” Bower said in a
telephone interview. “We haven’t given up on them and the
Chinese really want them.”  Clinton said that during a meeting with Cambodian leaders
today she would discuss the $400 million in unpaid debt the
nation incurred in the 1970s under a U.S.-backed regime. The
issue is unlikely to be resolved during this visit, a U.S.
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.  ‘Unwilling, Not Unable’  While U.S. officials have urged the Southeast Asian country
to live up to the terms of its debt agreement, Cambodia has been
“unwilling, rather than unable, to pay,” Joe Yun, deputy
assistant secretary for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific
Affairs, testified Sept. 30 before Congress. Cambodia is
accumulating arrears to the U.S. while paying other creditors on
time and in at least one case, early, he said.  One student suggested the U.S. forgive Cambodia’s debt.
Clinton responded by saying she’d be willing to explore
different solutions so that some funds might be invested back
into the country.  China’s ties with and influence over its Southeast Asian
neighbors have been a running theme since Clinton began a seven-
nation tour of the region on Oct. 27. Cambodia is a member of
the 10-nation  Association of South East Asian Nations , which
implemented a free-trade agreement with China at the start of
the year.  Clinton yesterday highlighted U.S. civil projects in Siem
Reap, visiting a shelter for victims of sexual trafficking. She
also toured the temple complex of Angkor Wat. She is set to meet
Cambodian Prime Minister  Hun Sen , the longest-serving leader in
Southeast Asia, as well as opposition figures later today.  Khmer Rouge Jail  On arriving in Phnom Penh, Clinton visited the Tuol Sleng
Genocide Museum, a five-building complex that served as a prison
and interrogation center during the Khmer Rouge regime, and
where an estimated 14,000 to 20,000 people died.  Clinton signed the museum’s guest book, expressing the hope
that “there will be a future of peace, prosperity and greater
awareness of all that needs to be done to move the country
forward, including trials, accountability and reconciliation.”  Clinton’s itinerary includes further stops in Malaysia,
Australia, New Zealand and energy-rich Papua New Guinea. She is
the first U.S. Secretary of State to visit Cambodia since  Colin Powell  attended an ASEAN meeting in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Phnom Penh at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin in Tokyo at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  