-- Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Rose in September
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-01T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-rose-in-september.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly rose in September, led by increases in homebuilding
and public projects.  The 0.5 percent  gain  brought spending to $801.7 billion
after a revised 0.2 percent drop in August that was previously
reported as a 0.4 percent gain, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington.  Homebuilders are recovering from a slump in demand following
the expiration of a government tax break and still face the
challenge of mounting  foreclosures  that are adding to the housing
inventory. While rising profits may help corporate spending on
structures grow next year, government construction outlays may
slow as federal stimulus funds fade and state and local
municipalities cut budgets.  “Construction is still a very low- to no-growth scenario
for the next nine months at least,” Russell Price, a senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in Detroit, said before
the report. “There’s still a lot of capacity out there to be
absorbed. We’ve already been seeing some hit to infrastructure
spending from budget cuts on the state and local governments
especially as the federal stimulus eases.”  Economists forecast construction spending would decrease 0.5
percent, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg News
survey. The 50 estimates ranged from a drop of 1.2 percent to a
0.5 percent increase.  Other figures from the Commerce Department today showed
consumer spending rose less than forecast in September as incomes
dropped for the first time in more than a year, a sign Americans
may keep rebuilding savings and paring debt as the economy is
slow to recover.  Spending Slowdown  Purchases advanced 0.2 percent, the smallest gain of the
third quarter. Incomes fell 0.1 percent, the first drop since
July 2009, and the Federal Reserve’s preferred measure of
inflation stagnated, capping the smallest 12-month increase in
nine years.  Construction spending was down 10 percent in the year ended
in September, today’s report showed.  Private construction spending was unchanged. A 1.8 percent
increase in homebuilding was offset by a 1.6 percent drop in
commercial projects as fewer factories were put up. Non-
residential construction decreased to the lowest level since
January 2005.  Public construction climbed 1.3 percent following a 2.2
percent gain in August. Federal construction outlays increased
6.1 percent, while state and local government spending rose 0.8
percent. New transportation grids and schools accounted for most
of the gains.  Federal Spending  The Obama administration has been boosting U.S. investment
in rail projects. High-speed rail projects in 23 U.S. states will
share $2.4 billion in federal aid, Transportation Secretary Ray
LaHood said Oct. 28. That is in addition to $8 billion in
stimulus money already awarded for passenger train service.  State and local spending may continue to be restrained as
municipalities cut projects to balance budgets when tax revenue
remains limited.  Newark, New Jersey’s city council Oct. 28 passed a $605
million budget that closed an $83 million deficit by raising
property taxes 16 percent and cutting as many as 866 jobs.  “Every city is doing terrible and Draconian things to
balance their budgets this year,” Councilman  Ronald Rice  said in
a telephone interview.  Home Sales  Home sales are stabilizing at low levels after a plunge in
demand following the end of the homebuyers tax credit, which
required contracts be signed by April 30 and closed by Sept. 30.
Purchases of  new homes  increased to a 307,000 pace in September,
the Commerce Department said last week.  Housing starts unexpectedly increased in September though
building permits were the lowest in more than year and less than
starts, figures from the Commerce Department showed last month.
That is a signal residential building will remain near record
lows in coming months.  “It is difficult to predict when buyer confidence will
return and the market will strengthen, but we are optimistic that
we’ll see some improvement in 2011,”  Meritage Homes  Corp. Chief
Executive Officer Steven Hilton said in a statement Oct. 27.  The Scottsdale, Arizona-based homebuilder took orders for
706 homes in the third quarter, down 36 percent from a year
earlier. The company attributed some of the decline to having
closed some communities over the last year.  The economy is a central issue in tomorrow’s mid-term
Congressional elections. There is no clear consensus on which
party deserves more blame for the economy’s problems, or how best
to fix them, according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted
Oct. 24-26. It showed Republicans are poised to retake the U.S.
House without a mandate from voters to carry out their policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  