-- China Construction Bank Rights Offer to Raise $9.2 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T01:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/construction-bank-gets-regulatory-approval-for-9-2-billion-rights-offer.html
China Construction Bank Corp. , the
world’s second-largest lender by market value, plans to raise
61.7 billion yuan ($9.2 billion) in Asia’s biggest rights offer,
about 18 percent less than the maximum it initially sought.  Construction Bank will sell 630 million A shares at 3.77
yuan each and 15.73 billion H shares at HK$4.38 starting this
week, it said in a  statement  to the Shanghai stock exchange
yesterday. Investors will be entitled to 0.7 share for each 10
shares held.  Construction Bank is competing for investors’ cash with
 Bank of China Ltd.  and  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , which aimed to raise a combined $15.7 billion, as Chinese
lenders brace for stricter capital rules. The sale by Beijing-
based Construction Bank, the  most favored  Chinese bank by
analysts, offered the least discount to investors among peers.  “CCB does not need to raise much capital as it can improve
its core capital adequacy ratios via its organic retained
earnings,”  Michael Werner , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note today. He rates Construction
Bank “outperform,” and has a “market-perform” rating on Bank
of China and ICBC.  Three-Year High  Shares of Construction Bank rose to an almost  three-year
high  in Hong Kong trading yesterday after  third-quarter profit
 beat analysts’ estimates. The company boosted net income by 
31 percent last quarter to 39.8 billion yuan.  Construction Bank’s sale prices represent a 27 percent
discount to yesterday’s  closing price  of its yuan-denominated A
shares and 43 percent to Hong Kong-traded shares. Smaller rival
Bank of China, which is seeking 60 billion yuan in a rights
offer around the same time, granted investors  discount  of 35
percent in Shanghai, based on yesterday’s close price.  ICBC, the world’s largest lender by market value, said in
July it aims to raise up to 45 billion yuan by selling as many
as 0.6 shares for every 10 held by shareholders. The plan, which
will be reviewed by securities this week, would give A-share
investors a discount of almost 49 percent if priced at the
lowest end.  Bank of America Corp. , which owns 10.95 percent of
Construction Bank, hasn’t decided whether to invest in the offer,
a person familiar with the matter said last week. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based lender would see its stake fall to 10.2
percent if it declines to buy more stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s five largest banks have announced plans to raise
about $63 billion since the beginning of 2010 after last year’s
record $1.4 trillion of new lending weakened their finance sheet
and as the industry regulator contemplates imposing higher
minimum requirements for capital.  The minimum capital adequacy ratio requirement for large
banks currently stands at 11.5 percent. Construction Bank had a
ratio of 11.64 percent at the end of September.  -- Luo Jun , William Bi. Editor:  Josh Fellman ,  James Gunsalus   To contact the reporter on this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net 
 William Bi  in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  