-- Copper Rises on Chinese Manufacturing, Slumping Dollar; Aluminum Advances
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-11-01T11:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/copper-rises-as-chinese-manufacturing-speeds-up-dollar-slumps-zinc-gains.html
Copper rose in London as
manufacturing accelerated in China, the world’s biggest consumer
of the metal.  A purchasing managers’ index released by China’s logistics
federation gained to 54.7 from 53.8 in September, and a second
gauge published by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics jumped
to 54.8 from 52.9. Prices also climbed as the dollar weakened
and Asian stocks advanced. Raw materials from rice to crude oil
rose.  “Commodity prices are supported by good economic data from
China, firm equity markets in Asia and the weaker dollar,” said
 Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  Copper for delivery in three months climbed $115, or 1.4
percent, to $8,315 a metric ton at 11:26 a.m. on the London
Metal Exchange. Copper for delivery in December added 1.3
percent to $3.7805 a pound on the Comex in New York. All of the
six main metals traded on the LME gained, led by aluminum.  A weaker dollar fuels demand for commodities as an
alternative investment and makes metals priced in the currency
cheaper in terms of other monies. The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-
currency gauge of the greenback’s strength, slid as much as 0.6
percent after falling for a second month in October. LME copper
rose for a fourth month last month.  Fed Meeting  The U.S. currency slumped amid speculation that Federal
Reserve officials may engage in another round of asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing, in an effort to stoke
the U.S. economy. Fed policy makers begin a two-day meeting
tomorrow.  “With copper a leading risk asset, we expect price action
to remain timid ahead of the Fed’s QE2 announcement and
subsequently to trade in line with broader market sentiment,”
 Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research at Morgan Stanley
in New York, said in a report today.  Hedge funds raised bullish bets on copper last week to the
highest level since January, according to U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data. Speculative long positions outnumbered
short positions by 26,463 contracts on the Comex in the week
ended Oct. 26. Net-long positions rose 1 percent from a week
earlier.  Institute for Supply Management figures due today at 2 p.m.
London time probably will show that manufacturing in the U.S.
expanded at a slower pace in October, evidence of the cooling in
the recovery that’s taken place since early 2010, economists
said. The ISM’s manufacturing gauge slipped to 54 from 54.4, the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey shows.  Construction Spending  Other reports may show consumer spending rose and
construction spending fell. Construction accounts for about 25
percent of global copper demand, according to the Copper
Development Association.  Copper also gained last week on speculation about a
potential strike at Collahuasi, the world’s fourth-largest mine
for the metal. Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc restarted wage
talks with workers on Oct. 29. The mine is in Chile, the biggest
copper-producing nation.  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME rose 1.2 percent to
$25,900 a ton. Prices reached a record $27,338.50 on Oct. 14.
The metal has jumped 53 percent this year, leading advances on
the exchange, after production was disrupted in Indonesia and
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.  Lead gained 1.6 percent to $2,487 a ton and nickel climbed
1.3 percent to $23,297 a ton. Aluminum rose 2 percent to $2,390
a ton and zinc added 1.9 percent to $2,470 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 