-- Cornell University Names Abbott Investment Chief of $4.4 Billion Endowment
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-11-01T18:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/cornell-university-names-abbott-investment-chief-of-4-4-billion-endowment.html
Cornell University, the Ithaca, New
York, Ivy League school founded in 1865, named  Michael Abbott  as
chief investment officer, replacing  James Walsh , who stepped
down at the end of June.  Abbott, 46, started in his new role today, overseeing the
school’s $4.4 billion fund, Cornell said in a statement. Abbott,
a London native, previously managed $2 billion in hedge funds as
chief executive officer and head of the investment committee at
Robeco-Sage, the fund-of-funds firm owned by Rotterdam-based
Robeco Group.  Cornell’s investments rose 13 percent in the past year,
beating the returns of 11 percent and 8.9 percent at Harvard and
Yale, the two richest U.S. schools. Cornell tied with the
University of Pennsylvania’s $5.7 billion fund in Philadelphia
as the third-best performing institution in the Ivy League.
Columbia University’s $6.5 billion fund in New York led with a
17 percent gain, followed by Princeton University’s $14.4
billion endowment in New Jersey, which increased 15 percent.  Walsh, Cornell’s former chief investment officer, stepped
down at the end of the academic year and started a $150 million
hedge fund, Cayuga Capital Partners in London. Senior investment
officers A.J. Edwards, David McNiff and  John Regan  ran the
endowment on an interim basis.  Cornell generated an average annual return of 4.6 percent
in the five years through June, compared with the 4.7 percent
gain at Harvard and the 3.1 percent median increase for public
and corporate pensions, endowments and foundations tracked by
Wilshire Associates Inc., a consulting firm in Santa Monica,
California.  Ivy League Losses  The Ivy League consists of eight private schools in the
northeastern U.S. Harvard, the richest U.S. school, has a $27.6
billion endowment and is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Yale, in New Haven, Connecticut, is the second richest, with a
$16.7 billion fund. Brown University’s $2.18 billion fund in
Providence, Rhode Island, gained 10 percent in the past year, as
did the $3 billion endowment at Dartmouth College in Hanover,
New Hampshire.  None of the Ivy League schools has recouped the record
losses incurred in the year ended June 30, 2009, after the
bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  in September 2008
crippled financial markets. As investments tumbled, universities
cut jobs, froze salaries and postponed building projects.
Cornell lost 26 percent that year, similar to declines at
Harvard and Yale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 