-- Cotton Approches Record High on China, U.S. Crop Woes; Orange Juice Gains
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-11-01T20:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/cotton-extends-rally-near-record-on-china-crop-damage-orange-juice-steady.html
Cotton prices jumped, approaching a
record, on concern that global supplies will trail demand
further after cold weather in China and storms in the U.S. hurt
crops. Orange juice advanced.  Before last week’s cold snap, China’s cotton output was
already forecast to be 18.5 million bales short of domestic
consumption this season, leading to higher imports, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show. Purchases may further erode
worldwide inventories that the USDA projected will drop to a 14-
year low. Cotton futures have surged 71 percent this year.  China’s crop has “struggled all year,” said  O.A. Cleveland , an analyst at cottonexperts.com in Starkville,
Mississippi, and professor emeritus in agricultural economics at
Mississippi State University. Output in Xinjiang province
“easily could be 3 million bales less than the USDA estimate,”
he said.  Cotton for December delivery rose by the limit of 4 cents,
or 3.2 percent, to settle at $1.2926 a pound at 3:06 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. On Oct. 26, the price reached $1.305,
the highest level since the fiber started trading 140 years ago.  Futures for March, May and July delivery also advanced by
the exchange limit.  The trading limit will rise to 5 cents tomorrow, ICE said.  In October, cotton surged 23 percent, the most since June
2007. This year’s gain tops the 18 other raw materials in the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  China’s Outlook  China’s harvest will drop to 6.4 million tons in the year
that began Aug. 1, down 7.9 percent from a year earlier, said
Cotlook Ltd., a research firm based in Birkenhead, England. That
forecast was made before the China Meteorological Center said on
Oct. 25 that the cold front may hamper harvesting and reduce
fiber quality.  Crops  in the U.S., the largest exporter, were damaged by a
hailstorm in Texas, the biggest state producer.  The  harvest  in Texas was 45 percent completed as of
yesterday, up from 37 percent a week earlier, the USDA said
after the close of regular trading. The national tally was 61
percent, up from 53 percent.  Orange-juice futures for January delivery rose 0.7 cent, or
0.4 percent, to settle at $1.584 a pound in New York. The price
has advanced 23 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 