-- Credit-Default Swaps Little Changed After Manufacturing Report
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-01T21:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/credit-default-swaps-fall-in-u-s-after-manufacturing-report.html
The cost of protecting U.S. corporate
bonds from default was little changed following three days of
gains after a report showed October manufacturing expanded by
the fastest in five months while consumer spending rose less
than expected.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.4 basis point to a
mid-price of 94 basis points as of 5:02 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index 
increased to 56.9 from 54.4, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
today. Consumer spending rose less than forecast in September
and incomes dropped for the first time in more than a year, data
from the Commerce Department showed.  Globally, the number of “weakest links,” or borrowers
rated B- or lower with a “negative” outlook by Standard &
Poor’s, totaled 118 as of Oct. 21, down from 264 a year earlier,
S&P said today.  Contracts on Ambac Financial Group Inc. surged after the
New York-based company, whose bond insurance unit is being
restructured by Wisconsin regulators, said in a regulatory
 filing  that it skipped a bond payment today and will pursue a
pre-packaged bankruptcy with a group of creditors.  Five-year swaps protecting against an Ambac default jumped
5.2 percentage points to 74.2 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it
would cost $7.42 million initially and $500,000 annually to
protect $10 million of Ambac debt.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The North American investment grade index, which typically
drops as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates, touched the lowest in more than five months Oct.
26 at 92.5 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  