-- Crude Oil Rises as Dollar Declines on Speculation of Fed Easing Measures
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-11-01T12:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/crude-oil-rises-as-dollar-declines-on-speculation-of-fed-easing-measures.html
Oil gained in New York as China’s
manufacturing expanded at the quickest pace in six months, and
hedge funds boosted bets that prices will rise.  Funds and other large speculators  increased wagers  on
rising crude prices by 9.3 percent in the seven days ended Oct.
26, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report. Oil rose amid expectations
U.S. policy makers will announce more large-scale asset
purchases, or quantitative easing, when they meet tomorrow.  “Commodities are attractive as an asset class as demand
burgeons from developing nations,”  Christopher Bellew , senior
broker with Bache Commodities Ltd. in London. “Generally the
market is in a remarkably stable range, a ‘Goldilocks’ mode that
is neither too high nor too low, as Saudi’s ability to tweak
supplies caps prices.”  Oil for December delivery rose as much as 90 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $82.33 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
It was at $82.15 at 12:28 p.m. London time. Brent crude for
December settlement rose as much as 99 cents, or 1.2 percent, to
$83.77 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Manufacturing in China expanded in October at the fastest
pace in six months, adding to signs that economic growth is
withstanding cooling efforts by the government.  China’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index  rose to 54.7 in October,
the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today. That’s
higher than 53.8 for both the previous month and the median
forecast from 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
country overtook the U.S. last year as the biggest energy user.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 2 percent annual rate
in the third quarter, the Commerce Department said Oct. 29. The
central bank’s Federal Open Market Committee will meet in
Washington on Nov. 2 and Nov. 3.  “As people feel the GDP number we had on Friday was OK,
and quantitative easing will support that recovery, then more
dollar weakness will come initially,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney.
“That will help support the price of crude.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  