-- Crude Oil Advances to a Two-Week High on Chinese Expansion, U.S. Stimulus
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-01T20:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/crude-oil-climbs-as-dollar-declines-on-speculation-of-fed-easing-measure.html
Crude oil increased to a two-week
high after Chinese manufacturing expanded at the quickest pace
in six months and on expectations the Federal Reserve will
announce measures this week to stimulate the U.S. economy.  Oil rose 1.9 percent as China’s Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said the country’s  purchasing managers’ index  climbed
to 54.7 in October from 53.8. The Fed may make more asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing, after its meeting
tomorrow and Nov. 3. An industry report showed that U.S. factory
output expanded more than forecast last month.  “The combination of the strong Chinese data and
expectations for quantitative easing this week is giving traders
good reasons to be long,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in Chicago.  Crude oil for December delivery rose $1.52 to $82.95 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Oct. 18. Prices are up 7.7 percent from a year
ago.  Brent crude oil for December settlement increased $1.47, or
1.8 percent, to end the session at $84.62 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Chinese purchasing managers’ index exceeded a forecast
of 53.8, the median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The country overtook the U.S. last year as the
biggest energy user.  U.S. Factory Index  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory  index  rose to
56.9 in October from 54.4 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.
Economists forecast the ISM manufacturing gauge would decline to
54, according to the median of 75 projections in a Bloomberg
News survey. Estimates ranged from 52 to 56.8.  The ISM’s U.S. new orders climbed to 58.9 from 51.1, while
the  production index  jumped to 62.7 from 56.5.  “Commodities are attractive as an asset class as demand
burgeons from developing nations,” said  Christopher Bellew ,
senior broker with Bache Commodities Ltd. in London. “Generally
the market is in a remarkably stable range, a ‘Goldilocks’ mode
that is neither too high nor too low, as Saudi’s ability to
tweak supplies caps prices.”  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
advanced 0.3 percent to 301.53, the highest level since Oct. 9,
2008.  Saudi Supplies  Saudi Arabia has the capacity to continue supplying crude
for another 80 years even if no new discoveries are made, Oil
Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said in Singapore. The country is adding
new reserves equal to the amount it is extracting each year, he
said in a speech at the Singapore Energy Summit today.  Consuming countries are happy with oil between $70 and $90
a barrel, al-Naimi said. In April he said prices in the $70-to-
$80 range are “as close to perfect as possible” and that he
hoped oil would remain in that range.  Hedge funds and other large speculators  increased wagers  on
rising crude prices by 9.3 percent in the seven days ended Oct.
26, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Prices “just exploded between 9:00 and 9:05 a.m.,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group Inc., a consulting
company in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “All of the headlines
occurred earlier and the market barely moved. It looks like it’s
just the hedge funds coming in at the beginning of the month.”  French Stockpiles  France will need to increase gasoil imports and boost
refinery production after last month’s workers’ strikes left the
country with reduced fuel inventories, Credit Agricole CIB said.  French inventories of gasoil, fuel that includes heating
oil and diesel, fell below 53 million barrels at the end of last
month,  Christophe Barret , a London-based oil analyst, wrote in
an e-mailed report today. That’s 8.6 million barrels below the
five-year average from 2003 to 2008.  Labor unrest across France last month caused ten refineries
to halt operations, leaving some service stations without fuel
and pushing up wholesale prices.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 536,922 contracts as of 3:07
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 503,947
contracts on Oct. 29, 27 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.42 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  