-- Currency Swings Show Faith in G-20 Pledge Fading
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-11-01T14:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/currency-swings-show-traders-losing-faith-in-g-20-as-korea-eyes-controls.html
Traders are losing confidence in
Group of 20 finance officials’ pledge to avoid foreign-exchange
manipulation, less than a week after the leaders vowed to stop
devaluing currencies to prop up their economies.  Volatility among Group of Seven currencies rose to the
highest level in four months since the G-20 meeting ended on
Oct. 23, according to the  JPMorgan G-7 Volatility Index . Euro-
dollar fluctuations jumped 30 percent since Sept. 20, a day
before Federal Reserve policy makers said they were prepared to
buy bonds and pump more money into the financial system, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While G-20 nations committed to refrain from “competitive
devaluation,” officials from South Korea and South Africa said
last week that they may consider currency controls. The reliance
on intervention underscores the challenges finance officials
face to keep their economies on track after injecting more than
$2 trillion to spark growth following the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  “Volatility is the price of uncertainty,” said  Richard Benson , an executive director in London at Millennium Asset
Management, who oversees $14 billion of currency funds.
“Volatility’s current elevated level is a function of the
currency war issue.”  ‘Event Risk’  The Fed is likely to unveil its second round of so-called
quantitative easing when policy makers meet Nov. 2 and 3. The
European Central Bank, Bank of England, Bank of Japan and
Reserve Bank of Australia also have sessions this week. U.S.
mid-term elections Nov. 2 may give Republicans control of the
House of Representatives in a blow to U.S. President  Barack Obama , according to a Bloomberg National Poll from Oct. 24-26.  “This week is huge for event risk,” said Benson.  JPMorgan’s volatility index rose as much as 1.79 percentage
points from the day before the Fed’s last meeting on Sept. 21 to
13.14 percent today, the highest level since July. The firm’s
emerging market index jumped about 1.95 points to 12.55 and was
at 12.18 percent today.  One-month implied volatility on the euro against the dollar
climbed to 14.4 percent today, the most since June and above the
10.48 percent average since 1999.  Carry Trade  Investors favor smaller swings for so-called carry trades,
where they sell currencies of nations with low interest rates to
finance purchases in countries including Australia, Brazil and
New Zealand with higher yields.  The Parker Global Strategies LLC CMI Currency Managers
 index , which tracks 20 currency funds with $10.15 billion in
combined assets, is up 1.6 percent in 2010 after falling 1.2
percent last year. The 2009 loss followed seven straight years
of gains averaging about 7.5 percent.  “In an ideal world we’d have low volatility but trending
markets, and the worst thing is high volatility and no trend,”
said  Dale Thomas , head of currencies at Insight Investment
Management in London, which oversees about $121 billion.  Rapid price swings can hurt company profits and make it
harder for central banks to implement monetary policy.  “Advanced economies, including those with reserve
currencies, will be vigilant against excess volatility and
disorderly movements in exchange rates,” the G-20 said in its
communiqué. “These actions will help mitigate the risk of
excessive volatility in capital flows facing some emerging
countries.”  Asia Slumps  Asian currencies slumped to a one-week low on Oct. 27 after
Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said moderating capital
flows could be “useful,” checking the won’s 12 percent
appreciation since May.  On the same day, the rand slid 1.7 percent, the most in
five months, as South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
said his government will use higher-than-expected tax revenue
for foreign reserves to weaken the currency. The rand has
rallied 13 percent since reaching a six-month low on May 20.  The Brazilian real weakened more than 3 percent after
touching a two-year high on Oct. 14 as the nation increased
inflow taxes to 6 percent from 4 percent on Oct. 18, and boosted
the levy on money brought into the country for margin deposits
on futures-market transactions. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
called for an end to the worldwide “currency war.”  Governments in at least 10 nations have taken steps to
limit financial markets from setting currency values this year
to protect exports as world economic growth slows to an
estimated 4.2 percent next year from 4.8 percent in 2010,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  Volatility ‘Recipe’  “Problems on a macro-economic level between governments as
well as at the policy level within countries are a recipe for
more volatility,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist in
London at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s biggest
custodian of financial assets. “The stakes are going to be
raised and the arguments will grow all the more heated.”  Much of the emerging-market gains have come at the expense
of the dollar, which depreciated last month to its weakest level
since 2008 on a trade-weighted basis.  The dollar weakened as much as 0.5 percent today to $1.4011
per euro, before trading at $1.3914 at 2:25 p.m. in London. The
greenback 0.1 percent stronger at 80.48 yen, after reaching
80.22 yen, the weakest since April 1995, when it slid to a post-
World War II low of 79.75.  ‘Significant Misalignments’  The U.S. currency is down 5.3 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, which show a 3.5 percent loss for 2010, compared with a
6 percent drop for the euro and 13.6 percent gain for the yen.  Euro-dollar volatility fell to as low as 4.6 percent in
2007 as monetary policy around the world converged and global
economic growth accelerated to 5.3 percent.  Now, decisions by China and other Asian economies to limit
currency appreciation are adding to “significant exchange-rate
misalignments” and tensions across the G-20, the IMF said.  The Washington-based agency urged developing nations with
current-account surpluses to let gains begin “in earnest.”
Advanced economies must repair their financial systems at the
same time and curb budget deficits in 2011 to help shift sources
of global demand, it said.  Japan refrained from selling yen last month, the Ministry
of Finance reported on Oct. 29, showing the nation stepped back
after intervening to weaken its currency in September for the
first time in six years.  The Fed will likely announce that it will resume buying
Treasuries this week, after purchasing $1.725 trillion of U.S.
debt and mortgage securities in the first round of quantitative
easing that began last year. Estimates for the size of the
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty about how they’re embarking
on QE, the size and for how long,” said  Paul Mackel , director
of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “It’s
going to be harder for the market to discount what might happen
at forthcoming Fed meetings. Volatility in the currency market
is going to stay elevated for longer than people think.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  