-- Default Risk Sinks Most in World After Kirchner's Death: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-01T21:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/default-risk-sinks-most-in-world-after-kirchner-s-death-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s bond risk is declining at
the fastest pace since March on speculation President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will mend relations with the International
Monetary Fund and bolster the credibility of inflation data
after the death of her husband and predecessor  Nestor Kirchner .  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
with credit-default swaps tumbled 113 basis points, or 1.13
percentage points, last week, the biggest decline among 97
countries and local governments tracked by CMA and Bloomberg.  Investors are betting the country may reverse policies that
Kirchner, who died Oct. 27, put in place and that were continued
by Fernandez. Kirchner, who said the IMF helped lead the nation
into default in 2001, changed personnel at the agency that
measures consumer prices in 2007, spurring speculation he was
trying to hide the extent of inflation. Barclays Plc estimates
inflation is about double the official rate at 25 percent.  “The late president Kirchner was really the architect of
the economic strategy that Argentina pursued,” said  Claudio Loser , a former Western Hemisphere director of the IMF in a
phone interview from Rockville, Maryland. “The reaction of the
markets is really the perception the policies may change and
that Cristina may take a more flexible approach to Argentina’s
external relations with creditors, with the Paris Club, with the
IMF.”  The extra  yield  investors demand to own Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries shrank 77 basis points last
week to 528 and fell six basis points today to 523 at 4:57 p.m.
New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.
The country’s debt returned 14.5 percent in October, the biggest
advance in JPMorgan’s benchmark index after Ecuadorean bonds.  Presidential Election  Bonds  also rallied on speculation the death of Kirchner,
who said in July that either he or Fernandez would run for
president next year, makes it more likely that an opposition
candidate will win the election, according to  Alberto Bernal ,
head of fixed-income research at Bulltick Capital Markets, a
Miami-based brokerage that focuses on Latin America.  “The markets are pricing in that if Nestor Kirchner is not
going to run in 2011 maybe there will be an increased
probability that there will be a regime change,” Bernal said in
a phone interview from Santiago. “The market has come to
believe that under the leadership of Nestor or Cristina it would
be very difficult for Argentina to finally reach an agreement
with the IMF on the issues that are outstanding.”  ‘Dictatorship’  INDEC, as the national statistics agency is known, said
consumer prices rose 11.1 percent in September from a year
earlier. Politicians from Vice President  Julio Cobos  to former
Economy Minister  Roberto Lavagna  have also questioned the
accuracy of official inflation statistics.  Argentina has not allowed a so-called Article IV review of
its economic policies by the IMF, which is required for all
members of the organization, since 2006. Argentina owes the
Paris Club, an informal association of creditors that includes
the U.S., Germany and Japan, about $6.7 billion in defaulted
debt. Kirchner, who blamed loans and advice from the IMF
“dictatorship” for leading the country into failure during the
1990s, tapped  foreign reserves  to repay the country’s $9.5
billion debt to the fund in 2006.  Argentine Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said on Sept. 10
the government won’t accept the IMF’s economic-policy
“recipes” because the country “did poorly” in the past
following the lender’s advice. Argentina won’t resolve its
outstanding debt with the Paris Club if it is required to have a
program with the IMF, Boudou said June 24.  “The market was thinking it’s very difficult to come up
with a story arguing that if the Kirchners remain in power we’re
going to see changes there,” Bulltick Capital’s Bernal said.  Default Swaps  Bill Murray , an IMF spokesman in Washington, declined to
comment.  Argentina’s default swaps rose 11 basis points on Oct. 29
to 624, according to CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to debt
agreements.  The peso fell 0.1 percent today to 3.9596 per U.S. dollar.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.12 cent to 13.28 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Argentina’s central bank said Oct. 29 the country’s economy
will expand about 9 percent this year, down from an August
forecast of as much as 9.5 percent growth.  Kirchner’s death is unlikely to lead to policy changes in
the short term, said Loser, who is now president of consulting
group Centennial Group Latin America in Washington.  “Certainly very little will happen over the next two
months,” said Loser. “I don’t think that you will see many
changes.”  ‘Poor Policy’  While Argentina’s bond risk tumbled last month, its debt is
still the fourth-most expensive to insure against default in the
world after Venezuela, Greece and Pakistan, according to data
compiled by CMA and Bloomberg.  “Basically Argentina is a country with strong economic
fundamentals and a supportive external environment, but poor
policy management and that poor policy management has basically
resulted in a cost that we see in financial markets,” said
 Daniel Volberg , an economist at Morgan Stanley in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  