-- Denmark's `Costly' Euro Peg Offers No Clear Benefits, IMF's De Broeck Says
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-11-02T16:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/denmark-s-costly-euro-peg-offers-no-clear-benefits-imf-s-de-broeck-says.html
Denmark’s currency peg to the euro is
“costly” and has failed to shield the Nordic country from
credit-market disruptions during the financial crisis, the
International Monetary Fund said.  A currency peg is “complicated, it requires movements in
interest rates, it requires interventions, so this type of issue
can be quite costly for the central bank without any clear
benefits,” said  Mark de Broeck , head of the IMF’s mission to
Denmark, in an interview in Copenhagen yesterday.  Since the financial crisis started, Denmark’s euro peg has
forced the central bank to change direction more often than most
other monetary policy authorities. The bank raised its main rate
to an eight-and-a-half-year high of 5.5 percent in October 2008
as it tried to shield the krone from a sell-off. Since then, it
has cut the  benchmark rate  to a record-low 1.05 percent to track
declines in the euro triggered by Europe’s debt crisis.  Policy makers last month raised the certificate of deposit
rate twice to prevent a currency outflow after Danish interbank
rates yielded less than their euro-area counterparts. The
central bank spent a net 54.9 billion kroner ($10.2 billion) in
the first nine months in currency interventions to defend the
peg after spending 137 billion kroner a year earlier. In the
same period of 2007, the bank spent 10.2 billion kroner on
currency interventions.  “Having been in the euro would have made it easier for the
Danes to deal with the crisis,” de Broeck said. “We expect
Denmark will eventually adopt the euro.”  Speculation  Prime Minister  Lars Loekke Rasmussen  rejected the IMF’s
comments and said the krone’s peg to the euro has helped
Denmark’s economy.  “The interest rate is at an historical low and has been
that way for a long period of time, with the only exception
around new year 2008-2009, where we saw some kind of speculation
around the Danish krone for no reason whatsoever,” Rasmussen
said in an interview in Reykjavik today. “But we managed to
solve that problem; what we experienced should actually be an
argument for joining the euro. Because we have linked our
economy to the Eurozone what we miss now is political
influence.”  The central bank on Oct. 28 said it was forced to raise its
deposit rate “due to a rise in the short European market rates
compared to the equivalent Danish market rates,” after the
negative spread hurt the krone peg.  Interbank Spread  Europe’s  Effective Overnight Index Average , which is a
weighted average of all overnight unsecured lending in the
region’s interbank market, slipped to 0.683 percent yesterday,
compared with 0.75 percent for Denmark’s  overnight interbank
deposit rate , according to data available on Bloomberg. That
compares with a positive  spread  of 95 basis points in December
2009.  The krone traded at 7.4564 to the euro today, from 7.44454
on Sept. 3. The bank  officially  defends a 2.25 percent band
around 7.46038 kroner per euro, though in practice it only
tolerates moves of about 0.1 percent.  A central bank report today showed currency reserves fell
less than economists expected, declining 9.6 billion kroner to
421.7 billion kroner in October. The median estimate of five
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a decline to 418.3
billion kroner.  Chief executive officers at three of Denmark’s biggest
financial companies last month said the Nordic country may stay
outside the euro for at least the next five years as the debt
crisis puts voters off the single currency bloc. Rasmussen’s
administration has backed away from pledges to hold a euro
referendum by November next year after polls indicated Danes may
reject the currency switch.  Support Dwindling  The euro dropped 21 percent against the dollar from last
November’s peak to the lows in June as investors bet record
deficits run up by so-called peripheral nations such as Greece
might fracture the region’s monetary union. European Union
leaders on Oct. 29 agreed to rewrite the bloc’s treaties to
create a permanent debt-crisis mechanism as they try to prevent
a repeat of the fiscal failures that sent the euro through its
most severe test since its 1999 creation.  Danish support for euro membership has been dwindling among
voters. A Sept. 22 poll commissioned by  Danske Bank A/S  showed
backing for the euro at 46.6 percent that month, while 51.7
percent wanted to keep the krone. That compares with 53.4
percent support for the euro two years ago.  Denmark’s efforts to scale back emergency policies needed
to support companies and households during the crisis also risk
hurting the recovery, de Broeck said.  Stimulus Timing  “At this point, it’s still a concern that you don’t want
to withdraw stimulus right away but you want to carefully
calibrate,” he said. “There is a risk that withdrawing
stimulus too quickly in Denmark could harm the recovery.”  The government on Sept. 30 ended a 30 billion kroner ($5.6
billion) bank guarantee program, though it will continue to back
individual loans on a case-by-case basis until the end of the
year. The Finance Ministry in May presented a fiscal
consolidation program that targets bringing the budget deficit
back toward 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2013. The gap
will reach 5 percent of GDP this year, the IMF said yesterday.  That plan should include more spending cuts instead of
higher taxes, the fund said.  “In order to send a clear signal to the financial markets
we are very decisive and we want to consolidate our economy
now,” Rasmussen said. “We have quite a severe deficit and we
will now need to start consolidation. This will take place in
2011, 2012 and 2013.”  Danish gross domestic product will grow 2.5 percent this
year and 2 percent in 2011, the fund said. It expects the
Finance Ministry and central bank to lift their GDP forecasts
for 2010, currently at 1.4 percent and 1.6 percent respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  