-- Dollar Strengthens Against Euro as U.S. Manufacturing Advances
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-01T21:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/dollar-yen-fall-as-china-s-manufacturing-buoys-demand-for-risker-assets.html
The dollar gained against the euro
for the first time in three days after a report showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded in October at the fastest pace in five
months, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  The greenback also advanced versus the yen as the Institute
for Supply Management’s factory index unexpectedly rose. The
dollar was still down versus half of its 16 most-traded
counterparts amid speculation the Federal Reserve will say this
week it plans to increase bond purchases and before tomorrow’s
U.S. elections. The Swiss franc dropped after a Chinese
manufacturing index rose in October, damping haven demand.  “The ISM data was a bit stronger than expectations and
took the wind out of the dollar bears going into all the events
we have coming up this week,” said  Greg Michalowski , chief
currency analyst at FXDD, an online foreign-exchange broker, in
Scottsdale, Arizona.  The dollar appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.3893 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.3947 on Oct. 29. It earlier declined
to $1.4011, the weakest level since Oct. 25. The yen slipped 0.1
percent to 80.51 per dollar, from 80.40. It earlier rose to
80.22, the strongest level since April 1995. The yen advanced
0.2 percent to 111.85 per euro, from 112.12.  The ISM  factory index  rose to 56.9 in October from 54.4 a
month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today.
Readings greater than 50 signal growth. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey forecast the gauge would decline to 54.  Euro Drops  The euro fell against all of its major counterparts except
Norway’s krone and the franc as the Fed prepared to meet and
stocks erased an advance. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index was
little changed at closing, after gaining as much as 1.1 percent
earlier on the Chinese data and U.S. manufacturing report.  “The market is pulling back on risk ahead of the midterms
and the Fed,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto. “It’s
significant weight, one that I don’t think the markets have seen
for quite some time.”  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes tracking 10
developed-world currencies show the euro has gained more than 3
percent against its counterparts since September. It fell 0.2
percent against them today.  Fed policy makers will probably announce after their Nov.
2-3 meeting a plan to buy at least $500 billion of long-term
securities in a monetary-stimulus strategy called quantitative
easing, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  $500 Billion  Fifty-three of 56 economists surveyed last week said the
Fed will restart a program of securities purchases. Twenty-nine
estimated it will pledge to buy $500 billion or more, while
another seven forecast $50 billion to $100 billion in monthly
purchases without a specified total. Earlier estimates of total
purchases reached $2 trillion.  The central bank bought $1.7 trillion in debt from December
2008 to March to boost the economy.  The dollar may have weakened too far and could get a boost
from lower-than-forecast purchases, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “While we have been pushing a broadly dollar-negative view
for some time, we find ourselves thinking the fall is a little
overcooked,” HSBC analysts led by London-based  David Bloom 
wrote in a note to investors today. “The questions for markets
are, how much QE and how often? If it is smaller than the market
may be hoping for, this would trigger a risk-off move and push
the dollar higher.”  The U.S. congressional elections tomorrow may see the
Republican Party gain control of the House of Representatives,
reducing the Democratic Party’s power to enact fiscal policy.  Stimulus Responsibility  “Expectations will be that the more gridlock there is, the
more responsibility for stimulus will fall on the Fed,” said
 Ron Leven , executive director and currency strategist at Morgan
Stanley in New York.  This will continue to weigh on the dollar, he said.  The Fed will release its policy decision on Nov. 3 at about
2:15 p.m. in Washington. About 18 hours later, the Bank of
England will announce its move. The European Central Bank will
go public with its decision 45 minutes after that in Frankfurt,
and the Bank of Japan concludes its talks on Nov. 5.  The pound approached the highest level in nine months
against the dollar on speculation the Bank of England will
refrain from joining the Fed in renewed asset purchases.
Sterling rose as much as 0.3 percent to $1.6090, nearing Oct.
15’s peak of $1.6107, the highest since Jan. 29. The pound
gained 0.3 percent to 86.65 pence per euro.  Aussie Recommendation  Investors should buy the Australian currency against the
greenback on speculation the Fed will step up Treasury purchases
after its meeting,  Paul Meggyesi , a managing director of
currency strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a research
report dated Oct. 29 and sent to journalists today.  Australia’s dollar rose for a third day, gaining 0.4
percent to 98.71 U.S. cents, on speculation the South Pacific
nation will maintain its interest-rate premium with the U.S. The
Reserve Bank of Australia meets tomorrow.  China’s purchasing managers’ index increased to 54.7 last
month from 53.8 in September.  The franc tumbled as much as 1 percent to 1.3834 per euro,
the weakest level since Aug. 10, and slid as much as 1.5 percent
to 99.72 centimes versus the dollar, the weakest since Sept. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  