-- China's Dollar Borrowing Costs Tumble on Ratings Outlook
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-02T05:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/dollar-borrowing-costs-tumble-on-ratings-outlook-china-credit.html
China ’s U.S. dollar borrowing costs
fell in October by the most since January as investors bet
record currency reserves of $2.65 trillion will help the world’s
fastest-growing economy win a higher debt rating.  The yield on China’s $1 billion of 4.75 percent notes due
October 2013 dropped 30 basis points last month, or 0.30
percentage point, to 1.46 percent, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices. The extra yield over similar-maturity
Treasuries narrowed 15 basis points to a three-month low of 95.  Lower yields and shrinking spreads “reflects the
fundamental healthiness of the Chinese economy, the sovereign
creditworthiness of China and, of course, money flooding into
emerging markets,” said  Tao Dong , chief regional economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong.  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in six
months in October, the logistics federation said yesterday,
after the economy grew 9.6 percent in the third-quarter and
Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 18 it may raise China’s
rating on the country’s financial strength.  Falling benchmark borrowing costs would help companies such
as  Sinochem International Corp ., China’s biggest chemicals
trader, which plans to sell 10- and 30-year notes, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  Evergrande Rally  Yields on Chinese corporate dollar-denominated bonds fell
to as low as 5.18 percent last month, the lowest in at least
five years, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes . The yield
on the Chinese bonds with the heaviest weighting in the index,
Guangzhou-based-Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd.’s $1.35
billion of 13 percent notes due January 2015, declined to a
record 10.3 percent as the prices of the securities rose.  Sinochem hired Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and UBS AG
to help arrange a benchmark dollar bond sale after meetings with
investors in Asia, Europe and the U.S., the person familiar with
the matter said on Oct. 26. The person declined to be identified
because the terms of the bond sale weren’t set. Benchmark issues
are typically at least $500 million.  Dagong Global Credit Rating Co., the Chinese firm seeking
to become an alternative to Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch
Ratings, ranks China’s debt higher than that of the U.S. and
Japan, citing widening deficits in the developed world. The
global ratings methodology is “irrational,” Dagong Chairman
 Guan Jianzhong  said in July, and “cannot truly reflect
repayment ability.”  Lowest BRIC Yield  China’s October 2013 note offers the lowest yield of
similar-maturity dollar bonds sold by the so-called BRIC nations.
Brazil’s $1.25 billion in 10.25 percent notes due June 2013
yield 1.59 percent, according to JVB Financial Holdings prices,
while Russia’s $2 billion in 3.625 percent debt due April 2015
yield 3 percent, according to RBS.  India hasn’t sold any dollar bonds, and the 0.75 percent
U.S. Treasury due August 2013 yield 0.46 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Officials overseeing the world’s second-biggest economy
stepped up efforts last month to cool inflation even as the U.S.
and Japan favor near-zero interest rates and money-printing to
try to stimulate growth. China’s economy will probably expand
10.5 percent this year, the International Monetary Fund said on
Oct. 6. The U.S. will grow 2.6 percent, down from an earlier 3.3
percent estimate, the Washington-based fund said.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps on China’s debt fell 9
percent last month following a drop of 19 percent in September.
The contract declined 0.98 basis point to 59.32 basis points
yesterday, CMA prices in New York show.  The swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves, paying the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements. Government debt investors usually buy the
contracts to hedge against a rise in yields.  The yield on the 3.28 percent government bond due August
2020 rose 5 basis points to 3.76 percent as of 12:51 p.m. in
Beijing, the highest level for a benchmark 10-year note since
last November, National Interbank Funding Center data show.  The People’s Bank of China today sold one-year bills at a
yield of 2.2913 percent, unchanged from last week, according to
traders at Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. The central bank allowed the
yield to rise 20 basis points at last week’s auction after
lifting benchmark lending and deposit rates on Oct. 19 for the
first time since 2007.  Yuan Appreciates  One-year interest-rate  swaps , or the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , climbed 2 basis
points to 2.41 percent as of 1:03 p.m. in Beijing, its highest
since June 18. Five-year swaps gained 9 basis points to 3.60
percent. That rate is up from this year’s low of 2.68 percent on
Aug. 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan appreciated 2.2 percent versus the dollar since a
two-year peg was relaxed in June, and non-deliverable forwards
show traders are betting on a 3.6 percent increase in the coming
12 months. It gained 0.3 percent to 6.6817 per dollar as of
11:00 a.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  Moody’s said on Oct. 18 that it may raise China’s A1 credit
rating, citing the nation’s “effective policy response and
rapid recovery from the global recession.” The nation is well
placed to sustain “rapid rates” of economic growth, while low
central government debt and deficits funded by domestic
creditors also enhance credit quality, according to the risk
assessment firm.  An upgrade may have limited benefits because China’s dollar
bonds are “quite illiquid,” said  Vijay Chander , head of credit
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  