-- Tribune, Wolverine, Lehman, Downey: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-01T13:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/downey-tridimension-point-blank-loehmann-s-threat-to-sue-bankruptcy.html
Three more reorganization plans for
publisher Tribune Co. were filed on the Oct. 29 deadline.  The creditor groups behind the competing plans all oppose
the plan Tribune filed on Oct. 23 along with the official
creditors’ committee, senior lenders Oaktree Capital Management
LP and Angelo Gordon & Co., and JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, as agent
for the senior lenders.  The proponents of the competing plans object to how the
Tribune plan would impose a settlement of claims against lenders
related to the second part of the leveraged buyout in December
2007, known as the Step 2. The disclosure statements explaining
the three competing plans all say the settlement in Tribune’s
plan is inadequate.  A group of so-called Step 1 lenders, who made loans in the
first part of the LBO in June 2007, describe their plan as
including no settlement for Step 2 lenders. Their plan, like the
other creditors’ plans, would allow litigation after Tribune
confirms the plan and emerges from Chapter 11. The Step 1
lenders contend the distributions to them under the Tribune plan
are “woefully deficient.”  The Step 1 lenders say their plan would give their group
the highest return without delaying confirmation of the plan.
The lynchpin to the Step 1 lenders’ plan is the ability to
litigate after bankruptcy over the so-called loss-sharing
agreement between the Step 1 and Step 2 lenders.  Marathon Asset Management LP and King Street Capital LP are
in a group of so-called bridge-loan lenders who submitted a
plan. The bridge-loan lenders essentially make an offer of
settlement with regard to their role in the second part of the
2007 LBO. Their plan would allow all lenders in the LBO to
participate in a settlement. Lawsuits would continue after
bankruptcy for those who don’t elect to settle.  Aurelius Capital Management LP, which calls itself the
largest holder of bonds predating the 2007 LBO, filed the third
competing plan, joined by three indenture trustees for all of
the pre-LBO debt.  Aurelius says the settlement that would be forced through
in the Tribune plan is opposed by all pre-LBO debtholders who
participated in mediation. Aurelius explains how its plan would
enable Tribute to emerge from Chapter 11 without forcing through
any settlements. The Aurelius plan would allow lawsuits to
continue after bankruptcy.  Much like Step 1 lenders in their plan, Aurelius says
Tribune’s plan is based on a “dubious” interpretation of the
loss-sharing agreement.  For details of the Tribune plan filed Oct. 23, click here
for the Oct. 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  A group of creditors filed suit in New York state court on
Oct. 29 against the so-called lead banks in the LBO and against
JPMorgan Chase Bank as agent for the lenders. The creditors
believe the Step 2 loan was barred by the credit agreement from
May 2007 and was “tainted with fraud.”  The plaintiffs in the suit include Alden Global Distressed
Opportunities Fund LP, Arrowgrass Distressed Opportunities Fund
Ltd. and Greywolf Capital Partners. In addition to JPMorgan, the
defendants include Merrill Lynch Capital Corp. Citicorp NA and
Bank of America NA. For Bloomberg coverage of the suit, click
here.  Tribune withdrew a reorganization plan in August after the
examiner issued a report saying there was some likelihood that
the second phase of the leveraged buyout in December 2007 could
be attacked successfully as a constructively fraudulent
transfer. The examiner found less likelihood that the first
phase of the transaction in June 2007 could be attacked
successfully.  The second part of the buyout entailed the issuance of $2.1
billion on the senior credit and a $1.6 billion bridge loan. For
a summary of some of the examiner’s conclusions, click here for
the July 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The $13.7 billion
leveraged buyout in 2007 was led by Sam Zell.  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the  Chicago Tribune , Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Prepackaged Filing  Wolverine Files to Convert Secured Notes to Stock    Wolverine Tube Inc ., a producer of copper tubing for
manufacturers of heating, ventilation and cooling equipment,
began a prepackaged Chapter 11 reorganization today supported by
holders of 71 percent of the $131 million in senior secured
notes.  The reorganization plan, which Wolverine said it would file
“shortly,” will convert the secured notes into all of the new
common equity plus a new secured note for $30 million.  Wolverine said the filing was caused by declining revenue
coupled with high copper prices, pension funding expenses, and
interest on the senior notes. The plan is contingent upon a
termination of the pension plan and the treatment of the
resulting claim of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. on terms
acceptable to the noteholders.  The petition listed assets of $115.6 million against debt
totaling $237.5 million.  The plan calls for paying general unsecured creditors in
full as much as $6.7 million. Existing common and preferred
shareholders are to receive nothing. Plainfield Asset Management
LLC, a signatory to the plan-support agreement, is both a
secured noteholder and a preferred shareholder.  In May 2009, Wolverine completed an exchange offer where
$122 million of maturing 10.5 percent unsecured notes were
exchanged for 15 percent senior secured notes that would have
matured in 2012. The notes traded on Oct. 25 at about 47.5 cents
on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Huntsville, Alabama-based company said there was a
“significant decline” in revenue. For 2010, revenue is
estimated to be $281 million.  The case is In re  Wolverine Tube Inc ., 10-13522, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Prepacks Coming  Star and Enquirer Parent in Prepack Solicitation  American Media Inc., which made a tender offer for the
$355.8 million in 14 percent senior subordinated notes, said
today that it is soliciting votes from creditors on a so-called
prepackaged Chapter 11 reorganization.  The statement didn’t give the terms of the plan.  American Media, which publishes Star and National Enquirer,
said it intends to file the Chapter 11 petition in two weeks and
emerge from reorganization less than two months later with a
debt-for-equity exchange. The company said the plan is supported
by 80 percent of bondholders.  American Media offered to exchange the subordinated notes
for $103 million cash and 95 percent of the equity, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. It also offered to repurchase all of
the $23.7 million in pay-in-kind notes due 2013 for 102 percent.
The offers were conditioned on receiving a commitment of $600
million in new funds, Moody’s said. The new cash would have been
used in part to pay off $432 million in term loans.  American Media missed an interest payment due May 1 on the
subordinated notes. Before the exchange was announced, Standard
& Poor’s estimated that holders of the subordinated debt could
expect a recovery from nothing to no more than 10 percent.  Twice in 2009, the Boca Raton, Florida-based company
obtained relief from subordinated noteholders who allowed the
payment of interest with more notes.  American Media was acquired by Evercore Partners LLP in
1999 in a $638 million transaction, according to information
compiled by Bloomberg.  MGM Say Lenders Support Prepack, Turn Down Icahn  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. said lenders “overwhelmingly”
supported its proposal for a prepackaged Chapter 11 reorganization
over a rival proposal from Carl Icahn.  Under MGM’s plan, secured lenders would swap $4 billion in
debt for 95.3 percent of the new stock. Spyglass Entertainment
Group is to acquire the remainder of the new equity in exchange
for contributing assets including Cypress Entertainment Group
Inc. and Garoge Inc.  For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  MGM, based in Los Angeles, was acquired in April 2005 in a
$4.8 billion transaction by a group including  Credit Suisse
Group AG , Providence Equity Partners Inc.,  Sony Corp . and TPG
Capital.  Updates  Downey Savings Parent Sues FDIC for Tax Refunds  The bankruptcy trustee for Downey Financial Corp., whose
bank subsidiary Downey Saving and Loan Association was taken
over by regulators in November 2008, sued the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. to decided who’s entitled to receive almost $400
million in federal income tax refunds. The FDIC was named
receiver for the savings bank when it was taken over.  The Chapter 7 trustee for Downey, which didn’t even try to
reorganize in Chapter 11, contends that the parent had the right
under a tax-sharing agreement to file tax returns for the bank
subsidiary. The trustee likewise contends that any refunds paid
by the IRS aren’t held in trust for the bank, even though losses
at the bank created the right to refunds.  The trustee believes that there is nothing more than a
debtor-creditor relationship between the parent and the FDIC as
receiver for the failed bank subsidiary. Consequently, the
trustee believes the FDIC is only an unsecured creditor of the
bankrupt parent.  The IRS has already paid $17.5 million which is being held
in an escrow account under an interim agreement between the
trustee and the FDIC. The agreement contemplates that a court
will decide who’s entitled to the refund.  The trustee for the parent has filed refund claims for
another additional $373.8 million.  As soon as the bank was taken over, the assets of the
thrift subsidiary were purchased by U.S. Bank NA in a
transaction assisted by the FDIC. The Downey bank failure cost
the FDIC insurance fund $1.4 billion, the agency said at the
time.  The case is In re Downey Financial Corp., 08-13041, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Lehman Explains Valuation of Structure Note Claims    Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . explained in an Oct. 29
regulatory filing how it will value structured notes issued
under European, German, Swiss and Italian note issuance
programs.  As explained in the filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the notes issued by Lehman Brothers Treasury Co.
under the program had a so-called notional amount of $33.7
billion when Lehman tumbled into bankruptcy in September 2008.
At the time, Lehman was carrying the notes on the books at $26.2
billion.  The SEC filing explains how Lehman will value the notes in
the bankruptcy case. After additions and subtractions, the
maximum allowable amount of the note claims is $27.05 billion,
according to the filing.  The notes sold by Lehman offered a return at maturity
linked to the performance of underlying assets or groups of
assets, such as single stocks, market indices, currencies or
interest rates.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment-banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. Lehman said it
intends to amend the plan in the last quarter of the year and
have the plan approved in a confirmation order by March.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Banks Win South Bay Expressway Mechanics’ Lien Dispute  Secured lenders to  South Bay Expressway LP  came out on top
in a lawsuit with mechanics’ lien holders about who is entitled
to be paid first.  Contractor Otay River Constructors contended that holders
of mechanics’ lien should come ahead of the secured lenders’
claims under California law. South Bay, the owner of a nine-mile
toll road near San Diego, said it couldn’t propose a
reorganization plan until the lawsuit was decided.  The case was tried last week before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Louise DeCarl Adler in San Diego. In two rulings last week, she
said “that the lenders who lent money have a senior priority
interest over the mechanics’ lien holders,” attorney Robert
Pilmer said in an interview. Pilmer, with the Los Angeles office
of Kirkland & Ellis LLP, represents the expressway.  Adler rejected an argument that the contractors hadn’t
filed their liens on time. She said the filings were timely,
thus making the mechanics’ liens valid. Although valid, the
banks are entitled to payment first, she ruled.  The mechanics’ lien holders have the right to appeal.  Otay is a joint venture between Washington Group
International Inc. and an affiliate of  Fluor Corp . On account of
the ruling, Fluor announced it would take a charge of about $95
million.  Wells Fargo Bank NA is agent for the secured lenders, which
include  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA .  The expressway opened in November 2007. It owes $340
million on a first-lien construction and term loan plus another
$170 million first-lien obligation on a loan provided by the
U.S. Department of Transportation. Ownership of the toll road is
controlled by affiliates of Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd .  The case is In re South Bay Expressway LP, 10-04516, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  Trico Marine to Give Supply Group to Lenders for Debt  Trico Marine Services Inc., a provider of support vessels
for the offshore oil and gas industry, said on Oct. 29 that it
has an agreement in principle to give all the equity of Trico
Supply AS to holders of the 11.875 percent senior secured notes.
The agreement was made with holders of 83 percent of the notes.  Bending to objection from the creditor’s committee, Trico
will auction two vessels. It is also in effect selling three
others.  Trico said it intends to complete documentation of the
debt-for-equity swap of Trico Supply and “request necessary
court approvals” in November. The exchange will give the
noteholders all of the equity of Trico Supply, which will have a
$100 million secured credit facility. The new loan will be used
for working capital and to pay off $22 million on a priority
credit facility.  Trico said it expects to have a forbearance agreement with
the noteholders relating to the Nov. 1 interest payment.  In October, Trico filed a motion for permission to sell
four vessels to  Tidewater Inc . for a total of $76 million. Trico
wanted the sale completed without an auction.  The official creditors’ committee filed papers in
opposition, saying it was aware of higher offers for the vessels
Trico Moon and Trico Mystic, which would have been sold for $13
million each. Trico bent to the objection by asking the
bankruptcy court to set up procedures where other bids would be
due by Nov. 24, followed by an auction on Nov. 28 and a hearing
to approve the sale on Nov. 30.  The hearing for approval of sale procedures will take place
Nov. 4.  Trico arranged a Nov. 22 hearing for authority to assign
charter agreements for three vessels to Comar Marine Corp. They
are French Broad River, Holston River and Tennessee River. Trico
charters the vessels from General Electric Capital Corp.  Comar will pay Trico $500,000, and GECC will cancel a $1.8
million letter of credit and return a $1.7 million cash deposit,
less $325,000. Comar will purchase the French Broad River from
GECC for $2.2 million.  Trico says it doesn’t need the vessels because it is
exiting the towing and supply business.  Two funds affiliated with Arrowgrass Capital Partners are
alleging that Trico made a “substantial amount” of fraudulent
transfers to subsidiaries in the Trico Supply Group, which
operates mostly in Norway. Those subsidiaries aren’t in Chapter
11.  Arrowgrass, which says it owns 3 percent senior convertible
debentures, previously said it didn’t want the parent to
“restructure the Trico Supply Group outside the purview” of
the U.S. Bankruptcy court.  The Chapter 11 filing in August was the second by The
Woodlands, Texas-based Trico. It completed a so-called
prepackaged reorganization in early 2005 by exchanging $250
million in debt for equity. Shareholders received warrants.  Other than a Cayman Islands holding company, none of the
foreign subsidiaries are in bankruptcy this time. The
consolidated balance sheet for June listed assets of $904
million against liabilities totaling $1.03 billion. The
bankruptcy petition listed liabilities of $354 million for Trico
Marine.  Liabilities include $202.8 million on secured convertible
debentures and $150 million owing on unsecured convertible
debentures. Non-bankrupt Trico Shipping owes $400 million on the
11.875 percent senior secured notes.  The case is In re Trico Marine Services Inc., 10-12653,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  FairPoint Creditors Investigating Verizon Spinoff  Although  FairPoint Communications Inc ., a local exchange
carrier, is progressing toward a confirmed reorganization plan,
the official creditors’ committee is investigating the 2007
transaction where  Verizon Communications Inc . spun off the
FairPoint business in Vermont, Maine and New Hampshire with 1.7
million access lines.  The committee wants to recover documents from Merrill Lynch
& Co., Houlihan Lokey Inc.,  Morgan Stanley  and  Deutsche Bank AG ,
which were all involved in the spinoff.  Lenders are to own FairPoint when it emerges from Chapter
11. For details on FairPoint’s reorganization plan, click here
for the March 12 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  FairPoint’s Chapter 11 petition listed assets of $3.24
billion against debt totaling $3.234 billion. Funded debt,
totaling $2.7 billion, included $2 billion under a secured
credit facility, $575 million in senior unsecured notes and $88
million on interest-rate swap agreements.  The case is In re FairPoint Communications Inc., 09-16335,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Lender Black Diamond Wins Auction for GSC Group  Black Diamond Capital Finance LLC, whose funds hold a
majority of the $206.6 million owing to secured lenders, won the
auction to buy GSC Group Inc. with a bid of $235 million,
according to an e-mail from Michael Solow, a lawyer for GSC.  GSC, an alternative-investment manager, filed under Chapter
11 at the end of August intending to sell the assets. The
bankruptcy judge allowed Black Diamond to bid the secured claim
rather than cash. Black Diamond is also agent for the lenders.  For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  GSC was originally named Greenwich Street Capital Partners
Inc. when it was a subsidiary of Travelers Group Inc. It became
independent in 1998 and at one time had $28 billion of assets
under management. Market reverses, termination of some funds,
and withdrawal of customer’s investments reduced funds under
management at the time of bankruptcy to $8.4 billion.  Based in Florham Park, New Jersey, GSC listed assets of
$119.8 million against debt totaling $313.6 million. GSC also
owes $10.2 million to Calyon New York Branch on an interest-rate
swap agreement.  The case is In re GSC Group Inc., 10-14653, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Landry’s Wins Auction to Buy Claim Jumper Restaurants  Landry’s Restaurants Inc. won the auction to buy Claim
Jumper Restaurants LLC, the operator of a chain of 45 western-
themed restaurants in states, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale.  The initial bid of $27 million came from a company formed
by Black Canyon Capital LLC and Bruckmann Rosser Sherrill & Co.
Inc. Black Canyon is an affiliate of the unsecured mezzanine
lender, according to court papers.  When Claim Jumper was asking for approval of auction
procedures, Houston-based Landry’s appeared at the hearing and
attempted to knock out the Black Canyon group as the so-called
stalking-horse bidder. Although Landry’s failed to be anointed
stalking horse, it did force the Black Canyon group to raise the
initial bid even before the auction and forgo part of the
breakup fees.  The hearing for approval of the sale is scheduled to take
place tomorrow.  Landry’s is experienced with bankruptcy sales. It purchased
 Oceanaire Inc ., a chain of bankrupt seafood restaurants,
following an auction in April.  For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  In addition to $69.5 million in secured debt, Claim Jumper
owes $112.5 million on subordinated notes. The petition says
assets are worth more than $50 million while debt exceeds $100
million.  The case is In re Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, 10-12819,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Washington Times Wins Quick Dismissal of Involuntary  Washington Times LLC won a motion on Oct. 27 dismissing the
involuntary bankruptcy petition filed against it on Oct. 21 by a
lawyer named Richard A. Steinbronn, who said his claim against
the newspaper publisher was $390.  The bankruptcy may be over for Washington Times, although
it isn’t for Steinbronn. The bankruptcy judge in Washington said
the newspaper could file a motion by Nov. 8 seeking sanctions
against Steinbronn for filing the defective involuntary
petition. The bankruptcy court will hold a hearing on Jan. 5 to
decide whether sanctions should be imposed.  Steinbronn says in the involuntary petition that he was
“wrongfully removed” from his position in early 2009 as a
director, officer, and legal counsel for Times Aerospace
International LLC and two subsidiaries with similar names --
Washington Times Aviation LLC and Washington Times Aviation USA
LLC.  To satisfy the requirement that there be three petitioning
creditors, Steinbronn signed the bankruptcy petition on behalf
of Washington Times Aviation LLC and Washington Times Aviation
USA LLC, saying he has “derivative or special standing.”
Steinbronn contended two companies for which he signed the
petition together were owed $2 million on loans.  Bankruptcy law contains penalties for improperly filing an
involuntary petition. If the involuntary petition is dismissed,
the unsuccessful petitioner can be required to pay the allegedly
bankrupt company’s attorneys’ fees. In addition, the bankruptcy
judge can assess ordinary damages and punitive damages if the
involuntary petition was found to be filed in bad faith.  Click here for a Bloomberg story reporting there is an
impending sale of Washington Times that will generate $3.1
million to pay creditors’ claims. Bloomberg reported in April
that the family of Reverend Sun Myung Moon cut off funding for
the newspaper and was looking for a buyer.  The case is In re Washington Times LLC, 10-01041, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Columbia.  TriDimension’s Production Up for Auction on Nov. 16  TriDimension Energy LP , an independent oil and natural gas
exploration and production company, will hold an auction on Nov.
16 to determine if there’s an offer for the assets higher than
$28 million. The bankruptcy judge in Dallas approved sale
procedures on Oct. 28.  Competing bids are due Nov. 11. The hearing for approval of
the sale will take place in Dallas on Nov. 17.  Dallas-based TriDimension filed under Chapter 11 in May. It
owes $37.5 million to secured lenders which are providing
financing for the reorganization. The lenders are owed another
$5.6 million on terminated hedges. Amegy Bank NA is agent for
the lenders.  The company has leases on 165,218 gross acres of oil and
gas properties in Louisiana and Mississippi with proven reserves
of approximately 5.1 million barrels.  TriDimension owes $6 million to general unsecured
creditors, not including the deficiency claim of the secured
lenders, Chief Financial Officer Kenneth A. Gregg said in a
court filing.  The case is In re TriDimension Energy LP, 10-33565, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  Point Blank Hopes to Unwind Class-Action Settlement    Point Blank Solutions Inc ., a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, has support from the
creditors’ committee in its effort at upsetting a shareholders’
class action suit settled more than four years ago.  At a Nov. 23 hearing, Point Blank will ask the bankruptcy
judge in Delaware to rule that the settlement of the class
action is an executory contract that can be rejected. Point Bank
believes that rejection will enable it to recover $35.2 million
that is being in escrow by the class plaintiffs’ lawyers.  The committee naturally supports Point Blank, hoping the
$35.2 million will be available to pay $40 million in unsecured
creditors’ claims. The funds also could be used to pay off $20
million of reorganization financing that matures on Dec. 31.  The lead plaintiffs in the class suit began their argument
by contending that the settlement stipulation is not an
executory contract. They believe no performance remains on
either side. Only the finality of approval orders is required
for the money to be distributed to members of the shareholder-
plaintiff class.  The plaintiffs say that the money in escrow wouldn’t in any
event come back to Point Blank because the funds weren’t paid by
the company and never was its property.  The class action was filed for investors who bought stock
between 2003 and 2006. The former chief executive and chief
operating officer were convicted in September of orchestrating a
$185 million fraud.  Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 exceeded $153 million.  The Chapter 11 petition in April listed assets of $64
million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter
11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade
suppliers.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Prepack Possible  Exchange Fails, Loehmann’s Hints at Prepack Instead  Although Loehmann’s Inc. received tenders to exchange 92.4
percent of the $110 million in senior secured notes maturing
next year, the discount retailer, with more than 60 stores in 16
states, came up short of the 97 percent required to implement
the offer.  Loehmann Capital Corp. said on Oct. 29 that it won’t carry
out the exchange and won’t make the October 1 interest payment
within the 30-day grace period.  Instead, Loehmann’s said it will continue talks with
“certain significant holders” about a forbearance agreement
and “alternatives,” including a “possible pre-negotiated
reorganization.”  Assuming holders who tendered would be willing to go along
with a similar Chapter 11 reorganization, Loehmann’s could
negotiate a so-called prepackaged plan where acceptances may be
solicited before the bankruptcy filing. The 92.4 percent that
were willing to tender is comfortably in excess of the 67
percent acceptance need for creditor approval of a Chapter 11
plan.  Under the expired exchange offer, the existing notes,
maturing in 2011, could have been exchanged for new notes in the
same amount, maturing in 2014. In the event there were payment
default, Standard & Poor’s said at the time of the exchange
offer that holders of the old notes weren’t likely to recover
more than 10 percent.  The Bronx, New York-based company is owned indirectly by
Istithmar PJSC, an investment firm owned by the government of
Dubai.  Loehmann’s emerged from a 14-month a Chapter 11
reorganization with a confirmed plan in September 2000. At the
time, it was operating 44 stores in 17 states.  Briefly Noted  Accentia Says Judge Confirms Chapter 11 Plan    Accentia Biopharmaceuticals Inc ., majority owner of  Biovest
International Inc ., had its Chapter 11 plan approved at an Oct.
27 confirmation hearing, the company said in a statement. By the
end of the day on Oct. 31, the formal confirmation order wasn’t
on the court’s docket.  The plan allowed stockholders to retain stock, although
diluted by shares issued to secured and unsecured creditors. The
plan reputedly provides full payment for all creditors, with
part of the payment coming from the conversion of debt to stock.
Accentia filed under Chapter 11 in November 2008. Biovest is
working on the commercialization of BiovaxID, a personalized
cancer vaccine for some types of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.  The Accentia and Biovest companies are developing drugs to
treat blood cancers and autoimmune diseases such as multiple
sclerosis.  Accentia listed assets of $134.9 million against debt
totaling $77.6 million.  The case is In re  Accentia Biopharmaceuticals Inc ., 08-
17795, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Tampa).  Madoff Trustee Files Report for Six Months  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Inc. filed a report for the six months ended Sept. 30
showing expenses of $26.9 million and recoveries of $849,000.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., which funds the
liquidation, has said that the expenses of the trustee and his
counsel don’t diminish recoveries by customers.  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with the
appointment of a trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act. Bernard Madoff individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Downgrade  Payday Lender Ace Cash Express Downgraded by S&P  Ace Cash Express Inc., an Irving, Texas-based operator of
check-cashing stores and a maker of short-term loans to people
with poor credit histories, received one-notch downgrades on
Oct. 29 from Standard & Poor’s.  The senior secured credit went to B while the unsecured
notes are now CCC+.  Ace, which makes so-called payday loans, has been hampered
by the weak economy and regulatory tightening on consumer
lenders, S&P said.  In the event of payment default, S&P estimates that holders
of the unsecured notes won’t recover more than 10 percent.  Daily Podcast  Workflow’s Lawyers, 2nd and 3rd Confirmations, A&P: Audio  A bankruptcy halt on foreclosure with deficient
documentation, Workflow Management Inc. denied counsel of
choice,  Movie Gallery Inc . confirms second Chapter 11 plan, Penn
Traffic Co. confirms third Chapter 11 plan, and challenges Great
Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. must surmount to avoid Chapter 11 are
covered in the new bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal
and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Advance Sheets  Threatening Suit Can’t Be Sanctionable Contempt  A threat to file a lawsuit is not basis for finding a
lawyer and client in contempt and assessing sanctions, according
to an Oct. 28 opinion by U.S. District Judge Justin L. Quackenbush from Spokane, Washington.  The dispute arose in the wake of the Chapter 11
reorganization of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Spokane. The
diocese confirmed a reorganization plan in April 2007.  In late 2009, the diocese was in a dispute with the trustee
for a trust created to decide claims and make distributions to
victims of sexual abuse. The lawyer for the diocese wrote an e-
mail to the trustee saying that distributions weren’t proper.  The bankruptcy judge held the lawyer, his firm and the
diocese in contempt and assessed $52,000 in damages. The
bankruptcy judge interpreted the e-mail as threatening to sue
the trustee individually. The bankruptcy judge said that
repeating the threats “at some point” became “intimidation.”
The bankruptcy judge said there was “no legitimate purpose to
be gained from making the statement.”  Quackenbush reversed, finding no contempt. He pointed to
law in the 9th Circuit saying contempt must be based on
violation of a “specific and definite” court order. It was
admitted that the e-mail violated no court order.  Quackenbush said that upholding the contempt finding
“would have a chilling effect on the exchange of communications
concerning legal positions that occur between counsel on an
ongoing basis.” He also said the e-mail wasn’t a threat and
included nothing malicious. The finding by the bankruptcy judge
that the e-mail was willful and made in bad faith weren’t the
basis for a contempt finding, Quackenbush ruled.  The diocese’s plan created a $48 million fund to settle 150
sexual abuse claims. The diocese filed under Chapter 11 in
December 2004.  The opinion is The Catholic Bishop of Spokane, 10-083, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Washington (Spokane). The
Chapter 11 case was In re The Catholic Bishop of Spokane, 04-
08822, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Washington
(Spokane).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 