-- Dubai Stocks Advance on Global Growth Outlook, Oil; Nawras Gains on Debut
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-01T13:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/dubai-stocks-advance-on-global-economic-growth-outlook-oil-nawras-rises.html
Dubai shares climbed to the highest
level in more than six months as Chinese manufacturing growth
boosted confidence in the global economy and oil climbed. In
Oman, shares of Nawras advanced on their first trading day.  Deyaar Development PJSC,  the property company part-owned by
Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC, jumped the most since June.  Dubai
Financial Market,  the only publicly traded Gulf Arab stock
market, advanced 1.2 percent. The  DFM General Index  climbed 1
percent to 1,781.92 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate, the
highest since April 15. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index , which
tracks developing-nation stocks, rose as much as 1.3 percent.  Gains were driven by “positive movements in Asia’s
markets,” said  Sebastien Henin , portfolio manager at  The
National Investor  in Abu Dhabi. “There are no major domestic
catalysts.”  Developing-nation stocks rallied the most in almost three
weeks after China’s logistics federation said the Purchasing
Managers’ Index increased to 54.7. The manufacturing gauge’s
biggest gain in six months added to signs that economic growth
is withstanding government efforts to curb property speculation
and improve energy efficiency. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose
as much as 1 percent.  Oil for December delivery advanced as much as 1.1 percent
to $82.33 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation
Council supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Nawras Debuts  Deyaar surged 8.8 percent to 35.8 fils. Dubai Financial
Market climbed to 1.76 dirhams, the highest since Oct. 28. The
shares are down 38 percent this year.  Omani Qatari Telecommunications Co., the Omani mobile-phone
controlled by  Qatar Telecom QSC , rose 5.4 percent to close at
740 baisas on its first trading day in Muscat. Oman’s  MSM30
Index  slipped 0.2 percent.  The company known as  Nawras , which competes with Oman
Telecommunications Co., the largest phone operator in the
Persian Gulf country, sold shares at the low end of its book-
building range at 702 baisas, raising 182 million rials ($473
million).  Qatar’s  QE Index  fell 0.3 percent and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index  retreated 0.5 percent. Kuwait’s  gauge  increased
0.3 percent and  Bahrain’s  measure lost less than 0.1 percent.
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  gained 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Claudia
Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 