-- Hedge Funds Increase Bullish Bets on Oil to Six-Month High
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-11-01T19:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/hedge-funds-increase-bullish-bets-on-oil-to-six-month-high-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds raised bullish bets on
oil to the highest level in more than six months as supplies of
gasoline fell, French refinery strikes ended and plants in the
U.S. and Europe returned to service.  The funds and other large speculators  increased wagers  on
rising crude prices by 9.3 percent in the seven days ended Oct.
26, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report. It was the highest level
since April 16.  The proportion of U.S. refineries in operation climbed to
the highest level in more than a month as plants returned to
service following seasonal maintenance that has eroded supplies
of gasoline and distillates such as heating oil and diesel. At
the same time, French plants resumed processing following
monthlong protests against plans by President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to
lift the age of retirement and pensions, raising the prospect of
increased demand for crude.  “This time of year, you see crude oil refineries start to
raise production levels following fall maintenance,” said  Tom Pawlicki , an energy analyst with MF Global in Chicago.  The proportion of U.S.  refineries  in operation rose to 83.7
percent in the seven days ended Oct. 22 from 82.5 percent the
previous week, the highest level since September, as plants
finished seasonal maintenance, according to the Energy
Department.  Gasoline supplies  in the U.S. declined 4.39 million barrels
to 214.9 million, the lowest level since November 2009, the
Energy Department reported last week.  Stockpiles of distillates 
fell 1.61 million barrels to 168.4 million, the lowest level
since July.  The protests in France, Europe’s second-largest oil-
processing country after Germany, shut all but two of the
nation’s 11 refineries. Exxon Mobil Corp. said on Oct. 29 it
started pumping crude from the port of Le Havre in northwest
France to the Gravenchon refinery. Protests also ended at Total
SA’s Gonfreville refinery.  The constitutional court is reviewing the French pension
bill. President Sarkozy has said he will sign it.  Citgo Petroleum Corp. said Oct. 28 it returned all units to
service at the refinery in Lemont, Illinois. The plant can
process 170,500 barrels of crude a day. Motiva Enterprises LLC
said it planned to start units at Port Arthur, Texas last week.  Market Direction  Oil for December delivery rose $1.52, or 1.9 percent, to
settle at $82.95 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Futures rose 1.8 percent in October and 11 percent in September.  Crude has traded between $64.24 a barrel and $87.15 a
barrel this year, the narrowest range since 2006, and is up 2.6
percent on the year.  “It’s still very unclear where this market could go,”
said  Jason Schenker , the president of Prestige Economics LLC, an
Austin, Texas-based energy-research firm. “It ran up very
quickly in September, and has been very volatile in a range in
October. The question is how is this going to break out.”  Net-long positions  in oil held by what the CFTC categorizes
as managed money, including hedge funds, commodity pools and
commodity-trading advisers, rose by 15,183 futures and options
combined to 178,824, according to the CFTC report.  Bullish, or long, bets on gasoline prices declined 10
percent to 51,732, the first drop in eight weeks, the data
showed.  Net-long bets  on heating oil fell for a third week,
retreating by 1,609, or 4.1 percent, to 37,284.  Net-long positions in futures and options combined in four
natural-gas  contracts  decreased by  2,133  futures equivalents to
21,381 in the week ended Oct. 26, the CFTC data showed.  The measure of natural-gas net longs includes an index of
four contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural
gas futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub, in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  