-- Japan Protests Medvedev's Trip to Island at Center of Territorial Dispute
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-11-01T11:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/medvedev-arrives-at-kurils-in-first-trip-to-islands-also-claimed-by-japan.html
Japan protested Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev ’s visit to a disputed island chain, at a time
when the Japanese government is locked in a row with China over
a separate territorial claim.  Medvedev today visited Kunashir, one of four islands called
the Southern Kurils in Russia and the Northern Territories in
Japan. During a three-hour trip, the first by a Russian leader
to the islands, he toured a geothermal power plant and a newly
built kindergarten. The island is known as Kunashiri in Japan.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  today in parliament
called Medvedev’s trip “very regrettable.” Foreign Minister
 Seiji Maehara  summoned Russian Ambassador  Mikhail Bely  to
object, the foreign ministry said in a  statement .  The visit “is incompatible with our basic stance and hurts
the feelings of the Japanese people,” Maehara said during a 20-
minute meeting with the Russian envoy, according to the
statement. Bely said Medvedev’s trip, which came as he returned
from a regional summit in Hanoi, was a domestic matter, and that
a worsening of Japan-Russian ties would benefit neither country.  The trip, a deliberate “provocation” toward Japan, aims
to bolster Russia’s prestige at a time when Russian leaders are
taking a more accommodating stance toward the U.S. and Europe,
said  Masha Lipman , an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center.  ‘Improper and Unacceptable’  It could also help reinforce Medvedev’s personal stature as
he seeks to keep himself in the running for the 2012 elections,
which many expect will return Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to
the presidency, Lipman said. Putin, who stepped aside in 2008 to
avoid violating a constitutional ban on three consecutive terms,
remains the main power in Russia, according to Lipman.  The Soviet Union seized the islands six miles (10
kilometers) from Japan’s Hokkaido Island at the end of World War
II, and the dispute over their sovereignty has prevented Russia
and Japan from signing a formal peace treaty.  Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  on Sept. 29
called on Medvedev not to visit the islands, a request Russian
Foreign Ministry spokesman  Andrei Nesterenko  said was “improper
and unacceptable.”  Medvedev, whose trip came two weeks before he visits Japan
to attend the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, said the
Russian government would invest more money in the islands.  “We want people to stay here,” he said in comments
reported by state broadcaster Rossiya 24. “It’s important that
there should be development. We’ll definitely put money here.”  Some 10,000 people live on the disputed islands, about
7,000 of them on Kunashir. The chain also includes the Habomai
islet group, Shikotan and Iturup, known in Japan as Etorofu.  China Dispute  The Russo-Japanese controversy came as Japan is embroiled
in a territorial dispute with China. Tensions between Asia’s two
biggest economies heightened after a Chinese fishing trawler in
September collided with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels near
islands in the East China Sea claimed by both countries.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  refused to have an official
meeting with Kan at the Hanoi summit over the weekend, though
the two met informally for about 10 minutes. Japan’s claims on
the uninhabited islands, violated “China’s sovereignty and
territorial integrity,” Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister Hu
Zhengyue said Oct. 29, according to Xinhua News Agency.  A group of about 30 Japanese lawmakers watched a Coast
Guard video of the collision today for the first time. Kan’s
administration has resisted calls to release the video.  Yasuhisa Shiozaki , a senior member of the main opposition
Liberal Democratic Party who watched the video, said in a
statement that the government “must make it public.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Kunashiri at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net  