-- Medvedev, Putin Punsters, Blue Noses Invade Paris Museums
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-11-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/medvedev-putin-punsters-blue-noses-lead-russian-assault-on-paris-museums.html
The Russians are here!  The  Annee France-Russie , which started in March with
religious art at the  Louvre , has grown into an all-out invasion:
Four Russian exhibitions recently have opened in Paris.  For the vernissage in March, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  came over and bought four French amphibious assault
ships on the side. This time, he met President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
of France and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Deauville to
discuss the idea of a zone of security and economic cooperation
in Europe.  One of the exhibitions almost ended before it opened.  The Louvre had invited 18 Russian artists or artistic
teams, born between 1933 and 1969, when the  Ministry of Culture 
in Moscow intervened and wanted one of the selected works
removed from the list. Out of solidarity with the black sheep,
other participants threatened to boycott the show. The
bureaucrats gave in.  The bone of contention was one of four abstract prints in
the style of  Kasimir Malevich , the pioneer of Suprematism. What
drew the ire of the ministerial watchdogs was Avdei Ter-
Oganyan’s provocative captions. The one in question reads:
“This work is an appeal to assassinate the statesman V.V. Putin
in order to end his political career.”  Blue Noses  Black humor abounds. The Blue Noses Group makes fun of the
sacrosanct Suprematism by turning Malevich’s rectangles and
circles into sheets of plywood in a carpenter’s workshop. Vitali
Komar and Alexander Melamid mock the surveys of market
researchers: Based on a poll of 3,000 people, they come up with
“Russia’s Most Wanted Painting” -- a landscape with a lake, a
forest and Jesus.  “Contrepoint: L’Art Contemporain Russe,” which is
supported by shares in LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, runs
through Jan. 31, 2011. Information:  http://www.louvre.fr  or
+33-1-4020-5317.  Amusing as the glimpse into contemporary Russian art is,
the most important of the four shows is “Lenin, Stalin and
Music” at the  Cite de la Musique .  Some 400 objects -- paintings, prints, photos, films,
manuscripts, maquettes and costumes -- tell the story of music
in the Soviet Union from the October Revolution in 1917 to
 Stalin ’s death in 1953.  The organizers have divided the show into two parts; the
first ends in 1929 when Stalin had defeated his rivals and
became the country’s undisputed master. In fact, 1932 would have
been a more appropriate break: That was the year when Socialist
Realism became the official doctrine.  People’s Commissar  In the preceding 15 years, under the benevolent eye of
Anatoli Lunacharski, the People’s Commissar for Education,
artists still enjoyed considerable liberties. The show includes
mementoes of the premieres of  Dmitri Shostakovich ’s opera “The
Nose” and early ballets whose musical language was far more
advanced than the proletarian simplicity favored by the
hardliners.  This changed in 1932 when all musical activity was brought
under the control of the Communist Party-dominated Composers
Union. Shostakovich became the most prominent victim of the new
policy.  In 1936, after Stalin had seen his opera “Lady Macbeth of
the Mtsensk District” at the  Bolshoi Theater , an editorial in
Pravda, the party’s mouthpiece, attacked the work’s
“deliberately dissonant, confused stream of sounds.” It
vanished from the Soviet scene until after Stalin’s death.  Quiet Flows  The authorities, instead, touted as a model Ivan
Dzerzhinsky’s 1935 opera “Quiet Flows the Don,” an easily
digestible succession of songs, folk dances and rousing
choruses.  An important part of the artists’ duties was the
glorification of the “Father of the Fatherland,” and many, as
the exhibition amply demonstrates, complied.  The Cite de la Musique is at 221 Ave. Jean Jaures. The show
runs through Jan. 16, 2011. Information:
 http://www.citedelamusique.fr  or +33-1-4484-4484.  For more on the other shows, “In the Service of the Tsars:
The Imperial Guard” at the Musee de l’Armee and “Romantic
Russia” at the Musee de la Vie Romantique, go to
 http://www.invalides.org  and  http://www.vie-romantique.paris.fr .  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 