-- Egyptian Pound May Stabilize as Speculators Exit, BNP Paribas Egypt Says
-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2010-11-01T14:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/egyptian-pound-may-stabilize-as-speculators-exit-bnp-paribas-egypt-says.html
The Egyptian pound, trading around a
five-year low against the dollar after foreigners sold local
treasuries, may hold within 1 percent of its current level in
the next six months, according to BNP Paribas Egypt.  “There are no signs of mass Egyptian sales of the pound
which would have a significant impact on the exchange rate,”
Shahinaz Foda, head of treasury, fixed income and wealth
management at BNP Paribas Egypt, said by telephone. The central
bank may have supported the weakening of the pound, but further
devaluation would not support its goal of keeping inflation low,
she said.  The pound has weakened 1.3 percent against the dollar since
Oct. 15, crossing the 5.7755 level on Oct. 27 for the first time
since August 2005 according to Bloomberg data. The currency was
unchanged at 5.7758 pounds in Cairo today. Foreign investors may
have sold about $700 million worth of local-currency treasury
bills during the week of Oct. 18, EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said in
an Oct. 26 report, raising the demand for the dollar and
weakening the pound.  The central bank “supported such weakening mainly to
discourage further portfolio inflows,” betting on the
appreciation of the pound,  Mohamed Abu Basha , an economist at
Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes said in the report. The
central bank is known to be closely managing the pound, BNP’s
Foda said.  The central bank didn’t intervene in the market, Deputy
Governor  Hisham Ramez  said by telephone Oct. 26.  The annual inflation rate in the North African country
remained steady at 11 percent in September, indicating the
central bank may keep its benchmark interest rate at a four-year
low. Egypt’s economy expanded an annual 5.6 percent in the
third-quarter led by tourism, manufacturing and construction,
according to cabinet spokesman  Magdy Rady .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 