-- Emirates First-Half Profit Quadruples on Traffic Gain
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-11-01T07:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/emirates-first-half-profit-surges-as-passenger-traffic-cargo-volumes-jump.html
Emirates, the world’s biggest airline
by international traffic, posted a more than fourfold rise in
first-half profit on higher passenger numbers and cargo traffic.  Net income in the six months to Sept. 31 advanced to 3.4
billion dirhams ($925.7 million) from 752 million dirhams a year
earlier, the government-owned carrier said in an  e-mailed
statement  today. Revenue rose 35 percent to 26.4 billion
dirhams, while the number of passengers increased 17 percent to
15.5 million. Passenger seat factor for the period was 81
percent, the highest ever for a six-month reporting period.  “We continue to invest our profits in growing the business
and our healthy financial position enables us to successfully
meet all of our financial commitments and raise financing for
future aircraft deliveries,” Emirates Chairman  Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  al-Maktoum said in the statement. “With 62 new state-of-
the-art aircraft ordered in the first half, we remain well
positioned to capitalize this growth.”  Emirates was  ranked  24th by traffic among international
airlines as recently as 2000, putting it on a par with Sabena
SA, the Belgian carrier that folded a year later.  In the intervening period Emirates has increased its
traffic sixfold, overtaking Lufthansa last year to become the
biggest carrier on international flights, according to the
 International Air Transport Association , which counts Air France
and KLM as two airlines.  Revenue from cargo traffic rose 48 percent to 4.4 billion
dirhams, contributing about 18 percent of the airline’s
transport revenue, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net . 