-- Ten Network Offers Board Seats to Packer, Murdoch After Stake Purchase
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-01T06:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/ten-network-offers-board-seats-to-packer-murdoch-after-stake-purchase.html
Ten Network Holdings Ltd.  offered
 James Packer  and  Lachlan Murdoch  a board seat each less than two
weeks after Packer’s Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd. acquired
18 percent of Australia’s third-ranked television broadcaster.  “The company has offered Packer and Murdoch the
opportunity to take up two directorships on the Ten Holdings
board, which it considers to be appropriate representation for
this shareholding,” the Sydney-based broadcaster said in a
statement today. “If this offer is taken up, the Ten Holdings
board will comprise 10 directors.”  Billionaire Packer has spent about A$280 million ($277
million) acquiring Ten  shares  in his first move into free-to-air
TV since relinquishing control of the rival Nine network in 2008.
Murdoch, 39, son of News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , is
negotiating to acquire half of Packer’s stake in Ten, the
Australian newspaper reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the situation.  Packer, 43, also owns 49 percent of  Consolidated Media
Holdings Ltd. , which in turn has 25 percent of Foxtel,
Australia’s largest pay-TV operator.  The offer of board seats comes less than three years after
Packer and Murdoch scrapped a A$3.2 billion bid for Consolidated.  Ten  gained 1.4 percent to A$1.46 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trading in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.8
percent.  ‘New Chairman’  Executive Chairman  Nick Falloon ’s position will be changed
to a non-executive role as part of the plan to restructure the
board, Ten said in the statement. The board would “be prepared
to discuss the implementation of this transition in an orderly
manner and at a time to be agreed. Board consideration of the
appointment of a new Chairman would follow at that time.”  In 2006, Packer agreed to sell half the holdings in Nine
network and Australia’s largest magazine publisher to the  PBL
Media  venture with buyout firm CVC Asia Pacific Ltd. to raise
A$4.5 billion.  A year later, Packer’s  Consolidated Media  sold a further 25
percent for A$515 million before the remaining holding in PBL
Media was diluted to less than 1 percent in 2008 when it didn’t
provide more funding to the business.  Packer also owns 43 percent of  Crown Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest casino operator.  While Ten’s total viewership trails Seven Group Holdings
Ltd.’s Seven network and PBL’s Nine, it’s the most-watched
channel by viewers in the 16-to 39-year-old demographic with
programs such as MasterChef Australia, the Simpsons and the
Australian drama series Neighbours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Sydney 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  