-- Encana Bonds Plunge on Natural Gas Price, Hedging Contracts: Canada Credit
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-11-01T17:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/encana-bonds-plunge-on-natural-gas-price-hedging-contracts-canada-credit.html
Encana Corp. ’s long-term bonds
tumbled last month while those of energy industry competitors
gained as investors bet natural gas prices will remain depressed
and the Canadian company scales back its hedging program.  Encana’s 6.5 percent U.S. dollar-denominated notes maturing
in February 2038 lost 2.6 percent of their value in October,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The securities had
soared 10 percent this year to Oct. 6, reaching the highest
level since they were issued in 2008.  Calgary-based Encana is the only large Canadian energy
producer that’s almost exclusively dependent on natural gas,
which makes up about 96 percent of output. Natural gas futures
plunged about 28 percent in the first 10 months of 2010 as
supply increased.  Philip Adams , a debt analyst at New York-based
Gimme Credit LLC, cut his rating on Canada’s largest gas
producer to “underperform” from “outperform” on Oct. 26.  “Encana’s bonds have had a nice run until recently but
it’s hard to see a catalyst out there to extend this run,”
Adams said in a telephone interview from Chicago. “Things are
just not rosy. We think natural gas prices are going to remain
very low.”  The company’s focus on gas stems from the November 2009
spinoff of its oil-production and refining units into a new
company called  Cenovus Energy Inc.   Nexen, Talisman  While Encana debt fell last month, comparable bonds of
Nexen Inc. and  Talisman Energy Inc.  -- two Canadian energy
companies that derive a larger proportion of revenue from oil --
rose. Nexen’s 6.4 percent bond due in 2037 climbed 0.9 percent,
while Talisman’s 6.25 percent bond maturing in 2038 rose 0.4
percent. Gas represents about 17 percent of Nexen’s total
output, and about 50 percent for Talisman.  Elsewhere in Canada’s credit markets, the extra yield
investors demand to hold corporate bonds instead of federal
government securities shrank last month, trailing gains in the
global market for company debt. Spreads on provincial bonds
narrowed in October by the most since September 2009, while
government bonds failed to rally for the first time since March.  Yield spreads on Canada’s company debt closed Oct. 29 at an
average of 142 basis points, or 1.42 percentage points, down
from 145 at the end of September, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Global corporate bond spreads narrowed 9
basis points to 164.  Corporate Yields  Canadian corporate yields ended Oct. 29 at 3.62 percent,
from 3.66 percent at the end of September, according to the
Merrill index, which holds more than 700 bonds with a par value
of C$278 billion. The index advanced 0.3 percent in October,
bringing the year-to-date gain to 7.54 percent.  Spreads on provincial bonds narrowed 5 basis points to 53,
the biggest monthly decline since shrinking 7 to 45 in September
2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The
securities gained 0.52 percent in October, boosting returns in
2010 to 7.85 percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year note’s  yield  climbed 2 basis
points to 2.83 percent, after rising 5 basis points last month.
The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing June 2020 fell 19
cents today to C$105.61. Canada’s government bonds lost 0.03
percent last month, the worst performance since losing 0.83
percent in March. Government bonds worldwide fell 0.39 percent,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Government Debt  Canadian 10-year bonds  yield  20 basis points more than
their U.S. counterparts, compared with 25 basis points at the
end of September. Statistics Canada said Oct. 29 that gross
domestic product grew 0.3 percent in August after shrinking 0.1
percent the month before.  Canada will sell C$3.5 billion of five-year bonds at
auction on Nov. 3, the central bank  said on its website . The
bonds will mature in June 2016. The previous auction of five-
year bonds on Aug. 18 drew an average yield of 2.26 percent with
a bid to cover ratio of 2.25 times.  The Canadian government is to decide by Nov. 3 whether to
approve BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion offer for  Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc. , the world’s largest potash maker. Canadian
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said Oct. 28 his government would
rule “without bias” on the proposed takeover.  Gas Hedging  U.S. dollar bonds of Encana included in Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Integrated Energy and E&P Index dropped 0.85 percent last
month while the index was little changed. Some of the company’s
bonds are also included in Merrill’s Global Corporates Energy
Index, which dropped 0.16 percent in October. The Encana bonds
in that index fell 0.68 percent on average.  Credit-default swaps tied to Encana bonds were the fifth-
biggest gainers in Canada last week, Bloomberg data show. The
contracts typically fall as investor confidence improves and
rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  Encana typically uses hedging contracts to lock in part of
its gas production at prices that are higher than the spot
market. The company has 45 percent of its remaining gas output
for 2010 hedged, equivalent to 1.5 billion cubic feet per day,
Chief Executive Officer  Randall Eresman  said Oct. 20. Hedged
production will drop to 1.2 billion cubic feet next year and 1
billion cubic feet in 2012, he said.  ‘Tapering Off’  North American gas producers hedge an average of 25 percent
to 35 percent of their future output,  Esther Mui , a senior vice
president at credit rating firm DBRS Ltd. in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview.  Encana pre-sold its 2011 hedged production at $6.33 per
thousand cubic feet, the company said Oct. 20. That’s about 31
percent less than the average hedging price of $9.15 for the gas
season that ended in October 2009.  “Hedging has helped them make a lot of money, but the
hedge position is tapering off,”  Roshan Thiru , an analyst at
Manulife Financial Corp.’s MFC Global Asset Management unit in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “In the future they are
not going to be able to hedge at the prices they hedged at two
years ago.”  Encana has cut back on hedging because gas supplies for
later delivery are more expensive than in the short term, a
market condition known as contango.  “Natural gas prices are lower than we had originally
forecast and the flattening of the forward curve hindered our
ability to hedge as much as we normally would,” Eresman said.  Budget Cuts  Encana trimmed capital spending for 2010 and cut its
production outlook because of what it called “unsustainably
low” gas prices. The company will defer about $200 million of
its proposed $5 billion in spending until next year. Gas
production, previously forecast to rise 15 percent from 2009,
will now increase about 12 percent.  Bond-rating firms would consider cutting  Encana ’s ranking
if gas prices dropped further and the company failed to boost
production as planned, said Thiru, adding he wouldn’t expect any
downgrade for at least a year. Moody’s Investors Service rates
Encana debt Baa2, while Standard & Poor’s has a BBB+ rating,
after a downgrade last year.  After Encana disclosed it held about $1.4 billion in cash
as of Sept. 30, executives may face pressure from some
shareholders to use part of the money to buy back stock or
increase the  dividend , Adams at Gimme Credit said. Such moves
would likely make the company less attractive to bondholders, he
said.  Carol Howes , a spokeswoman for Encana, declined to comment
on the likelihood of a share buyback or a dividend increase.  “The specter of how to keep the shareholders happy is
there,” Adams said. “They have to be prudent and manage the
balance sheet, but you wonder about stock buybacks.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  