-- Enel May Sell Assets After Green Power Offering Falls Short, Kepler Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-11-01T15:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/enel-may-sell-assets-after-green-power-offering-falls-short-kepler-says.html
Enel SpA  may sell more assets after
raising less than expected in the initial public offering of its
renewable energy unit Enel Green Power, Kepler Capital Markets
said in a report.  The sale was “below the original targets assumed for
delivering on the debt reduction objectives,”  Roberto Mascarello , head of Italian equity research at Kepler, said
today in the note. “We expect Enel to deal with this ‘gap’ with
additional minor asset disposals and capex prioritization.”  Enel said on Oct. 30 it raised about 2.26 billion euros
($3.1 billion) from the share sale after cutting the minimum
price. Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  had said he was
seeking at least 3 billion euros to cut the Rome-based company’s
debt to 45 billion euros this year from about 51.5 billion
euros.  Italy’s biggest utility is also selling Spanish gas-
distribution assets and a coal-fired power plant in Bulgaria.
The Green Power IPO was supposed to complete the disposals.  The company may also get an additional 336 million euros
for its debt reduction if the offering’s global coordinators
exercise a so-called green-shoe option.  “Considering market conditions and the group’s successful
delivery of its 2010 asset disposal plan,” a difference of
about 500 million euros for the debt at year end won’t
“represent an issue,” Equita Sim SpA, a Milan-based broker,
also said in a report today.  Enel shares fell 0.3 percent to 4.09 euros as of 4 p.m. in
Milan. Kepler has a “reduce” rating on the shares while Equita
has a “buy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 