-- Enron's Skilling Seeks Retrial; U.S. Asks to Uphold Verdicts
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-11-01T20:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/enron-s-skilling-asks-appeals-court-for-retrial-u-s-wants-verdict-upheld.html
Jeffrey Skilling , the former Enron
Corp. chief executive officer convicted of leading a fraud that
destroyed the world’s largest energy trader, is seeking a new
trial over government objections.  A three-judge panel of the New Orleans appellate court is
reviewing verdicts today against Skilling after the U.S. Supreme
Court determined in June that prosecutors used an invalid legal
theory to convict him.  Skilling is serving a 24-year sentence in a Colorado
federal prison after he and former Enron Chairman  Kenneth Lay 
were found guilty of deceiving investors about the company’s
true financial condition.  “The court doesn’t act as a 13th juror” to decide
Skilling’s guilt or innocence, his lead lawyer  Daniel Petrocelli 
told the panel. “If the trial record contains evidence on which
a rationale juror could’ve acquitted, that count must be
reversed. Here, the record is filled with acquittal evidence.”  Prosecutors, who obtained 19 verdicts against Skilling at a
2006 jury trial in Houston federal court, told the appellate
court that jurors likely convicted Skilling under an alternate
legal theory presented during the trial.  “Skilling and his co-conspirators engaged in a conspiracy
to manipulate Enron’s earnings to satisfy Wall Street’s
expectations,”  Paul Pelletier , Principal Deputy Chief of the
Justice Department’s criminal fraud section, said in court
papers. “No rational jury could have failed to find that
Skilling conspired to commit securities fraud.”  Widespread Fraud  Justice Department lawyer Douglas Wilson described the case
to the panel today as “a single conspiracy that incorporates
securities fraud and incidentally honest services fraud.”  U.S. Circuit Judge Jerry Smith replied, “It seems to me
you’re stretching when you used the word incidentally to
describe honest services” role in the case.  “It was a scheme to deprive Enron investors of information
they needed to know.” Wilson replied. “That is securities
fraud.”  Skilling’s wife, brother, sister, daughter and former
secretary attended today’s arguments, as did many of the FBI
agents who led the Enron investigation.  After the session,
Petrocelli told reporters Skilling was “very anxious” for a
ruling, which the lawyer said could be “weeks or months” in
coming. He said the jailed executive had been “very involved”
in crafting his appeal.  Legal Test  Petrocelli said he believes the panel’s questions helped
delineate the legal test at stake in Skilling’s case.  “There was a very serious error, and the government has a
very high burden” to prevent Skilling’s verdicts from being
scrapped, he said. “We are entitled to reversal of all
counts.”  Wilson declined comment and left without speaking to
reporters.  More than 5,000 jobs and $1 billion in employee retirement
funds were wiped out when Enron plunged into bankruptcy in
December 2001 after widespread accounting fraud was uncovered.
Investors sued to recover more than $60 billion in market
losses.  Skilling and Lay were convicted of using off-balance sheet
entities to hide billions in debt and losses, which prosecutors
claimed allowed Enron to report falsely inflated earnings. Lay
died before he had a chance to appeal, and his conviction was
erased.  Vicariously Responsible  Skilling’s lawyers have argued that he didn’t commit any
crimes and relied upon the advice of his accountants and
lawyers, who approved Enron’s accounting and shareholder
disclosures. The lawyers claim prosecutors used “honest
services fraud” to criminalize aggressive business practices,
and allow jurors to convict Skilling for crimes committed by
alleged co-conspirators, many who testified against him under
plea agreements.  “Mr. Skilling is being held vicariously responsible for
the acts of others,” Petrocelli said.  Wilson disagreed. “The evidence is that Skilling committed
these crimes himself,” the prosecutor told the judges.  After Skilling’s trial, the Fifth Circuit declared the so-
called “honest services fraud” theory legally invalid in an
appeal by four Merrill Lynch & Co. bankers, who were convicted
in a related Enron case. The appellate court said the bankers
didn’t deprive Enron of their honest services because they’d
acted in Enron’s best interest and didn’t personally profit.  Skilling’s Favor  The Supreme Court this year ruled in Skilling’s favor,
finding that “honest services theft” only applies to instances
of bribery or kickbacks, which weren’t at issue in Enron. The
high court ordered the lower appellate court to review
Skilling’s convictions in light of this finding.  While the Fifth Circuit appellate court originally upheld
Skilling’s verdicts in 2009, U.S. Circuit Judge  Patrick Higginbotham  said prosecutors’ use of the “honest services
fraud” theory created “serious frailties” in 14 verdicts
against him.  These included his convictions for conspiracy, securities
fraud and insider trading. Skilling’s convictions on five counts
of lying to auditors were not affected, Higginbotham said in a
December 2006 opinion denying the former executive bail during
his appeal. Skilling’s lawyers claim those counts are also
tainted by the invalid theory and must also be retried.  The case is U.S. v. Skilling, 06-20885, U.S. District
Court, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  