-- Terex Sues Bucyrus Over Final Changes to $1.3 Billion Mining Sale Terms
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-01T18:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/terex-sues-bucyrus-over-final-changes-to-1-3-billion-mining-sale-terms.html
Terex Corp. , a U.S. heavy equipment
manufacturer, accused  Bucyrus International Inc.  in a lawsuit of
abusing post-closing adjustments to cut the $1.3 billion
purchase price of a Terex mining business.  Terex  sold  the mining business to South Milwaukee,
Wisconsin-based Bucyrus in February in exchange for $1 billion
in cash and 5.8 million shares of stock.  The companies agreed to allow for post-closing adjustments
to recognize any changes in the net capital of the mining
business during the two months between the signing and closing
of the contract, according to Terex’s complaint filed Oct. 29 in
New York state court in Manhattan.  Bucyrus , a manufacturer of surface mining machinery, is
abusing those adjustments “to launch an unsubstantiated
wholesale challenge” to pre-closing accounting by the mining
business and to argue for a $150 million reduction in the net
asset value of the former Terex unit, according to the
complaint.  Nothing in the terms of the parties’ asset purchase
agreement allows Bucyrus to audit the base net asset value of
the  Terex  business it bought so that it can re-adjust the
purchase price, the crane-maker said in its complaint.  A spokeswoman for Bucyrus, Amy Malingowski, declined to
comment today.  Turn Over Books  Terex, a Westport, Connecticut-based maker of industrial
earth-moving and heavy-lifting equipment, claims  Bucyrus  is
breaching their contract. It’s seeking a court order for Bucyrus
to turn over books and records to Terex, to honor its contract
and to pay unspecified money damages.  The lawsuit was filed after two analysts’ favorable reports
on Bucyrus’s integration of its Terex mining acquisition and a
Terex analyst’s published opinion that, while the company’s
crane business is lagging, its aerial work platform unit is
growing.  Mining business orders increased to $449 million in the
second quarter, compared with $312 million one year ago, said
 Robert Wertheimer , a Morgan Stanley analyst, said in an Oct. 21
report.  Meredith Taylor , a Barclays Capital Inc. analyst, called
Terex platform work “a bright spot” in an Oct. 22 report.  The case is Terex Corp. v. Bucyrus International Inc.,
651889-2010, in the New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 