-- MetLife's Henrikson Delivers on Buyout Vow After Thiam Falters
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-11-01T20:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/metlife-s-henrikson-delivers-on-buyout-vow-after-thiam-falters.html
MetLife Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Henrikson , who vowed not to waste the financial crisis,
succeeded where  Prudential Plc  failed as he acquired a non-U.S.
life unit of  American International Group Inc.   Henrikson, 63, paid $16.2 billion for AIG’s American Life
Insurance Co., adding business from Chile to Russia to Japan.
The deal’s completion comes five months after investors forced
 Tidjane Thiam , CEO of Prudential, to abandon a $35.5 billion
deal for AIG’s main Asia unit,  AIA Group Ltd.   MetLife will cut jobs and increase advertising spending to
bolster Alico, which AIG was forced to divest to help repay a
bailout. New York-based MetLife considered the purchase for more
than a year before making the deal in March. During that time,
company executives spoke about the search for an acquisition,
and Henrikson publicly identified Alico as a possibility.  “It’s just managing expectations,” said  Wayne Dalton ,
senior life insurance analyst at SNL Financial in
Charlottesville, Virginia. “They were pretty open about why
they wanted to go for the business and what the business offered
them.”  The purchase gives MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer,
more customers outside its home market, which Henrikson
described in March as “relatively slow-growth.” Alico brings
MetLife’s base of customers to about 90 million and expands the
firm’s presence to more than 60 countries from 17,  MetLife said .  MetLife slipped 37 cents to $39.96 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. AIG fell 9 cents to $41.92.  Agreement Derailed  Thiam’s deal for AIA, announced on March 1, was derailed by
regulators and shareholders. Investors said the transaction was
too costly. The U.K. regulator forced the company to delay a
planned rights offer in May and asked it to hold more capital in
reserve. Thiam apologized on June 4 as Prudential said the
deal’s collapse would cost 450 million pounds ($723 million).  After the Prudential agreement was terminated, AIG sold
about a 67 percent stake in AIA in a $20.5  billion public
offering . AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, has disclosed
agreements to divest assets for more than $50 billion since the
2008 U.S. rescue.  AIG’s planned sale of its Taiwan life insurance unit also
failed this year. The country’s regulator blocked a $2.15
billion deal with  China Strategic Holdings Ltd.  and Primus
Financial Holdings Ltd. AIG said in September it was considering
its options for the subsidiary, Nan Shan Life Insurance Co.  Prudential plummeted 12 percent in London trading on the
day it announced the bid for AIA. MetLife rose 5.1 percent on
the New York Stock Exchange on March 8, the day it announced its
deal for Alico.  ‘A Long Time’  MetLife had been “looking at this deal for a long time,”
Chief Financial Officer  William Wheeler  said of Alico in a March
interview. “Strategically, we’ve talked about it. Rob Henrikson
said it’s a unique and compelling deal. It really is.”  MetLife paid $7.2 billion in cash and $9 billion in
securities including common stock, convertible preferred shares
and equity units. AIG will sell the securities subject to market
conditions, “following the lapse of agreed-upon minimum holding
periods,” the company said.  Henrikson negotiated an escrow account of about $3 billion
as part of the Alico deal that will indemnify MetLife from
potential costs at the unit. MetLife can recover some funds if
Alico’s Japanese commercial real estate holdings decline and
there are legal claims and regulatory fines tied to European
funds in which client withdrawals were suspended.  Stock, Bond Sales  Alico had its outlook raised to positive from negative by
Standard & Poor’s after the completion of the deal, the ratings
firm said in a statement.  MetLife, which didn’t take U.S. rescue funds, raised $3.62
billion in a  stock sale  in August to help pay for the purchase.
The company also sold $3 billion of senior notes. Alico will
increase 2011 earnings by 40 cents to 45 cents, MetLife said in
August. The insurer will probably earn $5.07 a share next year,
according to the average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “It’s been difficult to make a lot of money as a U.S.
insurer,” said Jack Gibson, leader of life-insurance consulting
at  Towers Watson . “For those companies that have the
infrastructure to succeed internationally it just opens up a
whole other set of options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  