-- EU Courts ‘Dangerous’ Stance on Belarus Election, Sannikov Says
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2010-11-01T12:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/eu-courts-dangerous-stance-on-belarus-election-opposition-leader-says.html
The European Union needs to take a
harder line with Belarus President  Alexander Lukashenko  ahead of
elections next month that are certain to be “a fraud,” said a
pro-EU and free markets opposition presidential candidate.  Lukashenko, 56, is vulnerable before the Dec. 19 vote
because of the economic crisis “to which he has no answer” and
the fact Russia’s leaders no longer back him, Andrei Sannikov
said in an interview in Berlin. Yet while Russia has shifted its
stance, some in Europe are now courting the president, he said.  “Europe should proceed from the view that Lukashenko is
the last dictatorship in Europe and nothing will change until he
goes,” Sannikov said on Oct. 27. Those politicians in the 27-
nation EU who think they can “Europeanize” Lukashenko are
pushing an “extremely stupid and extremely dangerous” policy.  Belarus , an ex-Soviet republic of 10 million that produces
potash and tractors and borders Russia and three EU states, has
been criticized by international observers for holding flawed
elections since 1996. Lukashenko was first elected in 1994.  The U.S. Treasury Department froze the assets of three
subsidiaries of a state-run Belarusian oil company in 2008. The
EU meanwhile extended the suspension of a travel ban aimed at
Lukashenko and top members of his government last month, arguing
that a policy of engaging Lukashenko is leading to limited
human-rights improvements in Belarus.  Rather than backsliding, the EU needs to adopt “a more
serious attitude” toward Belarus that closely links political,
trade relations and credits to human rights and democracy,
Sannikov said, citing the U.S. stance.  Rigged Vote  Sannikov, 56, a former deputy foreign minister of Belarus
who resigned his post in 1996 and has been touring the country
to gather support for his presidential bid, said that next
month’s election will also be flawed. One of about 12
candidates, Sannikov said the electoral process means the vote
is rigged from the outset. He is still campaigning to win.  “Everybody in Belarus -- not only the opposition but
ordinary people -- understand that votes are not counted,”
Sannikov said, speaking fluent English. He said his goal is to
document the nation’s flawed democracy to bring out opposition
demonstrators. “People will be ready, more ready than in 2006,
to go to the streets and protest the election results.”  The previous presidential election in 2006 saw mass
protests that were quashed by the authorities. Sannikov said he
has been beaten, jailed and had his computers, disks and memory
sticks seized by the authorities since he resigned. Asked if he
fears for his life, he said: “It’s a possibility; you have to
think about it.”  Russian Relations Sour  Russia has recently shown signs of losing patience with
Lukashenko’s government, threatening to reduce oil and gas
subsidies to Belarus. For years Belarus got Russian oil at a 36
percent discount to Russia’s export duties, a gap Belarus
exploited by selling oil at higher rates to Western Europe. The
subsidy is worth $4.8 billion this year, Russian Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin has said . Sannikov said Russia’s total subsidies
to Belarus have been worth over $50 billion.  Earlier this year, Belarus ended what OAO Gazprom, Russia’s
gas export monopoly, termed a “gas war” with Russia after
debts were paid amid threats by Lukashenko to halt Russian oil
and gas shipments to Europe.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said on Oct. 3 that
Lukashenko is targeting Russia as an “external enemy” in his
election campaign and that “anti-Russian rhetoric” and
“accusations and invective” are going “beyond not just the
rules of diplomacy but also of basic human decency.”  ‘Russia’s Enemy’  Russia has changed its approach to Lukashenko, yet Europe
has failed to do so, Sannikov said.  “Lukashenko is trying to sell his newly acquired status as
Russia’s enemy to Europe and not without success, I regret to
say,” Sannikov said. “There are some European politicians in
Europe that are thinking of helping Lukashenko because he’s
becoming anti-Russian.” Sannikov declined to name them.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  last November
became the first Western European leader to pay an official
visit to Belarus since Lukashenko’s election. Germany’s vice
chancellor and foreign minister,  Guido Westerwelle , and Polish
Foreign Minister  Radoslaw Sikorski  are due in Minsk tomorrow to
hold talks with their Belarusian counterpart.  “Europe has tried every kind of approach toward
Lukashenko: carrots, sticks, promises, conditions, removal of
conditions, dialogue, appeasement, strong language, soft
language,” said Sannikov. “You cannot change Lukashenko; he’s
about power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leon Mangasarian  in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 