-- Exco Resources Bonds Tumble Most Since Issuance After CEO Proposes Buyout
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-11-01T16:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/exco-resources-bonds-tumble-most-since-issuance-after-ceo-proposes-buyout.html
Exco Resources Inc. ’s bonds declined
to the lowest since they were issued in September after the oil
and natural gas producer said today its chief executive officer
offered to take the company private.  Exco’s $750 million of 7.5 percent notes due in September
2018 fell as much as 6.7 cents to 92 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The Dallas-based
company’s debt traded at 95.4 cents on the dollar at 12:12 p.m.
in New York, Trace data show.  CEO  Douglas H. Miller  is offering to pay $20.50 a share in
cash for all of Exco’s stock that he doesn’t already own and may
use debt financing to take the company private in a $4.36
billion transaction. While the company’s notes include a
provision that allows bondholders to force Exco to redeem them
at 101 cents on the dollar in the event of a takeover, the
clause won’t apply if the company is acquired by a group led by
Miller, according to Covenant Review LLC, a research firm that
analyzes creditor protections.  “If they do this with a lot of leverage, then not having
the downside protection of the put becomes a bigger problem,”
said  Holt Goddard , an analyst at Covenant Review in New York.  Dallas billionaire T.  Boone Pickens , Oaktree Capital
Management LP and Ares Management LLC, three of Exco’s four
largest shareholders with a combined 27.4 percent stake as of
June 30, are interested in joining Miller’s bid, he said in a
letter released today by the company.  Miller said he plans to reinvest a “significant portion”
of his stake in the company to finance the acquisition.  “The remaining funds necessary to consummate the
transaction would come from senior management, outside
investment partners and, as needed, third party debt
financing,” Miller wrote in the letter.  Stephen Smith , a spokesman for Exco, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 