-- Exco CEO Proposes $4.36 Billion Buyout of Company
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-01T20:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/exco-chief-offers-to-buy-rest-of-shares-valuing-company-at-4-36-billion.html
Exco Resources Inc. ’s chief executive
officer offered to buy all shares he doesn’t already own in a
purchase that values the company at about $4.36 billion. Its
shares rose the most since Exco went public in 2006.  CEO  Douglas H. Miller  said Dallas billionaire T.  Boone Pickens , Oaktree Capital Management LP and Ares Management LLC,
three of the four largest shareholders in Exco, are interested
in joining him, according to a letter released today by the
Dallas-based company. Miller is offering to pay $20.50 a share
in cash, a 38 percent premium over the closing price on Oct. 29.  Buyers are betting that natural gas, which comprises about
93 percent of Exco’s output, will rebound after falling to a 13-
month low on Oct. 27, said  Raymond Deacon , a Warren, Rhode
Island-based analyst for Pritchard Capital Partners. Gas futures
prices rose 30 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $4.081 per million
British thermal units at 9:06 a.m. on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.  “It’s probably a good time to do this,” said Deacon, who
rates the shares a buy, owns none, and estimates they’re worth
$29 based on the value of Exco’s assets. Gas producers in North
America need $5.60 fuel prices to get an economic return and the
stock market isn’t “willing to look that far forward,” he
said.  Exco  rose  $4.47, or 30 percent, to $19.30 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Miller, Oaktree, Ares
and Pickens owned 30 percent of the company as of June 30,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Other senior managers
may participate in the offer, Miller wrote.  Going Private  Another oil and gas producer, Fort Worth, Texas-based
Quicksilver Resources Inc., said last week it has entered a
confidentiality agreement with members of the Darden family, one
of its largest shareholders, regarding a potential offer to go
private.  Exco’s bonds fell to the lowest since they were issued in
September. The company’s $750 million of 7.5 percent notes due
in September 2018 fell 5.2 cents to 93.5 cents on the dollar, as
of 8:55 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Exco’s reserves may rise more than fourfold to 5 trillion
cubic feet of gas within three years, Deacon said. The company
has 1.2 billion cubic feet of proved reserves, according to a
Sept. 15  investor presentation .  BG Joint Ventures  The company has joint development ventures with BG Group
Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and natural-gas company, in
the Haynesville shale area of northwestern Louisiana and
northeast Texas, and in the Marcellus Shale, centered in
Pennsylvania.  Exco netted $1.8 billion in cash by selling the half stakes
to BG Group this year and last, and has slashed debt by more
than half since the end of 2008.  Miller said he would remain chief executive officer and
senior management would remain. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. are advising Miller, the company said.  Exco’s board said it would form a special committee to
consider the offer. Exco is scheduled to release third-quarter
results tomorrow. Second-quarter daily  production  averaged 1,870
barrels of oil and 283.8 million cubic feet of natural gas per
day, mostly from the Haynesville Shale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 