-- Exxon, Shell, Oxy Said to Be Shortlisted for Abu Dhabi Shah Gas
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-11-01T16:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/exxon-shell-oxy-said-to-be-shortlisted-for-abu-dhabi-shah-gas-contract.html
Abu Dhabi shortlisted  Exxon Mobil
Corp. ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and  Occidental Petroleum Corp.  as
potential partners to develop the $10 billion Shah natural-gas
project, two people familiar with the plan said.  Abu Dhabi Gas Development Co., owned by Abu Dhabi National
Oil Co., known also as Adnoc, is pressing ahead with Shah after
the original foreign partner, ConocoPhillips, withdrew from the
project in April. The people declined to be identified by name
because the decision hasn’t been publicly announced.  The shortlist comes at a time when international companies
have limited opportunities to invest in gas projects in a region
dominated by state-owned counterparts. By winning the Shah
contract, Exxon Mobil, Shell or Occidental would strengthen
their presence in the United Arab Emirates, the third-biggest
oil producer in OPEC and holder of the fourth-largest gas
reserves in the Middle East.  For the sheikhdom of Abu Dhabi, the selection of three
candidate partners marks a step toward the emirate’s goal of
producing sour, or high-sulfur, gas from Shah as fuel for power
plants facing surging demand for electricity.  “This is an extremely vital project to be developed for
Abu Dhabi’s future that’s specifically to do with gas demand for
the power sector,” said Thaddeus Malesa, an analyst in Dubai
with PFC Energy, a consulting firm based in Washington.  Supply Gap  The U.A.E. now imports gas from neighboring Qatar, and it
wants to develop nuclear power to help meet local electricity
demand, which is expected to double by 2020, according to
government studies. Construction of the first nuclear plants
won’t begin until 2017, creating a gap in the supply of fuel for
the emirate’s power stations that officials hope to fill partly
with gas from Shah.  By producing gas locally, Abu Dhabi hopes to save on
imported fuel and avoid the more expensive stop-gap solution of
burning crude in its power stations, as Saudi Arabia does,
Malesa said.  Shah poses a technical challenge because toxic hydrogen
sulfide must be separated from the raw gas. The sulfur must then
be converted into a solid and transported 250 kilometers (155
miles) to be loaded on ships and exported.  Shell’s Abu Dhabi country chief, John Barry, declined to
comment yesterday when asked whether the Anglo-Dutch oil company
was on the Shah gas shortlist. Hatem Shaker, an Abu Dhabi-based
vice president of public and government affairs for Irving,
Texas-based Exxon Mobil, declined to comment.  ConocoPhillips Withdrew  An Occidental public relations official in Abu Dhabi and
spokesman  Richard Kline  at the company’s Los Angeles
headquarters also declined to comment.  Abu Dhabi originally chose  ConocoPhillips  for the project
in July 2008, after considering competing bids from Shell and
Exxon Mobil, among others. ConocoPhillips withdrew after
announcing last October that it planned to divest from some
assets and intensify its focus on exploring for oil and gas.  Shell has already studied some of the deposits at Shah and
is the most knowledgeable of the three shortlisted companies
about the geology there, Malesa said. He added that Shell would
probably be Abu Dhabi’s “favorite” as a partner.  “That’s who they want to work with on Shah,” he said.
“But I think Shell are worried about what kind of returns
they’ll get on the project.”  Bridging Fuel  Shell’s Middle East Vice President for new business  Mounir Bouaziz  said today in Abu Dhabi that his company had the
necessary technology to produce what he called contaminated gas.  “Gas is a key bridging fuel for alleviating some of the
power crises we see in the region and in creating a low carbon
energy source for countries here,” Bouaziz said.  Occidental, Shell and Exxon are all trying to intensify
their gas business in the Gulf, in part because opportunities
elsewhere in the Middle East are scarce. Gas projects in Algeria
have been delayed, Iran is off limits to Western companies due
to economic sanctions, and Iraq is still considered a dangerous
place to operate.  Occidental owns 24.5 percent of Dolphin Energy Ltd., an Abu
Dhabi state-controlled venture transporting gas from Qatar to
the U.A.E. Exxon Mobil is the largest investor in Qatar’s plants
that liquefy natural gas for transport by ship. Shell is
developing a $19 billion gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar and has a
venture with state-owned Saudi Aramco to explore for gas in
southern Saudi Arabia.  “We have shortlisted three companies” for Shah, said
Mohammed Sahoo, chief executive officer of Abu Dhabi Gas
Industries Ltd., another Adnoc unit, speaking in Abu Dhabi
today. “We are going ahead with the project.” He declined to
name the companies.  Shares Advance  Occidental  shares rose 2.1 percent to $80.29,  Exxon  gained
0.7 percent to $66.97 and  Shell  increased 1.35 percent to 23.62
euros by 4.17 p.m. London time.  The Shah project, scheduled for completion by the third
quarter of 2014, targets processing 1 billion cubic feet of sour
gas into 540 million cubic feet a day of fuel. It may also
process 4,400 tons a day of natural-gas liquids, 35,000 barrels
a day of condensates and 9,200 tons a day of sulfur.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Abu Dhabi at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .
 Anthony DiPaola  in Abu Dhabi at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  