-- Fed Risks Its Credibility on a Bowlful of Mush: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-11-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/fed-risks-its-credibility-on-a-bowlful-of-mush-caroline-baum.html
It’s all over but the voting.  After all the speeches and the posturing, after the trial
balloons and the press leaks, the Federal Reserve probably will
announce another round of quantitative easing at the conclusion
of its two-day meeting Wednesday.  The Fed embarks on this program with the intention of
lowering yields on long-term Treasuries, which in turn will
bring down mortgage rates and corporate bond yields. Surely
there must be two or three households holding back on a home
purchase because the 30-year  mortgage rate  at 4.2 percent is too
onerous.  If QE1, which entailed the purchase of $1.4 trillion of
agency debt and mortgage-backed securities (in addition to $300
billion of Treasuries), was about credit easing, QE2 then is
about prices. I have yet to hear any Fed official talk about Q,
about increasing the quantity of money -- specifically bank
reserves -- which is where quantitative easing gets both its
name and its heft.  Either the Fed is operating under a misconception about how
QE2 will reduce  unemployment  and raise inflation, or it has
failed to communicate the transmission mechanism to the public.
Neither is a plus.  About the best thing anyone can say about the well-
advertised and anticipated QE2 is that it won’t do much good.
The worst thing is that it will inflate asset prices, which we
don’t call inflation.  ‘Violently Wrong’  Because Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  has been unwilling to admit
the role low interest rates played in puffing up the  housing
bubble , he sees little risk from further easing, according to
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut.  At the same time, the Fed’s output gap models,
which measure the difference between actual and potential growth
and were “violently wrong in 2003 and 2004,” reinforce the
majority view that deflation is the real threat, Stanley says.  Then there’s the Fed’s stated tactic of raising inflation
expectations to lower real interest rates, a flawed concept even
though it has succeeded splendidly in the short term.  In the two months since Bernanke first hinted at QE2 in his
Jackson Hole, Wyoming, speech, five-year  inflation expectations ,
the Fed’s preferred measure extrapolated from the yield 
differential between nominal and inflation-indexed Treasuries, 
have risen from about 2 percent to 3 percent.   Tortured Logic  So taken is the Fed with the notion that higher inflation
expectations are the route to salvation that it has commissioned
research on the subject. Last month, three Fed Board economists
published a  paper  claiming that with  overnight rates  near zero,
an oil price shock would be a plus for growth.  The “burst of inflation” from an increase in oil prices
stimulates interest-rate sensitive sectors of the economy, the
authors claim. (Aren’t higher oil prices a relative price
increase unless the Fed prevents other prices from falling?)
“In fact, if the increase in oil prices is gradual, the
persistent rise in inflation can cause a GDP expansion,” they
write.  Where are the speculators when you need them?  Ten years ago I wrote a column titled, “Fed Chairman Ali
Naimi Has a Nice Ring to It,” referring to Saudi Arabia’s  oil minister . The piece debunked the idea that oil prices can do the
central bank’s job.  Maybe I was wrong. If you believe the research, we should
be rooting for one of those old-fashioned oil shocks, circa 1973
and 1979, to fix what ails the U.S. economy!  Flawed Analysis  Raising inflation expectations to lower real long-term
rates has two flaws. First, it assumes nominal rates don’t move.
(The nominal rate consists of a real rate plus a premium for
expected inflation.) Nominal rates could easily rise in sync
with inflation expectations, leaving real rates unchanged.  The second reason has to do with the Fed’s credibility:
real, expected and long-term.  “Credibility against deflation is tied to credibility
against inflation,” says  Marvin Goodfriend , professor of
economics at Carnegie Mellon University’s Tepper School of
Business in Pittsburgh.  What Goodfriend means is, the Fed has “the independence
and operational capacity” to fight inflation and deflation via
its control over  bank reserves . What it doesn’t have is the
luxury of overshooting to fight deflation, producing more
inflation in the short run, when expectations have been
manipulated higher. (While I agree with blogger  Mish Shedlock 
that inflation expectations are “ elegant nonsense ,” I’m using
the Fed’s framework to critique its logic.)  ‘Late in Coming’  Almost two years have elapsed since the central bank pushed
the funds rate to near zero. In that time, policy makers have
failed to explain the framework for fighting deflation,
Goodfriend says. Without that framework, it has to take risks
with policy.  “The action is premature; the framework is late in
coming,” he says of QE2.  It would be better to stabilize inflation expectations in
the 1 percent to 2 percent range, the Fed’s implicit target
since 1996, and provide a coherent framework for understanding
how its actions affect the economy and prices.  Under Bernanke, monetary policy has become enamored with
the idea that “communication and expectations adjustment is
where all the leverage is,” says  Timothy Duy , director of the
Oregon Economics Forum at the University of Oregon in Eugene.  If the Fed has failed to communicate its framework for
fighting deflation, as Goodfriend says, and if expectations
aren’t your cup of tea, no wonder you’re nervous. Bernanke is
headed into uncharted waters with no compass, no radar, and no
stars to guide him.  The good news is he’s got plenty of fuel. The bad news: His
only rations are gruel.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  