-- Fed Helping Spanish Debt Keeps ECB Mum on Dollar: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-11-01T15:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/fed-helping-spanish-debt-market-keeps-ecb-mum-on-u-s-dollar-euro-credit.html
European governments are getting an
unlikely assist from the Federal Reserve as the prospect it will
buy more Treasuries helps the bonds of Greece, Portugal, Italy
and Spain to their first simultaneous monthly gains since July.  Speculation the U.S. central bank will pump more liquidity
into the bond market has helped revive investor demand for
higher-yielding European debt by driving Treasury yields down.
The Fed has asked bond dealers and investors to estimate how
much it might purchase in the next six months in its so-called
quantitative-easing program and what the effect on yields will
be, ahead of this week’s policy meeting.  Portuguese bonds posted their first  monthly gain  in three
in October, delivering returns of 2.6 percent, even as the
government and opposition struggled to strike a deal on the 2011
budget until just days before parliament is scheduled to start
discussions on the measure. Longer-dated Greek bonds recorded
back-to-back monthly gains for the first time since March and
the  yield  on 10-year Italian bonds fell in October to the lowest
level in more than four years.  “I’m not convinced the recent outperformance of these
bonds is being driven purely by improved fundamentals,” said
 Charles Diebel , the London-based head of market strategy at
Lloyds Banking Group Plc. “The debt situation hasn’t changed
much for a number of countries. In some cases, it’s getting
worse. What has changed is the improvement in risk appetite and
the expectation for another round of Fed QE may have had a lot
to do with it.”  Peripherals Advance  Greek longer-dated bonds posted their first  quarterly gains 
since September in the third quarter and the advance stretched
into October. Irish bonds with maturities of up to three years
recorded their first monthly gain since July. The yield spread
between 10-year  Spanish bonds  and German bunds narrowed to 169
basis points from 185 at the end of September and down from 221
on June 16, the most since the introduction of the euro.  “Increased liquidity from central banks’ quantitative
easing programs definitely won’t hurt these bonds,” said
 Johannes Jooste , a portfolio strategist at Merrill Lynch Wealth
Management in London. “We are still cautious about peripheral
countries’ longer-term outlook. Their fundamentals haven’t
improved a great deal.”  The bond market’s strength may be muting European criticism
of the dollar’s weakness that’s threatening the region’s
exports. The euro is up 14 percent against the U.S. currency
since June.  Exchange Rate  European Central Bank Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said Oct. 22 that he is “relaxed” about the euro’s
“relatively high” value. The next day, ECB President  Jean- Claude Trichet  repeated the U.S. government’s assertion that a
strong dollar is in the nation’s interest.  “This may partly reflect the fact that a component of the
euro’s strength is linked to moderating fears on the sovereign
debt crisis,” said  Todd Elmer , a currency strategist in
Singapore at Citigroup Inc. “Underlying conditions appear
stronger with the euro at current levels than they did when the
currency was close to its lows. Concern about the exchange rate
still appears to be placing a distant second to fallout from the
sovereign debt crisis.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley, HSBC Holdings
Plc, and ING Groep NV are among banks that have recently advised
investors to increase their holdings of securities issued by the
so-called euro peripherals, including Greece, Italy and Spain.
Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global has said it bought Greek
bonds, as well as those of Spain, Italy and Portugal. Frankfurt
Trust, which oversees about $20 billion for clients, said it
recently bought Italian and Spanish bonds and remained
“skeptical” about Ireland and Portugal.  Pimco’s View  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s largest bond
fund, said last week that Greece may default within three years
because budget cuts won’t be enough to reduce the nation’s debt
burden.  It’s in Greece’s interest to default “as long as you can
contain the contagion to other countries and it is done through
orderly restructuring and repricing to retain competitiveness,”
El-Erian said at an Oct. 25 conference sponsored by the
Economist magazine in New York. Like Latin America’s “lost
decade” in the 1980s, “the alternative doesn’t promise growth
and employment generation,” he said.  HSBC Investment Management’s $2.5 billion Absolute Return
Fund is avoiding peripheral bonds because of the fiscal outlook.  ‘Temporary Forces’  “There are temporary supportive forces that help them now,
but I can’t see the end to this problem that escapes some very
painful choices,” said  Charles Morris , head of the fund in
London. “For spreads to enjoy a period of sustained
contraction, we need to see debt-to-GDP ratios contract.”  Portugal’s government and biggest opposition party reached
an agreement that will allow the budget to pass.  “The country is going through a difficult period, and
understandings are necessary for fundamental policies,”  Eduardo Catroga , a former finance minister who represented the
opposition Social Democratic Party in the talks, said in Lisbon
on Oct. 30. “The agreement is good for Portugal.”  The two sides broke off talks last week on the biggest
budget cuts since at least the 1970s, jeopardizing passage of
the plan to narrow the region’s fourth-biggest deficit.  Portuguese bonds fell, erasing earlier gains, with 10-year
yields climbing 17 basis points to 6.18 percent as of 3:45 a.m.
in London. The extra yield that investors demand for holding the
securities instead of benchmark German bunds rose to 363 basis
points from 343 basis points last week. That’s 64 basis points
from the 427 basis-point record, set on Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  