-- Fed May Lift Self-Imposed Treasury Limits, Primary Dealers Say
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-11-01T14:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/fed-likely-to-increase-self-imposed-treasury-limits-primary-dealers-say.html
The Federal Reserve is likely to
lift a self-imposed limit on what percentage of Treasuries it
buys when policy makers announce an expanded asset-purchase 
plan this week, according to the central bank’s primary dealers.  With $2.054 trillion in the Fed’s System Open Market
Account, or  SOMA , including more than $800 billion of
Treasuries, the Fed will confront its self-imposed 35 percent
limit on ownership of the outstanding amount of any specific
security. An expansion of the program by as much as $2 trillion
will force the Fed to avoid restriction-bound maturities or
adjust its 35 percent limit.  Fed policy makers gather in Washington tomorrow for two
days of deliberations forecast by the 18 primary dealers that
trade with the central bank to confirm the need for more
economic stimulus through a policy that has become known as
quantitative easing. New York-based Morgan Stanley strategists
 Igor Cashyn  and  Ting Cui  said investors could profit by
purchasing Treasuries in the near-35 percent-SOMA-limit category
to reap gains if the Fed boosts its limit, perhaps to 50
percent, and buys more of the debt.  “The implication of this is that Treasury notes that are
currently ineligible for purchases by the Fed, mostly high-
coupon bonds, reverse some of their recent cheapening on the
curve versus the low-coupon bonds,” Cashyn and Ting Cui wrote
in an Oct. 29 note to clients. “These include rolled-down 30-
year bonds in the 2018-22 year sector.”  Possible Issues  For example, the Fed owns 35 percent of the 8.5 percent
Treasury due Feb. 15, 2020, according to Fed data compiled by
Barclays Plc’s Barclays Capital unit. On Oct. 29 the bonds were
priced at 150 17/32 to yield 2.39 percent.  The central bank also owns 35 percent of the 8 1/8
Treasuries due Aug. 15, 2019, the data show, which were priced
at 146 5/32 to yield 2.29 percent.  Morgan Stanley and Barclays are primary dealers.  With their benchmark  interest rate  near zero and the
unemployment rate near a 26-year high, Fed policy makers are
expected to announce at the end of their Nov. 2-3 meeting
another round of debt purchases, known as quantitative easing.  Estimates for the ultimate size of an program range from $1
trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch Global Research to $2
trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Economists at both firms
agreed the Fed will likely start by announcing $500 billion in
planned purchases.  Near China, Japan  The Fed’s Treasury acquisitions last year and through its
mortgage reinvestment program initiated in August swelled its
holdings of the debt to $837.8 billion on Oct. 27, nearly
matching those of Japan at $836.6 billion and those of China at
$868.4 billion.  The Fed began in August a program to maintain its  SOMA 
account at about $2.054 trillion, the amount it held on Aug. 4,
by using the proceeds from maturing mortgage-backed securities
to buy Treasuries.  “Total available Treasuries for purchase under the current
SOMA limit are about $1.4 trillion,” wrote a team of strategist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. lead by  George Goncalves , head of
interest-rate strategy at the primary dealer, in a note on Oct.
27.  “Of that amount, nearly $750 billion sits in the 1- to 4-
year maturity range, which is not high on the Fed’s purchasing
priorities,” New York-based Goncalves wrote. “We do not
believe that a removal of the SOMA rule is likely any time soon,
as we think the Fed would move to other asset classes before
such a move.”  More to Come  Next year’s Treasury issuance, by adding nearly $321
billion in eligible purchases in the 6- to 10-year sector, won’t
be sufficient to alleviate these potential issues, according to
Nomura. The Fed may also decide to stop rolling its mortgage
holding into Treasuries to help avoid SOMA-limit issues, Nomura
added.  The majority of the Fed’s $300 billion in Treasury
purchases during its quantitative easing program in 2009 were in
the 6- to 8-year maturity range, with $71.7 billion purchased,
equating to 24 percent of the total, according Fed data tracked
by Barclays. Closely following was the Fed’s purchases in the 4-
to 6-year maturity range, at $68.2 billion or 23 percent,
Barclays data shows.  “If the Fed expands the QE program, it is conceivable that
the Treasury market will evolve into a two-tier market, with the
Fed-ineligible securities trading cheap versus securities that
could potentially be bought by the Fed,” New-York based primary
dealer JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategist  Alex Roever  wrote in an
Oct. 22 note to clients. “To facilitate the expanded large
scale asset purchases with the least distortion on the market,
we suspect the SOMA level will be raised.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  