-- Fed Fuels Gold's Investment Appeal, Tocqueville's Hathaway Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   S t e v e   S t r o t h   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-01T17:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/fed-fuels-gold-s-investment-appeal-tocqueville-s-hathaway-says-tom-keene.html
Central banks trying to revive the
global economy are expanding the appeal of gold as a currency
alternative, said  John C. Hathaway , who manages $2.5 billion as
managing director at Tocqueville Asset Management LP.  “The big thing is the degradation of paper money,”
Hathaway said today in a telephone interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “It’s lost its credibility as a
store of value. You have zero interest rates, you obviously have
extreme measures being taken by central bankers globally to
stimulate the economy, and in so doing, they devalue the
credibility of the currency.”  Gold futures touched a record $1,388.10 an ounce in New
York on Oct. 14 and have rallied 23 percent this year, heading
for a 10th straight annual gain. The dollar is down 11 percent
since the end of May against a basket of six major currencies.
The Federal Reserve has kept the benchmark U.S.  interest rate  at
zero percent to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and purchased
$1.7 trillion in Treasuries and mortgage-backed assets to spur
growth.  “We don’t have inflation at the moment, but it looks to me
like we’re setting up for a rise in inflation, which I think is
the game plan” for the Fed, said Hathaway, whose  biggest fund 
invests in gold and related stocks. “What I would question is
their ability to control it once it gets started.”  Fed policy makers will meet tomorrow and Nov. 3 to decide
whether to ease monetary policy further.  Exit Strategy  “How many more rounds of quantitative easing will be
undertaken to restore their comfort level with what’s going on
in the economy?” Hathaway said. “And then once that’s
happened, how soon will they exit their strategy of bloating the
Fed balance sheet. It’s easier said than done.”  Inflation may accelerate long before the economy does, he
said.  “Most inflations take place when the economy is weak and
the government has to print money to pay the bills,” Hathaway
said. “Certainly, if we had more resource utilization, more
people would see the problem. It’s really just a monetary thing.
We don’t need factories humming or 3 percent unemployment to
have inflation.”  Gold assets  in exchange-traded products are up 19 percent
in the past year at 2,087.5 metric tons, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from 10 providers.  Investment Options  The securities are an easier way to own gold because
investors don’t face the hassle of storing the metal, Hathaway
said. Gold coins are too expensive and owning gold-mining stocks
can be volatile, he said.  The gold-mining industry “went through a nuclear winter in
terms of not making any money and very poor returns on
capital,” he said.  “That’s changing,” Hathaway said. “Now, the industry is
generating good cash flow and good returns on capital, and
they’re going to have to start paying dividends at much higher
rates. You’re starting to see a lot of in the way of dividend
increases, and if we have a favorable gold-price environment for
a few years to come, then I think they’ll get back into the view
of investors who have so far avoided them like the plague.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Stroth  in Chicago at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 