-- Fed Will Probably Start $500 Billion of Bond Buys, Survey Shows
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2010-11-01T18:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/fed-likely-to-announce-500-billion-of-purchases-survey-shows.html
The Federal Reserve will probably
begin a new round of unconventional monetary easing this week by
announcing a plan to buy at least $500 billion of long-term
securities, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Policy makers meeting tomorrow and Nov. 3 will restart a
program of securities purchases to spur growth, reduce
unemployment and increase inflation, said 53 of 56 economists
surveyed last week. Twenty-nine estimated the Fed will pledge to
buy $500 billion or more, while another seven predicted $50
billion to $100 billion in monthly purchases without a specified
total. The remainder said the Fed would buy up to $500 billion
or didn’t quantify their forecast.  The varied responses reflect differences among  Fed
officials  over the total amount of purchases needed to bolster
the recovery. Policy makers, pursuing unprecedented stimulus,
have cut the benchmark rate almost to zero and bought $1.7
trillion in securities without generating growth fast enough to
bring down unemployment from near a 26-year high.  “There’s no silver bullet right now,” and central bankers
have “very few options left in terms of lowering interest
rates,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina. He predicted $500
billion of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities purchases
over the next six months.  Shock-and-Awe Plan  Disagreements among policy makers over whether to
incrementally expand the balance sheet or stage a so-called
shock-and-awe program of big asset purchases has created
confusion among investors over the likely size and duration of
any new easing, said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. in New York.  “There has not been a uniformity of opinion emanating from
the multitude of public appearances from Fed officials,”
McCarthy said. He predicts the Fed will buy $500 billion of
securities over the next six months and was among 13 economists
who said the purchases would include mortgage-backed bonds in
addition to Treasuries.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  set expectations for
$500 billion in purchases when he said in an Oct. 1 speech that
purchases totaling about that amount would add as much stimulus
as lowering the Fed’s benchmark rate by 0.5 percentage point to
0.75 percentage point.  Dudley put the $500 billion figure “in there and it
sounded like he was trying to move it along in that direction,”
said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ in New York, who predicts the Fed will announce
up to $500 billion of purchases by March.  Many Variables  Referring to investor expectations of the central bank’s
next move, Rupkey said, “It’s a mess and it’s just because
there’s too many variables between the amount and the time
period.”  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said Oct. 21 the Fed
should buy $100 billion in long-term Treasuries this month and
calibrate subsequent purchases based on the course of the
economy. Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said that a pace
of $100 billion of purchases a month is “in the range of
numbers one might consider.”  Estimates by economists about the duration of a Fed asset
purchase program ranged from as short as three months to as long
as the end of 2011. Three analysts said the Federal Open Market
Committee wouldn’t announce new stimulus.  Favorable Reaction  “It’s highly unlikely that anyone’s going to get all the
details right because going into the meeting  Fed officials 
themselves won’t have agreed on all of” them, Jefferies’
McCarthy said. He said he expects the Fed to buy mortgage-backed
securities because it would be a positive surprise, and the
central bank wants a “favorable market reaction.”  The lack of clarity over the Fed’s plans has played out in
the Treasury market, which handed investors a loss of 0.18
percent in October, the first negative monthly return since
March, according to index data compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. After falling to 2.38 percent on Oct. 7 from 2.51
percent on Sept. 30, the yield on 10-year Treasuries has since
climbed to 2.63 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Not all Fed officials agree the central bank should start
new stimulus measures. Kansas City’s  Thomas Hoenig , who has
already dissented six straight times, said Oct. 25 that he
opposes more easing and because it’s “a very dangerous gamble”
that may accelerate inflation and create asset price bubbles.
Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and the
Philadelphia Fed’s  Charles Plosser  have also spoken out since
the FOMC’s last meeting against more action by the central bank.  Raise Inflation  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said several times last
month that the central bank needs to take action and should buy
securities on a large scale to carry out his preferred strategy
of aiming to raise inflation temporarily.  “They’re in uncharted waters here, and no one really knows,
we’re all guessing” about the size and duration of the easing
program and its ultimate impact, said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.
“I haven’t seen anybody out there who has made a convincing
case that this is anything but a trivial boost for the
economy.”  The  central bank  last month asked bond dealers and
investors for projections of its asset purchases over the next
six months, along with the likely effect on yields. The New York
Fed, the branch of the Federal Reserve System that implements
monetary policy, asked about expectations for the size of the
program and the time over which it would be completed, according
to a survey obtained by Bloomberg News.  Incremental Tactic  Stanley predicted the Fed will opt for the incremental
tactic and announce a program to buy $200 billion of Treasuries
by its Jan. 26 meeting.  “They want to preserve flexibility and to have the option
of tweaking the pace as they go based on whatever it is that
they choose to look at,” Stanley said.  “Clearly the thrust of this is to get long-term rates
lower, but when you listen to what they say about it they don’t
even plan to get a lot of juice out of what they want to do,”
he said. “What does that do for the economy?”  Dudley, who is also vice chairman of the FOMC, said in the
Oct. 1 speech that the central bank would probably need to act
to address “unacceptable” job growth and inflation.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter and inflation cooled, Commerce Department figures
showed Oct. 29 in Washington. The report showed the inflation
gauge watched by the Fed rose the least in almost two years as
retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp. use
discounts to lure shoppers.  Raise Expectations  In addition to a new round of asset purchases, policy
makers are also considering efforts to boost public expectations
that inflation will rise, according to the minutes of the FOMC’s
Sept. 21 meeting.  All but two economists predict the Fed will leave the
interest rate on excess reserves unchanged at 0.25 percent.
Fifteen analysts, including McCarthy, say the Fed will alter the
phrase that its benchmark interest rate will stay near zero for
an “extended period,” which was introduced in March 2009.  “They’ve been telling us they’ve been considering a change
to the ‘extended period,’ so at some point they’re going to do
it and this is as good a time as any,” McCarthy said.  The questions were as follows:  1a. At the FOMC’s Nov. 2-3 meeting, will the committee decide to
(choose one):  a) Retain the current policy of keeping a constant level of the
Fed’s securities holdings by reinvesting principal payments from
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in longer-term
Treasury securities  b) Increase the level of securities holdings through additional
asset purchases  Result (56 replies): A, 3; B, 53.  1b. If you answered (b) to the last question, please provide
your predictions on the following possible elements of the
announcement:  a. The amount of additional purchases announced in billions  of dollars:  b. The length of time for the additional purchases to be  completed:  c. The types of securities to be purchased:  1) Treasuries  2) mortgage-backed securities  3) both Treasuries and MBS  4) other (please elaborate)  Result (53 replies): a) 29 expect $500 billion or more; 7
predicted monthly purchases of $50 billion to $100 billion
without specifying a total; 12 predicted up to $500 billion; 5
didn’t specify an amount.  b) 7 predicted monthly purchases with no timeline; 9 predicted
up to three months; 17 said between three and six months; 9 said
between six months and one year; 5 said through 2011; 6 didn’t
specify a pace or timeline.  c) 38 said Treasuries (including Treasury-Inflation Protected
Securities); 13 said both Treasuries and MBS (including one that
also predicted agency bond purchases); 2 didn’t specify.  2. Will the FOMC statement following the Nov. 2-3 meeting
include any changes to the following sentence: “The Committee
will maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0
to 1/4 percent and continues to anticipate that economic
conditions, including low rates of resource utilization, subdued
inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely
to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate
for an extended period.” Yes or no.  Results (49 replies): Yes, 15; No, 34.  3. Will the Fed decide at the Nov. 2-3 meeting to reduce the
0.25 percent interest rate on excess reserves? Yes or no.  Results (47 replies): Yes, 2; No, 45.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Tanzi  at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  