-- Federal Signal Falls Most Since July as CEO Osborne Leaves After Two Years
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-01T20:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/federal-signal-falls-most-since-july-as-ceo-osborne-leaves-after-two-years.html
Federal Signal Corp. , a maker of
traffic cameras that track license plates, fell the most in six
weeks in New York trading after the company said Chief Executive
Officer  William Osborne  resigned.  Dennis J. Martin , 60, a Federal Signal board member since
2008, was named to replace Osborne, the Oak Brook, Illinois-
based company said in a statement today. Osborne had been CEO
since September 2008, after serving as president of Ford Motor
Co.’s Australian division.  “The time is right for new leadership to accelerate the
company’s strategic and financial goals,” Chairman  James Goodwin  said in the statement.  Federal Signal dropped 26 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $5.39
at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , for
the biggest percentage decline since Sept. 21. The  shares  have
fallen 10 percent this year.  Osborne said in a March 2009 interview that he aimed to
pare costs by consolidating operations and contracting for some
manufacturing outside Federal Signal’s main businesses.  Federal Signal, which also makes street sweepers, aerial
lift platforms for fire trucks and  water blasters , reported a
loss from continuing operations in this year’s first half of
$1.4 million, or 3 cents a share, compared with profit on that
basis of $4.9 million, or 10 cents, a year earlier. The company
reports third-quarter results on Nov. 3.  Martin most recently was vice president of consulting firm
BD Martin Group LLC. From May 2001 to August 2005, he was CEO of
 General Binding Corp. , a maker of binding and laminating office
equipment. Before that, he headed the welding products group at
Illinois Tool Works Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  