-- First Bank of Nigeria Drops Most in a Week on Lower-Than-Expected Profit
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-11-01T14:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/first-bank-of-nigeria-says-that-it-returns-to-profit-in-nine-month-period.html
First Bank of Nigeria Plc , the
country’s second-biggest lender by market value, fell the most
in more than a week today after reporting nine-month profit that
was weaker than expected, CSL Stockbrokers Ltd.  said.  The stock lost the most since Oct. 21, retreating 30 kobo,
or 2.3 percent, to 12.6 naira by the 1 p.m. close in Lagos.  Net income rose to 32.6 billion naira ($217 million) in the
period ended Sept. 30, from a loss of 8 billion naira a year
earlier, the Lagos-based bank said in a statement e-mailed by
the  Nigerian Stock Exchange  today. Revenue declined 11 percent
to 177.1 billion naira, it said. CSL forecast net income of
173.25 billion naira, 81 percent lower than the actual figure.
First Bank is rated “neutral” by CSL and its estimates are
under review.  “Although the nine-month 2010 figures show marked
improvements over 2009 levels, this improvement was flattered by
the fact that provisions at the height of the credit crisis last
year weighed heavily on the previous year’s figures,” London-
based CSL said in a note written today by analysts Bunmi Asaolu
and  Gbenga Sholotan . “Expect downgrades to consensus forward
earnings estimates.”  Earnings at banks in Nigeria, Africa’s most populous
nation, are recovering after a debt crisis last year led the
country’s central bank to fire the chief executive officers of
eight lenders and inject 620 billion naira into the industry to
avoid a financial collapse. First Bank wasn’t one of the banks
that were bailed out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos via Johannesburg at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .
NI NIGERIA
NI AFRICA
NI AFRICAX
NI BNK
NI BUSINESS
NI COS
NI ECOWAS
NI EM
NI FIN
NI MOV
NI FINNEWS
NI GOVMISC
NI MSCIAFRICA
NI MSCIWORLD 