-- Four Smacked-Around Stocks Likely to Rise Again: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-11-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/four-smacked-around-stocks-likely-to-rise-again-john-dorfman.html
Stocks that have been smacked around
often make the best buys.  I regularly compile a casualty list of stocks that have
been beaten up in the previous quarter, and that I think have
excellent recovery potential. This fits with my favorite
investment technique, which is to buy stocks of good companies
on bad news that I believe is temporary.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 11 percent in the
third quarter. A quarterly decline of 10 percent was enough to
relegate a stock to casualty status this time.  Among approximately 2,100 U.S. stocks with a market value
of $500 million or more, 92 were down 10 percent or more in the
third quarter. Most of them flunked my basic value criteria: a
stock price 15 times earnings or less, and debt less than
stockholders’ equity.  Among the 19 banged-up stocks that met my criteria, I
recommend four.  Let’s start with  Sanderson Farms Inc.  The Laurel,
Mississippi-based chicken producer was down 15 percent in the
third quarter, and 18 percent since I recommended it Feb. 21.  Clearly, my recommendation was badly timed. A poor U.S.
harvest contributed to a 53 percent increase in the spot price
of No. 2 yellow  corn  in the past eight months. High prices for
feed grains make the lives of chicken farmers harder.  Tough Times  Also, the economy hasn’t rebounded as strongly as I thought
it would. My notion that people would buy more chicken proved
premature. It’s still Hamburger Helper time.  I jokingly define the long term as that period of time over
which I am proven right. In the case of Sanderson Farms, I think
that day will still come. Over the next few years I believe corn
prices will moderate, and some measure of prosperity will return
to the U.S.  Today, Sanderson Farms shares sell for about $42, which
works out to less than nine times earnings and 0.5 times
revenue. Those valuations make me feel very comfortable.  The price ratios at  Skechers USA Inc.  are even better: six
times earnings and 0.5 times revenue. A year ago I said it would
be a “small mistake” to buy Skechers. Since then the stock has
dropped about 12 percent while the S&P 500 has gained about 12
percent.  Following a 36 percent decline in the third quarter, I
consider Skechers is a better buy than it was when I wrote about
it earlier. Analysts expect  earnings  to climb to about $2.90 a
share this year compared with $1.16 in 2009. The Manhattan
Beach, California, company had a hit with Shape-Ups, an athletic
shoe that promised to help customers “get in shape without
setting a foot in a gym.”  Sneaker Sales  Now the No. 2 U.S. sneaker maker behind Nike Inc., Skechers
is opening more stores this year, bringing its total to about
300.  Amedisys Inc. , the largest U.S. home-nursing provider, fell
46 percent in the third quarter. Propelling the drop were
allegations that the Baton Rouge, Louisiana, company may have
improperly billed Medicare.  The company is suffering through investigations by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.S. Justice Department
and the Senate Finance Committee. I predict the controversy will
end in a negotiated settlement. Amedisys will probably pay a
fine, but not one that cripples the company.  Health care in the U.S. is too expensive. Amedisys and its
competitors help to reduce the need for hospitalizations, thus
saving the health-care system a lot of money. When it comes to
cost containment, I see this company as part of the solution,
not part of the problem.  Legal Trouble  Amedisys had a 21 percent return on equity last year and
has reported profits in 11 consecutive years. In the past five
years, its earnings per share rose at a 29 percent annual clip.
Yet because of its legal woes, the stock now sells for less than
six times earnings.  Beckman Coulter Inc. , located in Brea, California, makes
laboratory instruments and supplies. For the past five years, it
has sold, on average, for 18 times earnings.  Today investors can buy it for 14 times earnings. The stock
fell 19 percent in the third quarter, hit by a triple whammy. In
June the company received a  warning letter  from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration concerning failure to pre-clear one of
its medical-test products. In July it announced earnings that
fell short of analysts’ expectations. And in September, Chief
Executive Officer  Scott Garrett  resigned.  The circumstances surrounding Garrett’s departure were
unclear. The company said that his leaving was “not related to
one event or issue.” A search for a successor is underway.  A year from now, I suspect that all three of those adverse
events will be forgotten.  Disclosure note: I own shares in Amedisys personally and
for clients. I have no long or short positions in the other
stocks discussed in today’s column.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  