-- Gazprom Turns to Dollars Amid Ruble Bond Limits: Russia Credit
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-11-02T15:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/gazprom-turns-to-dollar-bonds-as-cfo-sees-ruble-limitations-russia-credit.html
OAO Gazprom’s  Chief Financial Officer
 Andrey Kruglov  says Russia’s largest company may turn to foreign
investors for its first bond sale in 16 months because of
limitations in the ruble debt market.  The state-owned company may issue Eurobonds as soon as this
year and is considering dollar debt sales in Asia while Russia’s
bond market offers less attractive terms,  Kruglov  said in an e-
mailed response to questions. The yield on Gazprom’s 2014 ruble
bonds has increased to 279 basis points more than its dollar
debt due the same year, more than double the difference of 115
in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Gazprom considers the international debt market a
priority,” Kruglov said.  While President  Dmitry Medvedev  is advocating the ruble as
a global reserve currency, Russia’s $220 billion domestic bond
market is 28 percent of the size of Brazil’s, according to data
on outstanding debt compiled by Bloomberg. Companies including
OAO Sberbank and OAO Russian Railways have increased overseas
bond sales by 57 percent from the same period last year,
compared with 22 percent growth in ruble debt, the data show.  Companies are tapping international investors to take
advantage of the cheapest borrowing costs on record as near-zero
interest rates in the U.S. and Europe drive demand for higher-
yielding assets in emerging markets.  Average yields  on Russian
corporate dollar bonds fell to 5.26 percent on Oct. 13, the
lowest since JPMorgan Chase & Co. began tracking the securities
in May 2002, down from 7.35 percent on May 25. The yield was
5.58 percent yesterday.  “We don’t rule out potential Eurobond sales before the end
of 2010 and plan to borrow from international capital markets in
2011,” Kruglov said.  Matching Revenue  Most of the borrowing by the world’s biggest gas producer
is in dollars to match its earnings, as gas prices are linked to
oil products denominated in the U.S. currency, Kruglov said. The
company and its units have $12.6 billion of dollar bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonds issued by Gazprom
units in rubles total 94.9 billion rubles ($3 billion), the data
show.  “This is logical from the standpoint of avoiding currency
risk, plus it is cheaper in the current conditions” to borrow
abroad, said  Dmitry Dudkin , the head of fixed-income research at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow. “Their primary goal is not
to skew currency exposure versus revenues.”  Falling Yields  The yield on Gazprom’s 8.125 percent dollar notes sold in
July 2009, its last bond offer, reached a low of 4.034 percent
on Oct. 15 after falling from this year’s high of 7.1 percent on
May 25. That compares with a yield of 7.05 percent on Gazprom’s
2014 bonds in rubles, its longest maturity domestic debt.
Gazprom dollar bonds due February 2020 yield 6.08 percent and
dollar debt due in 2037 yields 6.593 percent,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Gazprom could raise “long-term financing” at a yield of
“no more than 5 to 6 percent,” compared with interest of more
than 7 percent for shorter-dated ruble bonds, Dudkin said.  Russia’s biggest international corporate borrower relies on
export revenue to finance investment as prices in Europe are as
much as 10 times higher than in Russia, Chief Executive Officer
 Alexei Miller  said last month. Revenue from domestic gas sales
was 494.9 billion rubles in 2009, or a quarter of the total,
according to Gazprom’s  annual report  posted on its website.  The share of revenue from Russia may increase as the
government plans to bring domestic gas prices in line with those
for European customers, excluding transportation costs, by 2014.
Gas prices in Russia climbed 34 percent in the first quarter,
according to Gazprom.  Ruble Constraints  Kruglov said the company is targeting selling as much as
300 billion rubles of bonds in the coming years as the earnings
in its home currency increase.  As the share of ruble-denominated revenue rises so will
Gazprom’s need to sell ruble debt, although its ability to issue
domestic bonds is “limited” because the market isn’t deep
enough, Kruglov said in the e-mailed comments last week.  Russian government ruble bonds due August 2016 fell
yesterday, lifting the yield to 7.28 percent, and traded little
changed today. Gains in Russia dollar bonds due in 2020 reduced
the yield by 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.331
percent, its lowest since Oct. 22.  The ruble was unchanged at 30.7750 per dollar in Moscow
trading. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 31.0396 per dollar in three months.  Extra Yield  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 0.5 basis points to
141.5, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to CMA
prices. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 12 basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 3 basis points to 203,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 121 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 171 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 34 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, near the smallest difference
since September 2009 and down from a 15-month high of 105 in
February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  Bigger Issue  Gazprom sold seven-year ruble bonds in February 2007, its
longest-ever maturity in the domestic market. The Moscow-based
company’s outstanding ruble debt includes three securities of 5
billion rubles and one 10 billion-ruble bond, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Gazprom’s June 2012 ruble notes are yielding
6.22 percent today, down from 13.12 percent when they were sold
in June 2009.  The company may be “overestimating” the problems in
issuing ruble bonds as the market is ready to absorb bigger
securities than it currently has outstanding, Dudkin said.  “The issue size creates liquidity if you place one bond
worth 30 billion rubles,” Dudkin said. “This one bond will
surely be very liquid and this is what they should do.”  The average maturity of ruble bonds is 23 1/2 months, half
the 46 month-term for Eurobonds sold by Russian issuers,
according to data compiled by UralSib.  Government Competition  Ruble debt issuance climbed to a record 714 billion rubles
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The total is higher
than the $21.1 billion of foreign-currency bonds issued.  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s biggest non-state oil company, sold
$800 million of 10-year bonds that were priced to yield 6.25
percent on Oct. 29. The Moscow-based company is rated Baa2 by
Moody’s, one step below Gazprom and the Russian government.
Sberbank said last week it will pay 150 basis points more than
benchmark rates for a $2 billion, three-year loan.  It may be “more interesting” for Gazprom to sell foreign
debt because in Russia it will be competing with government
auctions, according to  Elena Kolchina , the head of fixed income
products at Renaissance Asset Managers in Moscow, which has $1.5
billion in assets under management.  The Finance Ministry is seeking to cover its budget deficit
by boosting bond sales from 839 billion rubles this year to 1.3
trillion rubles next year, 1.5 trillion rubles in 2012 and 1.49
trillion rubles in 2013, according to a draft 2011-2013 budget
published on the ministry’s website. The government will offer
180 billion rubles of OFZ bonds in weekly auctions by yearend,
according to the ministry’s borrowing plan.  “Currently there is big supply of local government
securities and it’s easier for investors to buy them than
corporate first tier,” said Kolchina. “It means that Gazprom
should offer a higher premium to OFZ to attract investors in the
local market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  