-- Germany Bans Flights From Yemen, Considers Plan to Widen Security Measures
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-01T15:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/germany-banning-all-flights-from-yemen-to-german-airports-government-says.html
Germany has banned all flights from
Yemen from landing at its airports and is considering additional
security measures following the discovery of package bombs bound
for the U.S.  An intergovernmental working group meeting today will
consider expanding a cargo-flight ban to countries other than
Yemen and make recommendations for European-wide measures,
government spokesman  Steffen Seibert  said.  One plane with a package bomb landed at Germany’s Cologne-
Bonn airport last week before continuing to East Midlands
Airport in the U.K., where authorities found the explosive
device. That bomb and another found in Dubai were bound for
synagogues in Chicago.  The bombs were tightly packed in printer cartridges and
could have caused considerable damage, a German government
official said on condition that he not be identified. One
package contained 400 grams of PETN, the same explosive used to
target a Northwest Airlines flight on Dec. 25, while the other
contained 300 grams, the official said.  The general ban has been in effect since the weekend,
Transport Ministry spokesman  Ingo Strater  said.  Yemenia Airways has halted all flights into Germany,
Cornelia Cramer, a spokeswoman for the government’s air-safety
division, said in an e-mailed message. Only one flight a week
flies to Yemen, via Rome, the German official said.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG  canceled daily flights to Yemen on Oct. 6 due to
security concerns, airline spokesman  Thomas Jachnow  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  