-- Giants Beat Texas Rangers 4-0 to Move Within One Win of World Series Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-01T05:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/giants-on-verge-of-world-series-after-rookie-bumgarner-shuts-down-rangers.html
The San Francisco Giants are one win
away from ending Major League Baseball’s third-longest World
Series drought thanks to the pitching of a 21-year-old rookie.  Madison Bumgarner  threw eight shutout innings in the
Giants’ 4-0 win over the Texas Rangers last night at Rangers
Ballpark in Arlington, Texas, holding baseball’s top-hitting
team to three singles. He’s the youngest starting pitcher to win
a World Series game since  Fernando Valenzuela  in 1981.  The Giants lead the best-of-seven World Series three games
to one and would clinch their first championship since 1954,
when they were based in New York, by winning Game 5 today in
Arlington. The only teams with longer World Series droughts than
the Giants are the Chicago Cubs (102 years) and Cleveland
Indians (62 years).  “It’s great that we’re up 3-1 right now, but we definitely
can’t look past this team,’” Bumgarner said during a televised
interview. “Everybody knows what they can do.”  Two-time Cy Young Award-winner Tim Lincecum is scheduled to
start today for the Giants against  Cliff Lee . It’s a rematch of
Game 1, which San Francisco won 11-7, giving Lee his first loss
in nine postseason starts.  “We got (Lee) last game, but you know he’s going to come
out and really want to get us,” said  Aubrey Huff , who hit a
two-run home run for the Giants last night.  Bumgarner’s Win  Bumgarner, who was taken by the Giants with the 10th
overall pick in the 2007 draft and started this season in the
minor leagues, is the fourth-youngest starting pitcher to win a
World Series game.  Valenzuela was 20 for the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1981
World Series, as was  Jim Palmer  for Baltimore in 1966 and
‘Bullet’ Joe Bush for the Philadelphia Athletics in 1913.  “I can’t say enough about what he did,” Giants manager
 Bruce Bochy  said during a news conference. “A 21-year-old kid
pitching on that stage. He had it all working.”  Brian Wilson  threw a scoreless ninth inning for the Giants,
who are the second team to shut out the Rangers at home this
season. Giants’ pitchers have combined for four shutouts this
postseason, the most since the 1905 New York Giants blanked the
Philadelphia Athletics four times in the World Series.  “They’ve certainly been pitching as advertised,” Rangers
manager  Ron Washington  said during a news conference. “They’ve
done a great job. We’ve got to figure out a way to put some runs
on the board against them.”  3-1 Deficits  Six teams have rallied from 3-1 series deficits to win the
World Series, the last being the 1985 Kansas City Royals. The
Rangers, who are in the World Series for the first time, have
lost 13 straight games in San Francisco dating back to 1998.  “It’s a tough road coming back, but if there’s one team
that can do it, it’s right here in this clubhouse,” Rangers
starting pitcher  Tommy Hunter  told reporters.  Huff hit a two-run homer off Hunter in the top of the third
inning last night after a leadoff double by  Andres Torres . It
was the first career postseason home run for Huff, who led the
Giants with 26 homers during the regular season.  Hunter, 24, lasted four innings and lost at home for the
first time in 13 games this season.  San Francisco tacked on a third run in the seventh inning,
when  Edgar Renteria  singled and scored on a two-out double by
 Andrew Torres  off Rangers reliever  Darren Oliver . Giants rookie
catcher  Buster Posey  hit a solo homer to straightaway center
field in the eighth inning.  “We’ve got some impressive young talent here with Buster
Posey behind the dish and (Bumgarner) on the mound,” said Huff.  The Giants spent 37 days in first place during the regular
season, by far the fewest of the eight postseason teams. Only
three teams have won the World Series after spending less than
40 days atop their division, the last being the Florida Marlins
in 2003.  “We’re not going to get ahead of ourselves,” Bochy said.
“We’ve still got work ahead of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  