-- Global Bank Regulators Need Greater Power, Bigger Budgets, FSB Report Say
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-11-02T09:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/global-bank-regulators-need-greater-power-bigger-budgets-fsb-report-says.html
Regulators failed to adequately
police the world’s biggest banks before the credit crisis
because they lacked resources and independence, a group of
global financial watchdogs said.  The supervision of too-big-to-fail banks must become “more
intense, more effective and more reliable,” the  Financial
Stability Board  said in a  report  on its  website  yesterday. The
group of regulators and central bankers called on national
governments to preserve the budgets of financial watchdogs.  “Several supervisory agencies have seen their budgets cut
sharply as part of broad civil-service cost reduction
initiatives,” the FSB said. “These cuts are coming at a time
when there are high expectations being placed on these agencies
to ensure financial stability in a volatile environment where
more skilled resources are required.”  Regulators were criticized for their failure to prevent
conduct that led to the global financial crisis in 2008.
Government support for banks’ lending practices in the years
prior to the crisis and the complexity of financial
institutions’ activities made it difficult for supervisory
authorities to intervene, the FSB said.  “Reinforcing the operational independence of supervisory
agencies is critical,” the FSB said.  Some supervisors have seen their “budgets cut sharply” as
part of government austerity plans, the FSB said. It warned that
supervisors required “more skilled resources” to ensure
financial stability.  Spain, Hungary Cuts  For example, the Spanish government cut salaries for staff
at its central bank by five percent in June. Hungary in
September capped central bankers’ pay at 2 million forint
($10,300) a month as part of a wider ceiling for public-sector
workers.  Andras Simor , the central bank’s governor, previously
earned 8.34 million forint a month.  It is “preferable” for regulators to rely on fees charged
to banks rather that government funding, as this would
“guarantee a more stable funding source” and “shield the
supervisory agency from being subject to fiscal vacillations,”
the FSB said.  The Group of 20 countries set up the FSB last year, putting
it in charge of coordinating efforts to strengthen global
financial regulation in the wake of the crisis. It replaced the
Financial Stability Forum, an advisory group with no formal role
that was created in 1999 after the Asian financial crisis.  Its membership includes G-20 countries, international
standard-setters such as the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , and international organizations such as the World
Bank and the  International Monetary Fund .  The FSB said on Oct. 20 that it will present a report to
the G-20 on how to ensure banks don’t become too big to fail.  Mario Draghi , the FSB chairman, also said last month that
capital and liquidity rules for the largest banks may vary
“country to country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brusselst .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 