-- GM Said to Seek $10.6 Billion in IPO to Help Repay Treasury
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-11-02T15:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/gm-public-offering-said-to-seek-10-6-billion-to-cut-u-s-canadian-stakes.html
General Motors Co.  aims to raise as
much as $10.6 billion in an initial public offering that will
reduce the U.S. and Canadian governments’ stakes in the largest
U.S. carmaker, two people familiar with the plan said yesterday.  GM , 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, will
offer 365 million shares at $26 to $29 each, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans are
private. The automaker also will offer $2 billion to $3 billion
of preferred shares that later will become common stock, said
the people.  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  is working toward
returning the $50 billion GM received in a taxpayer bailout last
year. The Treasury, seeking to win higher prices in future
offerings, is selling less than the $12 billion to $16 billion
that people familiar with the situation said Detroit-based GM
and its investment banks had considered earlier.  “This makes sense,”  George Magliano , a senior economist
for IHS Automotive who is based in New York, said in an
interview yesterday. “They need to protect the price of the
offering. The IPO was never intended to buy out all of the
government and union stakes in one fell swoop. It’s got to be
done over time, and you need to get the right price.”  An amended registration statement that contains the number
of shares and the price range for the offering will be filed
with the  Securities and Exchange Commission  as soon as today, an
election day in the U.S., one of the people said.  Break Even  For the U.S. to break even it needs to sell at an average
price, before splits, of $131 a share, a person familiar with
the matter said in September.  With a 3-for-1 split, the stock would need to rise to
almost $43.67 a share -- almost 60 percent more than the
midpoint of the planned offering -- to reach the breakeven
point, said a person familiar with the planning.  The suggested offering price would value GM at three times
Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, while  Ford Motor Co.  trades at five times that
measure, said the person. The discount should ensure the
offering is over-subscribed and may lead to a jump in the price
when trading begins Nov. 18, the person said.  Bonds issued by GM’s bankrupt predecessor dropped. The
8.375 percent bonds due July 2033, which were issued by old
General Motors Corp. and convert to shares in the new GM, fell
3.5 cents to 33.5 cents on the dollar at 9:43 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  GM Valuation  GM’s offering range values the company at about $50 billion
to $60 billion,  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and
economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, wrote today in a note.  The U.S. Treasury will likely sell about $7 billion of
stock, one of the people said. About $2 billion of shares will
be sold by the  United Auto Workers  retiree health-care trust,
and less than $1 billion may be sold by Canada, one of the
people said.  The medical trust’s sale would be worth about 25 percent of
its stake, while Canada will sell about 20 percent of its
shares, one of the people said.  The offering may price on Nov. 17 and the shares would
begin trading the following day, the person said. A roadshow in
which GM will pitch investors in North America and Europe will
begin tomorrow or Nov. 4, the person said.  Noreen Pratscher, a spokeswoman for GM, didn’t respond to a
telephone message seeking comment today.  “It’s all up to the company” when it files with the SEC
and begins its roadshow, said  Steven Adamske , a spokesman for
the Treasury department.  Foreign Investors  As many as five sovereign wealth funds are likely to
purchase as much as $2 billion of stock in the offering, one of
the people said. Investment bankers for GM met with the funds
and private investors in the Middle East and Asia to gauge
interest in the offering, two people familiar with the meetings
said last month.  SAIC Motor Corp. , which has partnered with GM to make cars
together in China for more than a decade, has said it may
participate in the offering.  The offering comes after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
climbed 13 percent in September and October, the best
performance for those two months since 1998, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A total of 21 companies sold shares
through IPOs on U.S. exchanges last month, the most since 22
initial sales in December 2007, the data show.  “The market is right and they’re going to merchandise this
globally,” said  Joe Phillippi , principal of AutoTrends Inc., a
consulting firm in Short Hills, New Jersey. “I think they have
a good shot of getting this done.”  Akerson’s Agenda  Akerson, 62, took over as CEO from  Ed Whitacre  in September
and will succeed him as chairman at the end of the year. The
former Carlyle Group managing director has said he wants to
improve quality and accelerate decision-making at the world’s
second-largest automaker.  “I don’t think any investor group has infinite patience,
and I’m sure that the taxpayers of America would like to see a
return on their investment,” Akerson told reporters on Sept.
16. “That’s one of the goals that we have.”  GM reported second-quarter net income of $1.54 billion on
Aug. 12 and had a profit of $1.07 billion in the first three
months of the year. Revenue in the second quarter increased 44
percent from a year earlier to $33.2 billion on rising sales of
the Buick Excelle sedan in China and  Chevrolet  Equinox sport-
utility vehicle in the U.S.  ‘Multiple Geographies’  The Treasury Department has retained the right to determine
how much of the government’s holding will be included in the
initial sale. Potential investors are being sought “across
multiple geographies, and the offering has prioritized that so-
called retail investors have opportunity to participate,”
according to regulatory filings.  Morgan Stanley ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America Corp.
and Citigroup Inc. are leading the offering, according to
regulatory filings. Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Royal Bank of Canada
and UBS AG also are listed as underwriters.  General Motors Corp.  filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after posting $88 billion of losses
since 2004, the last year the company reported an annual profit.
General Motors Co. emerged 39 days later.  GM’s common shares will be listed on the  New York Stock
Exchange  under the ticker GM.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 