-- Goldilocks for Debt Means Biggest Gains Since 2002
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-11-01T12:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/goldilocks-for-bonds-means-best-total-return-since-2002-matching-s-p-500.html
From Treasuries to German bunds, and
corporate bonds to mortgage securities, the world’s fixed-income
market is poised for its best year since 2002 as slow growth,
tame inflation and record low  interest rates  create an almost
perfect environment for debt investors.  Bonds have returned 6.57 percent in 2010, including price
appreciation and reinvested interest, a pace that would total
7.94 percent for the year, based on Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index. That would be the most since
the measure, which tracks more than 19,000 securities with a par
value of $36.9 trillion, surged 8.92 percent in 2002. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 gained 7.73 percent, including dividends.  Money is pouring into debt as central bankers refrain from
raising rates as inflation slows. That’s allowing the U.S.,
U.K.,  Germany  and Japan to fund record budget deficits, private
equity firms to refinance debt loads used in buyouts and
mortgage rates to fall to record lows.  “We are in a Goldilocks environment for fixed income that
will last for the next five to 10 years,” said Scott Minerd,
who helps oversee more than $100 billion in  New York  as
Guggenheim Partners LLC’s chief investment officer. “Rates will
stay low until inflation comes back and unemployment turns
around.”  Internet Boom  Fixed-income mutual funds have attracted $555.4 billion in
the two years ended Sept. 30, more than the $496.9 billion that
went to equity funds during the height of the Internet boom in
1999 to 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the
Washington-based Investment Company Institute. Some $38.4
billion has flowed out of stock funds this year.  Bond yields average 2.18 percent, below the average of 3.81
the last 10 years, as measured by the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. For a government or company, that means annual
interest savings of $16.3 million on every $1 billion borrowed.  Some of the biggest bond firms say the best may be behind
as the  Federal Reserve  prepares to print more money and flood
the world with dollars in an effort to avoid deflation.    Bill Gross , who oversees about $1.24 trillion as co-chief
investment officer of  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co., said last week the 30-year  bull
market  is almost over because “certain maturities can’t go much
lower in yield.” He compared the government bond market to a  Ponzi scheme , dependent on finding more investors so borrowers
can roll over an ever rising amount of debt.  Record Bids  So far, that hasn’t been a problem for U.S. President
Barack Obama, U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, German
Chancellor Angela Merkel or Japan Prime Minister Naoto Kan.  Investors placed $5.7 trillion bids for the $1.9 trillion
of notes and bonds sold by the U.S. government this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The almost 3-to-1 ratio
is a record, even though the U.S. budget deficit exceeded $1
trillion for a second year. In Japan, the sale of 30-year
securities by the government on Oct. 14 drew bids for 5.4 times
the amount offered, the most in eight years.  “The trend in yields is still downward,” said Lacy Hunt,
executive vice president at Austin, Texas-based Hoisington
Investment Management Co., whose Wasatch-Hoisington U.S.
Treasury Fund has returned 7.3 percent on average the past five
years, beating 96 percent of its peers. “‘Until the economy
turns around, we won’t see any inflationary pressure, which
means fixed-income can rally further.”  Slower Growth  The  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington  forecast the
world economy will expand 4.2 percent next year, compared with
4.8 percent in 2009. Though slowing, that’s still better than
the average of 3.69 percent from 2000 through 2008.    Government bonds  have returned 5.6 percent this year,
versus 0.9 percent in all of 2010. Of the major economies, the
gains have been led by the 8.3 percent return for Treasuries,
followed by U.K. gilts at 7.9 percent, German bunds at 7.7
percent and Japanese bonds at 2.9 percent.  Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  are the exceptions, with each
losing at least 5 percent and showing there are limits to
investors’ tolerance for budget deficits.  Companies are among the biggest beneficiaries of record low
government yields and global growth, giving investors the
confidence to finance even the riskiest borrowers. Standard &
Poor’s said Oct. 29 it expects the global default rate to drop
to 2.4 percent by September 2011, from 7.5 percent now and the
peak of 11.4 percent in November 2009.  ‘Looking for Yield’  Company bonds from the U.S. to  Europe  and  Asia  have
returned 9.7 percent this year on average, according to Bank of
America’s Global Broad Market Corporate & High Yield Index. Debt
rated CCC and lower have gained 17.7 percent.  “Investors are still looking for yield,” said Rick Rieder, chief investment officer of fixed income at  New York- 
based BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager,
overseeing $3.45 trillion. “The need for yield in a shrinking
fixed-income atmosphere and the activities of the Fed will
pressure yields lower, but not with the same vigor as it has
been so far this year.”  Corporate bond sales worldwide total $2.65 trillion this
year, following a record $3.87 trillion in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance of junk bonds in the U.S.
is already at an all-time high of $231.1 billion.  Bonds from Harrah’s Entertainment Inc., taken private for
$30.7 billion in 2008 by Leon Black’s Apollo Management LP and
David Bonderman’s TPG Capital, were the best performing of the
50 biggest debt issues in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Master II Index last month.  Harrah’s Rallies  The Las Vegas-based company’s debt returned an average 6.99
percent. In March, Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman arranged
to extend $5.5 billion of maturities to 2015.  Securities tied to home loans have joined the rally,
returning 6.3 percent on average, compared with 5.76 percent for
all of last year, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Mortgage Master Index. The gains have helped drive the average
30-year mortgage rate down to a record low of 4.19 percent last
month, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  Developing economies delivered some of the top returns. The
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Bond Plus Index is up 16.3 percent
this year, following a 26 percent gain in 2009.  High unemployment rates in developed nations and a banking
system that is reluctant to extend loans means the global
recovery “runs the risk of not being sustained,” IMF Chief
Economist Olivier Blanchard wrote in an introduction to the
Washington-based organization’s World Economic Outlook.  ‘Decoupling’ Risk  “If growth stops in advanced economies, emerging-market
economies will have a hard time decoupling,” he said.  Commercial and industrial loans at U.S. banks fell to $1.23
trillion last week, from a peak of $1.62 trillion in October
2008, according to Federal Reserve data.  Central bankers are taking steps to keep the recovery from
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression on track.
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has kept its benchmark rate in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, while the  Bank of England ’s is at 0.5 percent, the  European Central Bank 
has a target of 1 percent and Japan’s is virtually zero.  The Fed meets Nov. 2 and 3 and will likely say that it will
resume buying Treasuries to inject cash into the economy after
consumer prices, excluding food and energy, rose 0.8 percent in
September from a year earlier, the slowest rate since the 1960s.
The central bank bought $1.7 trillion of government debt and
mortgage securities in the first round of so-called quantitative
easing between October 2009 and March 2010.  Estimates for the ultimate size of asset-purchases range
from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch Global
Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Economists
at both firms agree the Fed will start by announcing $500
billion this week.  ‘Keeping Rates Low’  “History has proven the Fed can keep long-term interest
rates low for an entire decade if it believes it is warranted in
order to ensure the viability of long-term economic recovery,”
Guggenheim’s Minerd wrote in a note last week to clients. “If
the Fed is indeed committed to keeping rates low as long as
necessary for the economy to recover, which I believe they are,
it would once again mean higher yields are not on the horizon
anytime soon.”  Minerd pointed to the 1940s, when 10-year Treasury yields
averaged 1.99 percent, amid the Fed’s first asset purchases that
were designed to finance World War II and spark the economy. The
yield on the benchmark 2.625 percent note due August 2020 fell
almost two basis points to 2.59 percent as of 12:15 p.m. in  London , according to BGCantor Market Data.  “A lot of the quantitative easing is priced in and real
rates are not very generous, but in the current atmosphere this
is not a good argument against investing in fixed income,” said
Christine Todd, a managing director and head of the group that
oversees $26 billion in tax-sensitive fixed-income portfolios at
Standish Mellon Asset Management Co. in  Boston . “We are going
the right direction and rates would be going the other way if
the Fed didn’t step in but the Fed can’t reverse the economy
alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 