-- Greek Police Tackle Barrage of Parcel Bombs in Athens
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-02T21:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/greek-police-arrest-two-men-as-parcel-bomb-injures-courier-company-worker.html
Greek police said small parcel bombs
exploded at the Swiss and Russian embassies in Athens and at
least another three packages addressed to foreign missions in
the capital were disarmed. No injuries or damage were reported.  Two makeshift explosive devices have been defused by police
at  Athens International Airport , a police spokeswoman said in a
statement.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  was sent a package mailed
from Greece two days ago containing a bomb, the German
government said. If the explosive is “the same type of device
as the package bombs in Athens, it could have caused not
inconsiderable damage,” German Interior Minister  Thomas de Maiziere  said. Merkel was on a trip to Belgium at the time.  A small-scale explosion at the Swiss embassy in the central
Athens neighborhood of Kolonaki occurred after employees
detected a suspicious package, the police said in an e-mailed
statement. The package caused a fire but no explosion or
injuries, the Swiss Foreign Ministry said in a separate e-mailed
statement. Another small blast occurred at the Russian embassy,
the police said.  Bomb squads detonated suspicious packages near Parliament
in Athens intended for the Chilean embassy, and another at the
Bulgarian embassy as well as one at a courier company that was
addressed to the German embassy, according to police. A
suspected parcel bomb at the Panamanamian embassy was
investigated, according to police. Another alert was sounded in
parliament after a suspicious package was sent to former Prime
Minister  Costas Simitis , according to the Athens News Agency.  “Such appalling, unacceptable acts are condemned by the
entire Greek people,” Parliament Speaker  Filipos Petsalnikos 
said in an e-mailed statement. “Democracy cannot be
terrorized.”  Men Arrested  Greek police were on alert for parcel bombs after one
exploded at a courier company in the Athens neighborhood of
Pangrati, injuring an employee, and another three were detected
in central Athens yesterday. Two men, aged 22 and 24, were
arrested after being found with two parcel bombs addressed to
the Belgian embassy in Greece and to French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . The two were carrying two pistols, ammunition, wearing
bullet-proof vests and wigs.  No claim of responsibility has been received for the
attacks. A 22-year-old suspect is wanted for participation in
the Conspiracy of the Cells of Fire urban guerrilla group, the
police statement said yesterday. Ballistics tests on the Glock
guns have shown they weren’t used in terror attacks claimed by
the Revolutionary Sect group, which killed a journalist in
Athens earlier this year and a police officer last year.  On June 24, a security guard was killed by a parcel bomb at
the country’s police ministry in Athens. The bomb was intended
for the Minister of Citizen Protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  