-- Lions Gate Deal to Boost Rachesky's Stake Is Upheld
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-01T23:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/icahn-loses-bid-to-reverse-lions-gate-s-share-debt-swap-with-board-member.html
Carl Icahn  lost his bid in a Canadian
court to nullify a  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.  transaction
that hobbled his hostile bid to buy the studio.  The British Columbia Supreme Court today rejected Icahn’s
petition to undo  Lions Gate ’s deal to increase the number of
shares held by board member and management supporter  Mark Rachesky , according to a copy of the ruling provided by Lions
Gate’s lawyers.  Icahn, 74, who is attempting to buy the independent film
and TV studio for $7.50 a share, was seeking to reverse an
equity-for-debt swap that increased Rachesky’s stake to almost
29 percent. Icahn’s former chief investment officer, Rachesky,
51, increased his stake by purchasing $100 million of notes from
Kornitzer Capital Management and then exchanging them for stock.  “In my view, the Icahn Group complains of conduct which
affects it not as a shareholder but as a bitter bidder,” Judge
John Savage wrote in the 70-page judgment. “I have found that
the Lions Gate Board did not act in a manner that was oppressive
or unfairly prejudicial to the petitioners’ interests.”  Lions Gate, based in Vancouver and run from Santa Monica,
California, fell 1 cent to $7.22 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . Shares of the studio, distributor of
the “Saw” horror films, have gained 24 percent this year.  Mark Gelowitz , a Toronto-based lawyer representing Icahn,
didn’t immediately return a call from Bloomberg seeking comment.
 Susan Gordon , an aide to Icahn, didn’t respond to a request for
comment after normal business hours.  Lions Gate Sues  In a separate action, Lions Gate today asked a federal
judge in New York to grant the company expedited or speedy
access to evidence in its lawsuit against Icahn. Lions Gate also
asked for permission to depose Icahn, his son Brett and investor
 Mark Cuban .  “Plaintiff’s discovery requests are targeted to establish
and identify the circumstances surrounding the deficiencies in
the Icahn Group’s SEC filings related to Lions Gate,” the
studio said.  Quick access to such testimony from Icahn,  Brett Icahn  and
Cuban is important and “appropriate” because it’s “vital” to
proving the case against Icahn, Lions Gate said.  Icahn made numerous false or misleading statements with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Lions Gate said. The
studio said shareholders need “full and accurate disclose of
such plans” before “deciding whether to tender their shares or
support a dissident proxy slate.”  Plotting  Lions Gate sued Icahn in U.S. District Court in New York on
Oct. 28, alleging the financier was “secretly plotting” to
merge the  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  studio and Lions Gate.  In the case, Lions Gate alleges Icahn realized by June that
the company was in advanced negotiations with two unidentified
studios. Aware the deals might dilute his stake in Lions Gate,
Icahn “took drastic and improper action,” the studio said.  Cuban, the billionaire co-founder of the TV network HDNet
and owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team, isn’t named
as a defendant in the New York suit. Lions Gate alleges Icahn
acquired a sufficiently large position in both MGM and Lions
Gate “at depressed prices to ensure that he maximized his own
profits,” Lions Gate said.  Icahn was aided by Cuban, who sold his 5.4 percent stake to
the investor in June for $7 a share after Lions Gate told Cuban
another buyer was willing to pay more, according to the
complaint.  Cuban said he didn’t accept the other bid for his Lions
Gate stake “because I was advised there were legal issues with
the offer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 