-- India May Drop Experience Rule to Let Local Shipyards Bid on Large Vessels
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-01T12:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/india-said-to-consider-easing-curbs-on-yards-bidding-for-tanker-contracts.html
India may lift restrictions on local
shipbuilders bidding for state contracts to make container ships
and oil tankers to help them compete with Korean and Chinese
yards, an official with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The shipping ministry wants to drop a clause that requires
yards to have prior experience building large vessels, the
official said today, asking not to be identified as the matter
is confidential. Indian shipbuilders may be selected if their
bid is within 15 percent of the lowest offer, the official said,
citing a note circulated to the cabinet.  The proposal is likely to be cleared by cabinet ministers
in six weeks, the official said.  Maushumi Chakravarty ,
spokeswoman for the shipping ministry, declined to comment.  The proposals could help local shipbuilders such as  Bharati
Shipyard Ltd.  and ABG Shipyard Ltd. compete internationally by
letting them gain experience of building larger vessels. State-
controlled Shipping Corp. of India Ltd. may order vessels worth
as much as $8 billion over five years as it doubles capacity,
according to  Mantrana Maritime Advisory Pvt.   ABG Shipyard  climbed 4.6 percent to 474.8 rupees in Mumbai
trading, compared with a 1.6 percent gain in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index . Bharati rose 1.2 percent to 267.65 rupees and
 Pipavav Shipyard Ltd. , India’s biggest shipbuilder by market
value, climbed 1.4 percent to 89.25 rupees.  “If you have delivered one large ship, then there is a
track record,” said Anand Sharma, a director at the Mumbai-
based industry consultant. “These firms can then go to the
market and seek more business.”  Shipbuilding Growth  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh’s  government is keen to
develop shipbuilding to pare reliance on overseas suppliers and
to help grow exports. The nation wants to raise its share of the
global shipbuilding market to 5 percent from 1.25 percent by
2017, Shipping Secretary K. Mohandas said on Sept 28.  Shipping Corp. , the nation’s largest sea-cargo carrier,
operated 80 vessels at the end of March. The Mumbai-based
company has previously ordered ships from yards including South
Korea’s  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.  and Daewoo Shipbuilding &
Marine Engineering Co. and China’s Jinling Shipyard, according
to its website.  The shipping line is set to order new vessels as world
trade rebounds from last year’s global recession. Global trade
volumes will rise 9 percent this year and 6.3 percent in 2011,
according to estimates by the Washington-based International
Monetary Fund. They shrank 11.3 percent last year.  India’s  economy , Asia’s third-largest after Japan and China,
has averaged 8.5 percent growth over the past five years. That’s
helped the country double its share of world trade to 1.5
percent, according to the nation’s trade ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anto Antony  in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net .
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan in New Delhi at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 