-- Indonesian Rupiah Debt Investments Will `End in Tears,' Rohatyn Group Says
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-01T01:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/indonesia-local-currency-debt-rally-will-end-in-tears-rohatyn-predicts.html
The 18-month rally in Indonesian
local-currency government debt will “end in tears” for
investors as the central bank raises interest rates, according
to New York-based fund manager The Rohatyn Group.  Owning 10-year Indonesian bonds at current yields “feels
increasingly dangerous” since government forecasts of 6.4
percent growth next year, coupled with 6 percent inflation, may
prompt the central bank to respond with higher borrowing costs,
Rohatyn partner  Goetz Eggelhoefer  said in an interview in
Singapore.  “Investors are taking an awful lot of comfort from U.S.
monetary policy, believing if yields remain low there then
yields everywhere else will be low too,” said Eggelhoefer, who
helps manage $3 billion of assets. “But while the U.S. is
facing deflation, Asia is increasingly facing inflationary
pressures and the Fed’s monetary policy is becoming less and
less relevant here.”  Indonesian 10-yield bond yields have dropped 2.61
percentage points this year as U.S. Treasuries fell 1.22
percentage points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Federal Reserve, facing an economy that’s growing less than 2
percent, is likely to take more credit-easing steps to keep
borrowing costs low when officials meet this week, according to
economists at Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  A record $40.5 billion has flowed into emerging-market debt
since January, data compiled by research firm  EPFR Global  show,
as investors sought to benefit from higher yields in economies
leading the global recovery. Foreigners increased their holdings
of government bonds by 77 percent to 191.1 trillion rupiah
($21.4 billion) as of Oct. 26, according to the finance
ministry’s website.  Relative Value  Indonesian 10-year notes yielded 6.969 percent at 8:13 a.m.
in Jakarta compared with an average 3.2 percent for similar-
maturity government bonds in the rest of Asia outside Japan,
according to Bloomberg data. Ten-year Treasuries yield 2.619
percent.  Bank Indonesia forecasts inflation will remain within a
range of 4 percent to 6 percent this year, though Governor
 Darmin Nasution  said on Oct. 27 it may be “slightly” higher
than 6 percent. The rupiah has appreciated 42.2 percent against
the dollar since its weakest point during the global financial
crisis, making it Asia’s best performer.  The Rohatyn Group, founded by ex-JPMorgan & Co. bankers in
2003 to invest exclusively in emerging markets, has sold all the
$500 million of bonds it owned during the past two months,
according to Eggelhoefer.  “I wouldn’t touch bonds at this point in the interest rate
cycle and, in my view, what you’re gaining by holding onto those
positions is outweighed by the rising risk,” he said.
“Indonesian bonds held by foreign investors are two times the
previous peak. Positions are getting extreme by historical
standards and I’m pretty sure it’s going to end in tears.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  