-- Indonesian Volcano Erupts for Third Time as Evacuations Surge
-- B y   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2010-11-01T09:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/indonesian-volcano-erupts-for-third-time-as-evacuations-surge.html
Indonesia’s Mount Merapi erupted for
the third time in a week, spewing hot ash and forcing thousands
more people to flee to evacuation shelters in central Java,
while the death toll from the Mentawai Islands tsunami was
revised downward.  More eruptions are expected, R. Sukhyar, head of the energy
ministry’s geology agency, said today. Rescuers set up
additional shelters for people living near the edge of Merapi’s
10-kilometer (6.2-mile) danger zone as the number of evacuees
surged by a third to 69,000, said Nelis Zuliasri, a spokeswoman
at the nation’s disaster management agency.  “We’re concerned about cold lava flow considering that
rainfall is very intense at this time,” Zuliasri said by
telephone today. “We’ve been prohibiting villagers from going
back to their homes.” The death toll from the eruptions since
Oct. 26 is 38, she said.  Indonesia is battling to recover from two disasters that
struck the Southeast Asian nation within a day of each other.
Rescuers are struggling to cope with bad weather as the search
for survivors of a tsunami that hit Sumatra’s Mentawai Islands
on Oct. 25 continues.  The national disaster management agency revised down the
death toll from the tsunami to 431 from 450 and 88 remain
missing, the national disaster management agency said in a
statement on its  website  today. The new figure was derived after
an initial report from South Sipora district was revised, the
statement said.  “We are now focusing to rescue the survivors who are still
at the hills,” Ade Edward, operational head at the West Sumatra
Regional Disaster Management, said by telephone from the
provincial capital, Padang. “The weather makes it difficult for
us to go on a rescue search, our team had an accident yesterday,
their boat was swept away by high waves, we are lucky that all
survived”.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bambang Djanuarto  in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;
 Widya Utami  in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  