-- India Inflation Above `Comfort Level,' RBI Says Before Rate Move
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-11-01T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/inflation-is-above-comfort-level-reserve-bank-of-india-s-report-says.html
India’s inflation rate remains above
“comfort level” even after five interest-rate increases this
year, the central bank said, signaling the need for higher
borrowing costs before its monetary policy decision today.  “Inflation pressures persist and further moderation would
be necessary for easing the concerns for the conduct of monetary
policy,” the Reserve Bank of India said in a report yesterday.
“Inflation still remains above the comfort level.”  The comments indicate Governor Duvvuri Subbarao may raise
rates again in Asia’s fastest round of increases in 2010 to cool
inflation in a country where almost 75 percent of the people
live on less than $2 a day. The benchmark wholesale-price
 inflation  rate has stayed above 8.5 percent since Jan. 1, double
the level that the government says is “ideal.”  “The hawkish comments on inflation suggest the Reserve
Bank may hike rates,” said  Indranil Pan , chief economist at
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “A pause now can cause a
disruption in the policy transmission that is underway.”  Subbarao may boost the central bank’s  repurchase  and
 reverse repurchase  rates by a quarter-point to 6.25 percent and
5.25 percent at 11:30 a.m. in Mumbai, according to 15 of 23
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. Eight predict no change in the
repurchase rate. One expects a half-point increase in the
reverse repurchase rate while the remaining seven said it may be
kept on hold.  Bonds Gain  India’s 12-year bonds gained yesterday for a fourth day
after the central bank said Oct. 31 it will hold additional
money-market auctions this week to lend money to banks to ease a
cash crunch.  The yield declined two basis points to 8.07 percent at
close of trading in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive  Index  rose 1.6 percent to 20,355.63, the highest level
since Oct. 14, while the rupee, which has advanced 4.4 percent
against the dollar this year, declined 0.1 percent to 44.48.  The rate at which Indian banks  lend overnight  to each other
touched a two-year high of 12.25 percent on Oct. 29 after state
owned Coal India Ltd. raised 152 billion rupees ($3.4 billion)
in the nation’s biggest initial share sale.  The steps to ease the cash squeeze aren’t related to the
central bank’s rate policy, Ashok Chawla, the top bureaucrat in
the finance ministry, told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.  Inflation Concern  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , who reviewed the economy
with Subbarao on Oct. 29, said in New Delhi yesterday that
inflation is a matter of concern and added it’s being stoked by
food costs. Mukherjee is concerned persistently high food prices
will lead to wage demands, fueling inflation.  Food inflation “remains disconcertingly high despite
normal monsoon rains,” the central bank said in its report.  Food inflation  has stayed above 13 percent since Jan. 1
even as the government said adequate rains in the June to
September monsoon season will help reduce prices.  The country got 911 millimeters (35.9 inches) of rainfall
between June 1 and Sept. 29, exceeding the 50-year average of
889.2 millimeters, according to data from the India
Meteorological Department. That’s the heaviest since 2007.  “Such downward  rigidity in inflation  at an elevated level
has resulted despite a normal monsoon,” the central bank said.
“Anchoring inflation expectations in such an environment is a
difficult challenge for monetary policy.”  The Reserve Bank is relying on lower farm prices to cool
the wholesale-price inflation rate to 6 percent by March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 