-- Minnesota Vikings Dump Moss After Four Games, NFL Network Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-11-02T01:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/minnesota-vikings-dump-moss-after-four-games-nfl-network-says.html
The Minnesota Vikings waived receiver
 Randy Moss  four games after acquiring him from the New England
Patriots.  “This decision was made based on what we thought was in
the best interests of the Minnesota Vikings, both in the short
and long term,” Vikings coach  Brad Childress  said in a
statement released tonight by the team. “We wish Randy the best
as he moves forward in his career.”  Moss, whose 153 touchdown catches are second to  Jerry Rice ’s 197 in National Football League history, was traded to
the Vikings by the Patriots on Oct. 6 for what ESPN said was a
third-round draft choice in 2011.  After the Vikings lost to the Patriots yesterday, Moss wore
a black Boston Red Sox cap to his postgame news conference,
criticized his new team and complimented Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  and New England’s players.  Moss said the Vikings disregarded his input into how to
best prepare for the game at New England, where he played three-
plus seasons before being returned to Minnesota, the team that
drafted him.  “They come over to me and say, ‘Dag Moss, you was right
about a couple of plays and a couple of schemes that they were
going to run,” Moss said of his new team after the game. “It
hurts as a player that you put a lot of hard work in all week
and toward the end of the week, Sunday, when you get on the
field, that’s when they acknowledge about the hard work you put
in. That’s actually a disappointment.”  ‘Best Coach’  He also called Belichick “the best coach in football
history” and praised the Patriots’ work ethic.  “I miss them guys, man,” Moss said. “I miss this team.
It was hard for me to come here and play. It’s been an up-and-
down roller-coaster emotionally all week.”  Moss, who was fined $25,000 by the NFL on Oct. 30 for
failing to make himself available to the media, also said he’ll
no longer answer reporters’ questions this season.  “For the league to fine me $25,000, I’m not going to
answer any more questions for the rest of this year,” he said.
“If it’s going to be an interview, I’m going to conduct it, so
I’ll answer my own questions, ask myself the questions then give
you all the answers.”  Stayed in Boston  Childress said at a news conference today that he’d
permitted Moss to remain in New England after the game.  “I allowed him to stay back there and visit with his
family since he’s from there,” Childress told reporters.  A four-time All-Pro selection, Moss was a first-round draft
pick by the Vikings in 1998. He played his first seven seasons
in Minnesota, catching 574 passes for 9,142 yards and 90
touchdowns, all of which trail only  Chris Carter  in franchise
history.  Moss and his contract are now eligible to be claimed by
clubs in reverse order of this season’s standings. The Buffalo
Bills (0-7) have the first option, followed by the Carolina
Panthers and Dallas Cowboys (both 1-6). With the best record in
the NFL at 6-1, New England would have the last option to claim
Moss. If Moss isn’t claimed, he becomes a free agent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  