-- Intel, Kohl’s Lead U.S. in Purchasing Clean Energy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-11-01T19:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/intel-kohl-s-lead-u-s-in-purchasing-clean-electricity-epa-survey-says.html
Computer-chip manufacturer  Intel
Corp.  and  Kohl’s Corp.  department stores lead the U.S. in
purchasing electricity from renewable sources such as wind and
solar energy, the Environmental Protection Agency said.  Intel, for the third year in a row, is the biggest buyer of
renewable power by volume, the EPA said in a  statement  today.
The company, based in Santa Clara, California, is buying clean
and low-carbon energy equal to 51 percent of total consumption,
up from 46 percent a year earlier.  Using power generated from wind, solar, geothermal and
other renewable sources reduces greenhouse-gas emissions
associated with fossil fuels such as coal. The top 50 buyers are
purchasing more than 12 billion kilowatt-hours of green power a
year, which equals the carbon-dioxide emissions from electricity
use of more than 1 million average U.S. homes, the EPA said.  Intel, the world’s  biggest  chipmaker, is purchasing more
than 1.43 billion kilowatt-hours of green power. Kohl’s ranks
second, with 1.37 billion kilowatt-hours, or 100 percent of the
Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-based company’s energy use. Natural-
food store chain  Whole Foods Market Inc. , with 817 million
kilowatt-hours, was the third-biggest buyer. The Austin, Texas-
based company also gets all of its electricity from renewable
sources.  Starbucks Corp., the world’s largest coffee-shop chain, was
among the top five for the first time at No. 4. The Seattle-
based company more than doubled its annual green-power purchase
to more than 573 million kilowatt-hours, or 55 percent of its
total electricity use, according to the EPA.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, ranked 29th
among the top 50 buyers, getting 59 percent of its electricity
from renewable sources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
 Kim Chipman  in Washington, at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 