-- Intercontinental Exchange Profit Rises 10% on U.K. Energy, `Softs' Volumes
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-11-01T21:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/intercontinental-exchange-profit-rises-10-on-u-k-energy-softs-volumes.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc ., the
second-largest U.S. futures market, said third-quarter profit
rose 10 percent as trading in European energy contracts and U.S.
soft commodities surged, leading to record volumes in September.  Net income climbed to $96.3 million, or $1.29 a share, from
$87.5 million, or $1.18, a year earlier, the Atlanta-based
company said today in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.
Profit excluding certain items was $1.42 a share. On that basis,
the company was forecast to earn $1.36, according to the average
estimate of 22 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Intercontinental reported average daily trading volume of
1.48 million contracts in September across the four futures
exchanges it owns. That record total was driven in part by Asian
demand for futures based on Brent crude oil, natural gas and
heating oil and by “the overall global economic recovery,”
 Richard Repetto , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP
in New York, said in a note to clients last month.  Revenue rose 12 percent to $287 million last quarter from
$256 million. Operating expenses rose 17 percent to $135.6
million, with compensation costs gaining 12 percent compared
with a year earlier.  Intercontinental, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Sprecher ,  fell  60 cents to $114.27 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have advanced 1.8 percent this
year.  Energy Commissions  The company also earns commissions for guaranteeing energy
and credit over-the-counter derivatives trades. For energy OTC
transactions, commissions averaged $1.36 million daily, a 9
percent gain for the quarter compared with the year-earlier
period, the company said in an Oct. 4 statement.
Intercontinental earned $42 million from brokerage and clearing
services for credit-default swaps.  Revenue for guaranteeing credit swaps with its
clearinghouses should total $14 million to $16 million this
quarter, Intercontinental said today.  That forecast “will probably be viewed as disappointing”
because it “would represent the first sequential decline in
what is seen as an early-stage growth story” and bring the
company’s 2010 swap-clearing revenue total to $58 million to $60
million, compared with its prior guidance of $60 million to $80
million,  Ed Ditmire , an analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd. in New
York, said in a note to clients.  Brent futures, the type traded at Intercontinental’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London, set the price for oil outside
the U.S. ICE Futures U.S., the company’s New York-based
exchange, offers trading in so-called soft commodities such as
coffee, cocoa, sugar and cotton.  Intercontinental competitor CME Group Inc., the world’s
largest futures market, said last week that its third-quarter
earnings rose 21 percent as trading surged in contracts based on
currencies and interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  