-- Iran Agrees to Resume Negotiations on Nuclear Program After Yearlong Break
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-11-01T06:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/iran-agrees-to-resume-negotiations-on-nuclear-program-after-yearlong-break.html
Iran would favor opening the next
nuclear talks with world powers to all nations, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast said.  “If more countries join the talks, better results will be
achieved as international issues, which concern different
nations, will be discussed,” Mehmanparast was quoted as telling
the state-run  Mehr  news agency yesterday.  Mehmanparast did not elaborate on which nations, aside from
the five permanent United Nations Security Council members plus
Germany, that Iran would like to see at the meeting.  Iran, under pressure from international economic sanctions,
agreed to restart talks over its disputed uranium enrichment
activities, after Nov. 10, the European Union said last week.  EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton, the envoy of the
U.S., UK,, France, Russia, China plus Germany on the nuclear
program, is in talks with Iran’s nuclear negotiator, Saeed
Jalili over the timing and location of the nuclear talks, Ali-
Akbar Javanfekr, the presidential adviser for press affairs said
in an Oct. 30 interview.  Details regarding the meeting “will be announced in coming
days,” said Javanfekr, who spoke on the sidelines of a media
exhibition in Tehran.  The U.S. and its allies accuse Iran’s nuclear program of
being a cover for the development of nuclear weapons, a charge
the Persian Gulf country rejects, saying it needs the technology
to secure energy for its growing population.  Iran “has never turned away from negotiations,” Javanfekr
said. “We have a rational stance and have things that need to
be said.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  