-- Ireland’s NAMA Survives McKillen Legal Challenge
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-11-01T16:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/ireland-s-nama-survives-paddy-mckillen-legal-challenge.html
Irish real-estate investor Paddy
McKillen today lost a legal challenge to Ireland’s  National
Asset Management Agency , set up to absorb risky loans, to block
the transfer of his debt to the agency.  The legislation underpinning NAMA represented a
“proportionate response to the very grave financial situation
in which the state finds itself and which has particular
relevance to financial institutions,” said Irish high court
president Justice Nicholas Kearns in Dublin today. McKillen’s
case “fails” on the grounds presented, he said.  The case threatened to undermine the government’s plan for
revamping its banking system and regaining investor confidence.
The court ruled today it doesn’t need to have regard for the
status of a loan, rebuffing McKillen’s claim that his loans are
performing and should not be transferred to NAMA.  The decision is “welcome in terms of reducing any
uncertainty about the future of NAMA and its plans for dealing
with the impaired bank assets,” Conor Houlihan, a partner with
Dillon Eustace, a law firm specializing in financial services,
said in a statement. The result is important for keeping
“investors whose capital and expertise may play an important
role in Ireland’s recovery,” he said.  Bono, Claridge’s  Belfast-born entrepreneur McKillen, who got his start in
Dublin, invested in five-star  London  hotels as well as Dublin
shopping centers and the Clarence Hotel on the River Liffey,
where Bono and The Edge of rock band U2 are co-owners, before
making a foray to the U.S. in 2006. Part of McKillen’s debt
relates to Maybourne Hotels, operator of London’s luxury
Claridge’s, the Dublin-based Irish Times reported Oct. 30.  McKillen’s lawyers plan to tell the high court on Nov. 5
if they wish to appeal the case, a spokeswoman for McKillen said
today. Maybourne Hotels is in the “final stages” of
refinancing its debt, ahead of the December deadline, she said.  NAMA was established as Ireland’s “bad bank” in April
2009 to buy 81 billion euros ($113 billion) of property loans
from five Irish lenders, and so far the banks have sold loans at
an average discount of 52 percent. NAMA, which can take a
developer’s entire portfolio of loans from the banks, rather
than just the non-performing ones, welcomed the court’s decision
today, saying it highlighted the “critical importance” of its
work in “extraordinary circumstances.”  “Loans are not ‘going into NAMA’ as a punishment for
borrowers whose problems may have contributed to the financial
crisis,” according to today’s written judgment. NAMA is a part
of policy measures aimed to “solve the problems” of the banks,
it said.  ‘Adverse Effects’  The case before the High Court focused on the transfer of
over 80 million euros of loans McKillen has with  Bank of Ireland
Plc . He reserved his right to use the case to prevent seizures
of loans linked to lenders including Anglo Irish Bank Corp.,
totaling 2.1 billion euros.  A move by the Dublin-based agency to buy McKillen’s loans
would cause “significant adverse effects” to his business,
Michael Cush, McKillen’s lawyer said in a Dublin court last
month. A transfer of his loans to NAMA may result in
“considerable” reputational damage for the developer, who is
servicing his loans, Cush said.  McKillen’s properties are generating about 150 million
euros annually, equal to 1.7 times interest payment costs,
McKillen’s lawyer said last month. Ninety-six percent of the
properties are leased.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  