-- Thirty-Three Hour Race May Induce ECB Surrender
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-11-01T20:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/thirty-three-hour-marathon-may-induce-ecb-surrender-as-fed-weakens-dollar.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s push to jump-start the U.S. economy this week may
weaken the dollar, forcing at least one other central bank to
add its own stimulus to offset a rising exchange rate.  Bernanke is set to embark on an unprecedented second round
of  unconventional monetary easing , one result of which may be a
cheaper dollar that boosts U.S. growth by helping American
exports. A related consequence: stronger currencies abroad,
threatening European and Japanese expansion.  With the major central banks all announcing decisions
within 33 hours this week, fallout from the Fed could cause Bank
of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  to do more for his economy
and Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  to leave the door open
to more aid. Even as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  holds the line against inflation, he may eventually
change course if the euro surges, while emerging markets are
already acting to restrain currencies.  “An easing in U.S. monetary policy creates pressure on the
rest of the world to respond,” said  Dominic Wilson , New York-
based senior global economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New
York. “The subsequent weakening in the dollar tends to tighten
financial conditions outside the U.S.”  This week’s meetings are the greatest concentration of
monetary-policy action by leading central banks since the first
week of October 2008, when they met in emergency sessions to
fight the global financial crisis. On that occasion, all except
Japan joined an unprecedented coordinated interest-rate cut.  Reduce Unemployment  Now they’re invested in dealing with their own challenges.
Bernanke has signaled he will restart large-scale asset
purchases to help reduce  unemployment  and raise consumer prices.
King indicated last month he ultimately may favor buying more
bonds to support the U.K.’s recovery as its government aims for
the biggest budget cuts since World War II.  Shirakawa and his colleagues, after vowing to keep their
 benchmark interest rate  at “virtually zero” last month and
expanding their balance sheet, plan to buy exchange-traded funds
and real-estate-investment trusts to beat deflation.  Trichet nevertheless calls the ECB’s monetary-policy stance
“appropriate.” The central-bank president is focusing on
tougher fiscal discipline as the path to assure growth after
runaway deficits led to Greece’s near-default and a continental
debt crisis.  Coordinated Policy  “It’s a nice idea to coordinate policy, but a central bank
has to do what’s appropriate for its own economy,” said  DeAnne Julius , a former Bank of England policy maker who is now
chairman of Chatham House, an international research group in
London. “It’s difficult to do otherwise economically and
politically.”  On Nov. 3 at about 2:15 p.m. in Washington, the Fed will
release its policy decision. About 18 hours later, at noon in
London (8 a.m. in New York and Washington), the U.K. central
bank will announce its move. The ECB will go public with its
decision 45 minutes later, at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt (8:45 a.m.
in New York). The Bank of Japan concludes its talks on Nov. 5 at
about noon local time (11 p.m. in New York).  Since Bernanke said Aug. 27 that his central bank was
prepared to add stimulus if necessary, the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  has gained 13 percent, while the dollar has declined about
7 percent against a basket of six currencies. This may constrain
initial market reaction to a Fed announcement of so-called
quantitative easing, said  Keith Hembre , Minneapolis-based chief
economist at U.S. Bancorp’s FAF Advisors Inc., which oversees
$86 billion.  Fed Computer Model  A 1 percentage point fall in the  federal funds rate  results
in an 8.8 percent rise in stock prices and a 2.2 percent decline
in the dollar’s exchange-rate value, according to a 1999 Fed
study based on an internal computer simulation. Hembre said he’d
be surprised if the model has changed much since then.  “To a large degree, QE is already priced in, and there’s
probably, all other things being equal, limited positive effect
to come forward from actual QE,” said Hembre, a former Fed
economist. “To the extent that it tends to be a more timid
program than what is expected, you could potentially have some
disappointment,” with initial declines in stocks and bonds.  Still, money managers at M&G Investments in London predict
the rise of “currency vigilantes,” a play on “bond
vigilantes,” the term coined by  Edward Yardeni  in 1983 for
investors who would push down bond prices when they felt fiscal
or monetary policies were running out of control.  ‘Currency Vigilantes’  “Currency vigilantes punish those central banks who print
too much money by weakening their currency,” said  Michael Riddell , a fund manager who helps M&G oversee about 178 billion
pounds ($286 billion). “Over the longer-term, we’re bearish on
the dollar and sterling.”  The Fed will pledge this week to buy assets of $500 billion
or more, according to 29 of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News last week, while another seven predicted $50 billion to
$100 billion in monthly purchases without a specified total.
Estimates for the ultimate size of the program include $1
trillion by BofA-Merrill Lynch Global Research and $2 trillion
by Goldman Sachs.  Purchases of $500 billion would add as much stimulus as
reducing the Fed’s benchmark rate by 0.5 to 0.75 percentage
point, New York Fed President  William Dudley  said in an Oct. 1
speech.  Some companies in the U.S. and U.K. stand to gain from
monetary stimulus and weaker currencies.  Caterpillar Inc. , the
world’s largest maker of construction and mining equipment,
predicts about a one-third increase in U.S.  new-home starts  next
year partly because of Fed easing, the Peoria, Illinois-based
company said in an Oct. 21 statement.  Exchange-Rate Benefit  In the U.K.,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the country’s biggest
drugmaker, gets 93 percent of its revenue outside its home
country and benefited in the third quarter from exchange rates,
the Brentford, England-based company said Oct. 21.  U.S. and U.K. manufacturing expanded more than forecast in
October, reports showed today. The Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index increased to 56.9, the highest since
May, from 54.4, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said. In the
U.K., a gauge based on a survey of companies by Markit Economics
and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  rose  to
54.9 from 53.5 in September.  The risk of the ECB’s tightening bias is that a stronger
euro threatens exports, which have led the region’s recovery, as
well as the ability of so-called peripheral economies such as
Greece to escape deflation. The single currency has gained about
7 percent against the dollar since mid-September. Goldman Sachs
predicts it will rise to $1.55 in a year from $1.39 at 4:23 p.m.
in New York.  Vulnerable Businesses  Every 10 percent gain in the euro on a trade-weighted basis
reduces GDP growth by 0.8 percentage point, while also lopping
about 11 percent off European corporate earnings, according to
an analysis by Credit Suisse AG strategists last month. That
leaves businesses including Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA , the world’s biggest luxury-goods maker, and  Siemens
AG  of Munich, Europe’s largest engineering company, vulnerable
to a stronger euro, they said.  A continued advance may ultimately force the ECB to follow
the Fed and add more stimulus, said  Stephane Deo , chief European
economist at UBS AG in London. The ECB may broaden the
collateral it accepts for loans or even cut its  benchmark
interest rate  from 1 percent, he said, adding that there’s a
“low probability” of more asset purchases.  ‘Follow Suit’  “The ECB will follow suit, in one way or another, in order
to keep the euro appreciation at bay,” Deo said. Nobel laureate
 Paul Krugman  said in an Oct. 28 interview that the ECB should
emulate the Fed and carry out quantitative easing.  For now, Europe’s central bank will stay on hold, said
 David Mackie , chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in London. Policy makers believe the economy doesn’t need more
aid and that providing it would fan inflation and ease pressure
on governments to clean up their balance sheets, he said.  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  is even campaigning for an
immediate end to the ECB’s bond purchase-program, a push Trichet
rejected. The ECB’s buying already differs from other
quantitative-easing policies because the central bank mops up
the resulting liquidity, meaning the net effect on the money
supply is neutral.  The Bank of England is caught between the ECB and Fed. Its
policy makers last month indicated they moved further toward
raising their asset-purchase program from 200 billion pounds,
according to the minutes of an Oct. 7 meeting at which they
split three ways over what to do.  Unexpected Growth  While inflation exceeded the government’s 3 percent limit
for a seventh month in September and the economy unexpectedly
grew 0.8 percent in the most-recent quarter, the second-fastest
pace since 2007, the government is eliminating almost 500,000
public-sector jobs, and the housing market remains weak.  “There’s still a clear dovish leaning at the bank, and
there are more headwinds coming,” said  Ross Walker , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. Thirty-
eight out of 40 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News say policy
makers won’t change their program this week.  The BOJ’s Shirakawa said Oct. 28 that shifting the date of
his policy meeting to this week from Nov. 15-16 wasn’t linked to
the Fed. Rather, policy makers want to discuss buying ETFs and
REITs sooner than originally planned, having already agreed last
week to purchase corporate debt with lower credit ratings than
they had previously purchased, he said.  Weaker Dollar  A weaker dollar would still risk undermining the world’s
second largest economy, with the yen’s surge to a 15-year high
already prompting companies such as  Toyota Motor Corp.  to cut
back. Japanese government securities rose on speculation the BOJ
could use the meeting to loosen credit further, with the 10-year
bond capping seven straight months of gains last week.  The central bank will be “ready to take action after
markets react to the Fed’s action,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief
economist at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in Tokyo.  Emerging markets also already are feeling the “backwash”
of low interest rates in the U.S. and elsewhere, said  Rachel Lomax , a former Bank of England deputy governor. The Washington-
based Institute of International Finance last month predicted
net private-capital flows into emerging economies of $825
billion this year, the second strongest in history and most
since 2007.  The glut of cash is prompting complaints and the use of
capital controls and interventions.  Brazilian Central Bank 
President  Henrique Meirelles  said Oct. 26 that an “expansionary
monetary policy in some countries, particularly in the U.S.,”
is creating challenges for economies such as his by leading to
currency appreciation and potential asset bubbles.  ‘Be Vigilant’  In a nod to critics, finance chiefs from advanced nations
agreed at a Group of 20 meeting on Oct. 23 to “be vigilant
against excess volatility” in exchange rates.  “The emerging markets are very nervous,” Lomax, who is
now on the board of HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an interview.
“They have staged a magnificent expansion and need tighter
policies now.”  Central banks outside the Group of Seven also meet this
week. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News are divided over
whether the Reserve Bank of Australia will raise its  4.5 percent 
overnight cash rate and India’s central bank will increase its 6
percent repurchase rate. Also meeting this week are officials in
Indonesia, Romania and the Czech Republic.  The differences in policies don’t necessarily signify the
end of collaboration: In September, the Fed was among regulators
from 27 countries who more than doubled capital requirements for
banks; and in August, Bernanke, Trichet, Shirakawa and other
central bankers gathered at the Fed’s annual Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, conference to talk shop.  “It’s a more cooperative world than it was before the
crisis,” said  Steven Bell , chief economist at London-based
hedge fund GLC Ltd. and a former U.K. Treasury official. “It’s
just not as cooperative as it was when everyone was trying to
stop the entire global financial system going down a plughole.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net 
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  