-- Israel Risks `Dutch Disease' as Gas Finds Help Strengthen Shekel
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-11-02T15:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/israeli-economy-risks-dutch-disease-as-gas-finds-help-strengthen-shekel.html
While Israel celebrates its
anticipated emergence as a fuel-producing nation, record
offshore gas discoveries are creating an unwanted side effect
for the export-reliant country.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  is among the
leaders and economists expressing concern that the finds may
lead to a stronger currency, making the country’s goods more
expensive abroad. Investors may already be bidding up the
shekel, which is trading close to a two-year high against the
dollar, in anticipation, said  David Lubin , chief economist for
emerging markets at Citigroup Inc. in London.  Emerging market countries including Brazil and Turkey are
struggling with strengthening currencies as near-zero interest
rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan spur record inflows into
developing-nation stock and bond funds. In addition to the
interest-rate differentials, Israel’s economy may be undergoing
a long-term shift to its current account and exchange rate
because of the gas finds, Lubin said.  “The prospect of either substituting gas imports or
exporting gas has the potential to make a very positive
contribution to Israel’s balance of payments,” he said. That
can strengthen the exchange rate, “which in turn might create
some Dutch disease risks for the real economy.”  The term “Dutch disease” was coined by The Economist
magazine to describe a surge in income from new natural-gas
fields in the Netherlands during the 1960s that triggered a
currency gain and eroded other exporters’ earnings. The term has
since been applied to similar situations from Venezuela to
Russia to describe how natural resource finds can hurt industry.  Twice the U.K.  The Tamar and Leviathan discoveries off Israel’s
Mediterranean coast over the last two years may hold 24 trillion
cubic feet of gas, double the U.K.’s proven reserves in 2009,
according to Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc. , a partner in the
finds. Drilling at the Leviathan site started on Oct. 18 and
production of the Tamar field is set to begin in 2012.  “The assessments are that the size of the natural-gas
fields discovered recently may well be significant relative to
the size of Israel’s GDP,” Fischer said in a June speech. The
gas discoveries could lead to the “appreciation of the local
currency as a result of the export, or reduced import of gas.”  Fischer has suggested possible steps to shield the economy
from new currency inflows. One is to adopt the  Norwegian method 
of establishing a sovereign fund that keeps the gas royalties
out of the home country by investing them in world markets.  Moderate the Appreciation  Such a plan would moderate the currency appreciation and
allow “the government to use only a small share of the
royalties on a current basis,” Fischer said in the June speech.  The shekel added 0.3 percent to 3.6129 per dollar at 4:30
p.m. in Tel Aviv today, taking its gain since the start of July
to 7.6 percent. It may strengthen to 3.55 per dollar by year-end
as the gas finds reduce the country’s imports and bolster the
current account, said  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist at Leader
Capital Markets Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  A higher shekel may hurt profits at technology companies
such as  Nice Systems Ltd. , a maker of digital-recording
surveillance products, and developer of voice-over technology
 AudioCodes Ltd.  Both pay their employees in shekels and export
many of their products to the U.S., said  Gilad Alper , an analyst
at Meitav Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  “In the long term, if we don’t see any improvement in the
foreign exchange rate we will have to take some steps to reduce
our expenses, such as moving some of our operations elsewhere,”
Nice Systems Chief Financial Officer  Dafna Gruber  said in an
Oct. 27 interview. “We are flexible and we can adapt to a
stronger shekel, but our flexibility is limited.”  Rising Stocks  As expectations for the size of the gas fields increase,
the  TA-25 index  has surged, rising 27 percent over the past 12
months to a record yesterday. Leading those gains are Tamar and
Leviathan partners  Avner Oil Exploration-L.P.  and  Delek
Drilling-LP , both of which have more than doubled in the past
year. Netanya-based Delek Group Ltd., which controls the two
partners, rose 65 percent in the period.  “Investors are being attracted to shiny objects of oil and
gas,” said Brenda Shaffer, a professor of energy and politics
at the University of Haifa. “I’m worried that a lot of funds
and money are being taken away from investments into other
places.”  Double the Surplus  The natural-gas discoveries have the potential to double
the surplus in the current account, the difference between a
nation’s total exports of goods, services and transfers and its
total imports, Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. Chief Economist  Gil Bufman  said. There is already an impact on the investor
expectations “for a strengthening in the shekel,” Bufman said
in an e-mail.  The finds could be worth “hundreds of billions of
dollars,” Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  said in a speech on
Oct. 19.  Israel’s current-account surplus widened in the second
quarter to $2.3 billion from $1.4 billion a year earlier, the
Central Bureau of Statistics said Sept. 14.  UBS AG forecasts the shekel may strengthen to as much as
3.56 per dollar in the next three months.  “This is an unequivocal positive for the shekel,” said
 Manik Narain , an emerging-markets currency strategist for UBS in
London. “The most obvious is by supporting the trade balance --
reducing the trade deficit -- and by increasing the current-
account surplus. This is one of the drivers right now of shekel
strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 