-- Liverpool's Hodgson Hails `Famous' Win at Bolton to End Barren Away Run
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-11-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/liverpool-manager-roy-hodgson-hails-famous-win-to-end-barren-away-run.html
Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  hailed
a “famous victory” at Bolton yesterday that lifted the Reds
out of the relegation positions in soccer’s Premier League.  Maxi Rodriguez ’s 86th-minute goal at the Reebok Stadium
secured a 1-0 win to lift the Reds six places to 12th in the 20-
team standings. The club has now recorded back-to-back wins, and
taken three points on its travels for a first time since April.  “Today was a famous victory because we hadn’t won more
than once away in the whole of 2010,” Hodgson told Sky Sports.
“When you’re down the bottom, and keep being reminded you’re
down the bottom, anxiety kicks in.”  Liverpool -- bought last month by Boston Red Sox owner John
W. Henry -- joins Bolton, Villa, Sunderland and Fulham on 12
points. Newcastle, now in seventh on 14 points, yesterday
defeated 10-man Sunderland 5-1, while Aston Villa tied 0-0
against Birmingham City. Defending champion Chelsea tops the
league with 25 points.  Liverpool scored at Bolton during a period of concerted
pressure late in the game as Hodgson’s team looked for back-to-
back wins.  Fernando Torres  set up the goal, backheeling past Gary
Cahill for Rodriguez, who managed to put the ball into the net
off goalkeeper  Jussi Jaaskelainen .  Both teams had created several opportunities, with Torres
wasting a couple of chances for Liverpool. The Spain forward
raced toward goal on eight minutes, but delayed his shot and
then failed to connect cleanly with the ball.  Bolton also had good efforts, with  Kevin Davies  heading
inches past the post, and Stuart Holden testing Jose Reina with
a long-range shot.  Strengthen Squad  Hodgson said his squad “certainly needs strengthening”
and that there is plenty of hard work still to be done.  “I now need the team to produce more wins, home and away,
to turn the year around and hopefully get closer to where we
want to be,” he said.  Kevin Nolan  got three goals, while Shola Ameobi scored
twice at St. James’ Park as Newcastle ended a seven-match
unbeaten league run by its northeast neighbor Sunderland.  Titus Bramble  was red-carded after 53 minutes for the
visitors, who got a late consolation goal from  Darren Bent .  Nolan gave Newcastle a 26th-minute lead with an overhead
kick and scored again eight minutes later to put the home team
in control. Sunderland’s chances of a comeback were then hit
just before halftime when Ameobi netted from a penalty kick.  Sunderland’s ex-Newcastle defender Bramble was dismissed
early in the second half after bringing down  Andy Carroll  as he
ran at goal. Ameobi and Nolan each scored again to seal the win.  Bent’s Strike  Bent replied in injury time with his eighth goal of the
season, two-thirds of his team’s total in all competitions.
Asamoah Gyan is the only other player to score for the Black
Cats, excluding own goals.  Newcastle manager  Chris Hughton  said he would have settled
for a “scrappy 1-0 win.”  “It is about the three points, which sees us go up a
couple of places in the table, which is a really nice feeling at
this stage,” Hughton told Sky Sports. “It was an outstanding
performance.”  The scoreless Midlands derby ended a run of six straight
wins by Villa against its local rival, which is still without an
away victory this season.  Chelsea maintained its five-point lead at the top of the
standings following a 2-1 win at Blackburn two days ago. Second-
place Arsenal beat West Ham 1-0, while Manchester United
defeated Tottenham 2-0 to join the Gunners on 20 points.  Elsewhere, Wolverhampton Wanderers beat Manchester City 2-
1, Fulham defeated Wigan 2-0, and Everton won 1-0 against Stoke
City. Blackpool hosts West Bromwich Albion tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 