-- Ivory Coast Presidential Vote Free of Rights Abuses, United Nations Says
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-11-01T14:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/ivory-coast-presidential-vote-free-of-rights-abuses-united-nations-says.html
Ivory Coast’s  presidential vote
yesterday was free of human rights abuses, said Young-jin Choi,
the United Nations’ mission chief, as the electoral commission
began to count the results.  The vote was the first in the world’s biggest cocoa grower
in a decade as the country attempts to end an eight-year
division between a rebel-held north and government-controlled
south.  The West African nation showed a “political maturity and
determination to put an end to the crisis,” Choi told reporters
in the commercial capital, Abidjan. None of the “candidates
show signs of revoking their commitment to respect the
results.” Participation was “one of the highest in the
world,” Choi said, without giving details.  The election, which has been delayed at least six times
since 2005, pits President  Laurent Gbagbo  against  Alassane Ouattara , a former prime minister who gets much of his support
from the north, and ex-President  Henri Konan Bedie , among other
candidates. A second round will be held if no candidate wins at
least 50 percent of the initial ballot.  Cocoa for December delivery declined 1 pound to 1,855
pounds by 2:42 p.m. in London today. Ivory’s Coast’s $2.3
billion Eurobond, due December 2032, was attracting bids of $63
at 1:47 p.m. in Abidjan, according to Standard Bank’s data. The
bond closed at $61.88 on Oct. 29.  The election was “the most transparent and inclusive
election in Cote d’Ivoire’s history and a key step towards a
normalized political environment,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-
markets analyst with Standard Bank in London, said in an e-
mailed note today.  The results will be released on state-owned television when
they are available, said Baba Coulibaly, spokesman for the
electoral commission, without giving details. The agency has
until Nov. 3 to complete the count, he said.  “Helicopters are flying back and forth to pick up the vote
counts from the interior,” Coulibaly said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 aguazzin@bloomberg.net . 