-- Japanese Wages Climb for Seventh Month as Domestic Demand Withstands Yen
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-01T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/japanese-wages-climb-for-seventh-month-as-domestic-demand-withstands-yen.html
Japan’s wages increased for a seventh
straight month in September in a sign that the nation’s economic
recovery is intact even as export growth weakens.  Monthly wages  including overtime and bonuses increased 0.9
percent in September from a year earlier, to 268,010 yen
($3,335), the Labor Ministry said today in Tokyo.  The report adds to evidence that the job market has so far
suffered little impact from a rising currency that’s undermined
exports, with figures last week showing payrolls also rose in
September. Labor gains may be short lived with a slowing
economic recovery pointing to more moderate growth in paychecks,
according to economist  Atsushi Matsumoto .  “It’s still hard to imagine rapid growth in jobs as
production weakens,” Matsumoto, an economist at Mizuho Research
Institute in Tokyo, said in a report before the figures were
released. “Overtime wages, which have been contributing to wage
growth, have been moderating” and “we’ll continue to see
severity in employment,” he said.  In a sign that paychecks are stabilizing for now, regular
pay, considered to be a less volatile portion of wages, climbed
for the first time in 29 months, today’s report showed. Summer
bonuses increased 1.1 percent, the first gain in four years, to
367,178 yen.  At the same time, overtime hours at manufacturers, a
leading indicator for earnings, slumped 2.9 percent in September
from a month earlier.  Factory output  slid for a fourth month as
overseas shipments rose at the slowest pace this year in
September.  As manufacturing continues to drop and consumer spending
slumps this quarter, Japan’s economy will probably contract in
the three months through December, said  Kohei Okazaki , an
economist at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  