-- Japan's Bond Futures Fall as Investors Cut Bets Before Fed, BOJ Meetings
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-11-02T06:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/japan-s-bonds-may-fall-as-investors-seek-higher-10-year-coupon-at-auction.html
Japan’s 10-year bond futures declined
for a third day before the Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan
hold policy meetings this week.  Five-year yields matched a six-week high before a report
tomorrow forecast to show companies in the U.S. added jobs in
October. The BOJ is set to gather on Nov. 4-5 after the Fed’s
two-day meeting starting today. Japan’s 10-year yields retreated
from a five-week high after an auction of benchmark debt today
drew more demand than some traders expected.  “A good auction may not cause investors to buy bonds
aggressively before the Fed’s meeting, a big event,” said
Shuntaro Take, deputy general manager for corporate investment
at Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance Co. “We don’t know
what they will decide and how U.S. markets will react.”  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery declined 0.05
to 143.03 as of 3:07 p.m. at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Japan’s
financial markets will be closed for a public holiday tomorrow.  The yield on the five-year note due September 2015 rose
half a basis point to 0.3 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The price fell 0.025
yen to 99.999 yen. The yield matched the highest since Sept. 16.  Ten-year yields dropped 1.5 basis points to 0.935 percent
after earlier reaching 0.975 percent, the highest since Sept.
27. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The lowest price at the auction was 100.26 yen, higher than
the median of 100.25 predicted by 13 traders in a Bloomberg News
survey. The sale drew bids worth 3.91 times the amount on offer,
up from a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.85 times at the
previous auction last month.  BOJ Minutes  Minutes released today of the Bank of Japan’s Oct. 4-5
meeting showed board member Miyako Suda said funds buying
Japanese debt may cause a bubble. One BOJ member warned against
excessive expectations for low rates, the minutes also showed.  Bank of Japan board members also said purchases of
exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment trusts could
bolster investor sentiment.  The central bank unexpectedly lowered its benchmark
interest rate at the meeting and pledged to spend 5 trillion yen
($62 billion) to buy assets including government bonds and
corporate debt. The bank plans to discuss purchases of exchange-
traded funds and real-estate investment trusts this week.  The Federal Open Market Committee will probably announce a
new round of unconventional monetary easing this week by
announcing a plan to buy at least $500 billion of long-term
securities, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. employment rose by 20,000 in October, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
ADP Employer Services releases the data tomorrow.  “Investors are likely to refrain from big selling and
buying ahead of the FOMC meeting, the biggest event by year-
end,”  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist at Tokyo-based Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc., wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 