-- JPMorgan Trims Biggest Mortgage Putback Estimate to $90 Billion
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-01T16:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/jpmorgan-trims-biggest-mortgage-putback-estimate-to-90-billion.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts lowered
their estimate for the cost to sellers of repurchasing soured
U.S.  mortgages  to as much as $90 billion from a range that went
as high as $120 billion.  JPMorgan analysts led by  John Sim  and  Ed Reardon  removed
some potential losses from their previous forecast to account
for issuers including  New Century Financial Corp.  and  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  having failed, they wrote. They also
fine-tuned their assumptions for how successful investors may be
in winning fights over loans underlying so-called private-label,
or non-agency, mortgage bonds, which lack government-backed
guarantees.  Future losses from repurchases of home loans whose quality
failed to meet sellers’ promises will probably be $40 billion,
the analysts wrote in an Oct. 29 report covering debt
securitized from 2005 through 2007. On Oct. 15, they forecast
likely losses of $55 billion to as much as $120 billion in a
“stress” scenario.  “The private-label market typically has the burden to
prove, with respect to any given loan, that a breach of a
representation or warranty has materially and adversely impacted
the value of the loan,” the New York-based analysts wrote.  Mortgage-bond analysts at  Bank of America Corp. , which
along with JPMorgan is among the lenders being targeted by
debtholders, said in a report that remaining repurchase losses
may total $46 billion. That figure assumes investors in private-
label securities seek buybacks on 50 percent of loans that went
delinquent in the first two years and succeed with 50 percent of
those.  $25.1 Billion  Assuming the bondholders win 25 percent of requests, those
New York-based analysts, led by  Chris Flanagan , wrote in an Oct.
29 report that losses likely will total $25.1 billion. Their
figures also excluded amounts potentially owed by defunct
originators and also included mortgages sold to or guaranteed by
government-supported  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac.  The latest JPMorgan report included an estimate that
mortgage-bond investors will seek so-called putbacks on about 25
percent of defaulted mortgages. Because investors will need to
demonstrate that misstatements about the quality of loans
inflated the debts’ apparent value, the analysts said they
adjusted the odds they used for how successful putback attempts
will be based on how quickly  mortgages  went bad.  The analysts assumed that investors’ success rate will be
50 percent for loans that went delinquent in their first 12
months, 40 percent for mortgages whose borrowers stopped paying
between one and two years, and 30 percent for loans with later
delinquencies, according to their report.  They are also now assuming higher success rates for
mortgages whose borrowers were required to provide full
documentation of their income and assets, because loans made
with less paperwork were “stated as such,” they said.  “Even if buyers claim that fraud was more rampant for
limited/no doc loans, they will bear the burden of proving that
fraud was committed,” the analysts wrote. “And even if fraud
could be proved, not all deals included representations with
respect to fraud and not all representations are the same.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 