-- Kaplan Quest for Profits at Taxpayer Expense Ensnares Veteran
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2010-11-01T20:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/kaplan-quest-for-profit-at-taxpayer-expense-ensnares-disabled-u-s-veteran.html
After Keith Melvin, a disabled and
decorated veteran, returned from Iraq, he wanted to earn a
bachelor’s degree in legal studies.  He filled out a form on a website, and recruiters for
online for-profit  Kaplan University  contacted him. They told him
the government would pay his tuition, that he could move on
after graduation to Kaplan’s law school, and that he could trust
Kaplan because the prestigious  Washington Post Co.  owns it,
Melvin said in a telephone interview.  When Melvin hesitated, Kaplan admissions adviser Wendy
Robinson warned him in an e-mail that “I came very close to
letting your space go to another student” -- even though online
colleges don’t have the physical limits of traditional campuses.
Melvin enrolled at Kaplan in March 2009, and rues it. His
federal grants didn’t come through, and the unemployed
construction project manager couldn’t afford the tuition. Kaplan
blocked his online access to classes and sent his $4,125 overdue
bill to a collection agency, he said.  “With Kaplan having its credentials backed by the
Washington Post, I thought, ‘How can this go wrong?’” Melvin
said. “It sounded too good to be true, and it was.”  Repeated Calls  Melvin is among thousands of returning veterans enticed by
for-profit colleges through repeated phone calls and e-mails,
advertising in military-oriented publications, and alliances
with veterans’ organizations eager for corporate contributions.
Admissions advisers woo veterans with visions of high-paying
jobs and easy access to federal grants. While some veterans
succeed at these colleges, others are hindered by red tape in
getting federal funding and the inability to complete degrees
and find well-paying jobs after graduation.  Aggressive recruiting by for-profit colleges leads to low
graduation rates, said Donald Overton, executive director of
 Veterans of Modern Warfare , a service organization in Silver
Spring, Maryland, which has 5,000 post-1990 veterans as members.  “As long as the recruiters meet their quotas and bring in
veterans, their job is done,” Overton said in a telephone
interview. “The colleges are lacking support services, and
their programs are fast-paced.”  Washington Post fell $11.55, or 2.9 percent, to $390.60 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have dropped  28 percent  since closing at a 52-week high April 15
as Kaplan and other for-profit colleges have come under scrutiny
this year by Congress, the Department of Education, and the
Government Accountability Office.  Active Recruiter  Kaplan University has become one of the most active
colleges in the U.S. in targeting veterans -- and the increased
government funds for their tuitions. Federal spending on
veterans’ education will more than double this year to $9.6
billion from $4.2 billion in 2009, according to the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs. Kaplan University ranked third
among U.S. colleges in 2009 in the number of students funded by
veterans’ benefits, behind two other for-profit institutions,
the  University of Phoenix  and Charles Town, West Virginia-based,
 American Public University System , according to the department.  Two-thirds of Kaplan’s students drop out, Kaplan spokesman
Ron Iori said in an e-mail. Its graduates earn less than the
national average, according to  Payscale , a Seattle-based online
provider of employee compensation data.  Kaplan recently curtailed some of the practices that
brought in veterans, such as paying recruiters based on how many
students they enroll. It offers a course for new students in
academic strategies as well as online tutoring in math and
writing, and has a higher graduation rate than many traditional
schools that also serve a predominantly low-income student body,
Iori said.  ‘Fear, Uncertainty’  Formed in 2004, Kaplan’s military team has 300 admissions
advisers, financial aid counselors, and academic advisers based
in Florida and Chicago, Iori said. Admissions advisers are
trained to recruit veterans by sowing “fear, uncertainty,
doubt” about competing colleges, according to a 2009 Kaplan
manual obtained by Bloomberg News.  About 11,000 Kaplan University students, or 15 percent of
its enrollment, are veterans, active-duty service members or
military spouses, up from 8,500 a year ago, Iori said.  Kaplan markets to the more than 1.2 million veterans of the
Iraq and Afghanistan wars by advertising in  Army Times , Navy
Times and  G.I. Jobs magazine , exhibiting at job fairs for
current and former service members, and sponsoring events held
by  Amvets , the country’s fourth-largest veterans’ organization.  Once known primarily for preparing high school students for
the SAT, Kaplan derived 64 percent of its revenue in the quarter
ended July 4 from its higher education division, which includes
predominantly online Kaplan University, with 75,000 students, as
well as Kaplan colleges, which have 37,000 students on 60
campuses.  Post’s Lifeblood  The higher education division contributed $1.54 billion in
2009 to Washington Post Co.’s revenue of $4.57 billion, or about
one-third. Federal student aid accounted for about $1.3 billion
of the division’s revenue. Kaplan also reaped millions of
federal dollars from the Department of Veterans Affairs and the
Defense Department to educate veterans and active-duty service
members.  “Kaplan higher education is the lifeblood of the
Washington Post, and military students and veterans have become
an increasingly large component of Kaplan higher education,”
said  Bradley Safalow , chief executive of New York-based PAA
Research, which analyzes higher education stocks.  Duncan’s Concern  Senate and House committees are examining how for-profit
colleges recruit current and former service members, while U.S.
Secretary of Education  Arne Duncan  expressed concern Sept. 24 in
an interview that the schools are pursuing veterans’ benefits to
circumvent a law limiting the proportion of their revenue they
can derive from federal aid to 90 percent.  Enrolling veterans helps Kaplan stay below the threshold
because GI Bill benefits don’t count as government assistance
under the law. Kaplan University, which derived 87 percent of
its revenue from federal student aid in 2009, may have exceeded
90 percent if revenue from the GI Bill and Department of Defense
tuition assistance for active-duty service members were added,
said Safalow of PAA Research.  ‘Military-Friendly’  Kaplan helps veterans who are often overlooked by
traditional colleges, said spokeswoman Melissa Mack.  “Active-duty military personnel and veterans are often
under-served by traditional institutions,” Mack said in an e-
mail. “Kaplan has received significant interest from veterans
because of our military-friendly practices.”  Veterans “ought to be the folks that should be educating
our children, running for public office, and leading us in our
corporate boardrooms,” Brian Sayler, Kaplan director of
military affairs, said in an August 12 speech to the Amvets
national convention in Louisville. “So our mission is to see
that veterans are better represented” in colleges.  Donald Graham , chief executive of the Washington Post Co.,
declined to comment.  Kaplan’s online courses enable veterans to juggle jobs and
family, said Justin Whitehead, a Kaplan University student who
served as an Army communications specialist.  “Online is 100 times better,” the 27-year-old networking
technology major, who is married with a daughter and works as a
technical support representative for  BPM Microsystems  in
Houston, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t have to spend
the time in traffic trying to go to night school.”  Harder Courses  Kaplan courses are “harder than any state college,” said
another student, Air Force veteran Thomas Vidal-Engaurran. When
he wanted to switch majors from business management to criminal
justice, “I called my guidance counselor on a Monday, and I was
enrolled in criminal justice courses by Friday,” said Vidal-
Engaurran, 27. “I didn’t miss a beat.”  To ensure that prospective students are a good fit, Kaplan
University in September began to allow undergraduates, including
veterans, to attend classes for a trial period -- and then opt
out without owing any tuition.  Complying with the education department’s pending ban on
incentive compensation, Kaplan has stopped linking pay for
admissions advisers to the number of students they bring in who
start classes, Iori said. Kaplan also suspended enrollment at
two of its campuses after an undercover GAO investigation
released Aug. 4 found recruiters were exaggerating how much
applicants could earn from a Kaplan education. The  GAO report 
prompted Florida’s attorney general to open an investigation
into Kaplan and other for-profit colleges. Kaplan intends to
cooperate fully, Iori said.  ‘Unusual’ Penalties  In May 2009, the Department of Veterans Affairs revoked
approval for a Kaplan campus in Fort Worth, Texas, to train
veterans, as a result of deficiencies in keeping student
records. After Kaplan corrected the problem, the department
reinstated the campus in July 2009.  The VA withdraws approval for about 40 campuses a year, or
less than 1 percent of the 6,500 educational institutions
authorized for veterans’ benefits.  “It’s pretty unusual for us to have to go to that degree
of penalty,” Keith Wilson, director of the VA’s education
service, said in an interview. “We would have liked to see them
respond quicker.”  Kaplan “inadvertently failed” to respond to the finding
that five student files lacked proper transcripts, and the
suspension didn’t ultimately affect students’ VA benefits, Iori
said.  Graduation Rates  Only 22 percent of first-time, full-time candidates for
four-year degrees at for-profit colleges graduate, compared with
55 percent at public institutions and 65 percent at nonprofit
private schools, according to the  National Center for Education
Statistics .  At Kaplan University, which doesn’t make public a
graduation rate for veterans, 30 percent of two-year students
and 33 percent of four-year students earn degrees, Iori said.
Many students come from low-income and minority populations and
are the first in their families to attend college, increasing
the chance they will drop out, he said.  Recipients of bachelor’s degrees at Kaplan University from
2006 to 2010 have a median salary of $38,100, below the national
average of $40,500 for recent four-year graduates, according to
Payscale. People with master’s degrees in business
administration from Kaplan earn $41,800, compared with $59,600
for all MBA’s.  Corporate Hiring  While they hire applicants with online degrees for entry-
level jobs, many Fortune 500 companies seeking veterans for
leadership development programs prefer graduates of traditional
colleges, said Drew Myers, chief executive of  RecruitMilitary  in
Loveland, Ohio, which runs career fairs for veterans and helps
them find jobs.  After receiving an associate’s degree at another online
college, Iraq War veteran Scot Reynolds transferred to Kaplan
University. Kaplan recruiters led him to believe the university
would help his career, he said in a telephone interview.  Reynolds, who earned his bachelor’s degree in management in
2009, works as a telemarketer in Coudersport, Pennsylvania. He
used his GI Bill benefits for living expenses and funded his
Kaplan education with student loans. He owes more than $12,000,
he said. He makes $8 an hour plus commission -- less than
another company paid him before he graduated.  “My income has drastically dropped,” said Reynolds, 27.
“Kaplan was extremely limited with help in finding work.”  Kaplan University provides a wide array of placement
services, including resume building, mock interviews and
networking assistance, Iori said. Payscale data are
“unreliable” and “not statistically valid,” he said.  Melvin’s Family  Kaplan recruiters approached Keith Melvin in 2009. His
experience, based on interviews with him and his wife, e-mail
correspondence between Melvin and Kaplan, and a review of his
Education Department and Veterans Affairs records, shows the
obstacles some veterans encounter at Kaplan.  Melvin, 32, lives with his wife and four daughters, aged
one to 13, in a rented house in Nashport, Ohio. His wife’s
income as a retail manager and his disability pension support
the family.  Melvin’s parents were factory workers. From 1996 to 1999,
he attended nonprofit  Heidelberg University  in Tiffin, Ohio, and
was on its wrestling team. He left one year short of a degree
because he couldn’t cobble together enough financial aid.  He joined the  Ohio National Guard  in 2001 and was deployed
from 2005 to 2006 in Baghdad as a mechanic and as a gunner
guarding a lieutenant colonel’s vehicle. Melvin was promoted to
sergeant and awarded a medal for his “outstanding dedication to
duty.” His commanding officer’s recommendation for the citation
heralds his “exceptional discipline, soldierly conduct and
initiative.”  Shoulder Injury  Repairing a Humvee during combat, Melvin injured his left
shoulder, which has limited range of motion and sometimes pops
out of its socket. He is considered 80 percent disabled by
Veterans Affairs.  Coming home, he returned to his old construction job,
building compressor stations for natural gas pipelines. He was
laid off early in 2009.  “It’s hard to work construction with one arm,” he said.  He decided to go back to college to become a lawyer.
Robinson, the Kaplan admissions adviser, notified him on March 4
that she had received an information form he completed online.  “Because of the immense interest in this program and the
limited size of our classes, I will be calling you soon,” she
wrote.  Overcoming Objections  While Melvin was skeptical of online education at first,
Kaplan recruiters swayed him, he said. Managing objections from
prospective students “is an integral part of the advisor’s
job,” according to a 2008 Kaplan training manual. “Techniques
to Overcome Objections” include “State the objection to the
person, then empathize with them.”  A 2009 Kaplan manual tells military admissions advisers to
“establish yourself as the university official, not a telesales
person.”  The manual also says, “Limit your objectives. If the
agenda sounds very long or complicated, prospective students
will be on guard from the beginning.”  Under Kaplan’s compensation system for admissions advisers,
veterans were more valuable than active-duty service members,
said Cameron Huff, who was on the military team from November
2006 until his dismissal last April. A veteran counted for seven
points, and a service member for five points. A service member’s
spouse counted the most, 10 points, Huff said.  Tuition Discounts  The number of points assigned each group correlated with
the amount of its tuition, Huff said. Kaplan reduces tuition by
10 percent for spouses, 38 percent for veterans, and 55 percent
for active-duty military.  Robinson, the admissions adviser, told Melvin that Kaplan
was connected through its parent company to such luminaries as
Post directors  Warren Buffett  and  Melinda Gates , Melvin said.  “I was more familiar with  Jimmy Buffett  than I was with
Warren Buffett,” he said. “I looked into it” and was
impressed by Buffett’s investment acumen.  Invoking Buffett, chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , and
Gates, co-chair of the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , is a
common Kaplan tactic, Huff said.  “One of the things that I always said was, ‘As you may
know, Kaplan is owned by the Washington Post, a paper known for
having really high ethics,” he said. “’As you can imagine, the
Washington Post would never involve itself in anything that
would reflect poorly on its reputation.’”  Gates, Buffett  While it’s appropriate to inform students about Kaplan’s
ownership, mentioning Buffett and Gates isn’t sanctioned or
encouraged, and rarely happens, Kaplan spokeswoman Mack said.  “Kaplan University in no way supports this,” she said.  Gates and Buffett didn’t respond to requests for comment.  When Melvin told advisers on the military team that he was
also considering the University of Phoenix, owned by  Apollo
Group Inc ., they responded that Phoenix was under federal
investigation, he said.  The military team is trained to foster “fear, uncertainty,
doubt” in prospects’ minds about other online colleges,
according to the 2009 manual.  “Statements such as, ‘Some schools require group projects
where your grade depends on another’s participation,’ instill
FUD regarding the features of competitors’ programs,” the
manual said. Phoenix, which has more veterans enrolled than any
other college, emphasizes group work.  Kaplan has dropped the term “FUD” from training manuals
“in favor of clearer language that will continue to encourage
advisers to cite the distinctive benefits of a Kaplan education
without being misinterpreted,” Iori said. “Admissions advisers
are prohibited from disparaging other institutions.”  Phoenix spokesman Manny Rivera declined to comment.  Law School  One competitive advantage cited by Kaplan recruiters was
its law school. They told Melvin that, once he finished his
bachelor’s degree, he could enter Kaplan’s online  Concord Law 
School. Admissions advisers are supposed to say that “we lead
the way with our online technology and established the first
online law school,” according to a 2009 script.  Melvin wasn’t told that a Concord law degree was of little
use in his own state, Ohio, he said. Only graduates of law
schools accredited by the  American Bar Association  can practice
in Ohio, said  Ohio Supreme Court  spokesman Chris Davey. Concord
isn’t ABA-accredited.  Students aren’t usually informed that Concord graduates are
permitted to take the bar exam in only one state, California,
Huff said.  Undergraduate admissions advisers at Kaplan refer
prospective students who express interest about Concord to the
law school’s staff, Mack said. It isn’t their job to provide
details about Concord programs, she said.  ‘Doubtful’ Benefits  Robinson told Melvin in an e-mail that it was “doubtful”
he would qualify for the GI Bill, which pays for veterans to go
to college. Melvin and his wife said Robinson and other Kaplan
advisers assured him in telephone conversations that the
government would cover his tuition either through federal
student aid or veterans’ benefits, with money left over for
living expenses.  “We were under the impression that his education would be
paid for,” Terri Melvin, 34, said in a telephone interview.  Many returning soldiers turn to veterans’ service
organizations for advice on benefits.  Kaplan and other for-
profit colleges gain credibility by forging relationships with
these groups.  Kaplan recently allied with the Washington-based  Military
Benefit Association , which sells life insurance and other
products to almost 100,000 active-duty service members, veterans
and federal employees. Members receive a tuition discount to
attend Kaplan, Iori said.  Offers Discounts  Amvets, which is based in Lanham, Maryland, and has 180,000
members, counts three for-profit colleges as corporate partners:
Phoenix, Kaplan, and  DeVry University . The colleges offer
scholarships or discounts to Amvets members, who can link to
their websites through advertisements on its home page.  Kaplan was the most visible corporate sponsor at the Amvets
national convention in Louisville in August. Its representatives
addressed hundreds of members of Amvets and their families at
three sessions, and pitched veterans visiting its table in the
exhibition hall. Veterans “can virtually go to Kaplan with no
out-of-pocket expenses,” Kay Houghton, Kaplan director of
corporate alliances, said as she handed out brochures.  Kaplan paid a $2,500 exhibitor fee, Iori said. It paid the
same fee to be an exhibitor in 2009 and to sponsor an awards
banquet in March, he said.  Service organizations shouldn’t accept financial
contributions from for-profit colleges, said Overton, the
executive director of Veterans of Modern Warfare.  ‘Monetary Gain’  “We all know these schools are after the monetary gain of
a healthy benefits package, not necessarily what’s in the best
interest of students,” said Overton, a veteran who was blinded
in the Gulf War.  Only two students in the past two years have enrolled at
Kaplan after linking to the university from the Amvets site,
Iori said.  “Kaplan supports Amvets because of the services the
organization provides to the veteran community,” he said.  Melvin started classes on March 25, 2009, even as it
remained unsettled how he would pay.  When he applied for
federal student aid on March 11, 2009, he was deemed ineligible
for Pell grants for low-income students based on his family
earnings from the prior year, when he was working. While he
could have received student loans, he didn’t want to take on
debt while unemployed, he said.  Documenting Payment  Most colleges require students to document a method of
payment or financial aid award before starting classes, said
 Justin Draeger , president of the National Association of Student
Financial Aid Administrators, based in Washington.  Former Kaplan students often fall behind on their loans,
jeopardizing the university’s access to federal financial aid,
its main funding source, according to Education Department
figures.  Twenty-eight percent  of former Kaplan University students
repay the principal on their loans, below the 35 percent minimum
set by proposed federal standards for colleges participating in
financial aid programs, according to the Education Department.  The rate of Kaplan University student loans that entered
repayment in 2008 and defaulted in two years was  17.2 percent ,
up from 5.9 percent in 2005, according to the department.
Colleges with 25 percent or higher default rates for three
consecutive years may lose access to financial aid.  Eligibility Denied  On April 27, 2009, Kaplan notified Veterans Affairs of
Melvin’s enrollment so that it could begin paying his tuition.
Reviewing his case, the department determined that he didn’t
qualify for benefits.  The GI Bill then in effect only covered active reservists.
Melvin had left the Ohio National Guard in 2007. Even when his
stint in Iraq was tacked on, as the rules allowed, he fell
short. His eligibility expired on Feb. 18, 2009. Under the new
GI Bill which took effect Aug. 1, 2009, veterans who served at
least 90 days on active duty since Sept 10, 2001, as Melvin did,
may be eligible for education benefits.  Many colleges enroll military students before benefits are
approved so they can start school sooner, said Kaplan
spokeswoman Mack.  “We carefully follow the VA’s guidance on what’s
appropriate and permissible,” she said.  The Veterans Affairs department encourages colleges “to
allow adequate time for the enrollment, eligibility, and payment
processes to work,” spokeswoman Katie Roberts said.  Top Grades  Melvin had a 4.0 average in his first semester. When the
next semester began June 10, Kaplan told him that he couldn’t
participate in class until he paid for the prior courses.  Melvin was stunned. The Veterans Affairs department hadn’t
notified him that it was denying his benefits. He contacted his
Kaplan academic adviser for help. By the time she responded, the
deadline for dropping second-semester classes had expired, he
said.  Kaplan blocked his online access and referred his unpaid
bill to Minneapolis-based  Pinnacle Financial Group  Inc. which
called him as often as five days a week. Pinnacle didn’t return
phone messages for comment.  Dropped from Kaplan’s student body, Melvin applied to
public  Ohio University . He was stymied because Kaplan was
withholding his transcript. Ohio University requires transfer
applicants to submit transcripts from each college attended.  ‘Sour Taste’  “I have a very sour taste in my mouth about Kaplan,”
Melvin said. “They’re supposed to be a military-friendly
school. They assured me that everything was taken care of with
financial aid. They told me that a lot of veterans here end up
making money because of all the funding we qualify you for.”  About 2.5 percent of veterans are “terminally blocked”
from attending class, “as a last resort, only after months of
nonpayment and typically because of a lack of response” to
Kaplan’s efforts to work out a solution, spokeswoman Mack said.
In addition, Kaplan often blocks access temporarily “to alert
students that they need to get their ducks in a row vis-a-vis
payment or paperwork,” she said.  Most colleges withhold transcripts until payments are up to
date, Mack said.  After being asked by Bloomberg News about Melvin’s case,
the Department of Veterans Affairs plans to pay his Kaplan bill
retroactively through a vocational rehabilitation program for
disabled veterans, department officials said. If so, Kaplan
would release his transcript, and he could finish his degree at
Ohio University’s campus in Zanesville, near his home, Melvin
said.  “We had a goal that he would go to school and become a
lawyer and support the family financially,” Terri Melvin said.
“It’s just going to take that much longer now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Golden  in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 