-- Katarina Witt Says Munich Olympic Bid Has Won Over Reluctant Neighbors
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-01T18:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/katarina-witt-says-munich-olympic-bid-has-won-over-reluctant-neighbors.html
Katarina Witt , the two-time Olympic
figure skating champion, said Munich has been able to overcome
local opposition to its bid to host the  2018 Winter Games .  The city is competing with  Annecy, France , and  Pyeongchang,
South Korea , and the International Olympic Committee will vote
July 6 on the next host in Durban, South Africa.  Witt said a dispute with landowners in Garmisch-
Partenkirchen, where the alpine events will be held, was
“mostly solved.” The neighbors had been reluctant to give up
some of their land for use in the 2018 Games.  “They were right because there wasn’t the right discussion
going on at the right level,” Witt said. “It wasn’t a bad
intention. In general, it was sort of like, ‘We got the
Olympics, and now everybody will do it.’ You didn’t think about,
‘Well wait, you’ve got to secure some people who own the
land.’”  Witt, a gold medalist at the 1984 Games in Sarajevo and
Calgary in 1988, said Munich isn’t at a disadvantage with
members of the  International Olympic Committee  because the 2014
Sochi Winter Games and the 2012 London Summer Olympics will also
be held in the European region.  Munich, which also organized the 1972 Summer Games, is
seeking to become the first city to host both summer and winter
editions. Pyeongchang failed to win during two previous bids.  “You have to keep your tradition, and you have to nurture
your heartland, where the sport has been for many, many years,”
Witt said in an interview with a small group of journalists at
the Global Sports Industry Congress in London. “We’re pretty
confident we will be able to deliver magic.”  Witt, 44, last month became the public face of the German
bid after Chief Executive Officer Willy Bogner was forced to
step down because of illness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  