-- Kenyan Inflation Rate Slows to 3.1%, Raising Prospect of Interest Rate Cut
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-01T09:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/kenya-s-inflation-rate-falls-to-3-1-percent-raising-prospect-of-rate-cut.html
Kenya’s inflation slowed to 3.1
percent in October, increasing the likelihood of further
interest rate cuts.  The inflation rate in East Africa’s biggest economy fell
from 3.2 percent a month earlier, the  Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement from the capital,
Nairobi, today. The government’s target rate is 5 percent.
Prices rose 0.1 percent in the month.  “Inflation looks set to plumb new lows,” and the central
bank “can probably cut further,” Aly-Khan Satchu, a Nairobi-
based independent financial analyst, said by e-mail before the
announcement. The falling cost of calls on Kenya’s mobile
networks is a key reason for the drop, he said.  Kenya’s  Monetary Policy Committee  has slashed the benchmark
lending rate by 2.5 percentage points since 2009 to a record low
of 6 percent. Low inflation could help justify further cuts,
adding to pressure on commercial banks to reduce the cost of
credit, Central Bank of Kenya Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said on
Oct. 25.  Kenyan banks’ average lending rate was 14 percent in
September, according to central bank data. The lenders have more
scope to reduce borrowing costs to businesses and households,
Ndung’u said on Oct. 28.  Kenya’s economy is projected to grow 6 percent next year
from an estimated 5 percent this year as a new constitution
approved in August bolsters investor confidence, President  Mwai Kibaki  said on Oct. 21.  Agricultural production, which accounts for a quarter of
the economy, is increasing after rainfalls early this year ended
a drought lasting more than two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 