-- Khodorkovsky Warns `Bureaucratic Greed' to Cause Crisis by 2015
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-01T10:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/khodorkovsky-warns-bureaucratic-greed-to-cause-crisis-by-2015.html
Bureaucratic greed and dependency on
raw materials will cause a new crisis in Russia by 2015, said
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the jailed former head of Yukos Oil Co.  “The impossibility of modernizing the economy is caused by
the ineffective system of governance, which is archaic and
thoroughly corrupt,” Khodorkovsky said in an  interview  with
Novaya Gazeta newspaper that was published on his defense team’s
website today. “For many reasons the next crisis will arrive
sometime around 2015.”  President  Dmitry Medvedev , who has wooed foreign investors
and vowed to fight corruption as he seeks to diversify the
Russian economy away from dependence on oil, gas and
commodities, is making “quick fixes,” Khodorkovsky said.
Russia’s “backward economy and bureaucratic greed” will remain
the key challenges for the president elected in 2012, he said.  Khodorkovsky, 47, once Russia’s richest man, and business
partner  Platon Lebedev  face up to 14 more years in jail on
charges of stealing 350 million tons (2.57 billion barrels) of
oil from Yukos. The trial is due to end this week, and the judge
may take up to two months to announce the verdict. The two men
are already serving eight-year jail terms for fraud.  Khodorkovsky said his 2005 conviction was motivated by his
opposition to Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who was president
at the time of his 2003 arrest. Putin said Khodorkovsky
“deserved his punishment” in an interview with  Kommersant 
newspaper in August.  ‘Rest of His Life’  Yukos was bankrupted under a $30 billion tax claim and sold
off in pieces to state oil company OAO Rosneft.  Putin, who hasn’t ruled out seeking a third term as
president in 2012, won’t allow the jailed businessman to be
freed because he could pose a political threat, said  Vladimir Ryzhkov , an opposition politician.  “Putin continues to take a very uncompromising stance
toward Khodorkovsky,” Ryzhkov said by telephone. “He’d prefer
to keep him in jail not only past 2012 but for the rest of his
life.”  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010  Corruption
Perceptions Index  released on Oct. 26, sliding to 154th among
178 countries and placing it alongside Tajikistan and Kenya.  Russians pay bribes totaling $300 billion a year,
equivalent to almost a quarter of gross domestic product,
according to Kirill Kabanov, head of the National Anti-
Corruption Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  