-- Kirchner Death Adds `Uncertainty' to Argentina, World Bank Economist Says
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-11-01T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/kirchner-s-death-adds-uncertainty-to-argentina-world-bank-economist-says.html
The death of former Argentine
President  Nestor Kirchner  creates “great uncertainty” in South
America’s second-biggest economy and a rally in stocks and bonds
may have been unwarranted, the World Bank’s chief economist for
Latin America said.  Augusto de la Torre, in an interview Oct. 29 in Chile, said
he doesn’t know why stocks and bonds in Argentina rallied
following Kirchner’s death of a heart attack on Oct. 27.  “The political dynamics following the death of Mr.
Kirchner is a subject of great uncertainty,”  he  said when asked
about the market rally. “Financial markets have been known to
react quickly on little information.”  Bonds and stocks rallied last week on speculation the
opposition could win next year’s presidential elections and
reverse policies that curtailed foreign investment, kept the
country out of foreign debt markets and led to the world’s
third-highest inflation rate. Kirchner handed power to his wife,
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , in 2007 after battling investors
during the country’s $95 billion debt restructuring.  Yields on dollar bonds due in 2033 fell 50 basis points to
8.96 percent the day of his death, the biggest decline since
June 18, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Merval Index rose
3 percent in the two days following his death to a record
3,007.41. The volume of shares trading hands the day after he
died was the most in two years.  Argentina must implement “important, but not tectonic”
policy corrections to ensure sustained growth, de la Torre said.
These include adjusting energy prices to attract new
investments, he said, citing analysts.  “At least in some activities, particularly in agriculture
for exports, Argentina is in a process of important
modernization where further innovations can happen and could
sustain long-term growth,” he said.  Argentina’s economy has rebounded faster than many of its
neighbors from the global financial crisis as a result of record
soy crops and higher domestic consumption. The International
Monetary Fund forecasts the economy to expand 7.5 percent this
year, matching the pace of growth in Brazil, according to an
Oct. 19 report.  De la Torre was in Chile to present a report on how Latin
America and the Caribbean can use natural resources to sustain
economic growth. The region as a whole has improved fiscal and
monetary policies, he said.  “We have opened a space for us to start discussing long-
term growth because we have to some extent made quite a bit of
progress on that macro vulnerability side,” he said.  De la Torre was Ecuador’s central bank president from 1993
to 1997. He worked at the IMF from 1986 to 1992 and has been at
the World Bank since 1997. He earned his doctorate in economics
from the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 Rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  