-- Kissel Asks Hong Kong Court to Halt Retrial for Murdering Banker Husband
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-11-01T09:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/kissel-asks-court-to-halt-retrial-for-murdering-banker-husband.html
Nancy Kissel , who claimed she killed
her  Merrill Lynch & Co.  banker husband in self-defense in 2003,
asked a Hong Kong court to stop her retrial for murder.  The 46-year-old mother of three, who remains in custody
after having been sentenced to life in prison, would be freed
immediately if the application for a permanent stay of
proceedings is successful.  Judge Andrew Macrae today ordered the media not to report
on the details of the hearing, which is expected to last five
days. The retrial is scheduled to begin on Jan. 10 if Kissel’s
lawyers fail to win a halt.  Hong Kong’s top court in February overturned Kissel’s 2005
conviction, ruling the judge wrongly allowed hearsay evidence
and prosecutors improperly questioned her during the trial.
Jurors heard in the three-month trial that she drugged her
husband with a milkshake, bludgeoned him to death and hid his
body in a carpet.  Robert Kissel  moved to Hong Kong from New York in 1998 with
his wife and worked as co-head of Asian special situations for
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Merrill hired him in 2000 to head its
distressed-assets business in Asia.  Nancy Kissel testified in her original trial that her
husband was a cocaine addict and that she suffered years of
abusive sex. She admitted to killing him and said it was in
self-defense.  Prosecutors said that the banker had intended to divorce
his Michigan-born wife after discovering she was having an
affair with an electrical technician in Vermont.  Kissel’s lawyers had said a manslaughter charge, which
would carry a sentence of eight to 12 years, was more justified,
before prosecutors indicted her again for murder.  The case is Nancy Ann Kissel and HKSAR, HCCC55/2010, Hong
Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  