-- New Zealand Wages Accelerate for Second Straight Quarter, Stoking Recovery
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-01T22:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/new-zealand-wages-accelerate-for-second-straight-quarter-stoking-recovery.html
New Zealand wage growth accelerated
for the second straight quarter as demand for exports buoyed an
economic recovery and bolstered incentives for companies to hire
and retain workers.  Wages  for non-governmental workers, excluding overtime,
advanced 0.6 percent in the third quarter from the second
quarter, according to Statistics New Zealand’s labor cost index
released in Wellington today. Annual growth accelerated to 1.6
percent from 1.4 percent in the year through June.  Rising wages may buoy household income in the final quarter
of 2010, helping New Zealand’s economic recovery after growth
slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter. The Treasury
Department yesterday said  growth  is slower than it forecast in
May’s budget because of spending restraint.  “With the labor market on an improving trend, now is the
time that wage inflation can be expected to begin its long, slow
grind higher,”  Dominick Stephens , senior economist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in Wellington, said in a research note last week.
He expected a 1.6 percent increase from a year earlier.  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report.
It bought 76.70 U.S. cents at 10:52 a.m. in Wellington from
76.71 cents immediately before the release.  Rate Policy  In September, the central bank forecast wages will rise 1.9
percent in the year ending March 31, 2011. Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Governor Alan Bollard last week kept the  official cash
rate  unchanged at 3 percent, saying consumer spending remained
muted and companies were less optimistic about their prospects.  Wages rose 0.4 percent in the second quarter and 0.3
percent in the first three months of the year. The third-quarter
gain was the largest since the fourth quarter of 2008, today’s
report showed.  Including overtime, non-government wages gained 0.5 percent
from the second quarter and 1.6 percent from a year earlier.  Average ordinary-time hourly earnings  for non-governmental
workers rose 1 percent in the quarter, the statistics agency
said in its quarterly employment survey also published today.  New Zealand companies were more optimistic about the
employment market in October, according to an ANZ National Bank
Ltd.  survey  published on Oct. 27. Nineteen percent expected to
add workers in the next 12 months, the survey showed.  Job Market  Employment likely increased in the third quarter, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists ahead of a Nov. 4
government employment report. The  jobless  rate probably fell to
6.7 percent from 6.8 percent in the second quarter, the survey
showed.  Demand for labor was little changed in the third quarter,
today’s report showed. Total weekly paid hours rose 0.2 percent,
seasonally adjusted, from the second quarter.  The statistics agency said its quarterly survey was
conducted before the magnitude 7 earthquake that rocked
Canterbury province on Sept. 4.  The number of full-time equivalent employees declined 0.6
percent from the second quarter, when they rose 1 percent, the
report showed.  Filled jobs fell 1 percent from the second quarter, led by
manufacturing due a seasonal reduction in food processing, the
agency said. Filled jobs gained 0.7 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  