-- New Zealand Treasury Says Economic Growth Less Than Expected on Spending
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-01T02:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/new-zealand-treasury-says-economic-growth-less-than-expected-on-spending.html
New Zealand’s economy is probably
growing at a slower pace than forecast in May’s budget as
consumers show restraint in their spending, according to the
Treasury Department.  The restraint is evident in retail spending and a softer
housing market, the department said in a report posted on its
 website  today. The report doesn’t contain new forecasts. The
department publishes fresh estimates on Dec. 14.  “The half-year updates, currently being prepared, are
likely to show a weaker level of economic activity, over the
forecast period relative to budget forecasts,” it said.  Weaker economic growth adds to the case for central bank
Governor  Alan Bollard  to keep the benchmark interest rate
unchanged until March next year. In September, the central bank
revised its 2010 growth forecast to 2.6 percent from 3.1 percent.
In the budget, the Treasury had forecast 3 percent.  All 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand’s official cash rate will stay at 3
percent until March.  “In the face of significant debt and general uncertainty,
households have maintained a high degree of restraint, resulting
in flat  retail spending  in August,” the Treasury said. “Weak
spending growth in the third quarter points to growth in
consumption falling short of budget forecasts.”  Economic growth is likely to be supported in 2011 by high
commodity prices, spending associated with the Rugby World Cup
finals being hosted in September and rebuilding after the
magnitude 7 earthquake that struck Canterbury province Sept. 4,
the Treasury said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  