-- New York Times May Sell Debt to Repay Slim Loan Early
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-01T20:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/new-york-times-plans-to-sell-200-million-in-6-year-notes-to-repay-debt.html
New York Times Co . sold $225 million
of six-year bonds to refinance debt as the publisher of the
namesake newspaper seeks to repay a loan from Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim  three years ahead of schedule.  The senior-note offering, boosted from $200 million, is
part of a “refinancing strategy,” the New York-based company
said today in a statement distributed by Business Wire. The
6.625 percent notes yield 501 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Times Co. issued debt for the first time since borrowing
$250 million from companies controlled by Slim in January 2009.
As part of the financing, the billionaire’s Banco Inbursa SA and
Inmobiliaria Carso SA received six-year notes with a coupon of
14 percent and detachable warrants, Times Co. said in a
regulatory filing. Chief Financial Officer  James Follo  said in
an Oct. 19 earnings call that “given the terms,” the company
plans to repay or refinance the debt “at the earliest feasible
date” after they can be called on Jan. 15, 2012.  “The Slim notes were issued while the credit markets had
collapsed and revenue trends at the Times were under significant
pressure,” said  Mike Simonton , a debt analyst with Fitch
Ratings in Chicago. “The terms of the Slim notes are generally
disadvantageous to the company, and with the credit markets
opening up, there is an opportunity for the company to lower its
interest costs and further improve its liquidity position.”  Junk-Bond Yields  The average yield on speculative-grade debt fell to 7.62
percent on Oct. 29, the lowest since May 2007, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II index.
Times Co.’s outstanding notes due in March 2015 have a coupon of
5 percent, and its debt maturing in September 2012 has a 4.61
percent coupon.  Slim hadn’t yet been notified that the company may repay
the $250 million loan early, he said in an Oct. 29 interview
with Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu  on “Bottom  Line With Mark Crumpton .”  “What is important is that they are improving and they can
have a better financial capacity,” Slim said.  The new notes are graded B1 by Moody’s Investors Service
and are ranked B+ by Standard & Poor’s, the rating companies
said in separate statements. They are non-callable, Bloomberg
data show. Barclays Plc managed the sale, according to a person
familiar with the transaction, who declined to be identified
citing lack of authorization to speak publicly on the offering.  Moody’s Outlook  Moody’s raised its outlook on Times Co. to “positive”
from “stable,” citing the repayment of the notes from Slim.  “The company has publicly indicated its intent to retire
the notes to reduce interest expense,” analysts  John Puchalla 
and  Alexandra Parker  wrote in a note today. “Gross balance
sheet debt and cash interest expense will increase in the near
term as a result of the proposed 2016 note offering, but should
drop below current levels once the Slim notes are called.”  Abbe Serphos , a Times Co. spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the offering beyond the statement and regulatory filing.  Times Co. has $774 million of debt and capital lease
obligations outstanding as of Sept. 26, the company said today
in a regulatory filing.  “The conditions in the high-yield market are attractive
for issuers right now,” Simonton said. “There’s no certainty
whether the market will remain open when the company needs the
financing.”  Trimming Costs  Chief Executive Officer  Janet Robinson  is trimming costs as
advertising and circulation revenue slumps. The company, faced
with competition from  News Corp. ’s Wall Street Journal, has
posted a sales decline in 10 of the past 11 quarters.  Times Co. said in its third-quarter earnings statement
distributed by Business Wire on Oct. 19 that it is making
progress in plans to begin charging readers for New York Times’
content online. It will allow people to read some stories
without charge if they come to the website from social networks
or search engines, the company said.  The financing from Slim included warrants to purchase 15.9
million shares of the company’s Class A shares at a price of
$6.3572 per share, according to the January 2009 regulatory
filing.  Inmobiliaria Carso has a 6.93 percent stake in the company,
according to a regulatory filing dated Feb. 20, 2009.  New York Times rose 2 cents to $7.69 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading .  The cost to protect debt issued by Times Co. rose 8 basis
points to 244.3 basis points, according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps, which typically rise as investor
confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves, pay the buyer
face value if a company defaults in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  