-- News Corp. Options Bulls Boost Bets Before Earnings This Week
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-01T13:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/news-corp-bulls-boost-bets-media-company-will-rally-after-earnings-report.html
Bullish  News Corp.  option trades rose
to a  four-month high  Oct. 29 as investors boosted wagers that
the owner of the Wall Street Journal and the Twentieth Century
Fox studio will rally after this week’s earnings report.  Almost 14,000 calls to buy the Class A stock changed hands
on Oct. 29, 12 times the four-week average and 41 times the
number of puts. The shares rose 1.7 percent to $14.72 as of 9:35
a.m. today in New York, extending this year’s gain to 7.4
percent. The  most-active contracts  in the last session were
November $15 calls, which doubled to 40 cents and accounted for
more than three-quarters of all transactions.  “The trades look like a bet the stock will gap up off of
earnings,” said  Ophir Gottlieb , head of client services at
Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-based provider of options market
analytics. Investors may be betting on a repeat of News Corp.’s
February earnings report, which sent the stock up 7.1 percent to
$13.67 and preceded a 27 percent rally to a 2010 peak of $16.24
in April, he said.  The New York-based media company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch  beat analysts’ estimates with its Feb. 2 earnings report
after “Avatar” broke box-office records and advertising sales
increased at the Wall Street Journal. The company also raised
its 2010 earnings forecast. The stock is trading near its five-
month high of $14.56 on Oct. 20 before reporting first-quarter
results on Nov. 3. News Corp. may post profit of 25 cents a
share excluding some items, according to the average of 13
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Programming Agreements  News Corp. reached agreements last week with Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish Network Corp., the second-largest U.S.
satellite-television provider, and Cablevision Systems Corp. of
Bethpage, New York. The disputes would have blacked out Fox
programming including the World Series games and shows such as
“Glee” for more than 3 million Dish customers and
Cablevision’s 3 million customers in the New York City area.  Seventy-seven percent of the November $15 calls changed
hands on the ask price and the contract had an open interest of
913 before Oct. 29. Those data indicate that buyers of new
bullish positions initiated most of the trades.  “That’s the contract that’s going to give the most
leverage if there’s a move higher,” said  Frederic Ruffy , senior
options strategist at WhatsTrading.com, a New York-based
provider of options-market analysis. “It’s like picking the
fastest horse at the racetrack.”  At 40 cents, a buyer of the November $15 call options
starts to profit if the shares climb above about $15.40 before
this month’s expiration on Nov. 19. The last close above that
level was six months ago.  Volatility  Implied volatility , the key gauge of option prices, for at-
the-money News Corp. options expiring in 30 days is 36.78.
That’s above the 18.30 average for the company’s 10 largest
rivals by market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Call volume for the  Class B  shares was 3,729 on Oct. 29,
seven times average and quadruple the put volume. Almost all of
those trades were concentrated in November $16 and $17 calls and
December $17 Calls. Those shares haven’t closed above $17 since
May.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 