-- Nigeria Investigating Origin of Illegal Weapons; Yet to Confirm Iran Link
-- B y   S a m   O l u k o y a
-- 2010-11-01T13:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/nigeria-investigating-origin-of-illegal-weapons-yet-to-confirm-iran-link.html
Nigeria’s customs authority said it
was still investigating an illegal shipment of weapons including
rockets, grenade and mortars and couldn’t confirm reports that
the arms came from Iran.  “The report that the shipment is from Iran surely forms
part of our investigation, but at this stage we are still
investigating,” customs spokesman Wale Adeniyi said in a phone
interview from Lagos yesterday. “We don’t have any concrete
evidence yet to suggest where the weapons came from.”  Nigeria intercepted 13 shipping containers with weapons
concealed in them, Marilyn Ogar, a spokeswoman for the security
forces, said on Oct. 26. Four days later, French shipping
company CMA CGM SA said an Iranian company used one of its
vessels to illegally transport the arms from Bandar-Abbas, Iran
to Lagos after labeling them as “packages of glass wool and
pallets of stone.”  The weapons were possibly headed for the Gaza Strip,
Haaretz newspaper reported on Oct. 28, citing an unidentified
senior Israeli official.  Iran won’t comment on the weapons seizure so as not to
“add to the confusion already existing,” its embassy in
 Nigeria  said in a statement handed to reporters in Abuja today.
“It is better to wait until the government reaches a
conclusion.”  The Embassy hasn’t received any report from the Nigerian
government of the arrest of Iranian citizens in the country, the
statement said.  Security agents finished searching all 13 impounded
containers on Oct. 30 and the exact number of arms recovered
from them is being collated, Adeniyi said.  “CMA CGM is cooperating fully with all the relevant
authorities, local and international, to ensure those
responsible for the shipment are recognized and that anyone
trying to break the vital security regulations are stopped and
face the appropriate sanctions,” the company said on Oct. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sam Olukoya  in Lagos at 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  