-- Swiss Stocks Gain; Xstrata, Holcim Climb as Julius Baer Falls
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-11-01T16:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/nobel-biocare-sgs-ubs-xstrata-may-move-in-zurich-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks gained as  Xstrata Plc 
and Holcim Ltd. advanced as gauges of manufacturing in China and
the U.S. both increased more than forecast, offsetting a decline
by Julius Baer Group Ltd.  Xstrata and Holcim gained 3.4 percent and 2.8 respectively
as the expanding Chinese and U.S. manufacturing industries
bolstered confidence in the global economy. Julius Baer lost 3.7
percent as banking shares dropped amid renewed concern that
peripheral euro-area countries cannot pay their debts.  The  Swiss Market Index  gained 0.5 percent to 6,504.72 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge advanced 2.8 percent
last month, the largest gain since February, as investors
speculated that policy makers in the U.S. and elsewhere will
step up efforts to stimulate economic growth through bond
purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing. The broader
 Swiss Performance Index  also added 0.5 percent today.  “Arguably the most anticipated week of the year is finally
upon us,”  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed income at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London, wrote in a note. “On Wednesday, we
will finally discover exactly what the Fed will do with regard
to QE and exactly how it will do it. Clearly the expectation is
that QE2 will take place, although it might be less of ‘shock
and awe’ and more along the lines of ‘steady as she goes.’”  Fed policy makers meet on Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to
boost the U.S. economy, which has grown too slowly to reduce
unemployment from its near 26-year high.  Xstrata, Holcim Jump  Xstrata , the world’s fourth-largest copper producer, gained
3.4 percent to 19.90 Swiss francs.  Holcim , the world’s second-
biggest cement maker, climbed 2.8 percent to 63.05 francs. A
purchasing managers’ index released by China’s logistics
federation rose to 54.7 in October from 53.8 in September, with
input prices climbing the most in six months, indicating that
the economy can bear more gains in the yuan and interest-rate
increases to cool price pressures. A second PMI, from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, jumped to 54.8 from 52.9.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s factory
index increased to 56.9 last month, the highest since May, from
54.4, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth and the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a decline to 54.  Adecco, Actelion  Adecco SA , the world’s largest supplier of temporary
workers, rose 2.3 percent to 56.25 francs.  Actelion Ltd.  added 1.6 percent to 49.88 francs. Citigroup
Inc., which has a “hold” rating on Switzerland’s largest
biotechnology company, said in a note that “although it is
possible to construct viable take-out scenarios on valuation
grounds, we find it harder to envisage a potential acquirer with
the appetite or strategic rationale for this deal. However, a
left-field purchaser is impossible to rule out.”  SGS SA  gained 1.6 percent to 1,600 francs. The world’s
biggest inspection company said it purchased M-Scan Group for an
undisclosed amount.  “Although very small to the group, the acquisition makes
sense, and is fully in line with SGS strategy,” Vontobel AG
said in a note.  Julius Baer , the 120-year-old Swiss private bank, sank 3.7
percent to 40 francs, ending seven days of gains, as a gauge of
European banks fell after the extra yield that investors demand
to hold 10-year Irish government bonds instead of benchmark
German bunds widened to a record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 