-- Nokia, HTC to Lose German Patent Suit, IPCom CEO Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-01T17:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/nokia-htc-will-lose-german-mobile-phone-patent-lawsuit-ipcom-ceo-says.html
IPCom GmbH & Co.  is confident it will
win a German case where  Nokia Oyj  and  HTC Corp.  challenged a
patent held by the licensing company that could potentially
block sales of the handset makers’ devices in Germany,  Bernhard Frohwitter , IPCom’s chief executive officer, said.  Germany’s Federal Patent Court in Munich said Oct. 27 it
would uphold IPCom’s patent protecting random access channel
technology, Frohwitter said in a phone interview today. Nokia
and HTC said the court won’t make a final ruling in the case
until after additional arguments on Dec. 16.  The case is part of Pullach, Germany-based IPCom’s effort
to force Nokia and HTC to pay royalties for a portfolio of
mobile technology patents it acquired from  Robert Bosch GmbH  in
2007. Earlier this year, Nokia succeeded in overturning some
IPCom patents in a U.K. court and lost a bid to invalidate
another patent at the European Patent Office.  “This will give an incredible boost to our cases pending
in other German courts,” said Frohwitter. “We will finally get
the ruling Nokia has been trying to run away from for two
years.”  HTC’s German lawyer, Martin Chakraborty, said the court
hasn’t taken a final position on the issue and will only decide
it after hearing new arguments from HTC and Nokia.  ‘Inaccurate’  “Nokia does not believe that any injunction can be imposed
on Nokia products in Germany based on these IPCom claims,”
company spokesman  Mark Durrant  said in an e-mailed statement. It
is “inaccurate” to claim the patent at issue has been found
valid, he said.  Nokia  shares  dropped 20 cents, or 2.6 percent, to 7.56
euros in Helsinki trading.  An eventual ruling by the patent judges can be appealed to
the Federal Court of Justice, Germany’s highest civil tribunal.  IPCom has filed separate infringement suits in German
courts to stop the handset makers from selling products in that
country. Some of the suits were put on hold while patent
authorities and patent courts rule on the validity of the
intellectual property.  All patents IPCom asserted against Nokia in Germany that
have come to judgment have been found to be invalid or not
infringed by Nokia products, Durrant said.  IPCom won an infringement case against HTC in a Mannheim
court that is now pending on appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 