-- Nomura Slumps to 28-Year Low After Profit Tumbles 96% on Overseas Losses
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-11-01T07:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/nomura-falls-in-tokyo-after-japanese-brokerage-reports-96-profit-plunge.html
Nomura Holdings Inc.  fell to the
lowest since 1982 in Tokyo trading after posting a 96 percent
decline in quarterly profit on losses at overseas operations.  Nomura, Japan’s largest brokerage,  slid  5 percent to 397
yen at the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the  lowest 
in 28 years. Net income shrank to 1.1 billion yen ($14 million)
for the three months ended Sept. 30, the smallest in six
quarters, the Tokyo-based firm said on Oct. 29.  The drop in profit was steeper than those of global rivals
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Macquarie Group Ltd. as
Nomura struggled to generate business from its 2008 purchase of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian operations.
Chief Executive Officer  Kenichi Watanabe  is expanding abroad as
Japan’s  economic stagnation  limits growth prospects at home.  “The market isn’t patient enough to keep waiting for
Nomura’s investments to bear fruit,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees about $450 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “The result showed Nomura’s
profitability is still behind its global rivals, and it needs to
improve cost control and management overseas.”  Revenue fell 10 percent to 320.4 billion yen last quarter,
as trading income and brokerage commissions declined. Profit
before taxes narrowed 21 percent from a year earlier to 21.6
billion yen as the company’s  Asian  and European operations
posted losses. Income tax expenses totaled 19.7 billion yen.  Income Taxes  The company was unable to defer taxes on the losses from
abroad,  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at Global FXA
Securities Ltd., said in a report.  Nomura’s biggest domestic rival also struggled last
quarter.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. , Japan’s second-largest
brokerage, said on Oct. 29 it had a loss of 4.2 billion yen for
the period, compared with 2 billion yen profit a year earlier.
Daiwa fell 1.8 percent to 322 yen, a four-week low.  The drop in Nomura’s share price takes its market value to
around $18 billion, about a quarter what it was in the late
1980s. Nomura was fleetingly the world’s biggest financial
institution, with a market value of $76 billion on April 17,
1987, less than three years before Japan’s  stock bubble  burst.  Nomura has raised more than 700 billion yen in public share
sales since March 2009.  “In the second half, we will continue to focus on flow
businesses and generating revenues from our investments while
maintaining a robust financial position,” Watanabe, 58, said in
last week’s earnings statement.  Not All Bad  Not all of Nomura’s business slumped last quarter, with
revenue from investment banking fees increasing. The brokerage
rose in global rankings for mergers and acquisitions advice as
well as equity underwriting in the period compared with a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  While overall earnings deteriorated on a year-on-year
basis, trading income improved from the quarter that ended June
30, climbing to 103 billion yen from 60 billion yen.  “Results were favorable in light of the difficult
environment,” said  Masao Muraki , an analyst at Deutsche
Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “It looks like revenues in September
and October improved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  