-- Novartis Officials Hid Bone Drugs' Risks, Lawyer Tells Jurors
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J e r r y   A d a m s
-- 2010-11-01T23:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/novartis-officials-hid-risks-of-bone-drugs-aredia-and-zometa-lawyer-says.html
Novartis AG  officials downplayed
risks that the drugmaker’s bone-strengthening medicines Aredia
and  Zometa  could destroy patients’ jaws, a lawyer for a woman
suing the company told a North Carolina jury.  Officials of the Basel, Switzerland-based drug company got
reports from doctors as early as 2002 that Rita Fussman and
other cancer patients taking Aredia and Zometa to prevent bone
loss during treatment suffered irreplaceable jawbone damage, Bob
Germany, a lawyer for Fussman’s family, said in opening
statements in a trial over the medicines. Fussman died in 2009
of complications from breast cancer.  Fussman’s family contends Novartis didn’t adequately warn
that Aredia and Zometa could cause disfiguring jaw damage that
forced cancer patients such as Fussman to subsist on baby food,
Germany told jurors in federal court in Winston-Salem.  Patients and their doctors “were not told the whole story
about these drugs,” Germany said. “In fact, we were not told
half the story.”  The Fussman family’s lawsuit is the third product-liability
case to go to trial over the bone-strengthening treatments,
which had 2009  sales  of $1.5 billion, according to Novartis’s
annual report. Both drugs are still on the market.  Other Trials  Last month, a New Jersey jury rejected a woman’s claims
that Aredia and Zometa caused her jaw deterioration. In October
2009, a Montana jury ordered Novartis to pay  $3.2 million  in
damages to a cancer patient who made the same claims over the
medicines.  Novartis’s lawyer countered in his opening statement that
Aredia and Zometa helped make it easier for patients like the
76-year-old Fussman to deal with cancer and that her history of
repeated dental surgeries may have caused her jaw problems.  “She never had excruciating bone pain while she was on
Zometa,” Bruce Berger, one of the company’s lawyers, told
jurors. The drugs allowed her “to live without the pain of
cancer,” he added.  Novartis is facing almost 700 suits over the bone-
strengthening medicines, according to court filings.  Some of the cases have been consolidated before a federal
judge in Tennessee while others, like Fussman’s, have been sent
back to their home courts for trial. Fussman lived in Chapel
Hill, North Carolina. Still other cases have been heard in state
courts around the country.  The case is Estate of Rita Fussman v. Novartis
Pharmaceuticals Corp., 06-CV-000149, U.S. District Court, Middle
District of North Carolina (Winston-Salem).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in New Brunswick, New Jersey, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Jerry Adams in Winston-Salem, North Carolina at
 jjadams@bellsouth.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 