-- TNT Plunges After Profit Unexpectedly Falls on Mail Volume Slide
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-11-01T08:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/tnt-plunges-after-profit-unexpectedly-falls-on-mail-volume-slide.html
TNT NV , Europe’s second-biggest
express company, fell to the lowest price in almost a year in
Amsterdam trading after profit unexpectedly declined as volumes
dropped at the letter-delivery division.  TNT  fell as much as 4.4 percent to 18.27 euros, the lowest
intraday level since Nov. 5, 2009, and was down 2.9 percent as
of 9:40 a.m. Third-quarter earnings before interest and taxes
dropped 20 percent to 143 million euros ($200 million), the
Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts were  predicting  Ebit would rise 6.7 percent to 191
million euros, according to 11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of letters and packages handled by the mail unit
fell 7.7 percent amid intensifying competition and the
substitution of e-mail for personal letters. Volumes will
decline “at the upper end” of a projected 7 percent to 9
percent drop for the year, TNT said today. TNT is “fully on
track” with the operational separation of the mail division on
Jan. 1, the company said.  “Volumes in mail fell harder than expected,” said Andre
Mulder, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who has a
“reduce”  recommendation  on TNT stock. “In express, we don’t
see the recovery of margins yet in the second half of this
year.”  TNT said in April that it would explore an initial public
offering or seek partners for the mail unit as the parent
company focuses on the growing and more profitable parcel-
delivery express business.  Even as TNT shipped more goods via air and road in the
third quarter, prices in Europe remained under pressure, TNT
said today. Third-quarter net income fell 24 percent to 75
million euros, it said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  