-- Ohio Lawmaker's `Best Resume' May Not Be Good Enough to Beat Republicans
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-11-01T16:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/ohio-lawmaker-s-best-resume-may-not-be-good-enough-to-beat-republicans.html
On a windy Tuesday afternoon at the
Louisville Sportsman’s Club in Ohio, U.S. Representative  John Boccieri  smoothly shot down a fluorescent orange target soaring
across the long, grass-covered firing range.  It’s trapshooting like that, backed by a consistent record
of support for gun rights, that won Boccieri the endorsement of
the National Rifle Association two years after he became the
first Democrat in 60 years to represent the Canton-based  16th
congressional district  in northeastern Ohio.  Still, the Air Force veteran and former professional
baseball player has become a target himself, as voters
frustrated with the slow pace of economic recovery prepare to
oust scores of House Democrats in tomorrow’s midterm elections.  “I’m angry too,” Boccieri said as shots reverberated
across the cow and horse pastures surrounding the club. “We
haven’t recovered fast enough, but how angry are you going to be
if we put the folks in charge that got us into this mess?”  Boccieri’s anger -- and a resume that includes service in
two wars and opposition to abortion that  plays well  in the
district -- may not be enough to save the 41-year-old lawmaker
from getting swept away in a Republican wave. In Ohio, Democrats
may lose five House races, a Senate contest and the
gubernatorial election. What happens here will reflect broader
trends: Nationally, Democrats are expected by  analysts  to lose
control of the House of Representatives.  More Than Most  Ohio, long a center of heavy industry, has suffered more
than most states. It has lost 400,000  manufacturing jobs  over
the last decade, 40 percent of the factory workforce, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  jobless rate  was 10 percent
in September, compared with a national average of 9.6 percent,
the data shows.  Home foreclosures  in the Canton area increased
by 4 percent in the third quarter of 2010 from the previous
quarter, according to Irving, California-based RealtyTrac Inc.  “I don’t know what to do,” said Thomas Bennett, director
of the Department of Job and Family Services in rural Wyandot
County. “Sometimes things get so bad someone has to come up
with an answer, but no one has.”  Polls show  that Ohio residents, like voters across the
U.S., have soured on the Obama White House, saying they don’t
see the health-care legislation, stimulus bill, and government
bailout of banks and automakers boosting the economy.  The state’s congressional Democrats are likely to pay for
the erosion of support. The Cook Political Report rates the
races of Representatives Boccieri, who’s running against
Republican  Jim Renacci ;  Zack Space ; and  Charlie Wilson  as toss-
ups. Those of Representatives  Mary Jo Kilroy  and  Steve Driehaus 
are viewed as likely to flip to Republican control.  ‘Very Close Race’  Republican  Rob Portman , the top international trade
official under former President  George W. Bush , is 15 percetnage
points ahead of Democrat  Lee Fisher  in the Senate race,
according to the  latest poll  by CNN and Time Magazine. And
Democratic Governor  Ted Strickland  is running  about even  with
Republican challenger  John Kasich  in the survey.  “This is going to be a very close race,” Strickland said
in an Oct. 27 interview. “It will be decided by 1 to 3
points.”  A  poll  released today by the Institute for Policy Research
at the University of Cincinnati projects that Kasich will beat
Strickland by about five points.  2012 Factor  The two parties are trying not only to win this year but to
lay the groundwork for a 2012 presidential victory. The state
has voted for the winner in the last 12  U.S. presidential
elections , and its 20 electoral votes are seen as key.  “We get rolling here and we’ll have a big say in who will
be the next president,” Kasich told a Republican crowd at a
pork barbecue picnic in rural Gallipolis on Oct. 16.  Ohio’s importance is reflected in who has visited the state
in recent weeks. President  Barack Obama  made his 12th trip
yesterday, along with Vice President  Joseph Biden .  Last week, former President  Bill Clinton  and House
Republican leader  John Boehner  relocated dueling political
rallies after Canton officials worried that the events would
snarl traffic and pose a security risk. Clinton campaigned again
for Strickland and Boccieri on Oct. 30.  Stark County  If Ohio reflects the mood of the country, Boccieri’s Stark
County is the state’s barometer.  The county, home of the Pro-Football  Hall of Fame , hulking
factories and family farms, backed Obama in the  presidential
campaign . The enthusiasm Obama generated among Democrats helped
Boccieri win that year, gaining a seat that Republican  Ralph Regula  had held since 1973, before retiring.  Now, Boccieri is battling for his political survival
against millionaire businessman Renacci, from a campaign office
in downtown Canton surrounded by boarded-up homes and a
shuttered  General Motors  dealership.  Boccieri grew up in northeast Ohio and spent eight years in
the Ohio legislature, his term interrupted by tours of duty in
both Iraq and Afghanistan. Those credentials, plus an “A”
rating from the NRA, an anti-abortion stance, and a seat on the
 House Agriculture Committee  helped him win support from the
district’s socially conservative, rural Democrats.  “John Boccieri has probably got the best resume of anyone
in Congress,” said Roger Strickland, who has campaigned at pro-
gun events across the state for the governor, his brother. “If
the people of this district don’t put him back in Congress
they’ve got to open up a lot of mental hospitals around here.”  Yet Boccieri’s  support  for Obama’s health-care,  economic
stimulus , and cap-and-trade initiatives is hurting him with many
of those voters.  ‘Hoodwinked by Pelosi’  After opposing the health-care overhaul in November 2009,
Boccieri switched to support the legislation the following
March, saying he’d rather pass an imperfect bill than do
nothing.  “He was hoodwinked by Pelosi and her gang,” said Jack
Finefrock, 59, a real estate investor who’s voting for Renacci.
“The Democratic left has ruined the party.”  Decisions by Canton-based steel-bearings maker  Timken Co. 
to hire back 500 workers and by  Rolls Royce Group Plc  to expand
a fuel-cell research facility in the district aren’t enough to
convince voters the economy is on the mend. Unemployment in the
Canton metropolitan area rose to 11.5 percent this July from 6
percent in December 2007, the month the recession began.  “The perception is things got worse not better over the
last two years,” said Joe Hoagland, 55, president of local 1123
of the United Steelworkers union, leaning against the wall of
the single-story  Laborers International Union  building in
Canton, a city of about 80,000 people.  Winning With Anxiety  Renacci, 51, said he believes that economic anxiety will
catapult him to victory.  “The people of this district have to make a decision: Are
they happy with the direction we’re going?” he said, standing
in the high-ceilinged concrete lobby of the  Canton cultural
center  after a Republican rally.  Renacci, who built a fortune from investments in nursing
homes, real estate, auto dealerships and a football team,
promises to work to repeal the health-care bill, halt remaining
stimulus spending, and cut “smaller items” in the budget to
lower the  federal deficit . He opposed the government rescue of
automakers, even as his Chevrolet dealership profited from the
“Cash for Clunkers” program.  Those positions won him an endorsement from former vice
presidential candidate  Sarah Palin , who called him a “common-
sense local leader.”  Still, for many Stark County voters surrounded by shuttered
stores and half-empty factories, the promises they hear from
both parties sound hollow.  “I remember when Canton was over 100,000” in population,
says Darrell Miller, 61, a truck driver who’s been out of work
for three years. “Those days are long gone and they’re not
coming back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  