-- ONGC Videsh Studying Proposal Offering Exxon Mobil's Stake in Angola Field
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-11-01T09:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/oil-natural-gas-may-buy-exxon-stake-in-angola-field-economic-times-says.html
ONGC Videsh Ltd., a unit of India’s
biggest energy exploration company, is studying a proposal from
bankers offering  Exxon Mobil Corp. ’s stake in a field in Angola.  “It’s too early to comment,” Managing Director  R.S. Butola  said in New Delhi today, responding to an Economic Times
report that  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  may buy Exxon Mobil’s 25
percent stake in a deepwater field in Angola for $2 billion. No
decision has been taken on pricing or bidding, he said, without
identifying the bankers.  State-owned ONGC leads India’s push to secure energy
supplies overseas for the world’s third-fastest-growing major
 economy . India’s demand for oil and gas will increase 40 percent
in the next 10 years, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said at a
conference in New Delhi today. In its quest for supplies, India
has lost out to China in at least $12.5 billion of contracts in
the year ended June 30.  “A deal like this will be positive for ONGC,” said  Vinay Nair , a Mumbai-based analyst with Khandwala Securities Ltd.
“They need to add to their oil and gas resources especially
since they haven’t been too successful domestically.”  ONGC  shares  rose 1.3 percent to 1,320.90 rupees at 1:59
p.m. in Mumbai trading. The stock has climbed 12 percent this
year compared with a 17 percent advance in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index .  ONGC Videsh is expected to submit a bid soon, the Economic
Times reported, citing two unidentified people with direct
knowledge of the matter. The field may produce 300,000 barrels a
day by 2012, according to the report, which cited the website of
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Block Partners  BP Plc is the operator of the Block 31 field, and its
partners include Statoil ASA, Total SA and Angola’s state-run
oil company, Sonangol SA, the newspaper said.  “In Block 31, some of the companies are leaving, and
Sonangol has the responsibility to find other partners,”
Angolan Oil Minister  Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos  told
reporters in New Delhi today.  India’s prime minister said his government is encouraging
national oil companies to invest in foreign oil and gas
projects. “We seek to build strong economic partnerships with
other countries and their oil and gas industries to the mutual
benefit of each other,” Singh said.  Sovereign Fund  The South Asian nation has proposed a sovereign wealth fund
to bid for reserves and has told ONGC and its smaller state-
owned rival  Oil India Ltd.  to make one major acquisition each
this year. Both companies have a mandate to raise the amount
they can spend without government approval to 50 billion rupees
($1.1 billion).  ONGC is working with Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, also known as
PetroVietnam, for the purchase of BP’s assets in Vietnam. The
British company’s stake in projects has been offered to its
Russian oil venture, Moscow-based TNK-BP.  India is in talks for its state explorers to form a
partnership with the winner of development rights to the Trebs
and Titov fields, Russia’s largest undistributed oil assets, Oil
Secretary S. Sundareshan said in an interview Oct. 27.  ONGC bought Imperial Energy Plc, which has oil fields in
Siberia, for about 1.4 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 