-- Oil Rises a Second Day on U.S. Stimulus Speculation, Chinese Manufacturing
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-11-02T08:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/oil-rises-a-second-day-on-chinese-manufacturing-u-s-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil rose for a second day to trade
near a two-week high on speculation the Federal Reserve will
take steps to stimulate the U.S. economy and on accelerating
growth in China, the world’s largest energy consumer.  Crude climbed above $83 a barrel before a Fed meeting where
policy makers may announce a plan to buy at least $500 billion
of long-term securities, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Manufacturing in China and the U.S. increased in
October, data yesterday showed. Consuming countries are happy
with oil between $70 and $90 a barrel, said  Ali al-Naimi , Saudi
Arabia’s oil minister.  “Market participants want to see the result of the Fed
meeting,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity derivative sales
manager at brokers Newedge in Tokyo. “For the rest of the year,
the market should be sustained around this level. Like the Saudi
minister said, that’s a pretty happy price for everyone.”  Crude for December delivery rose as much as 52 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $83.47 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $83.42 at 3:55 p.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract rallied to $83.86, the
highest intra-day price since Oct. 14. Futures have gained 5.1
percent in 2010.  The Fed, meeting in Washington today and tomorrow, is
expected to restart a program of securities purchases to spur
growth, reduce unemployment and increase inflation, said 53 of
56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Economic Revival  Oil has advanced this year in the face of rising
inventories as investors bet demand for fuel will increase on a
global economic revival.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded at the fastest pace in
five months in October, the Institute for Supply Management’s
U.S. factory index showed yesterday, pointing to renewed
strength in the industry that led the country out of recession.
Separately, China’s Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
the country’s  purchasing managers’ index  climbed in October to a
six-month high.  Brent crude for December settlement rose as much as 61
cents, or 0.7 percent, to $85.23 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday, the contract added $1.47,
or 1.8 percent, to settle at $84.62.  Oil Supplies  U.S.  crude inventories   probably increased  1.7 million last
week, based on the median estimate from 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report tomorrow. They
surged 5 million barrels in the week ended Oct. 22, the most
since July. Stockpiles were at 366.2 million, 13 percent above
the five-year average level.  “The market is very well-supplied,” Al-Naimi said at an
industry gathering in Singapore yesterday. “A little bit
oversupplied but it doesn’t seem to be depressing the price.”  Saudi Arabia is the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, a 12-member group that pumps
about 40 percent of the world’s crude.  U.S.  gasoline stockpiles  are expected to have climbed
250,000 barrels last week, having tumbled 4.4 million in the
previous week, the most in a year, the Bloomberg News survey
showed. Distillate fuel inventories, including diesel and
heating oil, probably declined to the lowest level since July.  Hedge funds and other large speculators increased wagers on
rising crude prices by 9.3 percent in the seven days ended Oct.
26, according to the Commitments of Traders report from the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  