-- Oil-Tanker Earnings Face Satellite-Tracking `Nuclear Winter,' Tufton Says
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-11-01T16:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/oil-tankers-face-profit-decline-as-satellite-tracking-favors-oil-companies.html
Oil-tanker owners  face a five-year
“nuclear winter” of unprofitable charters as satellite vessel
tracking weakens their bargaining power, said Tufton Oceanic
Ltd., manager of the world’s largest shipping hedge fund.  Oil companies have an edge in negotiating freight rates as
use of satellites to monitor and record ship movements gives
them better knowledge of tanker availability, said Andreas Vergottis , research director at Tufton Oceanic, which runs the
$1.6 billion Oceanic Hedge Fund. Shipowners haven’t enjoyed
similar advances in gathering cargo data, he said.  “The game of poker bluffing has changed,” Hong Kong-based
Vergottis said by phone today, predicting losses for tanker
owners between 2011 and 2015.  Rental income  for supertankers on the world’s busiest route
for the vessels, between Saudi Arabia and Japan, today climbed
for the first time since June 29 above what industry leader
Frontline Ltd. needs to break even, according to data from the
company and the London-based Baltic Exchange. Returns surged
more than eightfold last week.  Chartering ‘Psychology’  Today returns climbed 31 percent to $33,558 a day,
according to the exchange.  Frontline  said Aug. 27 it needs
$30,900 to break even on the carriers once finance costs are
included. In terms of industry standard Worldscale points, rates
on the benchmark route advanced 11 percent to 73.62 points,
according to the exchange.  Some owners were better able to conceal the availability of
their ships in the past, strengthening their negotiating
positions, Vergottis said. Satellites are reducing their ability
to do so, altering the “psychology of chartering,” he said.  Oil companies’ increased ability to monitor which vessels
are available coincides with an expansion of the  world tanker
fleet  that Morgan Stanley expects to set a record. The fleet
will swell by 86.5 million deadweight tons in the next two
years, equal to about 27 percent of existing capacity, the bank
estimates.  The tanker fleet will increase almost 13 percent next year,
according to Morgan Stanley. That compares with the forecast for
a 1.4 percent increase in oil use by the International Energy
Agency, an adviser to 28 nations.  More Efficient  Satellite systems’ emergence will also bolster the
efficiency of tankers by as much as 33 percent over the next 15
years, Vergottis said. An average tanker will steam as much as
40,000 miles per year loaded with cargo by 2025, up from 30,000
miles this year, he said.  In the early 1970s, tankers steamed 47,000 miles a year on
average on that basis, according to Vergottis. That declined as
the oil industry became less consolidated and consequently less
efficient, he said.  Satellite tracking will also make container and  dry-bulk 
shipping more efficient, cutting freight rates in those markets
as well, Vergottis said. Improved efficiency will enable the
shipping industry to improve its environmental performance, he
said.  “If you want to reduce emissions, the lowest cost to do it
is through the click of a mouse to make ships more productive,”
he said.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a measure of crude-oil
transportation costs that also encompasses vessels smaller than
supertankers, climbed 0.7 percent to 763 points, the fifth
advance in a row.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 