-- Crude Oil Price to Remain in `Comfortable Zone,' Saudi Arabia's Naimi Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-11-01T15:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/oil-price-to-remain-in-comfortable-zone-saudi-s-naimi-says.html
Oil prices are likely to remain in a
“very comfortable zone” even as the market is oversupplied,
Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said in a speech in Singapore.  “The zone should continue for some time, longer than most
people think,” al-Naimi said today at the Singapore Energy
Summit. “The market is very well-supplied. A little bit
oversupplied but it doesn’t seem to be depressing the price.”  Crude has traded between $64 a barrel and $88 a barrel this
year in New York, the narrowest range since 2006, and is up 5.2
percent on the year.  Crude stockpiles  in the U.S., the world’s
biggest consumer, are at the highest since May 2009, government
data show. Prices are being driven by economic growth and rising
demand, the Saudi oil minister said today.  Prices above $80 a barrel are encouraging the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries to exceed its own quotas. The
International Energy Agency estimated that the group achieved 54
percent of its promised supply cuts in September.  Consuming countries are happy with prices between $70 and
$90 a barrel, al-Naimi said. He has previously described a $70-
to-$80-a-barrel price band as “ideal.”  “The reason that consuming countries are happy with this
price is they want to assure that there is rewarding revenue for
producing so-called renewables,” he said. “If the price were
to go significantly below $70, I don’t believe that renewables
would be competitive with fossil fuels.”  ‘Bridge the Gap’  Government policy focused on green energy is hurting the
competitiveness of fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas, al-
Naimi said. Fossil fuels will have to “bridge the gap” until
green energy is affordable, he said. Of the 40 percent increase
in world energy demand within the next two decades, 85 percent
will be met primarily by fossil fuels, he said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil supplier, has the
capacity to produce crude for the next 80 years even without
additional discoveries,  al-Naimi  said in his speech.  “With 264 billion barrels of proven reserves, at current
production levels, the kingdom could continue to supply crude
oil for another 80 years even if we never find another barrel,”
the minister said. “However, we are finding those new
barrels.”  Saudi Arabia is adding reserves equal to the amount it is
extracting each year, al-Naimi said. State-run Saudi Arabian Oil
Co. last year completed a capital spending program of more than
$100 billion, the biggest in its history, the minister said. The
company is also looking at investing in the downstream oil
industry in Asia, al-Naimi said.  Revised Reserves  Iran and Iraq have both revised up estimates of their own
proven oil reserves this year, keeping them within the world’s
top five nations after holdings in Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and
Canada’s vast oil sands deposits.  Prior to those revisions, BP Plc’s Statistical Review of
World Energy, published in June, shows that at current
production rates, Saudi oil reserves will last 74.6 years and
Iran’s 89.4 years.  Saudi Aramco maintains spare production capacity near 4
million barrels a day, Chief Executive Officer Khalid al Falih
said in September. The country  pumped  8.23 million barrels a day
in October, according to Bloomberg estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 