-- Tropical Storm Tomas Weakens on Track Toward Haiti
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-11-01T21:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/tomas-weakens-to-tropical-storm-over-caribbean-hurricane-center-reports.html
Tropical Storm Tomas, its winds down
to 45 miles per hour, will continue to weaken before it picks up
strength tomorrow and hits Haiti as a hurricane later in the
week, according to the National Hurricane Center.  Tomas’s top winds had declined from 50 mph (80 kph) earlier
today. The storm was moving west at 12 mph as of 5 p.m. Eastern
time, according to an advisory issued by the Miami-based center.  “I think it will make a beeline straight for Haiti, and
they are still reeling from the earthquake and they have a
cholera outbreak,” said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy
meteorologist for Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.
“Because of all the deforestation, there will be life-
threatening conditions from landslides and mudslides.”  More than 1 million Haitians have been living in camps
since a 7.0-magnitude earthquake in January killed an estimated
300,000 people and caused $7.8 billion in damage. An outbreak of
cholera has killed 305 people and infected more than 4,649, a
 World Health Organization  branch  said .  The United Nations is working to replenish health supplies
that have dwindled since the cholera outbreak and is preparing a
ship to move aid along the coast in case Tomas causes floods
that cut roads, according to a statement by the agency’s Office
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.  Disaster Plans  The Haitian government has agreed to allow the  U.S.S. Iwo
Jima  to dock in Port-au-Prince if needed for disaster relief,
the statement said. In addition, the Red Cross has sent 250
volunteers to prepare for evacuations.  Tomas is located 400 miles south-southeast of Port-au-
Prince, the nation’s capital, the Hurricane Center said. The
system is forecast to reach Haiti on Nov. 5, according to the
center’s track.  Winds of at least 39 mph extend 140 miles from the center
of the storm, according to the hurricane center.  The storm is moving through a zone of high wind shear,
which is tearing at its structure and weakening it, the center
said. Tomas will strengthen when it moves beyond that area
tomorrow.  Rouiller said a cold front will push Tomas away from the
U.S. and the  Gulf of Mexico , which is home to 31 percent of the
nation’s oil production and 10 percent of its natural gas
output.  Islands Hit  Over the weekend, Tomas grew into a Category 1 hurricane,
the weakest such storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale.
Winds of at least 74 mph raked St. Vincent and St. Lucia, while
Barbados was hit by tropical-storm-force winds of at least 39
mph, the  Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility  said in
an e-mailed report.  CCRIF said more than $12 million will be paid to the three
islands.  Tomas is the 19th storm of the Atlantic hurricane season,
which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30. This year is the third-
most-active on record, tied with 1995 and 1887, according to
 Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for the hurricane center.  In 2005, a record 28 storms formed in the Atlantic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomber.net ;
 Blake Schmidt  at 
 Bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 