-- London Firefighters Start Strike; Guards Deploy to Protect Stand-In Staff
-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2010-11-01T11:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/london-firefighters-start-strike-guards-deploy-to-protect-stand-in-staff.html
Firefighters in London went on strike
today and security guards were deployed in fire stations across
the capital after talks between the U.K.’s Fire Brigades Union
and  London  Fire Brigade broke down.  An eight-hour strike started at 10.a.m today, Francis
Beckett, a spokesman for the union, said by phone today. The LFB
has deployed security guards in fire stations across London to
protect stand-in fire and rescue crews, a spokeswoman for the
fire service who requested anonymity said by phone today.  The firefighters staged an eight-hour walk-out on Oct. 23.
The LFB, the largest fire and rescue service in the U.K., said
its stand-in crews faced harassment and intimidation during the
Oct. 23 strike.  The LFB will have 27 fire engines on duty across the
capital, and will be able to call on 170 contractors from
AssetCo Plc, to put out fires.  The union has asked for a further meeting tomorrow to avert
a 47-hour strike planned for Bonfire Night on Nov.5 and hasn’t
yet received official confirmation that this will take place,
Beckett said.  Bonfire Night  is a traditional date on the English calender
when families and communities light huge bonfires and put on
firework displays to celebrate the failed 1605 plot by Guy
Fawkes and his co-conspirators to blow up the Houses of
Parliament. Firefighters typically attend twice as many callouts
as on an average day.  The strike action follows a request by Ron Dobson, the LFB
Commissioner, to the Department of Business, Innovation and
Skills and the FBU in August, asking for a formal consultation
to terminate firefighters’ existing contracts and offer them new
ones. The FBU has said this process is aimed at cutting some of
the 5,557 uniformed and 41 non-operational firefighters.  London’s Heathrow and City airports aren’t affected as both
have their own organic fire services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
ckeatinge@bloomberg. 