-- Hong Kong Home Loans Fall 22% in September on Government Cooling Measures
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-01T08:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/hong-kong-s-mortgage-approvals-plunge-22-most-in-two-years-after-curbs.html
Hong Kong’s newly approved mortgage
loans fell 22 percent in September from August, the most since
December 2008, after the government introduced measures to avert
a property bubble.  The total value of newly approved loans declined to HK$31.6
billion ($4.1 billion), the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said
today on its website. The amount of loans which had previously
been approved and were drawn down in the month rose 2.4 percent
in September from August to HK$33.9 billion, according to the
city’s de-facto central bank.  The government has since August raised down-payment ratios,
stopped offering residency to foreigners who buy property in the
city, and increased land auctions to boost supply. Sales of new
homes doubled in October, and property prices have  surged  about
50 percent since the beginning of 2009 on record-low mortgage
rates and an influx of wealthy mainland Chinese buyers.  “This is just a lagging indicator that reflects the
measures in August,” said  Nicole Wong , a property analyst at
CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong. “We’ve seen gains in both transaction
price and volume in the home market in October, and we expect
prices will rise faster than we expected next year.”  New home sales volume more than doubled to 1,319 in October
from September’s 524, Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s
biggest privately held real-estate broker, said in a release
yesterday.  ‘Significant’ Gains  The Hang Seng Property Index, which  tracks  the city’s seven
biggest developers, has  gained  13 percent this year, compared
with an 8 percent increase in the benchmark Hang Seng Index. The
property index was up 2.7 percent at the 4 p.m. local time close
of trading today, its biggest advance in almost two months.  HKMA Chief Executive Officer  Norman Chan  told lawmakers in
Hong Kong today that the home market is overheating and has
posted “significant” price gains in recent months.  “Initial data in October seems to show that the home
market is active again,” Chan said.  He cautioned that buyers should consider affordability
because interest rates in Hong Kong can’t fall further. Hong
Kong rates tend to follow those in the U.S. because the local
currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar.  Hong Kong will maintain the currency peg as changing the
peg system doesn’t mean pressure on inflation and the home
market would be eased, Chan said.  Further Price Gains  A decline in used home sales at the weekend from a week
earlier suggests property owners expect home prices to rise
further, said Louis Chan Wing-kit, Centaline managing director
for residential properties. Used home sales in Hong Kong’s 10
biggest residential estates fell 24.3 percent this weekend from
a week ago, according to Centaline.  Existing home sales will rebound in November as the market
becomes more active, after dropping 22 percent last month from
September, according to Centaline’s statement yesterday.  “The government had said that they won’t interfere with
the market whenever possible, and that has sent a signal to
buyers that the government won’t adopt drastic measures on the
home market,” CLSA’s Wong said.  Hong Kong home prices surged 49 percent since the beginning
of 2009, according to an  index  compiled by Centaline, to the
highest since 1997, when the city slid into its first recession
in more than a decade after the 1997-1998 Asian financial crisis,
sending property values more than 50 percent lower until they
started recovering in 2003.  An  index  of private home prices compiled by the Rating and
Valuation Department in Hong Kong shows real-estate values
almost quadrupled from 1990 to the peak in 1997.  The U.S. Federal Reserve meets Nov. 2-3 and with interest
rates near zero is likely to announce another round of large-
scale asset purchases after deploying $1.7 trillion to pull the
economy out of the financial crisis by increasing the rate of
inflation and reducing the cost of borrowing in real terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  