-- Canadian Dollar Advances to Two-Week High Before Federal Reserve Meeting
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-01T21:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/loonie-falls-versus-australian-new-zealand-dollars-before-meeting-of-fed.html
Canada’s dollar rose to a two-week
high versus its U.S. counterpart on speculation the Federal
Reserve will debase the greenback further by stepping up
quantitative easing.  The Canadian currency rose for a third day as advances in
crude oil spurred demand for assets related to economic growth.
The loonie may have also risen on speculation a buyer purchased
the Canadian dollar versus the Swiss franc today,  Firas Askari ,
head currency trader at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital unit in
Toronto, said via e-mail.  “The U.S. dollar has had a heavy feel against the Canadian
dollar,” said Askari, who added that traders are “squaring”
positions before the Fed’s statement at the conclusion of its
Nov. 2-3 meeting.  The Canadian currency, also known as the loonie for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.4
percent to C$1.0152 per U.S. dollar at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto,
from C$1.0194 on Oct. 29. It touched C$1.0127, the strongest
level since Oct. 18. The Canadian dollar buys 98.50 U.S. cents.  The loonie has fallen against all of its major counterparts
except the greenback since the end of July on speculation a
stalling U.S. recovery will cause the Canadian economy to slow.
Canada ships about two-thirds of its exports to the U.S.  “The Canadian dollar is getting dragged down with the U.S.
dollar on the sell-North America trade,”  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, wrote via e-mail.
“If we look at the last three months, essentially when QE2
expectations really started picking up and U.S. yields declined,
the Canadian dollar is the second-worst performer in the G-10
after the U.S. dollar.”  Fall From Parity  Canada’s dollar has weakened 1.1 percent since touching
parity with its U.S. counterpart on Oct. 14 for the first time
since April. The Bank of Canada stopped raising its target
lending rate on Oct. 19, citing a “weaker U.S. outlook,” after
three successive increases to 1 percent.  Among its most-traded counterparts in the past three
months, Canada’s dollar has lost the most against the Australian
dollar, falling 7 percent on speculation the Reserve Bank of
Australia will continue to raise interest rates while the Bank
of Canada remains on hold as the U.S. recovery slows.  That move may be about to reverse, according to  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy in
London at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  “The more conservative Canadian dollar may outperform the
Australian dollar in the short term amidst a U.S. dollar
reversal pattern,” Stretch said via e-mail.  Australian Rate View  Most of the 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predict the Australian central bank will leave its cash rate
target at 4.50 percent tomorrow.  The Canadian dollar appreciated as much as 0.3 percent to
parity versus the Australian currency after falling 0.7 percent
earlier today to 99.05 cents. The loonie rallied as much as 1.9
percent against the Swiss franc to 98.15 centimes, the highest
level since Sept. 17. The Canadian currency rose as much as 1.3
percent to 79.92 yen.  Canada’s longer-term bonds dropped, pushing the benchmark
10-year yield up three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 2.83 percent. It reached the lowest this year, 2.68 percent,
on Oct. 12, and was as high as 3.75 percent in April. The price
of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020 fell 22 cents
to C$105.56.  Government bonds lost less than 0.1 percent in October
after six straight months of advances, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  The Fed will meet for two days starting tomorrow to
consider an increase in purchases of government debt, a policy
known as quantitative easing.  Estimates for the ultimate size of the Fed’s asset-buying
program include $1 trillion by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
$2 trillion by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Purchases of $500
billion would add as much stimulus as reducing the Fed’s
benchmark rate by 0.50 to 0.75 percentage point, New York Fed
President  William Dudley  said Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  