-- Actors Get Drunk, Romeo Snores, Rossini in Pub: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-11-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/top-actors-get-drunk-romeo-snores-at-lover-rossini-in-pub-london-stage.html
An ensemble of U.K. comic actors,
several of them national treasures, are starring in a West End
play with a great hook for its central idea. What could possibly
go wrong?  At the beginning, plenty goes right. J.B. Priestley’s 1938
comedy “ When We Are Married ” shows what happens when three
stout respectable couples in Edwardian Yorkshire discover that,
due to a bureaucratic accident, they aren’t in fact married.  The bombshell proves to be as liberating as terrifying.
Henpecked Herbert Soppitt (Sam Kelly) finally stands up to his
violent harridan of a spouse (Maureen Lipman). “I would never
raise a hand to my wife,” he says dutifully. After a well-timed
pause, he adds, “Since you’re not my wife, though...” and gets
his revenge on her.  The women dread being exposed, and the men fear for their
standing in the community. Pomposity is pricked and vanity
exposed in traditional comic fashion.  Then the playwright’s nerve seems to fail. He doesn’t
grapple with property, or division of money, or illegitimacy, or
any of the things which could give the situation real comedic
weight. This is gentle, toothless stuff. It’s a creaky piece of
plotting, too, that the ingenue couple who are initially crucial
to the central revelation are forgotten about by the end.  Stingy Albert  Still, it’s a pleasure to see a superb cast go through
their paces (directed by  Christopher Luscombe ) on Simon
Higlett’s hyper realistic Edwardian set.  Watching the draconian Lipman trying to sit down at the
command of her newly authoritative husband, her rebellious
instincts battling with her prudence, is worth the price of the
ticket.  Simon Rouse brings an impressive roundedness to the pompous
and stingy Albert Parker. Susie Blake and Michele Dotrice are
delightful as the other wives.  Roy Hudd is the disheveled and tipsy photographer Henry
Ormonroyd, and he shows how drunk-acting -- a form of stage
business usually so tiresome -- should be done.  If there are plenty of better plays in the West End, there
aren’t many better ensembles.  Rating: ***.  Pub Crawl  Last year a highly enjoyable contemporary version of
Puccini’s “La Boheme” was staged in a pub with a piano by
Robin Norton-Hale for  Opera Up Close .  Now the low-budget company has found a home in London’s
“newest opera house,” the King’s Head pub theater in north
London.  The season opens with Rossini’s “Barber of Seville.”
Norton-Hale, who has wittily translated the libretto and who
also directs, sets the action in Regency England. There are good
period costumes, and a simple multipurpose set.  Rossini proves a tougher nut to crack than Puccini, and a
lot of the comic business (unwitnessed asides, offended dignity,
double takes and the like) could benefit from more accuracy and
better timing.  The young singers all have good things to offer, mixed with
some not-so-good things.  It’s genial stuff, however, and in a period when fledgling
opera performers and directors need all the help they can get to
learn their craft, the project should be welcomed with shouts of
joy.  Rating: **.  Parking and Barking  Shouts of joy are certainly not going to greet the  Royal
Opera ’s four-hour “Romeo et Juliette.” Groans of despair,
perhaps, or snores.  Nicolas Joel ’s production of Gounod’s 1867 work manages to
combine elements of the worst kind of traditional opera
stagings. The chorus shuffles on, stands still, and shuffles
off. The blocking for the principals is of the park-and-bark
variety. The moveable Renaissance walls, arches and steps which
comprise Carlo Tommasi’s set are shoddy and badly lit. The
period costumes make the men look like court jesters.  Tenor Piotr Beczala rises above it all with a soaring,
sweet-toned account of Romeo, and the singing of Alfie Boe
(Tybalt) and Stephane Degout (Mercutio) falls pleasantly on the
ear. The chorus sounds good too. Since they don’t have to think
about acting, that’s not surprising.  Juliette (Nino Machaidze) has a hard and squally edge to
her voice, and conductor Daniel Oren’s mind often seems to be
elsewhere. Given what’s in front of him, that’s not surprising
either. Rating: *.  “When We Are Married” is at London’s Garrick Theatre.
Information:  http://whenwearemarried.com  or +44-844-412-4662.  “The Barber of Seville (Or Salisbury)” is at the King’s
Head Theatre, Islington, through Nov. 14. See
 http://www.kingsheadtheatre.com  or call +44-8444-771-000.  “Romeo et Juliette” is in repertoire at the Royal Opera
House through Nov. 17. Go to  http://www.roh.org.uk  or call
+44-20-7304-4000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.) 