-- Topix Falls for Sixth Day as Earnings Drop, Miss Estimates; Honda Plunges
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-11-01T07:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/topix-index-falls-for-sixth-day-on-stronger-yen-earnings-carmakers-slump.html
Japanese  stocks  dropped, driving the
Topix index to its longest losing streak since July, as
companies reported lower earnings or made forecasts that fell
short of analysts’ estimates.  Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s second-largest carmaker, Panasonic
Corp., a consumer electronics maker, and All Nippon Airways Co.
all lost at least 3 percent after forecasts missed estimates.
Nomura Holdings Inc., the country’s No. 1 brokerage, sank to a
28-year low after saying quarterly profit was almost wiped out.
The yen rose to a 15-year high against the dollar today ahead of
this week’s meetings by the Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan,
cutting the outlook for export earnings.  “There are uncertainties about the outlook and companies
are cautious,” said  Koichi Kurose , chief strategist in Tokyo at
Resona Bank Ltd., which manages about $57 billion. “Earnings
overall are good, but the market cannot fully price that in
because of the yen’s appreciation.”  The  Topix  fell 0.9 percent to 803.30 at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo, its sixth consecutive retreat, the longest streak since
the eight days ended July 1. About twice as many shares declined
as advanced, and the gauge dropped the most among benchmark
Asia-Pacific indexes. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.5
percent to 9,154.72.  About nine companies have  exceeded profit estimates  for
every seven that have fallen short, based on Bloomberg data
compiled from more than 585 companies that have reported
quarterly results since Oct. 7. About 360 companies out of more
than 1,650 in the Topix are scheduled to announce earnings this
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Honda Retreats  The Nikkei has decreased about 13 percent this year, the
most among gauges for the world’s 40 largest equity markets.
Shares in the gauge are trading near a seven-week low of 16.1
times estimated earnings on average.  Honda slumped 5 percent to 2,789 yen after forecasting
fiscal full-year net income of 500 billion yen ($6.2 billion),
compared with 526 billion yen expected by analysts, based on the
median of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg News. Honda was
today’s most-active stock by value traded in Japan and the
 heaviest single drag  on the Topix and the Nikkei 225.  Panasonic, which projected profit of 85 billion yen, versus
a median estimate of 109 billion yen, dropped 3.4 percent. All
Nippon Airways, Asia’s largest listed carrier by sales,
decreased 3.9 percent after forecasting net income of 6 billion
yen, compared with a median estimate of 14 billion yen.  The three companies released earnings on Oct. 29, the peak
day for last quarter’s results.  IHI, Nomura Drop  IHI Corp. , Japan’s No. 2 maker of heavy machinery, today
kept its annual net income target at 15 billion yen, lower than
the median of 17 billion yen estimated by 10 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The shares lost 5.9 percent.  Nomura Holdings  retreated 5 percent to 397 yen, the lowest
since October 1982. The brokerage said profit plunged 96 percent
in the July-September quarter on losses at overseas operations.  The yen appreciated to as much as 80.22 against the dollar
today, the strongest level since April 1995. That threatens to
reduce income at Japanese companies when overseas revenue is
converted into their home currency.  The yen is on course for its strongest annual average level
since currencies began trading freely in 1971, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and based on each day’s closing price.  ‘Pressure on Yen’  “Pressure on the yen is strong because of speculation
about additional quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve,”
said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc. “People want to know how Japan and the
U.S. will set their monetary policies.”  The Bank of Japan said last week that policy makers
advanced their next session to Nov. 4-5, following a meeting by
the U.S. Federal Reserve on Nov. 2-3.  “The market is pricing in the government’s inability to do
anything about the yen’s appreciation, even though I sense the
government is intent on somehow stopping it,” Resona’s Kurose
said. “It’s hard to expect the government will do anything that
goes beyond market expectations.”  Sharp Corp. , Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal
displays, sank 5.4 percent to 752 yen, the lowest close since
March 2009. Deutsche Bank AG cut its share-price estimate to 730
yen from 750 yen and reiterated its “sell” rating. Sharp
extended its drop for a second day after the company on Oct. 28
cut its full-year profit forecast by 40 percent.  Sharp’s operating profit for the year ending March 2011
“will likely fall short of revised guidance due to poor
earnings from liquid-crystal displays and a slowdown for mobile
phones and home electronics goods,”  Yasuo Nakane , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank, said in a report dated Oct. 29.  Resona Holdings Inc. , Japan’s fourth-largest bank by market
value, tumbled 6.1 percent to 603 yen, the lowest level since
May 2003. The lender said in a preliminary earnings statement
that net income declined to 81 billion yen in the six months
ended Sept. 30, from 85.6 billion yen a year earlier.  Resona fell the most in the  Topix Banks Index , which
dropped to its lowest level on record, according to data
compiled by the Tokyo Stock Exchange since 1983.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
 Kotaro Tsunetomi  in Tokyo at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 