-- Oracle Seeks $2.3 Billion in SAP Download `Humiliation' Trial
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-01T23:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/oracle-seeks-2-3-billion-in-sap-humiliation-trial-over-downloaded-code.html
Oracle Corp. , in a trial that began
today against  SAP AG , wants at least $2.3 billion in damages for
what its German rival acknowledges were a now-defunct unit’s
“inappropriate” downloads of Oracle materials.  The trial in federal court in Oakland, California, may
feature testimony by former SAP Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  and Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison . Apotheker, who Oracle
says oversaw the TomorrowNow unit’s conduct, began his new job
today as CEO of another Oracle rival,  Hewlett-Packard Co.   SAP, the world’s  biggest maker  of business-management
software, says its executives were unaware of the downloading at
its TomorrowNow software maintenance unit, which was closed in
2008. Oracle’s damage estimates are “grossly exaggerated” and
the lawsuit is aimed at harassing competitors, SAP’s lawyers
said in court filings.  “The whole goal here is humiliation,” said  Joshua Greenbaum , a software industry analyst at Enterprise
Applications Consulting. In saying it might call Apotheker as a
witness, Oracle “has now extended that to Hewlett-Packard,”
Greenbaum said.  TomorrowNow, acquired by SAP in 2005 for $10 million,
offered lower-cost software maintenance and support to customers
using products by companies that Redwood City, California-based
 Oracle  had bought, including  PeopleSoft Inc.  and JD Edwards &
Co.  Unlicensed Copies  Oracle’s attorneys said in court filings that TomorrowNow
illegally copied software code needed to support customers
without buying licenses to access it. TomorrowNow made thousands
of duplicates of copyrighted software obtained by illegally
accessing electronic materials from Oracle’s customer-support
websites, the lawyers said.  Apotheker went to Hewlett-Packard after  Mark Hurd  resigned
as CEO amid a scandal over a personal relationship with a
company contractor. Ellison, 66, hired Hurd, saying in a letter
to the New York Times that  Hewlett-Packard’s board  had made
“the worst personnel decision since the idiots on the Apple
board fired  Steve Jobs  many years ago.”  Apotheker, 57, didn’t become  SAP ’s sole chief executive
until after TomorrowNow was shut down, said  Bill Wohl , a
spokesman for the Walldorf, Germany-based company.  “What we have seen is a heck of a PR sideshow,” Wohl said
in a phone interview. “It’s an attempt by Larry to raise the
visibility of their battle with HP.”  ‘Inflict Some Pain’  Apotheker, an SAP director when the company bought
TomorrowNow in 2005, told SAP executive  Bill McDermott  two
months after the acquisition to “inflict some pain” on Oracle
by closing deals at the unit “at extraordinary conditions,”
according to an Aug. 5 court document that doesn’t explain what
Apotheker meant.  “There’s no smoking gun here,” Wohl said. “These are two
sales executives talking.”  Oracle  is seeking damages for lost business, copyright
infringement, disgorgement of SAP’s profits and payment for
costs SAP avoided by not having to develop its own software.  “This case is just about how much we should give Oracle,”
 Robert Mittelstaedt , SAP’s attorney, told a potential juror
today in Oakland during jury selection. “Should we pay Oracle
whatever they are asking?”  The potential juror replied, “No.”  Mittelstaedt said SAP wanted to ensure that jurors wouldn’t
favor Oracle because it’s a local company or disfavor
TomorrowNow, which was based in Texas, home to the team the San
Francisco Giants now face in the World Series.  TomorrowNow had 358 customers, 86 of which also purchased
products or services from SAP after the acquisition, according
to SAP. Those customers switched to SAP for reasons other than
the support they received from TomorrowNow, so most of  Oracle ’s
damage claims are unfounded, SAP has said. It said TomorrowNow,
which was based in Bryan, Texas, lost $900 million as an SAP
unit.  Maintenance Fees  Customers that did leave Oracle hoping to lower their
maintenance fees had good reason, SAP attorneys said in court
papers. They cited a statement written by a senior Oracle
executive about a customer’s maintenance fees, which can be 20
percent of the cost of licensing software.  “Let the bastards dream of reducing their maintenance
fees,” the  Oracle executive  wrote, according to an Aug. 5 SAP
filing citing a deposition. “I just finished telling Toyota
that we’re not going to reduce their bill. Not only that, but
they need to buy more software from us!”  SAP said in the filing, “That attitude contributes to
customers leaving plaintiffs’ support.”  Oracle is the second-biggest maker of software for managing
business tasks such as payroll and accounting. Company
spokeswoman  Deborah Hellinger  declined to comment.  Steve Curtis ,
a  Toyota Motor Corp.  spokesman, had no immediate comment.  SAP has agreed that TomorrowNow is liable for Oracle’s
claims and has accepted financial responsibility for damages,
which it argues are at most tens of millions of dollars,
according to court records.  Jury selection began today, said Wohl. Each potential juror
is being questioned for about 20 minutes by attorneys from both
sides, he said. Oracle’s attorneys are scheduled to make opening
statements tomorrow. The trial could last as long as four weeks.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 