-- Palm Oil Climbs to Highest in More Than Two Years on U.S. Soybean Harvest
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m   a n d   C l a i r e   L e o w
-- 2010-11-01T09:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/palm-oil-climbs-to-highest-in-more-than-two-years-on-u-s-soybean-harvest.html
Palm oil climbed to the highest level
in more than two years on speculation that the U.S. government
will lower its soybean production estimate this month, squeezing
global cooking-oil inventories by the most in 17 years.  The January-delivery contract on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange climbed as much as 1.1 percent to 3,095 ringgit
($1,001) a metric ton, the highest level in intraday trading
since July 28, 2008. The contract gained 1.9 percent last week,
a ninth straight weekly gain and the longest since June 2007. It
was at 3,091 ringgit at 5:20 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  Inventories of soybean oil and palm oil will drop 12
percent in the coming year as demand from China and India grows
11 percent, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. The USDA
may lower its estimate of soybean output, lifting soybean and
palm oils prices, said  Ivy Ng , an analyst at CIMB Investment
Bank Bhd.  “Until we have confirmation about what the USDA will do as
far as the estimates are concerned, vegetable oil prices may
continue to go up,” Ng said today. “With the weather still a
concern in Latin America, the supplies can really get tight in
the coming months, with a lot of festivities around.”  Brazil and Argentina are the largest soybean producers
after the U.S. Demand from China, the largest user of edible
oils, will increase in the months ahead of the Lunar New Year
holiday in February.  “Palm oil prices will seasonally increase for the next few
months,” Teddy Oetomo, a plantation analyst at PT Credit Suisse
Securities in Jakarta, said in a report e-mailed today. Gains
are “supported by the weak U.S. dollar,” he said.  The  Dollar Index  fell for a third day against six major
currencies, dropping as much as 0.6 percent.  ‘Critical Period’  Palm oil may rise to 3,600 ringgit by March, extending this
year’s 16 percent rally, said Murali Krishna P.V., chief
executive officer of TransGraph Consulting Pvt., an adviser to
Bunge Ltd. and Cadbury Plc. Soybean oil traded in Chicago may
gain to 57 cents a pound, extending this year’s 22 percent
rally, he said in an interview from Hyderabad, India.  “The critical period of tightness is yet to come,” said
 Dorab Mistry , a director at Godrej International Ltd. who has
traded cooking oils for more than three decades and who
correctly predicted gains in palm oil and soybean prices since
June. “We’re not doing enough to raise production of vegetable
oils, and the weather the world over is troublesome.”  Lack of Rain  A lack of rain in the center-west of Brazil is delaying
planting in a region that grows 47 percent of the country’s
soybeans, the world’s second-largest crop behind the U.S.  Soybeans traded in Chicago, which climbed 12 percent last
month, gained as much as 0.7 percent to $12.4475 a bushel before
trading at $12.4425. Soybean oil for December delivery jumped as
much as 0.9 percent to 49.76 cents a pound, extending last
month’s 9.3 percent gain.  Palm oil exports from Malaysia, the second-biggest grower,
fell 8.5 percent in October from September to 1.35 million tons,
independent market surveyor Intertek said today. The fall was 12
percent to 1.32 million tons, rival Societe Generale de
Surveillance said.  Palm oil for September delivery, the most-active contract
on the Dalian Commodity Exchange, climbed 1.8 percent to 8,618
yuan ($1,290) a ton. It surged as much as 2.5 percent to 8,674
yuan earlier. September-delivery soybean oil surged 2 percent to
9,564 yuan a ton.  CME Group Inc.’s January palm oil contract, pegged to the
Malaysian benchmark price, increased 1 percent to $997.75 a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  