-- Pentagon Is `Myopic' Over China's Rare Earths Monopoly, U.S. Lawmaker Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-11-01T17:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/pentagon-is-myopic-over-china-s-rare-earths-monopoly-u-s-lawmaker-says.html
The U.S. Defense Department is short-
sighted in its assessment that China’s monopoly on rare-earth
materials, which are used in military hardware, poses no threat
to national security, said U.S. Representative  Mike Coffman .  The Pentagon’s report, on which some members of Congress
have been briefed prior to its release, notes that rising prices
and supply uncertainties are spurring private investment in new
mining operations outside of China that will help meet American
military needs, a person familiar with the findings said.
Military use accounts for less than 5 percent of U.S. rare-earth
consumption, according to the report.  “I strongly disagree” with the report’s conclusions, said
Coffman, a Colorado Republican who received a briefing today on
the Pentagon’s yearlong study. “It’s a very myopic view and
it’s certainly not looking at the economic security of the
country,” he said in a phone interview. “It’s only looking at
the Department of Defense.”  The Pentagon assessment does not take into account the
shortages and supply constraints faced by makers of batteries
and magnets used in products, such as wind-turbines, as a result
of China controlling 97 percent of the world’s rare earths,
Coffman said.  Coffman said he plans to sponsor new legislation that he
hopes that the House of Representatives will consider when it
convenes after the midterm elections Nov. 2. The measure would
assist U.S. mining companies such as  Molycorp Inc . to “create a
competitive supply chain from mining to processing.”  Defense Department Help  Molycorp, based in Greenwood Village, Colorado, Coffman’s
home state, and backed by shareholders including Resource
Capital Funds, Pegasus Capital Advisors LP and Traxys North
America, plans to raise $450 million to $500 million to resume
mining by 2012.  The Pentagon study recommends, among other steps, an
examination of how the Defense Department could aid companies
such as Molycorp, the person familiar with the findings said.
The company has applied to the Energy Department for $280
million in U.S. government  loan guarantees  to help finance
restarting its open-pit, rare-earths mine in Mountain Pass,
California, in the Mojave Desert.  Rare-earths are a group of 17 metals that includes
neodymium, samarium, and dysprosium. While the elements aren’t
as rare in nature as the name implies, they are difficult to
find in profitable concentrations, expensive for Western
producers to extract and often laced with radioactive elements.
China has come to dominate the market because it has been able
to produce the elements more cheaply and with fewer
environmental restrictions than its competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  