-- Pentagon May See Higher F-35 Costs, Delays Up to Three Years
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-01T23:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/pentagon-said-to-see-higher-f-35-costs-delays-up-to-three-years.html
Lockheed Martin Corp .’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter, the Pentagon’s costliest program, may see more
price increases and new schedule delays of as much as three
years, two government officials familiar with the matter said.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  is scheduled to be briefed
tomorrow on new cost and schedule assessments for the F-35 and
other aircraft, said the officials, who requested anonymity
because details aren’t public. Software, engineering and flight
difficulties are greater than expected, the officials said.  The projections are based on a preliminary analysis of test
and production data, the officials said. The F-35 “Technical
Baseline Review” is being prepared for an in-depth examination
of the $382 billion JSF program, set for Nov. 22 by the
Pentagon’s Defense Acquisition Board, the officials said.  “Another delay to the JSF would be negative to Lockheed’s
revenue profile on the program,”  Robert Stallard , an analyst at
RBC Capital Markets in New York, said in a note. Suppliers at
risk include  United Technologies Corp .’s Pratt & Whitney, said
Stallard, who  rates Lockheed  as “sector perform.”  New delays and higher prices would add to the struggles in
development and combat testing of the F-35, which is more than
four years behind schedule. Designed for missions including
bombing and aerial combat, the JSF will be used by the Air
Force, Navy and Marine Corps.  Lockheed’s View  Lockheed has provided “full support” to the Pentagon for
the F-35 review, said  John Kent , a spokesman for the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company. “It would be premature for Lockheed
Martin to discuss the results of the review until the findings
have been released,” he said in an e-mail.  A Pentagon spokeswoman,  Cheryl Irwin , also declined to
comment.  Tomorrow’s briefing with Gates will draw in part on a
review prepared by the F-35 program manager, Vice Admiral  David
Venlet , who won’t be present, the officials said. When finished,
his review will disclose broad ranges of potential expense
growth, they said.  Gates “is engaging in a broader tactical-aircraft
discussion of which the Joint Strike Fighter is obviously an
important piece,” a spokesman,  Geoff Morrell , said in an e-
mailed statement.  The $50 billion development phase may cost as much as $5
billion more, and Pentagon analysts now estimate the JSF may be
as much as 1 1/2 times more expensive to maintain than the
warplanes it will replace, according to preliminary estimates in
Venlet’s review, the officials said.  Different Models  Slippage in the JSF’s timetable may be as much as one year
for the Air Force and Navy versions and two to three years for
development of the Marine Corps model capable of short takeoffs
and landings, the officials said.  The potential increases would be on top of changes unveiled
this year by the Pentagon: a 13-month extension to the current
development phase to November 2015, shifting of $2.8 billion in
production funds for continued research and delaying the
purchase of 122 jets to beyond 2015.  “How many more reviews will Gates have to hear before he
acknowledges the F-35 is an unaffordable failure?” said  Winslow Wheeler , a program critic who is director of the Washington-
based  Straus Military Reform Project . “The F-35 is rapidly
becoming a millstone around his neck.”  Lockheed  rose 18 cents to $71.47 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have fallen 5.1
percent this year.  The JSF review is part of the preparation for the Defense
Department’s fiscal 2012 budget, which is scheduled to be
released in February. Long-range Pentagon plans call for
requesting 45 aircraft in fiscal 2012, 71 in 2013, 90 in 2014
and 113 in 2015.  2011 Plan  Congress hasn’t completed work on the fiscal 2011 defense
budget in which the Pentagon requested 43 aircraft.  The House of Representatives’ defense bill approved funding
for all 43 planes while limiting spending to 30 aircraft pending
Pentagon certification that the JSF meets certain test
parameters.  In its measure, the Senate Appropriations Committee cut
$1.5 billion and 10 aircraft from the Pentagon’s request,
saying, “Production has not moved as quickly as previously
planned and has not kept pace with scheduled increases.”  The full Senate hasn’t acted on the request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  