-- Peru's Consumer Prices Fall for Second Month, Boosting Rate Pause Outlook
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-11-01T13:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/peru-s-consumer-prices-fall-for-second-month-boosting-rate-pause-outlook.html
Peruvian  consumer prices  fell for a
second month in October as chicken and vegetable costs declined,
raising the odds that the central bank will keep the benchmark
rate unchanged for a second meeting on Nov. 11.  Consumer prices fell 0.14 percent in October from a month
earlier, after a 0.03 percent decline in September, according to
an e-mailed government report. Economists expected a 0.14
percent increase, according to the median estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg . The annual inflation rate fell
to 2.10 percent from 2.37 percent in September.  Inflation is “very well behaved” as food prices have not
increased as much as previously expected, though a rebound in
domestic demand may revive inflationary pressures next year
prompting policy makers to raise interest rates in 2011, said
 Pedro Tuesta , a Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc. Peru’s
economy may grow 8.3 percent in 2010, the fastest in the region,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  “Food prices aren’t increasing as much as initially
thought,” Tuesta said in a phone interview from Washington.
“The central bank may pause again.”  On the month, food and drink prices fell for a second
month, declining 0.68 percent while vegetables fell
7.1 percent.  The central bank has raised its  benchmark lending rate  five
times this year and increased reserve requirements to cool
domestic demand. The bank unexpectedly held rates at 3 percent
at its Oct. 7 meeting after the monthly price index fell in
September for the first time in 10 months.  Policy makers may pause again at their next two meetings
and start raising rates in January, Tuesta said.  The annual inflation rate may end the year at 2.5 percent
to 2.6 percent, within policy makers’ 1 percent to 3 percent
target range,  Renzo Rossini , the central bank’s general manager,
said Oct. 14.  Peruvian inflation is forecast to be the lowest in Latin
America this year and next, according to the bank.  The sol rose 0.1 percent to 2.7985 per dollar on Oct. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  