-- Petronas Chemicals to Fund New Plants, Acquisitions From $4 Billion IPO
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-11-01T07:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/petronas-chemicals-to-fund-new-plants-acquisitions-from-4-billion-ipo.html
Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. , a unit
of Malaysia’s state oil company, plans to use proceeds from the
country’s biggest initial public offering to fund expansion that
may include a chemical plant off the east coast.  “We are studying the possibility of developing a
greenfield ammonia and urea production facility that would be
supplied with natural gas feedstock available off the coast of
East Malaysia,” the petrochemicals company said in a listing
prospectus published today. The IPO may raise about 12.5 billion
ringgit ($4 billion), with some of the money also earmarked for
acquisitions, it said.  Petronas Chemicals plans to use some of the proceeds to
increase production capacity by adding new plants, the document
shows. The company is evaluating developing a refinery and
petrochemicals complex in Peninsular Malaysia.  The share sale is set to be the biggest in Southeast Asia
this year, surpassing the $2.7 billion raised by Global Logistic
Properties Ltd. in Singapore last month. It may also exceed the
$3.3 billion raised by Maxis Bhd., Malaysia’s biggest mobile-
phone operator, last year.  Twenty-two petrochemicals-related companies were combined
to form Petronas Chemicals, the document shows. CIMB Investment
Bank Bhd., Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley & Co.
International plc are managing the share sale.  Profit Climbs  Net income rose 61 percent to 814 million ringgit in the
four months ended July 31 from 505 million ringgit a year
earlier, the company said. Revenue climbed 30 percent to 4.2
billion ringgit from 3.3 billion ringgit a year earlier.  Petronas Chemicals proposes a dividend policy of 50 percent
of its annual profit, starting from the year ending March 31,
2011, according to the document.  The IPO is the second this year by a unit of Kuala Lumpur-
based  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , following Prime Minister Najib
Razak’s call in March to attract international investors to the
country’s stock market by listing large companies.  Malaysia Marine, a rig-builder held by Petronas’s MISC
Bhd.,  jumped  19 percent to 4.51 ringgit in its trading debut on
Oct. 29 after institutional investors bid for more than 27 times
the shares allocated to them.  The Petronas group has five units traded on the Kuala
Lumpur stock exchange, including Malaysia Marine. The others are
 MISC ,  Petronas Dagangan Bhd. ,  Petronas Gas Bhd.  and  KLCC
Property Holdings Bhd.  It will decide next year whether to sell
shares in more divisions, Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar
Abbas said on Oct. 4.  Petronas Chemicals shares are scheduled to trade for the
first time on the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange on Nov. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net  