-- Portuguese Parties Agree on Austerity Plan That May Hurt Growth
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-11-01T09:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/portuguese-government-opposition-reach-budget-deal-after-bond-prices-slip.html
Portugal’s government and biggest
opposition party agreed to approve next year’s budget as they
scrambled to show investors they can cut the euro region’s
fourth-biggest deficit and stave off an international bailout.  The governing Socialists will reconsider some public-works
projects to overcome the opposition of the Social Democrats, who
will abstain in the Nov. 3 vote under an agreement signed late
on Oct. 29. Portugal is also cutting wages for public-sector
workers and raising taxes as the government tries to convince
investors it can control the nation’s deficit following this
year’s surge in borrowing costs.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Portuguese debt
over German bunds jumped to the highest since Oct. 15 at the end
of last week on concern that the parties would fail to resolve
their differences. That could have hurt investors’ confidence as
the nation prepares for a Nov. 3 bill sale and sparked
speculation that Portugal would suffer Greece’s fate and be
forced to turn to the EU and the International Monetary Fund.  “The worst was avoided,”  Gilles Moec , an economist at
Deutsche Bank AG, said today. “A financial crisis, triggering
the EU-IMF rescue package amid acute political uncertainty was
the only alternative. We now need to turn our attention to the
actual implementation of the budget.”  Lack of Majority  The spread on Portugal 10-year bonds over bunds narrowed 6
basis points to 337 basis points today. They soared to a euro-
era record of 441 basis points on Sept. 28 as the Social
Democrats threatened to vote against the budget. The premia on
the bonds of Ireland and Greece, which are also trying to cut
their deficits, were at 446 points and 807 points, respectively.  Socialist Prime Minister  Jose Socrates , lacking a
parliamentary majority, needed the largest opposition party to
back the budget or abstain for it to be passed in Parliament.
The Social Democrats had demanded fewer tax increases and
greater spending cuts, and the parties had halted talks Oct. 27.  The budget “imposes sacrifices on the Portuguese so that
we are able to ensure the financing that the country needs to
develop its economic activity,” Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  said Oct. 30 in Lisbon.  “This is, of course, good short-term news,”  Erik Nielsen ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief European economist, said in an
e-mailed note. “I remain nervous about the deeper, still
unaddressed structural issues in Portugal.”  Difficult Period  The spending cuts, the biggest since the 1970s, may hurt
Portugal’s  economic growth , which has averaged less than 1
percent a year in the past decade. That trails the 1.3 percent
pace for the whole euro region. The government is counting on
exports such as paper and wood products to support growth.  “The country is going through a difficult period, and
understandings are necessary for fundamental policies,”  Eduardo Catroga , a former finance minister who represented the Social
Democrats in the talks, said on Oct. 30. The government agreed
to reconsider planned works including public-private
partnerships, Catroga said, without naming specific projects.  “This will be the most important budget of the last 25
years,”  Teixeira dos Santos  said. The minister said additional
measures may be needed to meet next year’s budget target.  Parliament will start discussing the 2011 budget on Nov. 2
and an initial vote is scheduled for the next day. The budget
forecasts gross domestic product will grow by 0.2 percent next
year, slower than this year’s estimated 1.3 percent pace.  Market Pressure  Moody’s Investors Service said on Oct. 18 that the
government was responding “adequately” to market pressures to
lower the deficit, though the country’s long-term economic
prospects are a cause for concern. Portugal is rated A1 by
Moody’s and A- by Standard & Poor’s.  S&P said on Oct. 4 that it expects the Portuguese economy
to shrink 1.8 percent next year and stagnate in 2012. Portugal
probably won’t default on its debt even if the economy fails to
grow in the next two years, S&P said.  Europe’s sovereign debt-crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after Greece’s then-new government said the deficit was twice as
big as the previous administration disclosed. In April, Greece
tapped a 110 billion-euro ($153 billion) loan facility from the
EU and the IMF Fund after being shut out of debt markets. The EU
then passed a 750 billion-euro backstop for the rest of the euro
region after borrowing costs surged for high-deficit nations.  Budget Gap  “In Portugal clearly they do have a fiscal problem, they
do have an underlying competitiveness problem,”  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh, said. Budget cuts have a “damaging side”
for economic growth, “but I don’t think that Portuguese concern
is on the scale of Greece or Ireland,” he said.  The nation’s budget gap reached 9.3 percent of gross
domestic product last year, the highest ratio in the euro region
after Ireland, Greece and Spain. It aims to lower the  shortfall 
to 7.3 percent this year, 4.6 percent in 2011 and meet the EU’s
3 percent limit in 2012.  Teixeira dos Santos has said that Portugal won’t need to
tap the euro-region’s rescue fund. Portugal doesn’t face a bond
redemption until next year, and plans to sell about 1 billion
euros of bills due October 2011 and February 2011 on Nov. 3.  The government plans to lower wages by 5 percent for public
workers earning more than 1,500 euros a month, freeze hiring and
raise value-added tax by 2 percentage points to 23 percent.  The Finance Ministry forecasts Portugal’s public debt as a
percentage of GDP will increase to 86.6 percent in 2011 from
about 82.1 percent this year. Teixeira dos Santos said on Oct.
16 that he expects the ratio to “stabilize” in 2012 and to
start declining in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net . 