-- Potash Options Traders Raise Wagers on Higher Takeover Bid
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-02T21:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/potash-options-traders-increase-wagers-on-bhp-rivals-raising-takeover-bid.html
Options traders are boosting wagers
that  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and potential rivals will bid higher than
the $40 billion already offered by the world’s biggest mining
company for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.   Potash Corp., the largest fertilizer producer, rejected
BHP’s $130-a-share takeover proposal and said it had held talks
with 15 potential alternative bidders.  BHP’s  offer is subject to
a review by the Canadian government, which can block the deal if
it finds the transaction doesn’t provide “net benefits” to the
country. A decision is scheduled by tomorrow.  The total invested in January $160 calls, 23 percent above
BHP’s offer price, has risen to $9 million from $5 million a
month ago, while January $165 calls jumped to $6 million from $4
million, according to Capstone Global Markets LLC. Investors
also are buying bearish options for protection, according to
Trade Alert LLC, a provider of options-market analytics.  “Regardless of what happens this week, people think
there’s going to be a higher offer from some party, not
necessarily BHP,” said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and
merger arbitrage strategist at Capstone in New York. “People
are realizing that the full value is much higher than the $130
that BHP is offering.”  Ruban Yogarajah , a London-based spokesman for BHP, and  Bill Johnson , a spokesman for Potash Corp., declined to comment.  $130 Won’t Happen  Potash Corp.  fell  $1.65, or 0.9 percent, to $145.98 as of
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
 stock  has advanced 29 percent since Aug. 16, the day before the
company first disclosed BHP’s approach, and has a market value
of $43.1 billion. Potash Corp. said last week it held talks with
15 “strategic, financial, and state-sponsored potential bidders
or investors,” according to a filing to the Saskatchewan
Financial Services Commission.  “They are going to raise it because at $130 a share it’s
not going to happen,”  Olivia Ker , an analyst at UBS AG in
London, said by phone, adding that  BHP  may increase the offer to
$160 to $165 a share. Potash Corp.’s “peers have re-rated by 30
percent, potash prices are up about 35 percent and also BHP’s
stock is up” since the bid was announced, she said.  Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, is seeking
to keep in place a so-called poison pill, a defense that’s
designed to make a takeover prohibitively expensive, to allow
potential bidders time to secure financing. Chief Executive
Officer  Bill Doyle  continues to talk of a fair bid between $170
and $190 a share, UBS said in a report yesterday.  Default Protection Surges  “The evidence is clear that almost all of the alternative
bidders or investors require a significant amount of time to
secure the unprecedented levels of financing necessary,” Potash
said in its filing.  The open interest, or number of existing positions, in
Potash Corp.’s January $160 calls has jumped in the past week by
almost half to 30,240 contracts, or enough to buy 3 million
shares. The largest concentration is in November $145 calls,
which total 48,638 contracts. Calls account for 53 percent of
the  1.03 million  existing options tied to the company’s U.S.
shares.  The largest increase in open interest among Potash Corp.
options during the past week was in November $135 puts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The level more than
doubled to 48,184 and now accounts for the second-largest total
among all of the contracts. November $140 puts are third with
42,070 options.  ‘Bullish Sign’  “It looks like hedging of long stock positions,” said
 Henry Schwartz , president of New York-based  Trade Alert . “In a
deal situation like this where a lot of merger arbitrage funds
are involved, even the put buying can be a bullish sign because
it indicates that fund managers want to stay long until the deal
closes.”  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  The cost of protecting  BHP bonds  from default rose for a
second day. Credit-default swaps on BHP jumped 9 basis points to
100 basis points. That’s the biggest daily increase since Aug.
18 and the highest level since Oct. 5, prices from data provider
CMA show.  ‘Slightly Higher Bid’  BHP, which obtained $45 billion of loans to back its bid in
September, gained 1.9 percent to 2,277 pence in London trading,
its highest close since April 14.  “The market is expecting a slightly higher bid,”  Andrew Keen , an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by telephone. “From
a liquidity viewpoint, BHP can bid a lot more and I think that’s
pretty widely appreciated.”  Analysts  including those at UBS, Citigroup Inc., BMO
Capital Markets and Credit Agricole SA raised their price
estimates for Potash Corp. last week following the company’s
third-quarter earnings, citing rising demand and higher prices
for the crop nutrient. Shares of rival fertilizer producers
including Agrium Inc. and Mosaic Co. have surged since Potash
disclosed BHP’s offer.  Investment Canada, the agency reviewing the bid, has
recommended that Prime Minister  Stephen Harper’s  government
approve the takeover with conditions, The National Post reported
yesterday, citing unidentified people within the ruling
Conservative Party.  Sale ‘Betrayal’  The Post article is “wrong” to say that Harper will make
the final decision, Andrew MacDougall, a spokesman for Harper,
wrote in an e-mail message. The decision is made by Industry
Minister  Tony Clement , he said, adding he didn’t know what
recommendation Investment Canada may have made.  Investment Canada hasn’t made a recommendation on the bid
and no decision has been made yet, Clement said in an e-mailed
statement today in response to the National Post report.  Allowing the sale of Potash Corp. to BHP would be a
“betrayal of our province and its people,” the Associated
Press cited a statement from the Saskatchewan provincial
government as saying in a statement late yesterday.  “The question of value for BHP Billiton shareholders is
essential and not negotiable,” Chairman  Jac Nasser  told
investors in London on Oct. 21. “Any acquisition or investment
must create value. If shareholder value is not demonstrated, we
will not proceed with the proposed acquisition.”  BHP scrapped a hostile $66 billion takeover of rival  Rio
Tinto Group  in 2008 after earlier raising its initial bid in an
attempt to win the support of the London-based company.  “They have raised bids before, they raised the Rio bid, so
it’s not unusual for them to do that but in the absence of a
competitor they have to be very careful,” HSBC’s Keen said.
“The problem is you don’t want to end up bidding against
yourself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  