-- Prudential Veteran Accounts `Dishonest,' American Legion Says
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   E v a n s
-- 2010-11-02T12:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/prudential-life-insurance-accounts-unlawful-american-legion-tells-court.html
Prudential Financial Inc. ’s practice
of collecting interest on unpaid veterans’ life-insurance
benefits is “unlawful and dishonest,” the American Legion told
a judge yesterday.  The American Legion, the largest U.S. veterans’ service
organization with 2.5 million members in almost 14,000 posts
worldwide, asked permission to file a legal brief supporting a
pending case in Springfield, Massachusetts, against Prudential
Insurance Co. of America, a unit of Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial.  The pending lawsuit by the families of deceased veterans
accuses the insurer of failing to pay beneficiaries in a lump
sum as required by U.S. law and the language of the policies.
Instead, the lawsuit says that Prudential strongly encourages
beneficiaries to keep the money in accounts with the company,
which pays them a small amount of interest.  The “practice is unlawful and dishonest,” the American
Legion said in its court filing. “It is especially
objectionable because sophisticated money managers are making an
unwarranted and unlawful profit from the deaths of those who
have given the most to preserve our nation’s way of life.”  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Prudential Financial,
declined to comment on the filing. He has previously said that
the company informs beneficiaries of their payment options and
that they may immediately withdraw the money from their
Prudential Alliance Accounts and invest it wherever they choose.  ‘Fallen Heroes’  Prudential held $662 million of survivors’ money in its
corporate general account as of June 30, according to
information provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Prudential’s general account earned 4.2 percent in 2009, mostly
from bond investments, according to regulatory filings. The
company has paid survivors holding Alliance Accounts 0.5 percent
in 2010.  More than 100 insurance carriers earn investment income on
$28 billion owed to life insurance beneficiaries, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reported in July. Insurers keep the money in
their general account, paying only when the beneficiaries write
drafts, or “checks” on the account, Bloomberg reported. The
American Legion brief filed yesterday cites the Bloomberg
stories.  The American Legion, which Congress chartered in 1919 to
represent the interests of veterans, seeks permission in its
submission yesterday to join the lawsuit and to file a brief
opposing the so-called retained asset accounts used by
Prudential. The brief was included as part of the filing.  Prudential’s “disingenuous practices take advantage of the
grieving families of America’s fallen heroes,” the American
Legion says. “This procedure is morally objectionable and
unlawful. It should be stopped.”  Transfer Request  Prudential has asked the judge to dismiss the case, saying
the insurer’s delivery of a “checkbook” to beneficiaries
complies with its legal obligation. Lawyers for beneficiaries
who brought the case yesterday filed a separate brief opposing
Prudential’s request.  The suit seeks class-action, or group, status on behalf of
other beneficiaries.  Prudential is also seeking to transfer this and a similar
case in California to the federal court in New Jersey, where the
insurer previously won a favorable ruling in another lawsuit
over retained asset accounts.  The case is Lucey v. Prudential Insurance Co. of America,
10-30163, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Springfield).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in federal court in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 David Evans  in Los Angeles at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 