-- Qatar May Divert Liquefied Natural Gas to China, India, Al-Attiyah Says
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-11-01T15:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/qatar-may-divert-lng-to-china-india-poland-from-u-s-al-attiyah-says.html
Qatar, the world’s biggest liquefied
natural gas producer, may divert more cargoes away from the U.S.
to emerging markets in Asia and South America, Energy Minister
 Abdullah al-Attiyah  said.  The emirate may sell a further 7 million metric tons of the
cleaner-burning fuel to China and 4 million to 5 million tons to
India as it diverts cargoes dedicated to the west, al-Attiyah
said at a conference in Singapore today. The country will have
77 million tons of LNG capacity by December, he said.  “We are diverting LNG from U.S. and Europe to China,
India, Poland and South America,” al-Attiyah said. Qatar can
make as much as 62 million tons this year, he said.  Gas production in the U.S., which has been boosted by
unconventional sources such as shale rock, depressing prices
amid lower demand, will average 61.3 billion cubic feet a day
this year, according to the Energy Department, the most since
1973. Output will be 2.2 percent higher than last year.  The U.S. used 10 percent of its 100 million tons a year of
LNG import capacity last year,  Malcolm Brinded , executive
director for international exploration and production at Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, said at the conference. Spare capacity at U.S.
LNG import facilities was six times China’s total import
capacity for the fuel, he said.  Shale Gas  Shale gas won’t be a threat to Qatar’s LNG supplies to
Asia, al-Attiyah said. Companies led by Cheniere Energy Inc. are
leading a push to add LNG production facilities to import
terminals in the U.S. to convert shale gas to LNG and supply
markets in Europe and Asia.  “Shale gas exports aren’t that competitive,” al-Attiyah
said. The fuel may cost more than $10 per million British
thermal units when it reaches consumers in Asia, he said. Qatar
has secured prices on oil parity terms with its customers
including in Europe, according to the minister.  Deutsche Bank AG projected global LNG production capacity
will grow by 5.8 billion cubic feet a day this year and by 4.1
billion in 2011, led by projects in Qatar, Peru and Australia.
Liquefaction capacity totaled 24.5 billion last year as plants
in Indonesia, Russia, Yemen and Qatar started operations.  Qatar is in talks to supply LNG to a proposed terminal in
India’s Tamil Nadu state and to Petronet LNG Ltd.’s facility in
Kochi, al-Attiyah said at the conference. Indian Oil Corp. plans
to build an import facility in the southern state to receive the
fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  