-- RBS Lists LSE’s 1st Corporate Inflation Notes for Retail Buyers
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-11-01T15:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/rbs-lists-lse-s-1st-corporate-inflation-notes-for-retail-buyers.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
listed the London Stock Exchange’s first U.K. inflation-linked
structured bonds by a corporate issuer targeted at individual
investors.  The 12-year notes pay a coupon based on the U.K. retail
price index, an inflation benchmark, and have a floor of 3.9
percent, according to the term sheet. The securities are listed
on the LSE’s order book for retail bonds, known as Orb, and can
be traded in denominations of 100 pounds.  U.K.  retail prices  rose 4.6 percent in September from a
year earlier, according to Britain’s Office for National
Statistics. Annual RPI inflation reached 5.3 percent in April,
the highest since July 1991.  “People are cottoning on to the fact that inflation will
happen,” said  Ben Board , a director of structured product sales
at RBS in London. “Noteholders will receive their principal at
maturity and can trade this on the LSE, which makes it a very
private-investor friendly product.”  RBS aims to sell 30 million pounds ($48 million) of the
inflation notes, Board said.  U.K. inflation-linked bonds have returned 6.24 percent this
year, less than the 10 percent gain on U.S. Treasury Inflation-
Protected Securities, or Tips, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  The  consumer price index , the U.K.’s preferred measure of
inflation, was above the government’s 3 percent limit for a
seventh month in September. Inflation was 3.1 percent in
September, compared with the Bank of England’s 2 percent target.  “Inflation may remain above 2 percent through 2011, but we
expect it to come off sharply in the first quarter of 2012,”
said  Hetal Mehta , U.K. economist at Daiwa Capital Markets. “We
think wage pressure will be subdued as unemployment stays high
thanks to the job losses from fiscal tightening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  