-- Trichet's Concerns at EU Debt Mechanism Are Taken `Seriously' by Germany
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-01T13:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/trichet-s-concerns-at-eu-debt-mechanism-are-taken-seriously-by-germany.html
The German government takes European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s concerns about
aspects of the European Union’s debt mechanism “seriously,”
chief government spokesman  Steffen Seibert  said.  Trichet made “thoroughly clear” his reservations about
the debt mechanism agreed on by EU leaders in Brussels last
week, Seibert said, without specifying what those concerns were.  “The government takes this seriously, because it takes the
opinions voiced by the central bank seriously in general,”
Seibert told reporters in Berlin today. “It’s known that the
financial markets don’t like uncertainty.”  An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment.  Some European officials are concerned that announcing bond
investors will have to shoulder a greater part of any future
bailout will spook traders at a time when Ireland and Portugal
are struggling to cut their budget deficits. Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said Oct. 29 that “one has to be
careful that this won’t chase away investors in Europe.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said the same day that she and
Trichet disagreed on the risk the rescue mechanism for indebted
euro-area countries means for those government’s bonds.  “The president of the European Central Bank has the view
that he wants to do everything to ensure that markets take a
calm view of the euro zone,” Merkel told reporters in Brussels
after the EU summit. “We are also interested in that, but we
also have to keep in mind our people, who have a justified
desire to see that it’s not just taxpayers who are on the hook,
but also private investors.”  ‘Differing Approaches’  As a result, “we do have differing approaches,” Merkel
said. “I don’t quite share Jean-Claude Trichet’s concern.”  Irish bonds declined today, sending the extra yield
investors demand to hold Irish securities instead of German debt
to a record, in a reminder of the debt crisis that spurred the
EU action avert a repeat. Amid heightened concern that Ireland
will struggle to fund its budget deficit, Irish bond yields
widened by 18 basis points to 458 basis points, according to
Bloomberg generic data.  Seibert said that details of how the debt mechanism will
work are due to be formulated by a December meeting of EU
leaders and that proposals from Germany will contribute to the
final outcome.  ‘A bit of Time’  “One should also realize that this mechanism should be put
into place from mid-2013 -- so that’s quite a bit of time to
give the financial-market actors time to adjust to this new
situation,” Seibert said. “Of course we’ll try to assemble a
mechanism that’s sufficient enough that it establishes increased
certainty rather than more uncertainty.”  EU leaders said last week the structure of the system
remains open and they will study how to treat private
bondholders and whether to involve the International Monetary
Fund. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  will devise a way to embed
the new system in the bloc’s governing treaties.  Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  of Spain, whose
country has Europe’s second-highest deficit, said after the EU
summit that he is “very cautious about the inclusion of the
private sector in the mechanism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  