-- Romania Agrees With Lenders of Conditions for $3.3 Billion Disbursement
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2010-11-01T16:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/romania-agrees-with-lenders-of-conditions-for-3-3-billion-disbursement.html
Romania agreed to terms that may
release 2.4 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of bailout loans from
the European Union, International Monetary Fund and World Bank
as it seeks to recover from the deepest recession on record.  The funds will be released if Romania approves a 2011
budget, enacts a unified wage law and revises consumer-credit
and pension rules, the lenders said today in Bucharest, the
Romanian capital.  The east European country is counting on 20 billion euros
of loans to stay afloat after the recession slashed budget
revenue. The government cut wages for state workers by 25
percent and raised the value-added tax by 5 percentage points to
meet budget deficit targets and qualify for the loans.  “Results have been good so far,”  Jeffrey Franks , head of
the IMF mission to Romania, told reporters after a two-week
review of the loan program. “We have reached an agreement at
staff level. After the conditions are fulfilled, we could
request the board’s approval” to make the next payment by mid-
January, he said.  The leu fell 0.4 percent to 4.2834 as of 5:05 p.m. in
Bucharest.  The EU may release a 1.2 billion-euro payment in late
February or early March, said Istvan Szekely, head of the
European Commission’s mission in Romania. The IMF said its
tranche would be 900 million euros.  World Bank  The World Bank may release a 300 million-euro loan
installment by year-end if the conditions are met, mission chief
Sudharsan Canagarajah said in an interview. The lender may also
consider guaranteeing a bond issue if the government needs
additional financing, Canagarajah said.  Romania has pledged to reduce its budget deficit to 6.8
percent of gross domestic product this year and 4.4 percent in
2011. The deficit widened to 7.2 percent gap last year as gross
domestic product shrank 7.1 percent.  Romania’s economy contracted in the third quarter because
of the wage cuts and higher VAT, which took effect in July,
Franks said. GDP growth may be “perhaps slightly positive” in
the fourth quarter and “certainly” expand in the first and
second three-month periods in 2011, he said.  Consumer Credit  The IMF is requesting changes to a proposed consumer-credit
law that aims to reduce fees on loans, helping consumers reduce
their monthly payments. While Romania was responding to an EU
directive, the government went further than requested and
extended it to 8 million existing credit contracts as well as
new loans.  The legislation may cause losses at financial institutions
and threatens financial stability, Franks said. Romania risks an
EU infringement procedure over the bill, Szekely said.  The IMF expects Romania’s economy to contract for a second
year in a row this year, shrinking as much as 2 percent,
compared with an Aug. 4 forecast of 1.9 percent, Franks said.
The 2011 outlook for 1.5 percent growth is unchanged.  Inflation , the central bank’s main target, will accelerate
to more than 8 percent by the end of the year, from 7.8 percent
in September, because of the VAT increase, the IMF said. The
Romanian central bank sees the rate at 7.8 percent in December
and 3.1 percent by the end of 2011.  ‘Broadly Appropriate’  Romanian monetary policy is “broadly appropriate,” Franks
said in an interview in Bucharest. The central bank has room to
lower its benchmark interest-rate, which currently stands at a
record low 6.25 percent, if inflation slows as the effects of
the VAT increase dissipate next year, he said.  “The central bank has made a decision to pause its easing
cycle until we see how the effects of the value-added tax
increase and other things like food prices play their way out
through the economy,” he said. “If inflation begins to come
down, then there may be room in the future for additional
interest-rate easing. But we’ll have to see how much second-
round effects are happening on the inflation front.”  Policy makers will probably leave the  key rate  unchanged at
a meeting tomorrow as they assess the impact of the VAT increase
on inflation, according to the median estimate of seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  