-- Rongsheng Heavy Seeks $2.3 Billion in Hong Kong IPO to Expand Shipbuilding
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g   a n d   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2010-11-01T04:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/rongsheng-heavy-industries-seeks-2-3-billion-in-hong-kong-initial-offer.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries ,
China’s largest shipbuilder outside state control, is seeking
$2.3 billion in what may be Hong Kong’s third-largest initial
public offering this year, according to terms sent to investors.  The company plans to sell 1.75 billion shares at HK$7.30 to
HK$10.10, the terms show.  China National Offshore Oil Corp. ,
 China Life Insurance (Group) Co. , China Southern Fund Management
Co. and Atlantis Investment Management Ltd. have agreed to buy a
combined $155 million of shares, according to the terms.  Rongsheng intends to use the sale proceeds for projects
including building a fourth drydock as a rebound in world trade
following last year’s global recession revives demand for ships.
The company, which raised $300 million from investors including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in 2007, planned to sell shares in 2008
before the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
credit crunch triggered a collapse in global stock markets.  “Orders for shipbuilding are improving and the industry is
on a rebound,” said  Steven Leung , Hong Kong-based director for
institutional sales at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. Still, demand for the
IPO will depend on the valuations, which are yet to be announced,
he said.  BOC International Holdings Ltd. is arranging the sale,
along with CCB International (Holdings) Ltd., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Morgan Stanley, according to the terms sheet.  Calls made to the office of Chen Qiang, Rongheng’s
president, went unanswered.  AIA, AgriBank  The Rongsheng sale will probably only trail IPOs by  AIA
Group Ltd.  and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  in Hong Kong this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. AIA, which raised
$17.8 billion in the city’s largest-ever IPO, gained 17 percent
on its Oct. 29 trading debut.  Agricultural Bank  has risen 29
percent since its $10.4 billion IPO in July.  Sixty-one companies have gone public in Hong Kong this year,
raising $40 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
More Chinese businesses, possibly including state-owned
enterprises, power companies and railways will likely follow
Rongsheng in selling shares, said  Erwin Sanft , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at BNP Paribas SA.  “There’ll still be mega-IPOs,” he said. “China is the
biggest emerging market and so you have a flow of money coming
in.”  Rongsheng Orders  Rongsheng also plans to use IPO funds to boost marine-
engine production and to increase capacity for making excavators.
The company had an order backlog of 88 vessels, or 15.9 million
deadweight tons, at the end of September, according to Clarkson
Plc. That included 11.19 million deadweight tons of dry-bulk
ships, or 58 vessels, the second-highest tally worldwide,
according to the shipbroker’s data. The shipyard delivered 10
vessels last year.  Guangzhou Shipyard International Co., the largest shipyard
listed in Hong Kong, has gained 28 percent this year. It trades
at about 11 times estimated earnings.  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd., the largest listed
Chinese shipyard outside state control, trades at a price to
estimated earnings ratio of about 13. The  company , which raised
NT$3.76 billion ($123 million) selling depositary receipts in
Taiwan in September, has risen 58 percent this year in Singapore
trading.  China Shipbuilding Industry Co. , the nation’s largest maker
of vessel equipment, raised 14.7 billion yuan ($2.2 billion) in
a Shanghai IPO in December. It’s gained 34 percent this year.  Shipping lines have begun to resume ordering new vessels
after a plunge in demand during the global recession. Evergreen
Group and  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. , Asia’s two biggest
container lines, have ordered 32 new ships between them from
South Korean shipyards since June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net ;
 Nick Gentle  in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  