-- Rousseff's Presidential Victory Empowers Brazil Women for Top Manager Jobs
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-11-01T13:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/rousseff-s-presidential-victory-empowers-brazil-women-for-top-manager-jobs.html
Dilma Rousseff  dedicated her victory
as Brazil’s first female president to the nation’s women, saying
it paves the way for their daughters to gain more power in
government and business in Latin America’s largest economy.  “I want to state my first commitment after the elections:
to honor Brazil’s women so that today’s unprecedented result
becomes a normal event,” said the 62-year-old Rousseff, a
former cabinet chief and energy minister, in speech last night 
in Brasilia. “I would very much like that parents look into 
their daughters’ eyes and say, yes women can.”  The presidential vote yesterday, the sixth since military
rule ended in 1985, marks a milestone for a country where only
one of the 61 companies that form the Bovespa  benchmark  stock
index is run by a female executive. Rousseff will provide a role
model that will empower women in Brazil and help bring more
females to senior executive positions, said Maria Eugenia Lopez,
who runs Banco Santander Brasil SA’s private banking unit.  “The process to bridge the gender gap in Brazil will
probably accelerate with Dilma in power,” Lopez, 44, said in an
interview in Sao Paulo.  Since Brazil became a republic in 1889, only one woman,
 Zelia Cardoso de Mello , has served as finance minister. Outgoing
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, who chose Rousseff as his
successor, named five female ministers and 47 men in the past
eight years.  Nineteen countries currently have women leaders, from
Australia to Iceland, Slovakia and Argentina. In Finland, both
the president and the prime-minister are women.  In Latin America, Argentina had two female presidents,
 Isabel Peron , the first woman to become president of a republic,
from 1974 to 1976, and  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , in power
since 2007. In Chile,  Michelle Bachelet  ruled from 2006 until
March.  Laura Chinchilla  was elected Costa Rica’s first female
president in February.  Equal Opportunity  “Equal opportunity between men and women is an essential
principle of democracy,” Rousseff told supporters yesterday.  Rousseff beat former Sao Paulo state Governor  Jose Serra  in
a runoff vote yesterday 56 percent to 44 percent after 99
percent of ballots were counted.  Her stance on abortion was a central issue during the
runoff campaign that started Oct. 4. She had to back away from
her past defense of abortion rights after losing support among
evangelical Christians, who form an estimated 24 percent of the
population and switched allegiance to Serra.  “My position is against abortion, which is a violence
against women,” Rousseff said Oct. 5 as she met with Catholic
leaders in Belo Horizonte. “No woman is in favor of abortion.”  Marxist Guerrilla  Rousseff, a twice-divorced grandmother and opera lover, is
the daughter of a Bulgarian immigrant lawyer and a Brazilian
teacher. She attended an all-girls private school and had read
 Emile Zola ’s “Germinal” and Fyodor Dostoevsky’s “The Insulted
and Humiliated” by age 14, according to the  biography  on her
campaign website.  She dropped out of university to fight the military regime
that took power in 1964 by joining Marxist underground groups
that carried out armed bank robberies and kidnappings. She was
jailed for three years and tortured.  After becoming an economist, Rousseff began her public
service career in 1986 as finance secretary of the city of Porto
Alegre, in Brazil’s southernmost Rio Grande do Sul state. She
was appointed mining, energy and communications secretary of
that state in 1993. That job gave her national recognition when
Rio Grande do Sul was the only Brazilian state that wasn’t
required to ration electricity during a power crisis in 2001.  ‘Iron Lady’  Lula named Rousseff mines and energy minister and
chairwoman of state-controlled oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA  in 2003. Two years later, Lula promoted Rousseff to his chief
of staff. Her habit of yelling at subordinates and reputation as
a tough negotiator earned her the nickname “Iron Lady” in the
Brazilian press.  In December 2008, Rousseff started to soften her Iron Lady
image, undergoing a full facelift and replacing her heavy-framed
glasses with contact lenses. At the start of the campaign this
year, she changed her hairstyle to a shorter look inspired by
Carolina Herrera’s.  Rousseff said she was feeling “great” after the facelift.  “I look more like I did when I was 40 than at 60 years
old. I didn’t get to 30, which was my dream,” she said in an
interview with Marie Claire magazine in April last year.  Cancer Survivor  Rousseff announced in April 2009 that she was being treated
for lymphoma. She joked about the fact she was wearing “a basic
wig” when she left the hospital after treatment in May. In
September, her doctors pronounced her in “excellent health.”  Rousseff had more support among men than women, according
to polls before yesterday’s vote. She had 53 percent of support
among male voters and 46 percent among women in an Oct. 26
Datafolha poll of 4,066 people in 246 cities said. Serra had 37
percent among male voters and 39 percent among women, according
to the same poll, which had a margin of error of 2 percentage
points.  The newly elected president doesn’t have specific policies
for women in her proposed government program announced Oct. 25.
The plan mentions an expansion of “legal and administrative
initiatives that in the Lula government fostered equal rights
for women, blacks, indigenous populations, the elderly and all
sectors of society that have been discriminated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  