-- Rubber Ends Three-Day Slump on Crude Oil Gains, China's Manufacturing Data
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-01T08:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/rubber-advances-as-china-s-manufacturing-growth-accelerates-yen-declines.html
Rubber ended a three-day decline as
crude oil rose and data showed growth in China’s  manufacturing 
accelerated, boosting speculation demand will expand from the
world’s largest consumer of the commodity used in tires.  The most-active contract on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
gained as much as 0.9 percent to 329.8 yen per kilogram ($4,084
a metric ton) before settling at 327.2 yen. The contract fell as
much as 1 percent earlier as Japan vehicle sales tumbled and on
speculation the Japanese currency may strengthen if the Federal
Reserve goes ahead with easing policies that will further debase
the dollar, reducing the appeal of the yen-denominated commodity.  “Crude oil gains and robust Chinese manufacturing data
boosted rubber,” said Varut Rungkhum, analyst at Bangkok-based
commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd. “Rubber was trapped in a
tight range on worries over lower car sales in Japan and the
strengthening yen,” he said.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index increased to 54.7 in
October, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said. The
reading compared with 53.8 for both the previous month and the
median forecast of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The data showed the strength of China’s industrial
production,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at Tokyo-based broker
Fujitomi Co., said today by phone. “Chinese demand for raw
materials will keep expanding.”  Oil Climbs  Oil rose in New York as the dollar declined on speculation
the Federal Reserve will announce another round of credit-easing
measures to help spur growth in the U.S., the world’s largest
crude user. Crude oil futures gained as much as 0.7 percent to
$81.96 a barrel from $81.43 on Oct. 29. The Fed starts a two-day
meeting tomorrow where it may announce another round of asset
purchases known as quantitative easing.  Sales  of cars, trucks and buses, excluding minicars, fell
27 percent to 193,258 vehicles in October from a year earlier,
the  Japan Automobile Dealers Association  said in a statement
today. Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, sold 101,518 units,
excluding Lexus-brand cars, down 24 percent.  Industrywide car sales in Japan may plunge 23 percent in
the six months beginning in October from a year earlier, after a
government subsidy for fuel-efficient cars ended Sept. 8,
according to the Japan Automobile Dealers Association.  May-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange surged
as much as 3.9 percent to 31,950 yuan ($4,784) a ton before
closing at 31,420 yuan.  Margin Requirements  The contract tumbled as much as 5.6 percent on Oct. 29 as
the Shanghai exchange said it raised the natural rubber futures
margin requirement to 11 percent from the current 8 percent,
effective Nov. 2. The measure was taken to ensure market
stability and prevent risks, the bourse said. Rubber futures in
Shanghai climbed to a record 33,320 yuan on Oct. 26.  The move by the Shanghai exchange came after the Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange increased the margin requirements for rice,
rapeseed oil, wheat and sugar trading on Oct. 26. The action was
taken after the Zhengzhou exchange said it would track
“abnormal” trading and recommend investigation by watchdogs.  In the cash market, Thai exporters raised offers for so-
called RSS-3 grade rubber for December shipment to $3.98 a
kilogram from $3.94 a week earlier, said Saito at Fujitomi.
Prices gained as rain curbed latex supply, he said.  A natural-rubber supply shortage will likely “worsen” in
the fourth quarter as unseasonal rainfall continues to disrupt
production from key growers, according to  the Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  