-- Rutgers Taps Build Americas as Yields Close to 10-Week High: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-01T15:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/rutgers-taps-build-america-market-as-yields-at-10-week-high-muni-credit.html
Rutgers , the eighth-oldest university
in the U.S., is selling $391 million in Build America Bonds, its
first such sale, with yields on the taxable securities close to
the highest level in 10 weeks.  The New Jersey state university’s inaugural offering of the
federally subsidized securities follows last week’s $4.9 billion
in sales, the second-highest in the Build America program’s
history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Average yields
on the debt rose about 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage point,
last month to 5.86 percent on Oct. 29. The yield was 5.88
percent the previous day, the highest since Aug. 12, according
to a  Wells Fargo index . About $1.9 billion of the bonds are
scheduled for sale this week, Bloomberg data show.  With Build America issuance outpacing demand, Rutgers will
need to pay extra yield to increase investor interest, said  Fred Yosca , head of fixed-income trading at BNY Mellon Capital
Markets LLC in New York.  “They’re going to have to be competitively priced,” Yosca
said. “There’s not a lot of money this time of year, and with
everybody issuing, it’s just an imbalance.”  Build Americas, which currently provide issuers a 35
percent federal subsidy on interest costs, are set to expire on
Dec. 31. Legislation introduced by Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, would extend the Build
America Bond program, which was created as part of the economic
stimulus package in February 2009, by one year with the subsidy
reduced to 32 percent. Previous extension plans passed by the
House of Representatives stalled in the Senate.  “We’re afraid the program might not get extended,” said
Bruce Fehn, the school’s senior vice president for finance and
administration, in a telephone interview. “We wanted to get it
done before the subsidy expired.”  First Build Americas  This is the first Build America sale for the university,
Bloomberg data show. The school enrolled more than 47,000 full-
time students at its three campuses last year, and the debt will
help finance the creation of a business facility on its
 Livingston campus,  Fehn said. The borrowing will fund a 1,500-
bed dormitory, a new dining hall and infrastructure
improvements.  Additionally, these Build Americas will pay for the
building of 500-bed housing on the Busch campus, the primary
location of the school’s science and engineering students,
according to Fehn. This week’s offering totals $508 million,
including $109 million in tax-exempts and $8 million in
traditional taxables, preliminary offering documents show.  Credit Ratings  The debt is rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and AA
by Standard & Poor’s, both third-highest. The bonds will be
secured by the college’s full faith and credit, and a pledge of
university revenue, the documents show. New Jersey education
cuts have lowered state aid to Rutgers about 20 percent since
2008 to $262.5 million this year, Moody’s said.  Given the quality and backing of the issue, the offering
should be well received because “there’s huge demand for public
higher education,” Fehn said.  The  University of Massachusetts Building Authority , also
rated third-highest by Moody’s and Fitch Ratings, sold $430
million in Build Americas on Oct. 21. Bonds due in November 2040
were priced to yield 5.45 percent, or about 149 basis points
above 30-year U.S. Treasuries.  About $279 million of Rutgers’s Build Americas will mature
in 2040, offering documents show. The bonds include an
extraordinary redemption provision should the federal government
cease to provide the interest-cost subsidy.  Rutgers last offered debt in February 2009, with 30-year
tax-exempts, the bulk of the sale, priced to yield 4.98 percent,
or about  15 basis points  above top-rated general obligations,
according to a benchmark Bloomberg Valuation index.  The securities traded Oct. 20 at an average yield of 3.82
percent, 4 basis points above a  comparable-maturity  AAA index.  Rutgers plans to begin building the business school,
projected to serve 3,200 undergraduate and 300 graduate
students, in the next 12 months, Fehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 