-- RWE to Tap Trinidad and Tobago Reserves in Bid to Double Gas Production
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-01T15:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/rwe-to-tap-trinidad-and-tobago-reserves-in-bid-to-double-gas-production.html
RWE AG , Germany’s second-largest
utility, plans to tap natural-gas reserves in Trinidad and
Tobago to help double production by 2015.  “We need reserve replenishment and we can only do that by
broadening our country focus,”  Thomas Rappuhn , chief executive
officer of the company’s RWE Dea AG oil and gas unit, said in an
interview in Hamburg. “Trinidad is attractive, there are a lot
of prospects, a lot of gas on the basis of the data we’ve seen
so far.”  RWE is boosting output to secure fuel for its supply and
trading unit and use higher volumes to cut shipping and handling
costs. It wants to double annual output volume to 70 million
barrels of oil equivalent in 2014 to 2015 from 36 million in
2008. The unit is also studying liquefied natural-gas, or LNG,
opportunities in Ghana and Equatorial Guinea, Rappuhn said.  The German utility teamed up with Canadian explorer  Niko
Resources Ltd.  to join BG Group Plc and Centrica Plc in bidding
for licenses in Trinidad and Tobago. The nation had 15.4
trillion cubic feet of proved gas reserves at the end of 2009,
according to BP Plc.  The gas from Trinidad “could go to the market with the
best prices, that could be in the east Asian region, around
Japan for example,” said Rappuhn, who spent more than seven
years as a drilling engineer.  Excelerate Unit  RWE could also sell LNG from Trinidad in Europe through its
Excelerate Energy LLC unit. The gas trader based in The
Woodlands, Texas is half-owned by RWE and the rest by U.S.
billionaire George Kaiser, according to its website.  RWE, which is based in the German city of Essen, should know
whether its Trinidad license bid was successful in the second
half of the month, Rappuhn said. “We are very optimistic,” he
said. The unit will spend a figure in the “high double-digit
millions of euros” on exploratory drilling and other work on
the Trinidad license if it succeeds, he said.  “We’re also likely to see what the possibilities are in the
next round,” Rappuhn said. RWE could then become a field
operator in Trinidad rather than partnering with another
company, according to the executive.  Separately, RWE wants to reduce its stakes in some licenses
in Egypt to “diversify our  portfolio ,” Rappuhn said. The
utility plans to remain the operator of the fields.  Bidding rounds for licenses in North African countries
“have become very tough” as competition between oil and gas
companies seeking to bolster reserves rises, according to the
executive.  Export LNG  The output target was given in a  presentation  the utility
posted on its website in January. The division’s parent company
put its mid-term earnings outlook under review in August, as
Germany’s planned tax on nuclear power plant operators will sap
profits.  RWE is also interested in opportunities in Ghana, Equatorial
Guinea and other west African countries with a view to exporting
LNG, he said. There are some countries in the region that RWE
Dea isn’t interested in, due to security concerns and license
issues, Rappuhn said, without elaborating.  The utility is in also negotiations with Azerbaijan to be
awarded the right to operate the country’s Nakhichevan field,
which could supply a second, expanded phase of the Nabucco
pipeline to Europe, Rappuhn said.  Nabucco Project  “It would be good if we could feed it into Nabucco, but it
has to be profitable,” he said.  RWE is one of the six shareholders of the Vienna-based
Nabucco Gas Pipeline International GmbH venture. The planned 7.9
billion-euro pipeline will be able to transport fuel more than
3,300 kilometers (2,050 miles) from Turkey to Austria, helping
to cut Europe’s dependence on Russia, when it starts in 2015.
The shareholders are scheduled to decide on the project next
year.  The company plans to conduct a seismic survey at an
exploration block close to the coast of Turkmenistan early next
year, according to Rappuhn. The country on the eastern edge of
the Caspian holds the world’s fourth-largest gas reserves.  “We hope that we may be able to convince the Turkmen with
good work that they will allow us access to onshore licenses,”
the RWE Dea CEO said.       E.ON AG  is Germany’s biggest utility
based on revenue and market capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  