-- Ryanair Boosts Profit 32%, Increases Full-Year Target
-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-01T11:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/ryanair-boosts-annual-profit-forecast-on-outlook-for-winter-travel-demand.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc , Europe’s
biggest discount airline, boosted second-quarter profit 32
percent on rising traffic and fares. The stock fell as a higher 
full-year forecast barely matched analysts’ predictions.  Net income  jumped to 330.3 million euros ($461 million) in
the three months ended Sept. 30 from 250.5 million euros a year
earlier, Dublin-based Ryanair said today in a statement,
slightly less than the 343 million euros estimated by analysts.  Passenger numbers advanced 12 percent in the quarter, with
fares increasing by the same degree. That will help lift annual
profit to between 380 million and 400 million euros, Ryanair
said, up from a forecast of 350 million to 375 million euros.  “They have only slightly increased their estimate and I
think people were looking for something a bit more optimistic,”
said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in Paris with
an “add” recommendation on Ryanair. Analysts were already
expecting a full-year profit of 400 million euros, he said.  Ryanair shares, which reached their highest price in more
than 2 1/2 years last week, traded 3.6 percent lower at 3.98
euros as of 11:33 a.m. in Dublin, paring gains this year to 32
percent and valuing the company at 5.92 billion euros.  Today’s statement continues a trend of airlines announcing
higher earnings and upgrading forecasts, not always to the
benefit of their share prices.  BA, Air France  British Airways Plc posted its first profit in two years
last week as surging sales of business tickets allowed it to
ramp up fares. The stock, which had gained 50 percent since the
start of the year, fell 3.6 percent. Air France-KLM Group and
Deutsche Lufthansa AG also raised forecasts. EasyJet Plc,
Ryanair’s biggest discount rival, reports figures on Nov. 16.  “This strengthens a trend that’s really been gathering
pace over the past couple of weeks,” said  Joe Gill , an analyst
at Bloxham Securities in Dublin with an “outperform” rating on
Ryanair stock. “Pretty much every major airline in the world
has now come in with strong numbers and raised their guidance on
the back of solid summer and autumn trading.”  Ryanair’s sales advanced 29 percent to 1.28 billion euros
in the second quarter, it said today. The passenger total
reached 22 million for the period and is up 13 percent over the
past 12 months, including bookings on flights canceled because
of April’s volcanic eruption in Iceland.  Market Share Boost  Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said he’s
“cautiously pessimistic” about the economy and that a double-dip
recession can’t be ruled out, though the uncertainty is to the
benefit of Ryanair as it prompts people to shun costly rivals.  Ryanair’s ticket prices should gain by close to 10 percent
in the current quarter, which is usually among the weakest for
low-cost airlines, the CEO said.  “The old analysis is that in a recession people stop
flying, or fly less,” O’Leary said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s Countdown with  Maryam Nemazee . “In fact it’s not
true. They just become much more price sensitive and switch off
the high-fare carriers and on to Ryanair.”  Ryanair says it overtook Madrid-based Iberia Lineas Aereas
de Espana SA in July to become the No. 1 passenger carrier at
Spain’s airports. It has added Barcelona El Prat to the network
and will establish Seville and Valencia as hubs this month.  The Icelandic eruption, which produced ash that closed
European airspace intermittently over several weeks this spring,
will cost about 32 million euros in refunds and expenses, down
from a previous estimate of 50 million euros, Ryanair said.  The Irish carrier paid a one-time  dividend  of 500 million
euros in October, the first-ever payment to shareholders, after
O’Leary opted to limit fleet growth as the discount market
matures. The CEO is “a long way away” from considering a
further dividend of that magnitude, he said today.  The fleet, which numbered 250 aircraft as of June 30, will
still swell to 299 planes by 2013 as the carrier takes delivery
of more single-aisle  Boeing  Co. 737-800s. O’Leary said the
company has kept open a dialogue about more aircraft with both
Boeing and Airbus SAS, though there are no formal negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  