-- Samsung Securities Expands to Taiwan, Singapore in `Regional Player' Bid
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-11-01T07:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/samsung-securities-expands-to-taiwan-singapore-in-regional-player-bid.html
Samsung Securities Co.  plans to hire
as many as 20 analysts and sales staff in Taiwan and Singapore
next year as the South Korean brokerage pushes to become a
“regional player,” its chief executive officer said.  “Money is fast gravitating towards Asia so it’s obvious
that we need to focus our capabilities in the region,”  Park Chun Hyeon , 57, who heads the brokerage unit of South Korea’s
largest family run conglomerate, said in an interview in Seoul.  Samsung Securities is opening offices in Asia and
bolstering regional research to take advantage of record inflows
for emerging-market equity funds as developing nations’ economic
growth outpaces that of developed countries. Asia’s economy
could be as large as those of the United States and European
Union combined by 2015, International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said on Oct. 18.  Samsung Securities’ hiring plans, together with about 95
staff at its Hong Kong unit, will help it achieve the goal of
becoming a “regional player” by 2015, said Park. Its Hong Kong
unit said last month it hired  Viktor Shvets  from Nomura
International Plc. to head its Asia research. Samsung Securities
may also recruit analysts who can cover Indian companies before
it starts operating there in 2012, he said.  The brokerage, affiliated with  Samsung Electronics Co. ,
Asia’s biggest maker of chips, flat screens and mobile phones,
expects its overseas units to derive more than 10 percent of its
total net revenue in 2013, compared with 4 percent currently,
Park said. The company’s Hong Kong unit is expected to break
even next year, before turning to profit in 2012, he said.  China Plans  “We will basically pursue organic growth in the region,
while being open to acquisitions as well,” Park said.  Samsung Securities is in talks with three “major” Chinese
brokerages for a possible joint venture or stake purchases to
boost its presence in China, Park said. The company will see
“tangible results” next year from the talks, he added,
declining to name the potential partners. Samsung Securities
currently has an office in Shanghai.  Park took the helm at the Seoul-based company in June 2008,
vowing to bolster investment banking operations. He began his
career in 1979 at  Samsung Life Insurance Co. , where he became
chief investment officer in 2003. Samsung Securities and Samsung
Life are part of Samsung Group.  Samsung Securities also plans to turn its branch in Tokyo
into a locally incorporated unit by 2012 as South Korea’s
potential upgrade to developed market status at MSCI Inc. is
likely to increase Japanese investors’ interest in Korean assets,
according to Park. South Korea was kept an emerging market by
MSCI in June as the index provider skipped the nation for an
upgrade for a second year.  The MSCI Emerging-Markets Index has gained 13 percent this
year, compared with a 4.8 advance for a gauge of developed
markets.  Samsung Securities  rose 3.7 percent to 66,800 won at
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul today, the most since Aug. 30. The
stock has gained 5.7 percent in 2010, compared with a 14 percent
gain in the benchmark  Kospi  stock index.  -- Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Linus Chua   To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net 
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 