-- Saudi Aramco May Raise Crude Prices to Asia on Gain in Refiners' Profits
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-11-01T01:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/saudi-aramco-may-raise-crude-prices-to-asia-on-gain-in-refiners-profits.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
biggest crude exporter, may raise the official selling prices of
all of its December-loading supplies to Asia as processing
profits for refiners have climbed.  Arab Light , Saudi Arabia’s largest export type, may be 
lifted by 35 cents from November, according to the median of 
eight responses from officials in a Bloomberg News survey of 
regional refiners. That would put the price at a premium of 30
cents a barrel to the average of Persian Gulf benchmarks Oman
and Dubai, the highest since January.  Arab Extra Light  may be 
raised by 40 cents, said the refinery officials, who asked to 
remain unidentified, citing company policy. That would set the
level at a $1.25 premium to the benchmarks, the most since June.  The premium, or crack spread, on  naphtha  produced in Japan
over Brent crude, a proxy for refinery profits, last month 
climbed to $155.54 a metric ton, the most since March. Asian 
gasoil prices outpaced Dubai oil by as much as $13.57 a barrel 
last month, the most since August. Dubai’s contango market 
structure, when later-dated supplies are more expensive than 
prompt cargoes, narrowed in October, suggesting more demand.  “Naphtha cracks have gone up, so that means the lighter
crude barrels will have to be raised,” said  Osamu Fujisawa , a
Tokyo-based independent oil economist who used to work at Saudi
Arabian Oil, known as Saudi Aramco. “The contango in Dubai has
also narrowed, which means they should raise prices.”  Arab Heavy , the country’s densest grade, may climb by 15
cents from November, according to the survey.  Arab Medium  may be
increased by 20 cents, the respondents said.  December loading Dubai’s  discount  to January cargoes
narrowed to 36 cents a barrel on Oct. 22 from 70 cents on Oct.
12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fuel Oil Discount  Increases in Arab Heavy and Medium will be tempered by a
widening in fuel oil’s discount to Dubai crude. That price
pushed out to minus $7.83 a barrel on Oct. 14, the lowest since
May 4. Both grades yield more fuel oil after basic processing.  Saudi Aramco’s Extra Light crude yields a greater volume of
naphtha after processing, more than the company’s other three
main export grades.  Last month, Saudi Aramco raised the price of Arab Light and
Extra Light grades for November loading for buyers in Asia.  Arab Light climbed 45 cents to a discount of 5 cents a
barrel to the Oman and Dubai average. Extra Light increased 55
cents to a premium of 85 cents and Super Light, the grade with
the largest naphtha yield, jumped 90 cents to a premium of $1.90.  Arab Medium rose 25 cents to a discount of $1.80 a barrel
to the benchmark’s average. Arab Heavy climbed 15 cents to a
discount of $3.20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  