-- Serbia Should Use Telekom Srbija Proceeds to Balance Budget, Jelasic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-11-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/serbia-should-use-telekom-srbija-proceeds-to-balance-budget-jelasic-says.html
Serbia should use the proceeds from
the planned sale of  Telekom Srbija AD  to balance the budget and
reduce the state’s borrowing needs, former central bank Governor
 Radovan Jelasic  said.  The plan to raise as much as 1.4 billion euros ($1.95
billion) from the sale of a 51 percent stake would cover the
entire 2011 budget deficit and help the government avoid
boosting public debt beyond the 45 percent of gross domestic
product legal limit, said Jelasic on Oct. 29 in his first
interview since stepping down from the Belgrade-based
institution in August.  The government of Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  cut public
 wages  and pensions to help trim budget gaps in 2009 and 2010 and
meet conditions attached to a 3 billion-euro bailout loan.
Meeting the demand to keep the shortfall to 4 percent of GDP
next year may be tougher because of voter pressure and a failure
to hold to austerity measures may push inflation higher than 10
percent, Jelasic said.  “The key is whether the government continues with the
practice of the past 40 years, raising wages and pensions, or
persists with fiscal restraint that will eventually calm down
prices,”     said Jelasic. The revenue would “allow Serbia to
survive next year without any new borrowing.”  Bidders for the state phone company face a Nov. 26 deadline
to submit their applications for the nation’s largest state-
asset sale.  Interest in Bidding  To qualify, potential bidders need to have five years in
the telecommunications business, 20 million landline and mobile-
phone users and 3 billion euros in market capitalization.  France Telecom SA said on Oct. 28 that it is interested in
the stake.  Telekom Austria  AG said it is reviewing the company
documents, though other potential bidders have a better chance
of winning the tender, Chief Executive Officer  Hannes Ametsreiter  said.  Telekom Srbija, which is 20 percent held by the Athens-
based Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA, will also
give away 6.52 percent of its equity to present and former
workers, while 15 percent will be transferred “free of charge”
to citizens.  The Serbian government has said the money from the sale
should finance new infrastructure and a capital boost for
 Komercijalna Banka AD , Serbia’s second-biggest lender by assets,
and outlined plans for 1.3 billion euros in new borrowing in
2011.  Jelasic, who will join Unicredit SpA’s central and east
European division in Vienna beginning Dec. 1, said demands to
raise wages and retirement benefits stem largely from the
weakening dinar, which has lost around 40 percent since the last
quarter of 2008 because of the global financial crisis and a
lack of foreign capital inflows.  Economic Imbalances  The  inflation  rate ballooned to 8.6 percent in October from
3.7 percent in June, while the trade deficit widened to $629.7
million in September from $599.6 million in August.  Milojko Arsic, Cvetkovic’s economic adviser, said in an
interview on the same day that remaining on the path of
austerity measures is more urgent because of imbalances in the
economy that may delay the Balkan nation’s recovery.  “Due to insufficient capital inflows,” the weaker dinar
“has had little if any impact on the balance of payments,”
said Arsic, who is also a member of the central bank’s
supervisory board.  With foreign direct investment continuing to falter,
pressure on the dinar will remain a reality.  The current-account  deficit , a key for Serbia in terms of
external financing needs, is likely to end the year at around 9
percent of GDP, wider than an originally expected 6 percent to 7
percent.  Weakening Dinar  In the past week alone, the dinar fell 2 percent to trade
at a record-low 107.5 to the euro, forcing the central bank to
sell a total of 150 million euros on Oct. 28-29 in the interbank
market to slow the dinar declines, prompting opposition calls
for more currency stability.  “Unlike those past years, when excessive demand could be
financed with capital inflows, we are now witnessing changed
circumstances in global financial markets and a lack of capital
inflows not only to Serbia but the entire region,” Arsic said.  Jelasic said the central bank should not buckle to pressure
to keep the currency stable by compromising its inflation-
targeting policy, which relies on a flexible exchange rate.  The dinar traditionally weakens in the last quarter of the
calendar year, with strong energy-import demand and end-of-year
budget payments, prompting criticism by the opposition that
authorities are failing to stabilize the economy.  “The central bank has done everything, they raised the
interest rate and intervened to smooth dinar swings,” said
Jelasic. “The main challenge now is to have patience.”  The National Bank of Serbia sold more than 2.1 billion
euros since January to curb dinar losses, “but those
interventions do not solve the problem,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  