-- Simon Property Raises Earnings Forecast, Dividend as Retail Sales Increase
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-11-01T20:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/simon-property-third-quarter-earnings-decline-company-raises-its-dividend.html
Simon Property Group Inc. , the
largest U.S. shopping-mall owner, boosted its earnings forecast
and increased its dividend as retail  sales  improve.  Simon projects full-year funds from operations of $5.90 to
$5.95 a share, compared with a previous forecast of no more than
$5.87, the company said today in its third-quarter earnings
statement. The forecast excludes costs from debt repurchases in
January and August. The landlord said it will pay a  dividend  of
80 cents a share in the fourth quarter, up from 60 cents.  Simon is using its cash to boost shareholder payouts,
retire debt and buy property as consumer spending picks up. The
National Retail Federation has forecast  holiday  sales will be
the best in four years, rising 2.3 percent to $447.1 billion.  “They started to deploy their cash balance on the tender
offer in August and now they’re increasing their dividend,”
 Craig Guttenplan , a London-based analyst at CreditSights Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. The company’s “core operating
performance was pretty solid,” he said.  Third-quarter funds from operations excluding some items
rose to $503.6 million, or $1.43 a share, from $473.1 million,
or $1.38, a year earlier. Including a gain from the sale of a
European joint venture and costs from the August tender offer,
FFO fell to $318.5 million, or 90 cents a share. That matched
the average of 16 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  FFO is a cash-flow measure used by real estate investment
trusts. It excludes depreciation and other items and doesn’t
conform to generally accepted accounting principles.  Share Gain  Simon rose 2.7 percent, the most in two months, to $98.62
as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have gained 24 percent this year, compared with a 23
percent advance in the  Bloomberg REIT Index .  The company’s average rent in the U.S. climbed to $38.69 a
square foot in the third quarter from $38.35 a year earlier.
Occupancy rose to 93.6 percent from 92.8 percent.  “We continue to see improvement in our business
conditions,” Chief Executive Officer  David Simon  said on a
conference call with analysts.  The mall owner plans to pay a total of at least $3.20 a
share in dividends next year, Simon said on the call. It’s
likely to spend $1.5 billion on the redevelopment of 16
properties, with work beginning on two to four projects in 2011,
the CEO said.  European Outlets  The company also may expand into the European outlet-mall
business, Simon said.  “Development is clearly the hardest to do, but we have
looked at certain things in the past and I would say on the
acquisition side there could be opportunities for us down the
road,” Simon said of Europe. The company owns other shopping
centers in the region.  Simon Property  bought  Prime Outlets Acquisition Co. in
August for $2.3 billion to expand its outlet-mall business by 21
properties. The Indianapolis-based company had $1.3 billion of
cash as of Sept. 30 and $3 billion available under a credit
line, according to the statement.  The REIT owns or has stakes in almost 400 properties in
North America, Europe and Asia. Simon dropped a bid this year to
take over its largest competitor, Chicago-based  General Growth
Properties Inc. , which filed for bankruptcy protection in April
2009. General Growth expects to exit bankruptcy this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 