-- Abu Dhabi Developer Sorouh Predicts Jump in 2011 Revenue on Completions
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-11-01T13:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/sorouh-third-quarter-profit-declines-68-as-sales-drop-misses-estimates.html
Sorouh Real Estate PJSC , Abu Dhabi’s
second-biggest developer by market value, predicted a jump in
revenue in the next two years as rental income rises and homes
are handed over to buyers.  Sorouh will deliver most of the apartments in its Sun and
Sky towers in 2011 and double rental income when it completes
the Alrayyana middle-income housing project by the end of the
year, according to Chief Financial Officer  Richard Amos .  Though Sorouh has sold 90 percent of the 1,100 apartments
in the Sun and Sky towers, the company books sales only after
customers take the keys and make their final payments. Third-
quarter profit fell 68 percent after revenue dropped and the
company booked one-time costs of 42 million dirhams ($11
million) for the early redemption of an Islamic bond.  “We are very confident of 2011 and of 2012,” Amos told
reporters in a conference call from Abu Dhabi today.  Sorouh and  Aldar Properties PJSC , the emirates biggest
publicly traded real-estate developer, are leading a
construction drive in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates’
capital. Sorouh is building thousands of homes, offices and
retail spaces around canals and parks on Abu Dhabi’s Al Reem and
Lulu islands.  “We are happy with the results,”  Majed Azzam , a real-
estate analyst at Alembic HC Securities, said in a phone
interview from Dubai. “For a real estate company, quarterly
numbers could be very volatile as they are driven by
deliveries.”  Sorouh’s gross profit margin improved to 49 percent in the
third quarter from 17 percent a year earlier after the company
sold a plot of land in Shams Abu Dhabi for 134 million dirhams,
Amos said.  ‘Encouraging Sign’  “Plot sales are an encouraging sign of investors slowly
coming back to the market,” Azzam said. “The company has
managed to raise debt at reasonable cost and it has enough
liquidity to continue its development program.” Azzam expects
revenue to double in 2011 to 3 billion dirhams.  Sorouh had 1.56 billion dirhams of  cash  at the end of
September and can still use 650 million dirhams of a 2.35
billion-dirham club loan it raised in June, Amos said. The
company soon will increase the size of the loan and will
announce a financing deal for its Alrayyana project by the end
of the year, Amos said.  Sorouh’s developments have progressed “in tandem with what
the market requires,” Chief Operating Officer Gurjit Singh said
on the conference call. An expected improvement in mortgage
availability will help demand, he said.  Profit Drops  Net income declined to 59.3 million dirhams, or 2 fils a
share, from 187.3 million dirhams, or 7 fils, a year earlier,
Sorouh said in a statement today. The  average estimate  of four
analysts was for a profit of 81 million dirhams, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue dropped 73 percent to 371
million dirhams.  Sorouh’s shares declined 2.2 percent to close at 1.75
dirhams in Abu Dhabi trading. They have fallen 29 percent this
year, compared with a 2 percent rise in the benchmark index.  Emaar Properties PJSC , the U.A.E.’s biggest property
developer by market value, last week reported a 7 percent drop
in third-quarter profit to 612 million dirhams, missing
analysts’ estimates, on higher costs and writedowns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  