-- South Korea's Inflation Rate Climbs to 20-Month High, Exports Accelerate
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-11-01T05:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/south-korea-s-inflation-rate-climbs-to-20-month-high-exports-accelerate.html
South Korea’s consumer prices grew at
the fastest pace in 20 months and exports jumped more than
projected, bolstering the case for higher borrowing costs. The
won and stocks rose, while bonds fell.  The consumer price  index  increased 4.1 percent in October
from a year earlier, quickening from a 3.6 percent advance in
September, the statistics office said in Gwacheon today. Exports
grew 29.9 percent, more than the 16.2 percent predicted by seven
economists in a Bloomberg News survey, another report showed.  The data signal pressure may grow on the  Bank of Korea  to
end a three-month pause in interest-rate increases. Inflation
exceeded the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling even after the
pace of economic expansion halved last quarter as goods
shipments eased and the won surged.  “Today’s inflation and trade data further prove the
current interest rate is too low, and the central bank may raise
rates as early as this month,” said Lim Ji Won, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Seoul, referring to the benchmark
interest rate of 2.25 percent.  The won was up 0.8 percent to 1,116.29 per dollar as of
1:27 p.m. in Seoul, while the benchmark  Kospi  stock index
climbed 1.4 percent to 1,908.49. The currency has risen 6
percent over the past three months, the third-best performance
in non-Japan Asia.  The yield on the 3.75 percent bond due June 2013 rose 5
basis points to 3.30 percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Interest Rate  The Bank of Korea has increased  borrowing costs  only once
this year, by a quarter point from a record-low 2 percent in
July, after the fastest first-half economic expansion in a
decade stoked price pressures. The monetary authority aims for
inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent on average through 2012.  “Once prices are out of control, it will become a big
challenge for policy making,” Deputy Finance Minister Kang Ho
In told reporters in Gwacheon today. “It’s important to take
pre-emptive measures to curb inflation pressures.”  The  trade surplus  is expected to rise to a record level in
2010, surpassing last year’s $40.4 billion, the Ministry of
Knowledge Economy said in a statement today.  South Korean companies have benefited from rival Japan’s
struggle to restrain a larger jump in the yen against the dollar
since the start of 2010. Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest
maker of semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones, said
last week third-quarter profit increased 17 percent to a record.  Slower Growth  Still,  the rate of expansion  in Asia’s fourth-largest
economy fell to 0.7 percent last quarter as the won rose 7.2
percent over the period, the most of any Asian currency, and
growth in goods shipments eased.  The won’s performance has added to risks to exports from
elevated U.S. unemployment and European austerity. Samsung last
week also forecast weaker fourth-quarter earnings because of
falling prices and the strengthening currency. Overseas
shipments account for about half the $832.5 billion economy.  Minutes of the Bank of Korea’s policy meeting in September
showed the board was split, with two of six members calling for
a quarter-percentage-point increase to tackle price pressures.
The rest voted for no change, citing risks surrounding major
economies.  “I caution against reading too much into these data
points,”  Erik Lueth , a Hong Kong-based senior regional
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a note,
referring to today’s data.  Core inflation was flat, and October’s export numbers were
“artificially” inflated because a harvest festival holiday
season took place in the same month last year, he said. He
expects the central bank to raise interest rates again in the
first quarter of 2011.  Core prices , which exclude oil and food, rose 1.9 percent
in October from a year earlier, the same pace as in September,
according to today’s report.  South Korea grew  4.5 percent  in the third quarter from a
year earlier, slowing from a 7.2 percent pace in the previous
three-month period. Full-year growth will likely be 6 percent,
the finance ministry said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  