-- South Africa's Ministers Sworn In After Biggest Cabinet Changes Since 1994
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-01T13:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/south-africa-s-ministers-sworn-in-after-biggest-cabinet-changes-since-1994.html
Newly appointed South African
government ministers were sworn in today, following the most
sweeping mid-term changes to the Cabinet since the nation’s
first all-race elections in 1994.  President  Jacob Zuma , who took office 17 months ago,
yesterday fired seven ministers and switched the portfolios of
two others. Among those to lose their jobs were  Barbara Hogan ,
who ran public enterprises, and  Siphiwe Nyanda , previously in
charge of communications.  “Zuma is breaking with the tradition of the past, whereby
presidents were not willing to make changes,”  Dirk Kotze , a
politics professor at the University of South Africa, said by
phone from the capital, Pretoria, today. “These changes support
the perception Zuma wants to create, that there is a new
approach to government,” with increased emphasis on cutting
unemployment and increasing access to services.  Zuma is facing increased pressure from his labor-union
allies to accelerate economic growth, create more  jobs  for the
one-in-four people without work and clamp down on graft. Nyanda
was cleared of corruption allegations by the country’s Public
Protector in August.  Roy Padayachie , formerly the deputy minister of public
service and administration, was assigned Nyanda’s post at a
ceremony presided over by Chief Justice  Sandile Ngcobo  in
Pretoria. Hogan, who oversaw state power company Eskom Holdings
Ltd. and ports and freight-rail operator Transnet Ltd., was
replaced by Malusi Gigaba, previously the deputy minister of
home affairs.  ‘A Little Unfair’  “Nyanda’s move is quite understandable,”  Lawrence Schlemmer , a political analyst and director of research company
MarkData, said by phone from Cape Town yesterday. “The
management of his portfolio has been very controversial. Hogan’s
move is a little unfair. It is a great pity that she wasn’t
given more time in Cabinet.”  Africa’s biggest  economy  shed 870,000 jobs last year
following the first recession in 17 years. The government said
on Oct. 26 it plans to weaken the currency, drive down interest
rates and rein in spending under a new growth plan that aims to
create 5 million jobs in the next decade.  “Government has to work at a faster pace to change the
lives of the poor,” Zuma told reporters in Pretoria yesterday.
“We have taken a long and hard look at some of the departments
with a view to strengthening some ministries.”  Youth League  Zuma also replaced Labor Minister  Membathisi Mdladlana  with
Mildred Oliphant; appointed  Edna Molewa  minister of water and
environmental affairs in place of  Buyelwa Sonjica ; and named
 Fikile Mbalula  sports minister in place of  Makhenkesi Stofile .
He also replaced his ministers of social development, arts and
culture, women’s affairs and public works.  Mbalula, formerly the deputy police minister, and Gigaba
are both former leaders of the ruling African National
Congress’s youth league, which played a key role in helping Zuma
wrest control of the party from  Thabo Mbeki  in 2007. The ANC is
due to elect its new leadership in 2012.  “No president who potentially wants to run for re-election
wants to mess around with the youth league,”  Susan Booysen , a
politics lecturer at the University of Witwatersrand, said by
phone from Johannesburg today. With these Cabinet changes, Zuma
“is trying to consolidate his power base. There is unlikely to
be any major change in policy.”  The Democratic Alliance, South Africa’s main opposition
party, welcomed most of the changes, saying they were indicative
of a renewed focus on accountability in government.  ‘Misguided’  Gigaba’s appointment was “misguided” as he “had lurched
from one controversy to the next” in his post at home affairs,
the DA’s parliamentary leader,  Athol Trollip , said in an e-
mailed statement. In 2007, Gigaba admitted to having used a
government credit card to buy flowers for his wife and agreed to
repay the money.  Zuma also appointed Barbara Thompson as deputy energy
minister and Godfrey Oliphant as deputy mines minister, two
newly created positions.  Enoch Godongwana  was named deputy
minister of economic development and his previous post of deputy
minister of public enterprises was assigned to  Ben Martins .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 