-- St. Joe Bearish Options Trading Jumps Before Property Developer's Earnings
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-01T21:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/st-joe-bearish-options-trading-jumps-before-property-developer-s-earnings.html
St. Joe Co.  put-option trading jumped
as investors increased wagers that the Florida real-estate
developer will fall after reporting quarterly results tomorrow.  More than 23,000 puts to sell the stock changed hands, 2.5
times the number of calls to buy and the most since Oct. 13,
when hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  said he was betting
against the WaterSound, Florida-based company. Short sellers
have sold 23 percent of its shares, meaning they hope to profit
from a decline, according to  data  compiled by Data Explorers.  Greenlight Capital Inc.’s Einhorn, who profited from bets
against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, said last month
that  St. Joe  must take “substantial” asset-impairment charges
and that further building will drive the stock price to zero.
The company may report a third-quarter loss excluding some items
tomorrow of 9 cents a share, according to the  average  analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “Today’s option activity suggest some investors believe
tomorrow’s earnings release could bring further downside
pressure on the company’s shares,” said  Patrick Mortimer ,
director of options trading at Pipeline Trading Systems LLC in
New Hope, Pennsylvania.  St. Joe fell 3.4 percent to $19.50 at 4 p.m. in New York,
extending its slump since Einhorn announced that he was betting
against the company to 21 percent. While Einhorn didn’t say how
much he’s betting against St. Joe, he said he will lose a lot of
money should his thesis prove wrong.  The company was hit by Florida’s real-estate collapse and
threats posed by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico. St. Joe’s shares fell from a high of $37.13 on April 29,
when oil spewing from the BP Plc well threatened its waterfront
properties, including WaterSound and WaterColor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 