-- Stanford-Roche Patent Fight Draws U.S. Supreme Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-01T18:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/stanford-university-roche-patent-fight-will-get-u-s-supreme-court-review.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  agreed to use
a case involving Stanford University and  Roche Holding AG  to
consider reinforcing the patent rights of research universities
that rely on federal funds.  The justices today said they will hear Stanford’s bid to
revive its lawsuit against a Roche unit over patents covering
ways to test how well AIDS treatments are working.  The case will clarify the workings of a 1980 law that
allocates patent rights among the government, investors and
institutions that receive federal money. Universities contend
that a federal appeals court decision favoring Roche casts doubt
on patents stemming from hundreds of billions of dollars in
research.  The lower court ruling “will cloud title to federally
funded inventions and impose massive costs on research
institutions,” Stanford  argued  in its appeal.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington said Roche couldn’t be sued because it was a co-owner
of the disputed patents under an agreement between one of the
inventors and Cetus Corp., a company that later sold its line of
business to Roche. The scientist, Mark Holodniy, was a Stanford
employee who performed some of his research at Cetus.  Obama Administration  The case may pit universities and the federal government
against companies. The Obama administration, the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and the Association of American
Universities are backing Stanford.  Roche, the world’s largest maker of cancer drugs, urged the
Supreme Court not to hear the appeal, saying the universities
were making “hyperbolic” claims about the impact of the
appeals court ruling.  “Stanford’s desire for private monetary gain has nothing
to do with clarity of title or bringing valuable scientific
discoveries to the public,” the Basel, Switzerland-based
company argued. “On the contrary, Stanford’s effort to exclude
Roche from practicing the patented invention would reduce
opportunities for the public to benefit from the invention.”  Holodniy was working to develop a test for HIV, the virus
that causes AIDS, using polymerase chain reaction technology.
That technique, called PCR, involves making billions of copies
of DNA sequences from a small number of starting molecules.  Research Conducted  When Holodniy began working as a fellow at Stanford in
1988, he signed an agreement saying he would assign his patent
rights to the university.  The following year Holodniy began making visits to Cetus,
which was collaborating with Stanford on the research. He signed
an agreement giving that company rights to inventions stemming
from his work there. Roche later bought Cetus’s PCR business.  Holodniy’s research, along with that of other Stanford
employees, eventually led to three patents being issued to the
university.  Stanford contends that the 1980 Bayh-Dole Act supersedes
any agreement between Cetus and Holodniy. Because the underlying
research was funded in part by the federal government, the Bayh-
Dole Act barred Holodniy from assigning his rights to Cetus,
Stanford says.  The law “carefully restricts the circumstances in which an
individual inventor may acquire an ownership interest in a
federally funded invention,” Stanford argued.  The Federal Circuit disagreed. The panel said that
Holodniy’s agreement with Stanford was only a promise to assign
his rights at a future date, meaning that the Cetus transfer
took priority.  “Nothing in the act provided Stanford with the power to
void a prior, otherwise valid assignment of patent rights,”
Roche argued.  The case is Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior
University v. Roche Molecular Systems, 09-1159. The justices
will hear arguments and rule in the first half of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 