-- Steve Wynn $40 Million Lichtenstein Signals Pickup in Auctions
-- B y   L i n d s a y   P o l l o c k
-- 2010-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/steve-wynn-40-million-lichtenstein-flags-hope-of-pickup-in-auction-market.html
Steve Wynn ’s Roy Lichtenstein
painting titled “Ohhh ... Alright...’’ (1964) could sell for
$40 million at  Christie’s International  on Nov. 10.  At that price, the artist’s Pop depiction of a fetching
redhead sighing sadly on the phone would easily top his current
$16.3 million auction record. It would also confirm a growing
belief among sellers, dealers and auctioneers that the art
market has sailed out of the doldrums.  “It’s business as usual, without the boom or the bust,’’
said  Michael Findlay , a director at New York’s  Acquavella
Galleries .  As the major auction houses mount their big autumn sales,
hundreds of sellers are aiming to take advantage of renewed
confidence in the art sector, coming in the wake of a series of
buzzy European art fairs and auctions. Wynn, the Las Vegas
casino operator, is also offering  Jean-Michel Basquiat ’s jagged
1982 portrait of himself beside  Andy Warhol , which has a high
estimate of $10 million.  The two-week November art auctions roll into Manhattan
starting Tuesday, with  Sotheby’s , Christie’s and Phillips de
Pury & Co. offering Impressionist, modern and contemporary
artworks valued at an estimated total of $1.5 billion.  “I feel appetite and confidence,’’ said  Tobias Meyer ,
Sotheby’s worldwide head of contemporary art. “There is cash
around. People are sensing art is a very good investment. There
is no reticence. The question is, where can I get good
quality?’’  Christie’s won a trio of art-stocked estates. “This is a
pretty unusual yield of quality, even for the best of times,’’
said Christie’s Deputy Chairman  Amy Cappellazzo .  Cowboy Warhol  The estate of  Dennis Hopper  includes a 1971 blue Andy
Warhol portrait of the actor in a cowboy hat, projected to sell
for as much as $1.2 million. Computer pioneer  Max Palevsky ’s
estate is offering classic works by  Frank Stella , Alexander
Calder,  Donald Judd  and Fernand Leger. The late dealer Robert
Shapazian’s cache of Warhols includes portraits of  Marilyn Monroe ,  Jacqueline Kennedy , an electric chair and a 1962
“Campbell’s Soup Can (Tomato)” estimated to sell for as much as
$8 million.  Warhol as usual dominates the contemporary sales, with 19
works in Sotheby’s and Christie’s evening sales. Will the market
ever tire of Mr. Warhol? For now, the experts say no.  “Warhol is the volume trade,’’ said Cappellazzo. “The
more it sells, the more people want it. It trades like
currency.’’  Sotheby’s has hitched its Nov. 9 sale to a stark,
sophisticated, black-and-white 1962 Warhol painting of a Coca-
Cola bottle almost 7 feet tall and estimated to sell for as much
as $25 million. The seller, former curator Elizabeth Rea, bought
the painting with her late husband in 1983 at Christie’s for
$143,000.  Gund Rothko  A delicate yellow-and-orange 1955  Mark Rothko  is another
Sotheby’s highlight, with a high estimate of $30 million. The
undisclosed seller is Boston architect  Graham Gund  and wife Ann,
who are listed in the Rothko catalog of works as the owners.
Gund is the brother of New York art patron  Agnes Gund . The Gunds
have owned the Rothko for 55 years.  Christie’s Nov. 10 evening sale includes Warhol’s 1962 “Big
Campbell’s Soup Can with Can Opener (Vegetable),’’ with a high
estimate of $50 million. The seller, Seattle collector  Barney Ebsworth , has said he will use the proceeds to construct a
church designed by Japanese architect  Tadao Ando .  A shiny blue reflective  Jeff Koons  steel sculpture titled
“Balloon Flower (Blue)’’ is being sold by the Daimler Art
Collection, estimated to sell for as much as $16 million. The
price reflects some recession fallout: A magenta version of the
same sculpture sold in 2008 at Christie’s for $25.8 million,
establishing a record for the artist at auction.  Fleshy Nude  The auctions begin Nov. 2 with an Impressionist and modern
sale at Sotheby’s. The headliner is  Amedeo Modigliani ’s 1917
fleshy nude, “Nu Assis sur un Divan (La Belle Romaine),’’
estimated to sell for more than $40 million.  “It’s generally acknowledged that Modigliani’s greatest
achievements are these nudes. They are like centerfolds from
another era,’’ said Sotheby’s head of Impressionist and modern
art  Simon Shaw .  While Christie’s failed to rope in a blockbuster picture
for its Impressionist and modern sale, it offers a solid field.
 Joan Miro ’s blue-and-yellow 1938 “L’Air,’’ with biomorphic
forms frolicking in outer space is estimated to fetch as much as
$18 million.  The season’s wild card is the Russian-backed third-place
house Phillips de Pury, which is opening a new midtown
salesroom. In addition to its usual contemporary-art sale on
Nov. 8, the auction house tapped influential private dealer
Philippe Segalot to assemble an extra session, including a
black-and-white 1962 Warhol titled “Men in Her Life,’’
featuring  Elizabeth Taylor ’s romantic conquests, estimated to
fetch about $40 million.  Experts are bullish about sale prospects. “It feels like a
stronger place to be than when everything was so frothy,’’ said
 Suzanne Gyorgy , head of Citi Private Bank’s art advisory
service.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Lindsay Pollock  in New York at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 