-- Subbarao Vigilance Narrowing Record Yield Gap to Indonesia: India Credit
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-11-02T06:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/subbarao-vigilance-narrowing-record-yield-gap-to-indonesia-india-credit.html
The record yield advantage for Indian
bonds over Indonesia’s debt is starting to narrow as Citigroup
Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc recommend investors
buy Asia’s second-worst performing debt.  India’s benchmark 10-year notes  yield  7.98 percent, 58
basis points more than similar-maturity debt in Indonesia. The
difference is down from 79 basis points yesterday and 102, or
1.02 percentage point, on Oct. 18, the widest since Bloomberg
started compiling comparable data in 2003. India’s debt returned
3.6 percent this year, lagging behind every Asian market except
China, while Indonesian securities rose 24.7 percent, the best
in the region, indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc show.  Indian bonds rallied today as central bank Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said six interest-rate increases this year will
"moderate" inflation, which cooled to 8.62 percent in September
from 11 percent in April. The rupee rallied 5.4 percent against
the dollar in the past two months, outstripping the rupiah’s 1
percent gain, driven by record purchases of the nation’s debt.  “Indonesia has gone too far and reallocation into India is
sensible,”  Patrick Perret-Green , the head of foreign-exchange
and rates strategy for Asia in Singapore at Citigroup, the
third-largest U.S. bank, said in an interview yesterday. “India
has already done a lot with the overnight rate. The impact of
tightening will come in over the coming months.”  Rate Meetings  The Reserve Bank of India boosted the  repurchase rate  to
6.25 percent from 6 percent today in Mumbai, as predicted by 15
of 23 economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. Six expected
no action, after 125 basis points of increases this year.
Subbarao said in a statement the likelihood of further monetary
policy tightening in the “immediate future is relatively low.”  The rate on the Indian 10-year bond dropped 12 basis points
today and Citigroup predicted yesterday yields may fall 50 basis
points in four months. The 10-year debt’s  yield advantage  over
U.S. Treasuries widened 176 basis points to 551 points this year
through Nov. 2, while the premium in Indonesia narrowed 149
basis points to 473, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank Indonesia will hold borrowing costs at a record low of
6.5 percent on Nov. 4, 18 of 19 economists forecast in a
separate  survey . One predicted the policy rate will rise by 25
basis points, the first increase since October 2008.  The rupee, which rose 0.2 percent to 44.37 per dollar as of
11:33 a.m. in Mumbai, will climb 2 percent by the end of 2011 to
43.50, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
16 analysts. The rupiah will rise 1.4 percent to 8,800 from
8,924, a separate survey of 14 analysts showed.  Capital Curbs  “The risk-reward is better in India right now,” said
 Sanjay Mathur , the chief Asia emerging markets economist in
Singapore at RBS. “Rate hikes are more or less priced into the
Indian yield curve. On a fundamental basis, Indonesia is not
doing enough in terms of monetary policy.”  India also has less probability of imposing capital curbs
as it funds a record current-account deficit, making it a more
attractive investment, Mathur said. The gap widened to $13.7
billion in the quarter to June 30, while Indonesia posted a
 surplus  of $1.8 billion in the same period, data from the
nations’ central banks show.  Funds based abroad have increased holdings of rupee
corporate and government bonds by $9.1 billion this year to
$16.6 billion as of Oct. 28, according to the Securities and
Exchange Board of India. The government increased the cap on
their debt holdings by 50 percent to $30 billion on Sept. 23.  Difficult to Buy  Indonesia’s central bank is preparing options including a
longer holding period for central bank bills held by foreigners
before the notes can be sold to the secondary market,  Perry Warjiyo , the director for monetary policy, said on Oct. 29.
Foreign ownership of rupiah government notes alone rose 84.23
trillion rupiah ($9.4 billion) to 192.2 trillion rupiah in 2010,
data from the Finance Ministry show.  “We will probably buy some more India where it is possible
in the coming months, but it is not necessarily a switch we will
do from Indonesia,”  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $2 billion
of emerging-market debt in London at Aviva Investors, an arm of
the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer, said in an interview
yesterday. Indian bonds “are more attractive but they are much
more difficult for foreigners to buy,” he said.  India, which has no sovereign bonds denominated in dollars,
euros or yen, isn’t included in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s bond
indexes tracking 41 countries in emerging markets that are
benchmarks followed by some of the world’s biggest bond funds.  Growth Forecast  The cost of swaps protecting against a default by  State
Bank of India , a state-owned lender that is the nearest measure
for sovereign debt, fell 75 basis points to 163.8 on Nov. 1 from
a one-year high reached on May 25. Indonesian credit-default
swaps dropped 94 basis points in the same period to 130.6,
according to CMA prices in New York.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The International Monetary Fund raised its 2010 economic
growth forecast for India on Oct. 6 to 9.7 percent from 9.4
percent, the fastest pace after China. The agency predicted a
6.0 percent expansion for Indonesia. Consumer prices climbed 5.7
percent in Indonesia in September, 4.7 percent in Brazil, 7
percent in Russia and 3.6 percent in China.  Inflation Cycle  “Indian bond yields tend to be a fair bit lower and also
Indian inflation is at a different point of the cycle from
Indonesia,” said Curtis at Aviva. “It is coming from a high
place and likely to be lower in 12 months time, whereas
Indonesian inflation is much more likely to be higher in 12
months time than it is today.”  The rally in Indonesian local-currency government debt will
“end in tears” for investors as the central bank raises
interest rates, according to New York-based fund manager The
Rohatyn Group.  “I wouldn’t touch bonds at this point in the interest-rate
cycle and, in my view, what you’re gaining by holding onto those
positions is outweighed by the rising risk,” Goetz Eggelhoefer,
a Rohatyn partner, said in an interview in Singapore.
“Indonesian bonds held by foreign investors are two times the
previous peak.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  