-- Sumitomo Mitsui's Kitayama Says Capital Rules May Fuel Finance Takeovers
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-01T17:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/sumitomo-mitsui-s-kitayama-says-capital-rules-may-fuel-bank-takeovers.html
Slow economic growth and new
international capital requirements may drive more takeovers in
the financial industry as banks aim to enhance earnings, said
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  President  Teisuke Kitayama .  “In order to further strengthen earnings capability,
further consolidation would be one of the better options for
financial institutions to take in the coming years,” Kitayama,
64, said today at a news conference in New York.  Kitayama spoke at the New York Stock Exchange after
Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest bank, listed American
Depositary Receipts on the exchange. He said the listing will
give the Tokyo-based bank new flexibility in pursuing growth,
including acquisitions and investments outside Japan. Kitayama
said the bank has no specific deals under way and no plans to
raise money by issuing new shares.  “To further enhance our competitiveness in the coming
years, it might include some kind of acquisition or other
investment,” Kitayama said. “We would like to take advantage
of our financial strength in the coming years.”  Kitayama reiterated his goal of raising the bank’s pre-
provision profit from international operations to 30 percent
from 20 percent within the next three years. He said listing on
the New York Stock Exchange, which is part of NYSE Euronext,
will expand the bank’s shareholder base.  “The U.S. economy will remain as one of the most important
ones in the world” because of its size and currency, Kitayama
said. “The U.S. market, from the standpoint of the Japanese
private bank, remains as important as it has been in past
years.”  Yen Appreciation  Japanese banks may be hurt if appreciation of the yen
against the dollar curbs exports and leads domestic corporations
to move operations outside Japan, Kitayama said. The dollar is
trading at 80.63 yen, down from 94.54 per dollar six months ago.  “The Japanese economy has entered another problematic
cycle,” he said.  Asked what advice he would give U.S. policy makers seeking
to revive the economy, Kitayama said Japan’s economic slump
shows that low interest rates aren’t enough to revive demand.  “What government should do is to stimulate by providing
fiscal stimulus package on one hand and also the government
should prepare some measures or policies so that the private
sectors, including household sectors, would be encouraged to
spend or invest more,” Kitayama said. “That is what I think we
should learn from the Japanese experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 