-- Swaps Pioneer Thomas Jasper Leaves Primus Guaranty as It Unwinds Business
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-11-01T13:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/swaps-pioneer-thomas-jasper-leaves-primus-guaranty-as-it-unwinds-business.html
Primus Guaranty Ltd.  Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Jasper , who helped turn the swaps market into a
trillion-dollar industry, is leaving the company as it unwinds
its business selling credit protection to banks.  Jasper, 62, was replaced by  Richard Claiden , the Hamilton,
Bermuda-based company’s chief financial officer since 2003,
Primus said in an e-mailed statement today. The change is part
of the company’s plan to cut expenses as it wraps up about $14
billion of credit-default swaps it sold to financial
institutions that sought guarantees against losses on debt
investments, according to the statement.  Jasper leaves  Primus  two years after the company was shut
out of selling credit-default swaps during the financial crisis.
Investors lost confidence in the AAA ratings of Primus and
competitors who had previously had been able to sell credit
protection without posting collateral. The company failed to
raise capital to start a new debt-guarantee business and last
month agreed to sell an asset-management unit.  “It’s all part and parcel of saying: ‘What do we really
need now to run this company?’” Jasper said in an interview.
“I felt it was really time for me to move on.”  The company’s focus now will be to finish collecting
premiums and paying any obligations that arise from the credit-
default contracts it sold, Jasper said. Reducing expenses and
returning money to shareholders are the other goals, he said.  Salomon History  Jasper, a former Salomon Brothers Inc. banker and a founder
of the industry group now known as the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association , helped lay the foundation for the swaps
market in the mid-1980s. The process involved developing a
standard contract for interest-rate derivatives that once took
days to negotiate.  The template was later used to create swaps linked to
corporate bonds, commodities and stocks. Outstanding swaps and
other privately negotiated derivatives contracts stood at $466.8
trillion globally as of June 30, according to an ISDA survey.  Swaps are privately negotiated financial instruments that
allow banks and money managers to speculate on or hedge against
losses from changing interest rates, debt defaults or other
risks to asset values.  “Tom was the Henry Ford of derivatives,”  Richard Grand- Jean , former managing director of international capital markets
at Salomon and now a New York-based managing director at
alternative-investment firm Hall Capital Partners LLC, told
Bloomberg News in a 2009 interview. “He brought mass production
and uniform standards to the market.”  Joining Primus  Jasper joined Primus in 1999 and built a so-called credit-
derivatives product company that sold credit swaps to banks.
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s rated the
company AAA, allowing it to trade with banks without having to
post collateral backing the contracts.  The company went public in September 2004. The stock
reached a high of $16.93 in December of that year.  The business unraveled after the collapse of Bear Stearns
Cos., when banks and other financial institutions stopped
trading with companies that didn’t post collateral. That shut
off Primus’s ability to sell new credit guarantees and prompted
Moody’s and S&P to strip the company of its top ratings.  The company guaranteed more than $24 billion of debt in
2008, and faced a flood of payments after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. declared bankruptcy and the credit crisis
triggered the collapse of other financial firms.  Share Rebound  Primus  shares  have rebounded after dropping to as low as 40
cents in October 2008 as the company terminated some of its
riskiest bets at a discount and shifted other contracts to
subsidiaries in transactions that capped losses. Primus shares
have jumped 63 percent this year to $4.97.  Jasper said in a letter to shareholders in August that
attempts to raise capital for a new credit protection business
“proved unattractive because they would potentially be too
dilutive” to shareholders.  “We are not expending resources on it to develop that
business,” Jasper said. “It’s not in any way shape or form the
priority.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  