-- Swiss Re Leads Fight Over 35% Tax Plan That Cuts U.S. Profits
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-11-02T15:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/swiss-re-leads-fight-over-35-tax-proposal-that-reduces-earnings-from-u-s-.html
Swiss Reinsurance Co.  and  Munich Re ,
the world’s biggest reinsurers, are battling a proposed
congressional  bill  that may reduce earnings from the U.S.  In legislation introduced to Congress last year by Democrat
Representative  Richard Neal , profit on premiums repatriated by
foreign reinsurers would be taxed at the U.S. corporate tax rate
of 35 percent. That compares with the Swiss average of 21.2
percent and Germany’s 29.4 percent, industry consultants at KPMG
International said. Swiss Re said its annual tax expense would
increase by “hundreds of millions of dollars” in the new bill.  “Earnings would be hit badly,” said  Gary Hufbauer , senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington. “Some foreign reinsurers would pull out of the
market if the bill is passed.”  Taxing foreign reinsurers, which sell half their policies
in the U.S., would raise about $16.9 billion over 10 years,
according to estimates by the congressional  Joint Committee on
Taxation . Neal said in July at a Ways and Means Committee
 hearing  that growth in premiums sent offshore for reinsurance
has been “significant.” His proposed law change follows
President  Barack Obama ’s pledge to clamp down on tax havens in a
bid to raise $210 billion of extra revenue in the next decade.  Foreign reinsurers and insurers minimize U.S. taxes by
reinsuring risks with offshore affiliates and then deducting
repatriated premiums from their taxable income, according to
Michael McIntyre, a professor of tax law at the  Wayne State
University Law School  in Detroit.  ‘Anti-Foreign Sentiment’  The reinsurance premiums sent to offshore affiliates
increased more than eightfold to $33 billion between 1996 and
2008, according to a statement on Neal’s website. Almost $21
billion was shifted to Bermuda and more than $7 billion to Swiss
affiliates.  “The assertion is that foreign companies have an unfair
advantage because they can shift  profits  to low- or no-tax
jurisdictions,” Alex Kaplan, vice president of Zurich-based
Swiss Re’s regulatory affairs team, said in an interview from
Washington. “This assertion is baseless. There is an anti-
foreign sentiment.”  Swiss Re is examining ways to change the way it does
business in the U.S., including reducing the policies it writes
and raising prices, said Michael Natal, the reinsurer’s Armonk,
New York-based vice president in the tax team.  “We just could not do business in the U.S. the same way if
the Neal bill were enacted,” he said.  Double Tax  The company wrote 11.6 billion Swiss francs ($11.7 billion)
of premiums in the U.S. last year, accounting for almost 40
percent of its total.  “Foreign reinsurers would probably need to review their
business models,” said  Paul Goodhind , a London-based analyst at
Redburn Partners. Passage of the bill would make it more likely
that the companies would “move the business onshore,” he said.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, said the Neal
Bill violates double taxation treaties between the U.S. and
countries such as Germany. Foreign reinsurers would be taxed
twice, according to  Anke Rosumek , a spokeswoman for the Munich-
based company.  The bill may contravene World Trade Organization principles
and a tax agreement between the two countries,  Klaus Scharioth ,
the German ambassador to the U.S., wrote in a letter to Ways and
Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin .  Key Elections  The  European insurance and reinsurance federation  added to
the debate when it wrote in a position paper sent to the House
of Representatives on July 26 that he bill may hurt the market
for so-called disaster cover.  Munich Re and Swiss Re offer reinsurance for claims from
natural catastrophes, including hurricanes on the U.S. Gulf
coast and earthquakes in California.  Prospects for the bill probably depend on this week’s
midterm elections, said  Alex Brill , a research fellow at the
American Enterprise  Institute for Public Policy Research .  “Should Democrats retain control of the House, Congressman
Neal will hold a very senior position and may attempt to become
chairman of the tax writing committee,” said Brill. “If this
were to occur, the risk of this legislation for foreign-based
reinsurance companies would be significant.”  Obama has been making his final campaign-trail pitch to
voters to help the Democrats win votes. The Republicans have
predicted an historic election that sweeps incumbents from
office.  ‘Just a Scam’  Liberty Mutual Group Inc., the fifth-largest U.S. property
and casualty insurer, supports the bill, saying it will
“preserve American jobs” and stem the flow of capital
offshore.  Without legislation, foreign-owned U.S. insurance companies
will continue to have “an unfair competitive advantage,” the
Boston-based insurer said July 14 in written testimony to the
House Ways and Means Subcommittee.  The Neal reform would create a “level playing field,”
said McIntyre of Wayne State University.  “The bill helps close a loophole that has created an
enormous bias in favor of foreign insurers,” he said.
“Affiliate reinsurance is just a scam as it has no economic
purpose other than tax avoidance. In a sane world, it would be
classified as evasion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  