-- Swiss Franc Weakens as Chinese Economic Data Boosts Higher-Risk Asset Bids
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-11-01T16:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/swiss-franc-weakens-as-chinese-economic-data-boosts-higher-risk-asset-bids.html
The Swiss franc declined to its
lowest level since August against the euro as Chinese economic
reports showing manufacturing growth and stock gains reduced
demand for currencies investors see as a refuge.  The Swiss currency also weakened against all 16 of its
most-active counterparts after China’s Purchasing Managers’
Index rose to 54.7 in October from 53.8 a month earlier,
official data today showed. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of
shares rose as much as 0.9 percent. The currency stayed lower
after data revealed the Switzerland’s manufacturing industries
grew at the weakest pace in eight months in October.  “The Swiss franc is being driven by the global environment
rather than domestic factors,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “There will be
a lot going on this week, including key policy meetings by the
Federal Reserve and the ECB. The franc has come a long way, and
some traders may be unwinding some bullish positions ahead of
these events.”  The franc declined 0.9 percent against the euro to 1.3818
as of 4:48 p.m. in Zurich, after weakening to 1.3831 earlier,
the lowest since Aug. 10. It depreciated 1.3 percent to 99.56
centimes per dollar compared with 98.24 last week. One franc
bought 81.06 yen from 81.84. It went to 80.95 yen earlier, the
lowest since Aug. 24.  Speculation the Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan will
this week announce further measures to keep borrowing costs low
to spur growth also weakened the Swiss currency. The European
Central Bank will also set interest rates on Nov. 4.  Rate Outlook  The franc has gained 4.1 percent against its major trading
peers in the past six months, making it the best-performing
currency for the period after the yen, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The Swiss National Bank has kept its benchmark interest
rate at 0.25 percent for the past 19 months. Swiss central bank
President  Philipp Hildebrand  said last week there are signs the
bank’s record low rates could fuel a property bubble, suggesting
he’s growing uncomfortable with the current policy.  The yield on 10-year Swiss bonds was three basis points
lower at 1.49 percent today. Swiss government securities
returned 4.5 percent this year, lagging behind German bonds,
which handed investors 7.9 percent during the same period,
according to Bloomberg and European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies data.  The franc may extend a decline against the euro, and will
likely depreciate to 1.3913 within three months, Commerzbank AG
said, citing trading patterns.  The level represents a 200-day moving average of the euro
against the franc, the bank wrote in an e-mailed note today.
Should the so-called support level be broken, the franc may fall
further to 1.3926, the bank said.  The franc will strengthen to 1.33 per euro by the end of
March next year, according to the median forecast of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 