-- U.K. House Prices Fall Most Since January 2009, Hometrack Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-01T12:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-k-house-prices-fall-most-since-january-2009-as-homebuyer-demand-weakens.html
U.K.  house prices  fell the most since
January 2009 last month as demand weakened and more people put
their property on the market, Hometrack Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home fell 0.9 percent from the
previous month to 156,200 pounds ($248,764), a fourth straight
decline, the London-based property researcher said in an e-
mailed statement today. Demand from buyers fell 2 percent, while
the number of homes for sale rose 1.9 percent.  The report adds to evidence of a weakening property market
after Nationwide Building Society said  prices  fell to an eight-
month low in October. The government detailed the deepest
spending cuts since World War II last month and officials have
warned the squeeze may harm the economic recovery.  “Further price falls are inevitable in the run-up to
Christmas and are likely to continue into the first half of
2011,” Richard Donnell, Hometrack’s director of research, said
in the statement. There is “growing uncertainty” about the
economy and the impact of the fiscal squeeze “at a time when we
have seen an increase in the supply of new housing.”  Mortgage approvals  were little changed at 47,474 in
September, Bank of England data showed on Oct. 29. While that
was more than economists forecast, the number of home loans is
still only about half that seen at the peak of the boom in 2007.  ‘Sluggish’  The U.K. economy expanded 0.8 percent in the  third quarter ,
twice the pace economists forecast. Deloitte LLP said today the
number of U.K. manufacturers going into administration in the
third quarter fell 48 percent to 66 from with a year earlier.  An index of  manufacturing  growth unexpectedly rose in
October as export orders increased, the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply and Markit Economics said today.  Nevertheless, the impact of the fiscal squeeze may hamper
future growth. The recovery “is set to be sluggish at best,”
Deloitte economic adviser  Roger Bootle  said in a separate
report. Bootle forecasts economic growth will slow to 1 percent
next year from 1.5 percent in 2010.  The weakening outlook means the Bank of England will
probably resume emergency bond purchases, adding 50 billion
pounds to the plan in the first quarter of next year, though a
move in November is “possible,” said Bootle, a former U.K.
Treasury adviser. The Monetary Policy Committee may also expand
its purchases to private-sector assets, he said.  “There would appear to be a growing likelihood that the
committee will provide a further monetary stimulus” to
“cushion the economy from the effects of the fiscal squeeze,”
Bootle said. “The dangers of a full-blown ‘double-dip’ in the
economy are rising.”  Weak income growth and constrained credit may also hurt
consumer spending and cause house prices to fall by about 10
percent next year and in 2012, Bootle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  