-- U.K. Suspends Unaccompanied Airfreight From Somalia in Security Clampdown
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-01T18:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-k-suspends-unaccompanied-airfreight-from-somalia-in-security-clampdown.html
Britain suspended unaccompanied
airfreight from Somalia and imposed restrictions on transporting
toner cartridges following an attempt to bomb cargo aircraft
last week.  While the devices identified in the plot originated in
Yemen, a ban on freight flights from Somalia was needed because
of a possible link between terrorists in the two countries, Home
Secretary  Theresa May  told Parliament in London today.  Britain will also stop people bringing printer cartridges
larger than 500 grams (18 ounces) in hand luggage, and the
shipping of cartridges by air from unapproved sources, May said
in a statement. The measures come into force at midnight.  “We will review all aspects of our freight security and
work with international partners to make sure our defenses are
as robust as possible,” May said.  Britain banned all freight from Yemen after the discovery
of one of the devices at a British airport on Oct. 29. Another
was found in Dubai. The packages, both originating from Yemen,
were bound for synagogues in Chicago. May said British officials
are not aware of any further attempts to put bombs on planes.  “The devices were probably intended to be detonated mid-
air and destroy the cargo planes on which they were being
transported,” May said. The bomb found in the U.K., she said,
“was viable -- it could have detonated. Had the device
detonated, we assess it could have succeeded in bringing down
the aircraft.”  The U.K. believes the devices were “made and dispatched”
by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, she said. The airfreight
bans will initially apply for one month.  Prime Minister  David Cameron , who led an emergency planning
meeting earlier today, said cooperation was needed with allies
in the Arab world to “cut out the terrorist cancer that lurks
in the Arabian Peninsula.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  