-- U.K. Manufacturing Growth Unexpectedly Accelerates as Exports Strengthen
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-11-01T09:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-k-manufacturing-growth-unexpectedly-accelerates-as-exports-strengthen.html
U.K.  manufacturing  growth
unexpectedly accelerated in October and hiring improved as
export orders increased.  A gauge based on a survey of companies by Markit Economics
and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply rose to
54.9 from 53.5 in September, according to an e-mailed statement
today in London. The median forecast of 25 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a decline to 53. A measure above
50 indicates expansion.  Manufacturing is gaining traction after a drop in the  pound 
since the start of 2007 boosted demand for British exports, and
 economic growth  in the second and third quarters was the
strongest for two consecutive quarters since 2000. Still, the
Bank of England will probably keep its asset-purchase program at
200 billion pounds ($322 billion) this week as the government
prepares the biggest public-spending cuts since World War II.  “Exports are very much the engine of growth within
manufacturing at the moment,”  David Noble , chief executive
officer at CIPS, said in the statement. “It’s difficult to
predict the impact of fluctuations in export markets so the
recovery may continue to be bumpy. What is clear is that
manufacturing looks set to drive further gross-domestic-product
growth in the fourth quarter.”  The pound rose as much as 0.3 percent against the dollar
after the report was published, and traded at $1.6086 as of 9:32
a.m. in London.  Employment Boost  Glasgow, Scotland-based  Weir Group Plc , the world’s biggest
maker of pumps for the mining industry, said today it expects
profit for the fiscal year 2010 will be slightly ahead of
previous forecasts.  New export orders rose at the fastest pace in five months
in October, CIPS said, with companies reporting sales increases
to Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. Employment
rose at the fastest pace since June, while average input costs
rose for a 14th month.  The U.K. economy grew 0.8 percent in the third quarter,
double the forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Growth
was 1.2 percent in the second quarter, the fastest in nine
years.  “This report confirms that the improving picture painted
by last week’s good GDP data has continued into the final
quarter,”  James Knightley , an economist at ING Financial
Markets in London, said in an e-mailed statement. “With the
pain yet to bite from government spending cuts, we remain
cautious and see growth slowing through 2011.”  The government’s spending reductions will eliminate 490,000
jobs in a bid to wipe out a record  budget deficit  by 2015. The
cuts will peak at 81 billion pounds in 2015.  Thirty-eight economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast
the Bank of England will maintain the size of its bond-purchase
plan, while two predict increases. All 60 economists in a
separate poll say the bank will keep the  benchmark interest rate 
at a record low of 0.5 percent. The bank announces the decision
at noon in London on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  