-- U.S. Economy: Factory Index Rises to Five-Month High
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-01T20:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-manufacturing-grows-more-than-forecast-as-output-hits-five-month-high.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded at
the fastest pace in five months in October, pointing to renewed
strength in the industry that led the nation out of recession.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index 
increased to 56.9 from 54.4, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
today. Readings greater than 50 signal growth. Consumer spending
rose less than forecast in September and incomes dropped for the
first time in more than a year, data from the Commerce
Department also showed.  U.S. companies such as  Caterpillar Inc . are benefiting from
rising demand in overseas markets including China, where a
report today showed manufacturing expanded in October at the
fastest pace in six months. Today’s figures won’t deter the
Federal Reserve from easing policy this week because economic
growth and inflation remain below the Fed’s long-term goals,
said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. in Pittsburgh.  “Manufacturing is still at the head of this recovery,”
Hoffman said. “That said, we have a half-speed economy and a
growth rate that’ll leave unemployment too high. More easing by
the Fed is a given, and it’s just a question of how much.”  The factory index was forecast to fall to 54 in October,
according to the median forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey  of
75 economists. Estimates ranged from 52 to 56.8. Manufacturing
accounts for about 11 percent of the economy, and the factory
measure has shown expansion for 15 straight months.  Stocks Rise  Treasuries fell for the first time in three days after the
factory figures. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which
moves inversely to price, rose to 2.63 percent from 2.60 percent
late on Oct. 29. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 0.1
percent to 1,184.38 at the 4 p.m. close in New York, restrained
late by a report that JPMorgan Chase & Co. was being
investigated by Securities and Exchange Commission.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, on Oct. 21 raised its full-year earnings
forecast and posted third-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates.  Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman , 57, has announced
plans in the past five months to build factories in Brazil and
China, where economic growth is outpacing the U.S.  “Brazil is red hot,” said Oberhelman in an interview with
Bloomberg Television from Peoria, Illinois. “We are adding a
second plant in Brazil. We’ve had a number of announcements in
China.”  China Manufacturing  A China purchasing managers’ index released by the
country’s logistics federation rose to 54.7 last month from
53.8. A second China PMI, from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics, jumped to 54.8 from 52.9.  A  U.K. manufacturing gauge  based on a survey of companies
by Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply rose to 54.9 last month from 53.5, according to an e-
mailed statement in London. Measures above 50 indicate
expansion.  “Our business, especially in the emerging markets, has
come back much faster than we had forecast,”  Thomas Linebarger ,
chief operating officer of Indiana-based diesel engine-maker
Cummins Inc., said during a teleconference with analysts on Oct.
26.  The ISM’s U.S.  new orders  climbed to 58.9 from 51.1, while
the  production index  jumped to 62.7 from 56.5. Both were the
highest in five months. Measures of employment and export orders
also increased.  ‘Fairly Strong’  The gain in orders suggests “manufacturing will continue
fairly strong to finish out the year,”  Norbert Ore , chairman of
the ISM survey, said in a conference call from Atlanta.  Commerce Department figures released today showed consumer
purchases increased 0.2 percent, the smallest gain in the third
quarter. Incomes fell 0.1 percent, the first drop since July
2009.  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, was unchanged from the prior month and was up 1.2 percent
from a year earlier, the smallest gain since September 2001. The
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey showed increases of 0.1
percent from the prior month and 1.3 percent from September
2009.  Central bankers meeting Nov. 2-3 are concerned economic
growth is not strong enough to reduce an unemployment rate close
to 10 percent. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 27 that
the central bank “will do all it can” to sustain the recovery.
Investors are anticipating policy makers will announce another
round of asset purchases after buying $1.7 trillion in debt from
December 2008 to March.  Inflation Projections  Inflation remains below the Fed’s longer-term projections,
which are in a range of 1.7 percent to 2 percent. Growth in the
2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is consistent with keeping the
jobless rate stable, according to policy makers’ latest
forecasts.  Economists  Jan Hatzius  at Goldman Sachs and  Ethan Harris  at
Bank of America predict the Fed will spread an initial $500
billion in asset purchases over six months. Hatzius forecasts as
much as $2 trillion in eventual asset purchases.  The recovery that began in June 2009 from the worst
recession since the 1930s has been led by manufacturing as
 exports  climbed, business investment picked up and inventories
were replenished.  A separate report from the Commerce Department showed
 construction spending  in September unexpectedly rose, led by
gains in homebuilding and public works projects. The 0.5 percent
gain brought spending to $801.7 billion, according to the
report.  Mid-term elections tomorrow will determine which party
controls Congress. There is no clear consensus on which party
deserves more blame for the economy’s problems, or how best to
fix them, according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct.
24-26. It showed Republicans are poised to retake the U.S. House
without a mandate from voters to carry out their policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  