-- U.S. Consumer Spending Rises Less Than Forecast, Prices Cool
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-01T12:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-consumer-spending-rises-less-than-forecast-incomes-unexpectedly-drop.html
Consumer spending rose less than
forecast in September as incomes dropped for the first time in
more than a year, a sign Americans may keep rebuilding savings
and paring debt as the economy is slow to recover.  Purchases increased 0.2 percent, the smallest gain in the
third quarter, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. Incomes fell 0.1 percent, the first drop since July
2009, and the Federal Reserve’s preferred measure of inflation
stagnated, capping the smallest 12-month gain in nine years.  The report showed the damage being done by  unemployment  near
10 percent, one reason why Fed policy makers may pump more money
into the financial system after they meet this week. Inflation is
retreating as retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target
Corp. sweeten discounts to try to spur sales heading into the
holiday season.  “The quarter ended on a softer note,” said Michael Feroli,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, who
accurately forecast the gain in spending. The report “reinforces
the case for the Fed to act this week. It’s getting harder and
harder to argue inflation is near where the Fed wants it to be.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report and
Treasury securities climbed as the price data highlighted
expectations central bankers will take more action to spur growth
after they meet Nov. 2-3. The December contract on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to 1,185.1 at 8:46 a.m. in New
York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves
inversely to prices, fell to 2.58 percent from 2.60 percent late
on Oct. 29.  Less Than Forecast  The median estimate of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.4 percent advance. Projections ranged from
increases of 0.2 percent to 0.6 percent. The Commerce Department
revised August spending up to 0.5 percent from a previously
reported 0.4 percent gain.  Economists forecast incomes would climb 0.2 percent,
according to the survey median. September’s drop followed a 0.4
percent gain in August that reflected the resumption of extended
and emergency unemployment benefits. Excluding the jobless
benefits, incomes would have increased 0.1 percent in September
after a 0.3 percent increase the prior month.  Wages and salaries were unchanged, the weakest reading since
June. Disposable incomes, or the money left over after taxes,
fell 0.3 percent after adjusting for inflation.  The  savings rate  decreased to 5.3 percent from 5.6 percent.  Less Inflation  Today’s report also showed inflation cooled. The Federal
Reserve’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and fuel,
was unchanged from the prior month and was up 1.2 percent from a
year earlier, the smallest gain since September 2001. The median
forecast in the Bloomberg survey showed increases of 0.1 percent
from the prior month and 1.3 percent from September 2009.  Today’s report showed that adjusted for inflation, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, consumer
spending rose 0.1 percent after a 0.3 percent increase.  The economy expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, figures showed last week. Consumer spending climbed 2.6
percent, the most in almost four years, and it was also the best
showing of the recovery that began in June 2009. Purchases
contributed 1.8 percentage points to growth.  The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December holiday sales will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago,
the most in four years.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, Target, Amazon.com
Inc. and EBay Inc. are among merchants that will benefit as
shoppers look for bargains, according to results of a survey
issued by Consumer Edge Research in Stamford, Connecticut.  Fed Policy  Fed policy makers meeting this week may announce another
round of large-scale asset purchases amid concern growth isn’t
fast enough to reduce unemployment and inflation is too low.  Estee Lauder Cos. , the New York-based maker of Mac cosmetics
and Clinique skin care, last week raised its annual sales and
profit forecast. Sales in Asia are expected to fuel growth at the
company, and consumers have begun spending again, spurred by the
global economic rebound.  “The most affluent consumer is probably back to normal and
the less affluent consumer is having a bit more problem in
normalizing their behavior,” Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio
Freda said in a telephone interview on Oct. 29. “We are
relatively positive on the holiday season.”  Auto demand is also picking up. Vehicle sales are running at
a 12 million annual rate in October, said Mark Fields,  Ford Motor
Co. ’s president of the Americas. The rate would be the highest
since the government’s “cash for clunkers” incentive boosted
demand in August 2009.  “We continue to see good, steady improvement,” Fields said
on Oct. 25 at an event in Sterling Heights, Michigan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  