-- U.S. Seeking `More Progress' on Currencies at G-20
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-01T17:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-is-seeking-more-progress-by-emerging-markets-on-currencies-at-g-20.html
The U.S. wants emerging markets to
show progress toward greater flexibility in their exchange rates
at the  Group of 20  summit next week, said  Lael Brainard , the
Treasury Department’s undersecretary for international affairs.  “We’re going to look for more progress on the part of key
emerging market economies in moving to market-determined
exchange rates based on economic fundamentals,” Brainard said
today at a briefing at the White House. She said exchange rates
must be tackled by the G-20 as a group, so that some countries
don’t bear an “unfair burden” of letting their currencies rise
while other nations stay on the sidelines.  Still, the Obama administration doesn’t expect to resolve
its differences with China over currency at the meeting in
Seoul,  Michael Froman , President  Barack Obama ’s deputy national
security adviser, said at the briefing.  Currency disputes are set to dominate the G-20 summit,
which begins Nov. 11. Obama and China’s President  Hu Jintao  are
scheduled to meet one-on-one on the opening day, with currency
and the balance of trade between the two countries on the
agenda.  China is being urged by major trading partners, including
the U.S. and Europe, to let its currency appreciate faster. In
the U.S., the administration is under pressure from Congress to
combat what the U.S. says is an undervalued yuan that gives
Chinese exporters an advantage.  Gradual Appreciation  The yuan was 0.3 percent weaker at 6.6906 per dollar today,
the biggest decrease since the two-year peg to the dollar was
removed in June.  China has curbed the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent against
the dollar since the pledge to introduce more flexibility,
arguing anything other than a gradual appreciation could cause
social and economic disruption. The U.S. also is pushing China
to reduce its reliance on exports.  “There are a whole host of policies that China will be
undertaking, and should be undertaking, to rebalance its demand
toward domestic sources of growth. And those are very important
in this framework,” Brainard said.  The U.S. will press the G-20 to add details to the
agreement on trade imbalances that finance ministers and central
bankers reached in Gyeongju, South Korea, last month. Brainard
said the U.S. wants to add “flesh on the bones” of the deal,
such as specific guidelines on how to determine when a trade
deficit or surplus is unsustainable.  Current Account Goal  The U.S. doesn’t think “a target is appropriate,” she
said, when asked whether Obama would push for an across-the-
board current account goal. Instead, she said the U.S. will seek
a “range of sustainability” that, if exceeded, would trigger
“an attempt to look for what kinds of corrective actions can be
taken.”  In addition to the currency and trade balance issues, Obama
also will press ahead with efforts to finish a free-trade
agreement between the U.S. and South Korea. Froman said U.S.
negotiators were still struggling on talks with Congress,
industry and their South Korea counterparts on contentious
issues, including autos and beef.  “Those discussions are under way,” Froman said. “I can’t
predict at this point how they will proceed, but we’re going to
put every effort into achieving an acceptable agreement, a
satisfactory agreement, by the time the president comes to
Seoul.”  Congress Opposition  The free-trade pact, which was signed by the two countries
in 2007 but never implemented because of opposition in Congress,
has been reopened.  In the current talks, the U.S. is urging that South Korea
accept American car safety and emissions standards, on vehicles
sold in that country. Ford Motor Co. and the United Auto Workers
say South Korea has used tax and regulatory barriers to block
sales of U.S. automobiles in that country.  If a deal is reached and approved by Congress, it would be
the largest free-trade accord since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994, and may help Obama achieve his goal of
doubling U.S. exports in five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  