-- U.S. Midterm Elections May Rival Soccer World Cup Web Record
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-01T11:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-midterm-elections-may-rival-soccer-world-cup-record-for-web-viewings.html
The U.S. midterm elections tomorrow
may rival Internet traffic records for video viewings set during
the soccer World Cup, according to Web service company  Akamai
Technologies Inc.   More than 1.5 million simultaneous viewings were recorded
during the soccer tournament in June, Akamai Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Sagan  said today in an interview in London. “Those
are TV-sized ratings now being done over the Internet,” he
said. Viewings for the elections are “probably even-odds on
whether it beats the World Cup.”  About 20 percent of the world’s Internet traffic is
delivered over Akamai’s platform, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based company says on its website. The biggest single event for
Internet viewings before the World Cup was  Barack Obama ’s
inauguration in 2008. Akamai’s software helps websites stream
video content faster online.  President  Obama  is seeking support from voters to help his
Democrat Party retain control of Congress. The midterm campaign
has been shaped by a national unemployment rate at or above 9.5
percent for the last 14 months, criticism of the White House’s
domestic agenda and an anti-Washington sentiment reflected in
the Tea Party movement.  Video viewings may be spread out throughout the night as
polls close across the country, Sagan said.  Last month, Akamai confirmed it was on target to hit $1
billion in full-year revenue because of increasing demand for
software to stream online media and trade applications.  The company, which has $1.2 billion in cash and cash
equivalents, is also seeking acquisitions or partnerships in
mobile technology and online security services, Sagan said
today. Akamai bought mobile-services platform Velocitude in June
to help stream online content for display on smartphones.  “As e-commerce has grown so much, effectively the stakes
have gone up,” the CEO said. “There are plenty of bad guys
trying to take down websites and create security
vulnerabilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 