-- U.S., Arizona Face Off in Appeal on Immigration Law
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-11-01T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-arizona-face-off-in-appeals-court-over-enacting-immigration-law.html
Arizona should be blocked from
enforcing a law requiring police officers to determine the
immigration status of people stopped for questioning, the U.S.
Justice Department told a federal appeals court.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco heard arguments
today over the measure’s constitutionality three months after a
federal judge in Phoenix barred parts of it from taking effect.  The federal government, which sued to block the central
provisions of Arizona’s law, argues U.S. District Judge  Susan Bolton ’s ruling should stand. Arizona, with the backing of 11
states in court papers, argues the ruling should be invalidated.  “If every state did this, we’d have a patchwork of laws,”
 Edwin Kneedler , a lawyer representing the U.S. government, told
the three-judge panel. The Arizona law risks subjecting legal
visitors and U.S. citizens to “interrogations and police
surveillance” in violation of their civil rights, he said.  Arizona Governor  Janice Brewer , a Republican, said today
after the hearing that the law is a response to failure by the
federal government to help the state deal with an influx of
illegal immigrants. The statute makes it a state crime to be in
the U.S. illegally.  ‘Reasonable Attempt’  Bolton ruled July 28 that Arizona can’t require police
officers to try to determine whether someone is legally in the
U.S. and then detain that person if they suspect he isn’t. She
also blocked a piece of Arizona’s law that makes it a crime for
illegal immigrants to solicit or perform work. In addition, the
ruling barred police officers from making warrantless arrests of
people they think might be illegal immigrants.  At today’s hearing, Circuit Judge  John T. Noonan Jr. , an
appointee of former President  Ronald Reagan , asked about a
requirement in the law that suspects not be released until their
immigration status is determined.  “I don’t know any federal provision that goes that far,”
Noonan said to  John Bouma , a lawyer representing Arizona.
“Isn’t that getting into federal territory?”  Bouma said a person can be kept in custody only in
accordance with constitutional protections against unreasonable
searches and seizures.  “If you can’t determine their status within a reasonable
time frame, you have to turn them loose,” Bouma told the
judges.  He told another judge,  Carols T. Bea , named to the appeals
court by  George W. Bush , that a driver’s license would be
satisfactory proof of immigration status.  Governor Brewer  Brewer said today that state police officers should be able
to determine within 11 minutes if someone is legally in the U.S.  Brewer acknowledged that the U.S. is using more National
Guard and border control agents in Arizona, while arguing that
Washington hasn’t “done its job” to stem illegal trafficking
of drugs and humans.  She said 22 U.S. states are drafting immigration laws
similar to Arizona’s.  “It will be interesting to see if the federal government
takes their state and their governor to court,” she said.  ‘Cooperative Enforcement’  Responding to court filings from Mexico and nine Latin
American countries supporting the U.S., Arizona’s lawyers wrote
that the “opinions of foreign governments have no bearing on
whether a state law providing for cooperative enforcement of
federal immigration law in Arizona complies with the United
States Constitution.”  Bolton accepted the U.S. Justice Department’s argument that
under the Constitution, immigration policy and enforcement is
exclusively a federal power.  “The Supreme Court has consistently ruled that the federal
government has broad and exclusive authority to regulate
immigration, supported by both enumerated and implied
constitutional powers,” she wrote.  The third judge on today’s panel was  Richard Paez , who was
appointed to the appeals court by  Bill Clinton .  The case is U.S. v. State of Arizona, 10-16645, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The lower
court case is U.S. v. State of Arizona, 2:10-cv-1413, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 