-- Judge Rejects Move by Goldman's Tourre to Toss Suit
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-11-01T22:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-judge-rejects-motion-by-goldman-s-tourre-to-toss-out-sec-lawsuit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc . trader
 Fabrice Tourre ’s request to throw out the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s lawsuit against him was rejected by a
federal judge in New York.  U.S. District Judge  Barbara S. Jones  today dismissed
Tourre’s motion seeking a judgment in the case. He had argued
that the SEC can’t sue him over a Goldman Sachs deal involving
collateralized debt obligations because the transaction didn’t
take place in the U.S.  In the same order, Jones said the SEC can file an amended
complaint by Nov. 22.  “Defendant Tourre’s motion for judgment on the pleadings
is dismissed without prejudice and with leave to renew after
plaintiff has filed its amended complaint,” Jones wrote.  Pamela Chepiga , a lawyer for Tourre, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. SEC spokesman  John Heine  declined
to comment.  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in June that U.S. securities
laws don’t apply to claims of foreign buyers of non-U.S.
securities on foreign exchanges, lawyers for the Goldman
executive director said in a court filing in September. The
collateralized debt obligations, known as Abacus, at issue in
the SEC’s complaint weren’t listed on any exchange and the sole
investor in the notes was a foreign bank that bought them
overseas, according to the filing.  Jones said that, because the SEC sued before the Supreme
Court decision came out in June, the agency can file an amended
complaint.  The case is SEC v. Goldman Sachs, 10-CV-3229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
 Thom Weidlich  in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 