-- U.S. Stocks Erase Gains as JPMorgan Retreats on Report of Probe
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-01T21:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-index-futures-climb-as-chinese-manufacturing-growth-lifts-confidence.html
U.S. stocks rose, recovering from a
late-day tumble, as growth in Chinese and American manufacturing
and speculation the Federal Reserve will pump cash into the
economy overshadowed a report that JPMorgan Chase & Co. was
being probed for mortgage deals.  Intel Corp. rose 2.6 percent after an industry group said
semiconductor sales rose in September. Baker Hughes Inc. rallied
4.2 percent after the oilfield-services company beat earnings
estimates. JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by market value, lost
0.6 percent after ProPublica reported that the Securities and
Exchange Commission is investigating whether it allowed a hedge
fund to select assets improperly for a $1.1 billion deal backed
by subprime mortgages.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.1 percent to 1,184.38 as of 4 p.m. in
New York, after rallying as much as 1.1 percent. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average increased 6.13 points, or 0.1 percent, to
11,124.62. Three stocks declined for every two that advanced on
U.S. exchanges.  “We have two engines that are working right now,” said
 Burt White , who helps oversee $284 billion as chief investment
officer at LPL Financial Corp. in Boston. “We got a great a
bill of health on China and their manufacturing sector is doing
extremely well. And then the U.S. manufacturing report came out
and it was a great number.”  S&P 500’s Surge  The S&P 500 surged 13 percent in September and October, the
best performance in those months since 1998. It gained even
though the measure has averaged a loss of 1 percent during that
period since 1928, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
year, stocks rose, Treasuries fell in October for the first time
since March and the dollar weakened to a 15-year low against the
yen as investors bet the Fed will act to boost growth and
companies from Microsoft Corp. to Exxon Mobil Corp. reported
better-than-estimated  earnings .  In late 1998, stocks rallied even as economies in Asia,
Russia and parts of Latin America faltered and the Fed brokered
a takeover of Long-Term Capital Management LP by the banks and
securities firms that financed the ailing hedge fund. The Fed
then followed up by cutting short-term interest rates twice in
September and October, easing concern that a slew of failing
hedge funds would trigger a massive slump in financial markets
worldwide.  Stocks rose around the world today after data showed
China’s  manufacturing  expanded at the fastest pace in six months
in October, indicating the economy can bear more gains in the
yuan and interest-rate increases to cool price pressures.  ‘A Good Start’  “China has clearly got us off to a good start,”  Jim Reid ,
a global strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in an e-mail.
“The undoubted highlight of the week is clearly Wednesday’s
Federal Open Market Committee QE2 announcement. The truth is
that none of us, including the Fed, know how much additional QE
is needed.”  Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider stimulating the
world’s largest economy through an asset-purchase technique
known as quantitative easing. Central bankers are concerned that
growth is too slow to curb U.S. unemployment that’s stuck near
the 26-year high reached in October 2009.  The Fed will probably begin a new round of unconventional
monetary easing this week by announcing a plan on Nov. 3 to buy
at least $500 billion of long-term securities, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Extending Gains  Stocks extended gains after manufacturing in the U.S.
expanded more than forecast in October as orders placed with
factories and production both rose to a five-month high. The
Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  climbed to 56.9
last month, the highest since May, from 54.4, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal
growth and the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a decline to 54.0.  “The economy doesn’t look as weak as it did in August,”
said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ in New York. “The downside risks to the economy
do not suggest a pressing need to add additional monetary
stimulus, but if they do do it we will revise up our GDP
forecast for 2011.”  The benchmark measure of U.S. options rose for the sixth
straight day, the longest streak since January 2008, as
investors prepared for bigger share-price swings before
congressional elections and the Federal Reserve’s decision on
economic stimulus in the next two days.  VIX Rises  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index  gained
3 percent to 21.83, bringing its six-day advance to 16 percent.
The VIX closed at 18.78 on Oct. 22, the lowest level since April
29. The index measures the cost of 30-day options on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, and increases usually coincide with
falling stock prices.  The Republicans have a 94 percent chance of taking control
of the U.S. House of Representatives tomorrow, helping them
block President Barack Obama’s policies, according to bets on
Intrade, a Dublin-based online prediction market.  Intel , the world’s biggest chipmaker, rose the most in the
Dow, climbing 2.6 percent to $20.57 as worldwide sales of
semiconductors were $26.5 billion in September, a gain of 2.9
percent from the prior month’s $25.8 billion, the Semiconductor
Industry Association said.  Baker Hughes jumped 4.2 percent to $48.37 for the biggest
gain in the  S&P 500 . Third-quarter earnings excluding some items
were 54 cents a share, exceeding the average analyst estimate by
17 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  JPMorgan Declines  JPMorgan fell 0.6 percent to $37.42. The Securities and
Exchange Commission is probing whether the bank improperly
allowed hedge fund Magnetar Capital to choose the loans backing
a $1.1 billion mortgage bond in 2007, the website ProPublica
reported, citing people familiar with the probe who it declined
to name.  Ford Motor Co.  gained 0.7 percent to $14.23. The world’s
most profitable automaker’s price estimate was raised to $23
from $20 at Morgan Stanley. Its 2011 earnings estimate was
raised to $3 a share from $2.60 share.  The  S&P 500  may rise 10 percent by the end of the year if
the Fed announces plans to buy more bonds to inject money into
the economy, according to  Thomas J. Lee , chief U.S. equity
strategist at JPMorgan Chase.  “We’ve already seen some of it in pushing up asset prices
or risky assets,” Lee, Wall Street’s most optimistic
strategist, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview today with Tom
Keene. “QE2 is going to ultimately be very effective. For now,
it’s very good for equity markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 