-- U.S. `Fiscal Hawks' Mimic France: Peter Boone and Simon Johnson
-- B y   P e t e r   B o o n e   a n d   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2010-11-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-fiscal-hawks-turning-french-commentary-by-peter-boone-simon-johnson.html
The sharp budget cuts announced in
the U.K. last month have people asking: could the U.S. soon take
similar steps?  The two countries share some key problems, including the
aftermath of a housing bust, overreliance on high-risk financial
services, and government debt levels approaching the danger
zone. Self-proclaimed fiscal conservatives also are likely to
make a strong showing in midterm elections.  But there is a world of difference between the nations’
fiscal situations. The British, who are front-loading their cuts
and may be overdoing it, are explicitly recognizing the extreme
damage and future dangers to society inherent in their banks.  In contrast, our fiscal conservatives are much more French-
like than British. Like President  Nicolas Sarkozy , we have some
politicians willing to make a fuss about tinkering around the
cosmetic edges of our persistent deficits, but no one is ready
to address our core issue: the U.S. financial system blew itself
up, leading debt relative to gross domestic product to soar by
40 percentage points, and now is poised to do the exact same
thing (or worse) again.  The macroeconomic trajectory in the U.K. is undeniably bad.
The  budget deficit  was 11.5 percent of gross domestic product
last year, with general government debt rising from 44 percent
of GDP in 2007 to 80 percent in 2010. The heart of the country’s
vulnerability lies with what used to be thought of as an
advantage -- London’s status as a financial center.  Bad Bets  British banks became large relative to the economy, mostly
because of financial globalization, and then collapsed; total
assets reached more than six times GDP and the largest bank,
Royal Bank of Scotland, had a  balance sheet  that was almost 1.5
times the size of the economy. (In Iceland, a country completely
ruined by its banks, financial sector assets peaked at around 12
times GDP.)  The bust after their disastrous bets on  U.S.  and U.K. real
estate pushed the country into deep recession and increased the
budget deficit as tax revenue fell and government spending
increased, partly driven by unemployment insurance payments.  At some level, the electorate and political elite get this.
Britain’s coalition government isn’t just cutting the budget
deficit; it is also conducting a far-reaching review aimed to
reform big banks and end the dangerous boom-bust-bailout cycle.
Even the Bank of England seems to be strongly on the side of
centrist reformers now in power.  This fiscal adjustment will be painful; a right-leaning
cabinet has no qualms about pushing the costs of fiscal
adjustment onto relatively poor people.  Preemptive Action  But the framing of this choice has been handled with
admirable cynicism. If the British stick with their previous
path of budget deficits and the world doesn’t get better, the
continued buildup of debt will lead to a major calamity. If so,
the U.K. would face a crisis, forcing even more drastic budget
cuts at an ugly time. Guess who would pay for that?  Since the U.K. isn’t facing an immediate fiscal crisis, it
is acting in a preemptive manner.  In contrast, what do we see in the U.S. political debate?
Prevarication. The  Obama administration , the Federal Reserve,
and the Republican Party are curiously silent on measures that
would really reduce the political power of our largest banks and
ensure that creditors and shareholders -- not taxpayers -- bear
the costs when global megabanks fail again.  People who call themselves fiscal conservatives propose
either raising taxes or cutting non-security discretionary
spending -- actions that are trivial relative to the scale of
deficits. This is no surprise; the U.S. can borrow at near-
record low interest rates.  Parallels With France  Americans like to think of themselves as very un-French,
but the U.S. has exactly the same problem as France: entrenched
interests that block any discussion of real reform.  In France, it’s the unions protesting any adjustment to
pensions. In the U.S., it’s powerful and far less visible
corporate interests that fended off any attempt to make banking
sounder -- the financial industry lobby essentially defeated all
attempts to make big banks smaller or substantially safer.  France suffers from a complete lack of social recognition
that tough measures probably need to be taken. Its budget
deficit is  8 percent  of GDP, its debt-to-GDP ratio is 82
percent. Its society is aging, putting more pressure on the
retirement system. The U.S. is in very similar shape -- with the
most ironic difference being that big banks have less political
power and thus pose less danger in France.  Most likely France and the U.S. will muddle through until
investors grow tired of the risk or the banks blow themselves up
again -- or both. Then the question becomes: who bears the cost
of the necessary fiscal adjustment?  ( Peter Boone , a research associate at the London School of
Economics’ Center for Economic Performance, is a principal in
Salute Capital Management Ltd.  Simon Johnson , a professor at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of
Management and former chief economist of the International
Monetary Fund, is co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown.” The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 