-- U.S. Winter-Wheat Conditions Worsen on Adverse Weather; Corn Harvest Gains
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-01T20:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-winter-wheat-conditions-worsen-on-adverse-weather-corn-harvest-gains.html
The U.S. winter-wheat crop
deteriorated as extended dry weather slows plant development in
the Great Plains. Corn and soybean harvests were nearing
completion.  About 46 percent of  winter wheat  was in good or excellent
condition as of yesterday, down from 47 percent last week and 64
percent a year earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said
today in a report. About 92 percent of the crop was planted in
18 states, mostly in the Midwest and Great Plains, compared with
88 percent a week earlier and 81 percent a year earlier.  Most of Kansas, the largest state producer of the winter
variety, and Colorado got no rain last week, and precipitation
in Nebraska was less than 0.2 inch (0.5 centimeter), said  Drew Lerner , the president of World Weather Inc. in Overland Park,
Kansas. Temperatures in most hard red-winter growing areas were
as much as 4 degrees Fahrenheit above normal, he said.  “Most of the hard-red country failed to get any kind of
meaningful rain” in the past week, Lerner said before the
report. “Because of the warmer-than-normal temperatures, there
should have been a net loss in soil moisture.”  As of Oct. 26, parts of western  Kansas  were “abnormally
dry,” while areas of Nebraska and Colorado had “moderate”
drought, according to data from the University of Nebraska at
Lincoln.  Wheat Emergence  An estimated 73 percent of the wheat emerged as of
yesterday, compared with 64 percent a week earlier and 73
percent on average in the previous five years, the USDA said.
The crop will go dormant soon for the winter and be picked
starting in May.  In January, the USDA will release its estimate of planted
acreage for winter wheat.  About 91 percent of the  corn crop  was harvested as of
yesterday, up from 83 percent a week earlier and the previous
five-year average of 61 percent, the agency said. About 96
percent of the  soybeans  were collected, up from 91 percent a
week earlier and the five-year average of 79 percent.  The  cotton  harvest was 61 percent complete, up from 53
percent a week earlier and the five-year average of 44 percent,
the USDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 