-- `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Repeal Will Be Kept on Hold During Federal Review
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/u-s-military-s-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-repeal-kept-on-hold-during-review.html
The U.S. government’s “Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell” restriction on gays in the military will remain in
effect while a federal appeals court reviews a judge’s decision
that the rule is unconstitutional.  A federal appeals court in San Francisco said yesterday
that ending “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” must be delayed while it
considers whether the policy violates the free speech and due
process rights of gays and lesbian seeking to serve in the
military. The case could take weeks or months to decide.  In a 2-1 decision, the court said it was persuaded by the
government’s argument that there could be immediate harm unless
there was proper training and guidance in the military and ‘an
orderly transition in policy.”  “The public interest in ensuring orderly change of this
magnitude in the military -- if that is what is to happen --
strongly militates in favor of a stay,” the court said in
yesterday’s order.  The appeals court issued an order on Oct. 20 that
temporarily kept the rule in place during the appeal after U.S.
District Judge  Virginia Phillips  in Riverside, California,
refused to postpone enforcement of her ruling overturning the
policy. Under “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” gays and lesbians
applying to or serving in the military must hide their sexual
orientation. Openly gay people can be discharged or blocked from
serving under the rule.  Repeal’s Timing  While the Obama administration supports an end to “Don’t
Ask, Don’t Tell,” it argued the timing and administration of a
repeal should be up to the Defense Department, according to
court papers. The Log Cabin Republicans, the gay rights group
that sued to end “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” sought to have
Phillips’s order take effect immediately.  “The court’s ruling is a disappointment not only to us but
also all homosexual service members who bravely put themselves
in harm’s way so that we can all enjoy the constitutional rights
and freedoms that they themselves are being denied,”  Dan Woods ,
an attorney for the Log Cabin Republicans, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. United States, 10-
56634, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 