-- Lula's Successor Will Fail to Bring Down Rates, Swaps Show: Brazil Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-11-01T16:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/lula-s-successor-will-fail-to-bring-down-rates-swaps-show-brazil-credit.html
Traders are betting that Brazil’s
first female president will fail to cut the fiscal deficit
enough to bring down the highest interest rates after inflation
in the Group of 20 nations.  The interest-rate futures contract due in January 2015, the
month  Dilma Rousseff ’s first term would end, yielded 11.56
percent at 12:54 p.m. New York time, a level that suggests
traders expect policy makers will raise the  benchmark rate  about
0.75 percentage point during the next four years, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Brazil is “falling into a policy mix that is loose fiscal
and tight monetary, and they need exactly the opposite,” said
 Ricardo Hausmann , a professor at Harvard University in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, who served as Venezuela’s planning
minister from 1992 to 1993, and was chief economist at the
Inter-American Development Bank in Washington. “They have one
foot on the accelerator and one foot on the brakes.”  Rousseff, 62, who was President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s
Cabinet chief and chosen successor, won yesterday’s runoff by a
margin of 56 percent to 44 percent for opponent  Jose Serra .  On the campaign trail, Rousseff vowed to reduce public debt
to about 30 percent of gross domestic product by 2014, from 41
percent today, by means of a “responsible” fiscal policy. She
hasn’t said how she plans to control spending that rose 18.2
percent in July from a year earlier, more than twice the 8.8
percent annual rate of economic growth in the second quarter.  Brazil’s federal government debt was 1.626 trillion reais
($957 billion) in September.  Main Goals  After her victory, Rousseff said her main goal will be to
eradicate poverty and she won’t accept reducing funding for
social programs and investments the country needs.  “The Brazilian people don’t accept governments that spend
at unsustainable levels and for that reason we will make every
effort to improve public spending,” she said in Brasilia.  Interest-futures yields fell the day after Rousseff’s
remarks. The yield on the January 2012 contract fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 11.320 percent, at 12:54
p.m. New York time.  Cutting expenditures won’t be easy as the country gears up
to host the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics.  Infrastructure  Rousseff also pledged during her campaign to upgrade the
country’s ports and highways, which the World Economic Forum in
Geneva called “appalling” in a 2010 global-competitiveness
study.  “Unless investments in infrastructure are really
accelerated and prioritized, we’re going to run into a wall two
or three years from now,” said  Fernando Gentil , managing
director of Darby Overseas Investments Ltd. in Brazil, which has
invested about $400 million in the country, in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against nonpayment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 15 basis points,
or 0.15 percentage point, last month to 100, according to data
compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 31 basis points last month
to 175, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Narrow the Deficit  Unlike Lula, who took office in 2003 amid a collapse in the
real, Rousseff will need to curb a 36 percent rally in the
currency since Jan. 1, 2009 that has hit exporters and opened a
record $47.3 billion current-account gap in the year through
September.  The Federal Reserve’s near-zero  benchmark interest rate 
helped push Brazil’s currency to 1.6442 per dollar on Oct. 14,
the strongest level since September 2008, as investors sought
higher-yielding assets in emerging markets. The real weakened
0.5 percent to 1.7068 at 12:55 p.m. New York time.  To stem the gains, Rousseff will need to narrow the
deficit, which would allow the central bank to lower interest
rates, Hausmann said.  That would ease capital inflows and curb the currency’s
appreciation, which is hurting the country’s manufacturers, he
added. Industrial production unexpectedly  fell 0.08 percent  in
August, after contracting in three of the four previous months.  Currency, Prices, Rates  The government last month tripled to 6 percent a tax on
foreigners’ fixed-income purchases in an effort to halt the
real’s gains.  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said Oct. 28 that
countries need to take measures to protect their currencies
until the Group of 20 arrives at an agreement to rebalance the
global economy.  Brazil’s budget gap widened to 3.38 percent of GDP in the
12 months through August from 1.76 percent before the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. The
accumulated deficit remained above 3 percent in the first eight
months of 2010, even as the economic recovery lifted federal tax
revenues by  20.49 percent  in August from a year earlier.  Consumer prices rose 5.03 percent in the year through mid-
October. Policy makers’ prediction that inflation will cool to
their  4.5 percent target  depends on slower growth in government
spending next year, according to the minutes of the central
bank’s Oct. 19-20 board meeting, published Oct. 28.  Officials kept the benchmark Selic rate at  10.75 percent 
for a second straight meeting on Oct. 20 after raising borrowing
costs from a record low 8.75 percent earlier this year to
prevent the world’s eighth-largest economy from overheating.
Adjusted for inflation, the real interest rate was about 6
percent in October, the highest in the G-20.  Window of Opportunity  The bank will resume rate increases in April and lift the
Selic to 11.75 percent by June next year, according to the
median forecast in a central bank survey of about 100 Brazilian
economists published Oct. 25.  The country’s economy will expand at 7.55 percent this
year, its fastest pace since 1985, and then slow to 4.5 percent
next year, the survey projected. The robust growth will give the
next government more freedom to act,  Carlos Langoni , a former
president of Brazil’s central bank and director of the World
Economy Center at the Getulio Vargas Foundation in Rio de
Janeiro, said in an interview before Sunday’s election.  “There is a window of opportunity that I hope the winner
will take advantage of” to cut the deficit, he said. “The new
government has more time to move around, there’s more air to
breathe than for governments that had to face severe crises.
It’s completely different from what Lula faced in 2003.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  