-- UPS Pilots Urge U.S. to Strengthen Cargo Screening
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-11-01T21:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/ups-pilots-urge-u-s-to-strengthen-cargo-screening.html
United Parcel Service Inc. ’s pilots
union urged U.S. officials to tighten “inadequate” screening
for all-cargo airlines after last week’s discovery of explosive
devices in packages sent from Yemen.  The  Independent Pilots Association  wants better screening
for large shipments and increased use of current resources such
as x-ray machines, bomb-sniffing dogs and physical inspection,
 Brian Gaudet , a spokesman for the association, said in an e-
mail.  “We think the TSA must reevaluate intelligence-driven
programs such as the freight assessment system and inject random
screening into our systematic approach to higher screening
standards,” Gaudet said.  The request follows the Oct. 29 discovery of explosives in
Chicago-bound UPS and FedEx Corp. packages that White House
counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan  said were “intended to do
harm.” Atlanta-based UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery
company, hasn’t commented on how it will change procedures. The
company halted service from Yemen last week after the discovery.  Changes are most needed for packages coming from “known
terrorism hotspots” such as Yemen, Somalia and Afghanistan,
Gaudet said.  While new U.S. rules implemented in August require
screening of all cargo in the bellies of passenger airliners,
goods on air freighters aren’t subject to those checks. Memphis,
Tennessee-based FedEx runs the biggest cargo airline.  UPS was unchanged at $67.34 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have gained 17 percent
this year. Fedex fell $1.30 to $86.42 and have risen 3.6 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  