-- Vitro Makes New Offer to Debt Holders as Company Heads Toward Bankruptcy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-11-01T21:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/vitro-plans-to-file-for-bankruptcy-protection-by-year-end-del-valle-says.html
Vitro  SAB offered to buy back or swap
$1.2 billion in debt from bondholders as the company prepares to
seek bankruptcy protection before the end of the year. The bonds
jumped and shares climbed to the highest in more than two years.  Mexico’s largest glassmaker will file for bankruptcy in
Mexico and under Chapter 15 in the U.S. within the next two
months, Chief Restructuring Officer  Claudio del Valle  said in a
conference call with reporters today. Debt holders may get as
much as 73 cents on the dollar under the terms proposed today,
the Monterrey-based company said.  “We’re aiming to bring the maximum number of participants
into the process,” del Valle said. “This will help to make the
process as fast, as expedient as possible.”  Vitro is overhauling its  operations  and financing after it
defaulted on $1.2 billion of debt last year following wrong-way
bets on derivates tied to natural gas and the Mexican peso that
cost the company $240 million. The glassmaker previously made at
least three unsuccessful restructuring proposals to creditors.  Holders of defaulted bonds due in 2012, 2013 and 2017 have
until Dec. 1 to accept the buy back or swap offer. They can take
cash, new debt or convertible bonds in the exchange.  “Once we initiate the bankruptcy process here in Mexico,
the process will have to be approved in the U.S. through Chapter
15,” del Valle said.  $1.5 Billion Swap  Chapter 15 bankruptcy seeks to protect companies from U.S.
litigation while they reorganize in a non-U.S. court.  Including the derivatives, the amount of debt to be swapped
or paid in cash rises to as much as $1.5 billion.  Vitro rose 12 percent to 13.93 pesos, the highest since
September 2008, at 4 p.m. New York time in Mexico City trading.
The price of Vitro’s 9.125 percent bond due 2017 rose 4.69 cents
to 55.81 cents on the dollar, according to Stifel Nicolaus.  Last month, debt holder Fintech Investments Ltd., a hedge
fund, agreed to an option that gives it the right to purchase
shares in the glassmaker once the restructuring is complete.
Fintech, which loaned Vitro $75 million in December, would own
24 percent of the outstanding shares if it exercises the
agreement, Vitro said. The Mexican company has the right to buy
those shares back within three years.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan J. Levin at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  