-- VIX Options Gauge May Rise After 54% Drop, Nomura Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-01T13:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/vix-may-rebound-from-54-percent-slump-nomura-says-technical-analysis.html
The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index is known, may rally after a 54 percent
slump since May brought it close to a long-term support level,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  The VIX, which measures the cost of buying protection
against losses in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, fell 11
percent to 21.2 last month, the biggest monthly decline since
July. The drop has brought the measure closer to a support
level, or a floor limiting declines, formed by lows going back
three years, according to Nomura.  Since October 2007, the VIX rebounded in 5 instances when
it approached the support at about 16. The gauge doubled on
average in four of the occasions, and rose almost fourfold in
the October 2008 rebound that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The VIX has tumbled from its high of 48.2
this year on May 21 as investors speculated that the Federal
Reserve will announce another round of asset purchases to prop
up the economy. Fed policy makers are meeting this week.  “Volatility is mean-reverting and the current level lies
below its historic average,” said  Ronny Feiereisen , London-
based head of the EMEA Delta One Sales team at Nomura, which
sells exchange-traded funds, swaps and futures. “From a
technical perspective we are close to the supporting line which
would give rise to a potential increase.”  The index, which is also known as the fear gauge, is
trading 8.5 percent below its one-year average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest in the VIX may be on the rise, the EFT market
shows. The average volume on the S&P 500 VIX Source ETF, which
tracks the performance of the S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures
Total Return Index, rose 20 percent in October from the month
before, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Volume traded on the
Barclays’  iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures ETN  climbed 23
percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 