-- VIX Rises for Sixth Day in Longest Streak of Gains Since 2008
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-01T20:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/vix-advances-for-sixth-day-in-longest-streak-of-gains-since-january-2008.html
The  benchmark measure  of U.S. options
rose for the sixth straight day, the longest streak since
January 2008, as investors prepared for bigger share-price
swings before congressional elections and the Federal Reserve’s
decision on economic stimulus in the next two days.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index  gained
3 percent to 21.83 at 4:14 p.m. in New York, bringing its six-
day advance to 16 percent. The VIX has risen since closing on
Oct. 22 at 18.78, the lowest level since April 29. The index
measures the cost of 30-day options on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, and usually increases when stocks fall.  The Fed will probably begin a new round of unconventional
monetary easing this week by announcing a plan on Nov. 3 to buy
at least $500 billion of long-term securities, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Republicans have a 94
percent chance of taking control of the U.S. House of
Representatives tomorrow, helping them block President  Barack Obama ’s policies, according to  bets  on Intrade, a Dublin-based
online prediction market.  “Everyone in the market is getting ready to react on the
outcomes later this week,” said  Tim Hartzell , who oversees $300
million as chief investment officer for Houston-based Sequent
Asset Management. “You want to hedge that risk of increased
volatility.”  The S&P 500  surged  as much as 1.1 percent today after
China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in six months
in October. It then fell 0.5 percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
retreated up to 1.4 percent. ProPublica said the Securities and
Exchange Commission is investigating whether the bank let a
hedge fund illegally pick assets for a collateralized debt
obligation backed by subprime mortgages. The news organization
cited people familiar with the investigation.  The stock index ended the day with a 0.1 percent gain.  Fed policy makers meeting tomorrow and Nov. 3 will restart
a program of securities purchases to spur growth, reduce
unemployment and increase inflation, said 53 of 56 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News last week. Twenty-nine estimated the
Fed will pledge to buy $500 billion or more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 