-- WaMu Accord With JPMorgan, FDIC Was Reasonable, Examiner Reports to Court
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-11-01T21:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/wamu-accord-with-jpmorgan-fdic-was-reasonable-examiner-reports-to-court.html
Washington Mutual Inc. ’s settlement
with  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and federal regulators is reasonable
because it will end their court battles over the failure of the
biggest U.S. bank, a court-appointed examiner found.  Lawyer  Joshua R. Hochberg  said fighting JPMorgan and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in court would put at risk
billions of dollars in tax refunds and other assets that could
be used to pay creditors.  Continuing to fight, as shareholders have urged, would be
“gambling with currently guaranteed recoveries,” Hochberg
wrote in a report made public today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington, Delaware. “The ultimate resolution of many of the
claims could take years.”  WaMu, based in Seattle, has designed a reorganization plan
around the settlement, which would bring $7 billion to
creditors. Shareholders would be paid nothing.  The shareholders oppose the settlement, arguing that
lawsuits could bring enough money to pay off all of WaMu’s debts
and still leave something for them.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath  appointed Hochberg
and asked him to analyze the proposed settlement. Under WaMu’s
reorganization plan, all of the company’s remaining assets would
be liquidated and only a reinsurance company would exit
bankruptcy.  WaMu filed for  bankruptcy  on Sept. 26, 2008, the day after
its banking unit was taken over by regulators and sold to
JPMorgan for $1.9 billion. Before it failed, Washington Mutual
Bank had more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 