-- Wells Fargo `Robo-Signer' Draws Dismissal Motion in Maryland
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/wells-fargo-foreclosure-robo-signer-draws-maryland-dismissal-motion.html
A Maryland homeowner asked a court to
dismiss any  Wells Fargo & Co.  foreclosure actions in the state
that involve affidavits given by a bank employee who said she
signed documents without completely checking their accuracy.  Susan Saidman asked a Montgomery County court to recognize
as a class all defendants in Maryland cases with foreclosure
papers signed by Xee Moua for Wells Fargo. In a March deposition
in a Florida case, Moua said she didn’t verify all the
information in filings she signed, sometimes processing as many
as 500 in two hours.  To permit “foreclosure actions to proceed based upon these
false and fraudulent papers would be to accept dishonest and
bogus behavior in Maryland courts,” Saidman said in a motion
filed Oct. 29. “Such a result would be an assault on the rule
of law.”  Saidman raised the defense against members of Shapiro &
Burson LLP, a law firm that she said brings foreclosure actions
on behalf of Wells Fargo and other secured lenders. The law firm
couldn’t be reached by telephone yesterday after regular
business hours.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, said last week
that it will file supplemental foreclosure affidavits to courts
in about 55,000 proceedings after finding some statements “did
not strictly adhere to the required procedures.” The San
Francisco-based bank has said it chose to resubmit the documents
out of “an abundance of caution” and that none of “these
instances led to foreclosures which should not have otherwise
occurred.”  Ohio Attorney General  Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  last week asked
judges in his state for copies of foreclosure affidavits filed
in their courts and signed by Moua. He sent a separate letter to
Wells Fargo asking the bank to vacate any foreclosure judgment
in Ohio involving incorrect affidavits.  Marysville, Ohio, homeowner Ann Piwinksi brought a suit
yesterday accusing Wells Fargo of violating the state’s Consumer
Sales Practices Act, according to court filings. Hers is the
first civil case in the state against Wells Fargo involving the
use of so-called robo-signers, according to her lawyer, John
Sherrod of Dublin, Ohio.  Piwinski said documents in her foreclosure case were signed
by China Brown, Moua’s supervisor. She’s seeking civil penalties
and punitive damages.  “Without seeing the specific information, it would not be
appropriate to provide a response on pending litigation,”
Vickee Adams, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said yesterday.  “We believe we have designed an appropriate process
intended to insure the quality of customer and loan data in
foreclosure proceedings,” she said.  The Maryland case is Burson v. Saidman, 323096V, Circuit
Court, Montgomery County (Rockville); the Ohio case is Piwinski
v. Wells Fargo Bank, 2010-CV-1373, Fairfield County Court of
Common Pleas (Lancaster).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Riley  in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 