-- Wheat Falls Most in a Week on Signs of Shrinking Demand for U.S. Exports
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-01T16:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/wheat-falls-most-in-a-week-on-signs-of-shrinking-demand-for-u-s-exports.html
Wheat futures fell the most in a week
on signs of shrinking demand for exports from the U.S., the
world’s largest shipper.  U.S. wheat  inspected  for export dropped 31 percent in the
week ended Oct. 28 to 16.188 million bushels from a week
earlier, the Department of Agriculture said today. The  dollar 
rose against a basket of major currencies, eroding the appeal of
U.S. goods.  “Exports haven’t necessarily been terrible, but the
pipeline is just clogged with corn and soybeans,” which are
nearing the end of harvest in the U.S., said  Louise Gartner , the
owner of Spectrum Commodities in Beavercreek, Ohio.  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 10.5 cents, or
1.5 percent, to $7.0675 a bushel at 11:25 a.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. A close at that price would be the biggest
decline for a most-active contract since Oct. 21. Before today,
the grain jumped 49 percent since the end of June after drought
hurt crops in Russia and Eastern Europe.  Prices fluctuated before a government report today on U.S.
 crop  conditions. About 47 percent was in good or excellent
condition as of Oct. 24, compared with 62 percent a year
earlier, the USDA said last week.  The southern and central Great Plains may not get any rain
in the next 10 days, according to Belton, Missouri-based
forecaster Weather Derivatives. Parts of western  Kansas  are
“abnormally dry,” while areas of Nebraska and Colorado are
experiencing “moderate” drought, according to data from the
University of Nebraska at Lincoln.  ‘Sparsely Germinated’  “You’re looking at very sparsely germinated wheat,” said
 Dewey Strickler , the president of Ag Watch Market Advisers in
Nashville, Tennessee. “Once we get the crop ratings out of the
way, the trade will have a better handle on how much
improvement, if any, we saw in the Plains this past week.”  Rain in the Midwest last week may have improved the
condition of the soft-red winter crop, Spectrum Commodities’
Gartner said.  “You still have dry pockets in the far west-central
Plains, but that’s about all,” Gartner said. “The Midwest got
a good shot of moisture, and the rest of the Plains most likely
will see some improvement.”  Earlier, wheat futures climbed as much as 1.5 percent.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 