-- M&T to Acquire Wilmington Trust for $351 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-11-02T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/wilmington-trust-to-be-bought-by-m-t-for-351-million-below-market-value.html
Wilmington Trust Corp. , the 107-year-
old du Pont family wealth manager that financed companies during
the Great Depression, agreed to sell itself to M&T Bank Corp.
for about half last week’s market value amid souring loans.  The bank, founded by entrepreneur and U.S. Senator T.
Coleman du Pont in 1903, will be acquired for $351 million in a
stock deal valuing its shares at $3.84 apiece, 46 percent less
than last week’s closing price, the companies said yesterday.  The sale ends independence for a firm that has touted its
du Pont heritage for a century and manages about $58.4 billion,
including family members’ wealth. It was forced to find a buyer
as an economic slump undercut some of the lender’s strongest
borrowers, Wilmington Chief Executive Officer  Donald Foley  said.  Wilmington “was certainly the leading bank in the state of
Delaware -- a dominant financial institution, known to be
extremely well-run, relatively conservative in its policies,”
said  James Butkiewicz , a professor at the University of
Delaware’s Alfred Lerner College of Business & Economics. “But
it too has fallen on some hard times.”  The deal would give M&T the state’s largest depository and
add wealth management and corporate services to boost fee income
to 39 percent of total revenue from 34 percent, M&T Chief
Financial Officer  Rene Jones  told reporters on a conference call
yesterday. M&T, based in Buffalo, New York, has reported profits
for 34 straight years and counts Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the
investment firm led by billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ,
among its biggest  shareholders .  Acquisition Spree  Following its founding by local businessmen led by du Pont,
Wilmington Trust grew and made mergers to become Delaware’s
biggest bank by 1912, according to its website. During the
1930s, it lent money to companies including Atlanta-based  Coca-
Cola Co.  and General Motors Acceptance Corp., now known as
Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc . It expanded in the state in
the 1950s,  buying  at least eight other firms.  The bank’s wealth-management unit, focusing on customers
across the U.S. with $10 million or more of liquid assets,
managed $26.5 billion as of Sept. 30. Clients still include du
Pont family members, said  Bill Benintende , a spokesman for the
bank.  Ties to the family are featured throughout the company’s
website, including a “ heritage brochure .” They no longer play
a prominent leadership role, said David S. Swayze, a director at
law firm Parkowski Guerke & Swayze PA in Wilmington, who has
studied the state’s financial history.  “Wilmington Trust is an icon, the prince of banking in
Delaware for the last decades,” Swayze said. “But the presence
of the du Pont family in the company’s hierarchy disappeared
some time ago.”  ‘Protracted Recession’  Pierre S. du Pont IV , a former governor of Delaware who
now practices law in Wilmington, said he was “surprised” by
the deal. “My grandfather’s generation was much more involved
in the bank,” he said in a telephone interview.  Defaults by housing developers hurt results in recent years
as demand for second-homes in southern Delaware plunged among
people approaching retirement, Foley said. Building permits
issued in Delaware’s southern-most county, Sussex, which
includes Rehoboth Beach and several resort towns, declined 62
percent to 1,318 last year from a peak in 2004, county records
show.  In the second quarter of this year, Wilmington Trust saw
“significant declines” in the collateral value of its
commercial real estate loans, according to a regulatory filing
by the company, based in the city of the same name. Most of
those loans, 58 percent, were for projects in southern Delaware.  Stock Drop  “The impact of the protracted recession on Delaware simply
can’t be overstated,” Foley said on the conference call. “We
have little assurance our capital won’t erode further.”  Wilmington Trust put itself up for sale as it prepared to
report a sixth straight quarterly  loss . The firm and its bankers
at Lazard Ltd. contacted bigger lenders including M&T, Bank of
Montreal and Toronto-Dominion Bank about a takeover, and
solicited interest from private-equity investors in making a
capital infusion, people with knowledge of the matter have said.  The bank’s stock slid 42 percent this year to $7.11 as of
Oct. 29. It dropped to $4.21 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday. Wilmington investors will get 0.051
share of M&T for each of theirs, the firms said in a statement.  While Wilmington’s stock traded above M&T’s offer, Jones
sought to counter speculation that the bid may be revised.  “We’ve got a firm, committed deal,” Jones said on the
conference call. “Both parties are committed down this road.”  ‘Committed’ to Sale  Wilmington reported yesterday that the third-quarter loss
widened to $365.3 million from $5.9 million in the year-earlier
period and $116.4 in the second quarter. Loans and real estate
that aren’t receiving interest increased 77 percent in the
quarter to $988.6 million from the second quarter, it said.  The purchase price values Wilmington Trust at tangible book
value, and the acquisition will add to earnings by 2012, M&T
said in a statement. The U.S. Treasury, through its Troubled
Asset Relief Program, bought $330 million in preferred equity in
Wilmington Trust in December 2008. M&T said it agreed to assume
responsibility for the preferred stock.  About 40 M&T employees studied 450 Wilmington Trust loans
over 11 days, Jones said. The bank expects $1 billion in
remaining pretax losses from Wilmington’s loan portfolio, or
about 14 percent of its total loans, he said.  M&T “had time to do every bit of due diligence we wanted
to do” and is comfortable it understands the risks in Delaware,
where it has a branch, M&T CEO  Robert G. Wilmers , 76, said in an
interview. The $1 billion estimate is “conservative,” meaning
the loss isn’t likely to be more, he said.  “All these reports about M&T’s strong management -- that’s
what makes me nervous because I think my colleagues will believe
it,” Wilmers said. “The bank graveyard is full of banks that
make mistakes in acquisitions, and I don’t plan to be one of
them.”  In addition to Lazard Ltd., Wilmington Trust used Morgan
Stanley for a fairness opinion, and got legal counsel from
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. M&T used Royal Bank of
Canada’s investment banking unit, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &
Katz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 