-- Woman Stabbed Labour Lawmaker After Ballot Over Iraq War, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-11-01T15:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/woman-stabbed-u-k-lawmaker-over-his-support-of-iraq-war-prosecutor-says.html
U.K. lawmaker  Stephen Timms  was
stabbed earlier this year by a woman seeking revenge for his
support of the war in Iraq, prosecutors told a London jury.  Roshonara Choudhary, 21, is being tried at the  Old Bailey 
criminal court in London for the attempted murder of Timms, a
Labour Party member of parliament and former Treasury minister,
on May 14.  Choudhary stabbed Timms in the stomach with a three-inch-
long kitchen knife at a  community center  in east London where he
was meeting constituents, prosecutor William Boyce said today.
She had made an appointment to see him. She managed to stab
Timms twice before a security guard restrained her, Boyce said.
Choudhary is charged with one count of attempted murder and two
counts of possessing an offensive weapon.  “She said that she had stabbed Mr. Timms because he had
voted in favor of the Iraq war,” Boyce said, citing police
interviews with her after the attack. “She said that she had
made an appointment to see him specifically to attack him.”  Choudhary told police she intended to keep stabbing Timms
until someone stopped her and that she had brought a second
knife if case the first one broke, Boyce said. The attack was
recorded by security cameras.  Timms testified Choudhary stabbed him at the start of the
meeting when he rose to greet her.  “She made as if to shake my hand. She looked friendly, she
was smiling,” he said. Then “she lunged at me with her right
hand.”  Full Recovery  “I think I knew that I had been stabbed although I didn’t
feel anything,” he said. Timms has made a full recovery, he
said.  Nigel Tai , the surgeon that treated Timms after the attack
said the stab wounds lacerated his liver and punctured his
stomach-lining. While the injuries weren’t “immediately life
threatening,” Timms could have died from infection without
surgery, he said.  Choudhary doesn’t recognize the authority of the court, has
refused to attend the trial, and told her lawyers not to
challenge any evidence, her lawyer  Jeremy Dein  told the jury
today.  “Although we are here to protect her interests we do not
intend to play an active part in her trial,” Dein said.  The trail is scheduled to finish tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 