-- Dollar Falls Versus Most Counterparts on Prospects for Fed Bond Purchases
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-02T21:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-01/yen-retreats-from-15-year-high-against-dollar-on-signs-of-asian-recovery.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major counterparts on speculation a resumption of asset
purchases by the Federal Reserve tomorrow will spur inflation
and extend a five-month slide in the greenback.  The euro climbed above $1.40 before the Fed issues a
statement from its two-day policy meeting, where economists
forecast a second round of quantitative easing. The European
Central Bank, which is debating ending stimulus measures,
announces a decision the next day. The Australian dollar reached
parity with the greenback after the South Pacific nation raised
interest rates.  “Investors are really just nervous of holding the
greenback, given the expectations that the Fed is likely to
introduce new stimulus,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
Washington at Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-
exchange network.  The dollar fell 1 percent to $1.4034 per euro at 5 p.m. in
New York, from $1.3893 yesterday, closing beyond $1.40 for the
second time since January. It weakened to $1.4084 Oct. 14. The
yen slipped 0.2 percent to 80.63 per dollar, from 80.51. It
touched 80.22 yesterday, the second time in as many trading days
it reached its strongest in 15 years.  The yen dropped as much as 1.4 percent to 113.48 per euro,
from 111.85, the biggest intraday loss against the European
common currency since Japan acknowledged intervening on Sept. 15
to cap yen gains.  ‘Further Upward Move’  “Technically, being able to hold above this 1.40 level
would point to a further upward move from a euro-dollar
perspective,” said  Matthew Strauss , senior currency strategist
in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, the largest Canadian lender.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, touched 76.636, the lowest
level since Oct. 15. It’s dropped 13 percent since reaching a
15-month high of 88.708 on June 7.  “The market continues to turn to the euro more from an
interest-rate and quantitative-easing perspective than anything
else,” Strauss said. “You have the Fed and the BOJ on one
side, and the ECB on the other end of the spectrum.”  Republicans were poised to retake the U.S. House of
Representatives and narrow Democrats’ margin in the Senate in
today’s congressional elections in a campaign shaped by voter
anxiety over jobs and the economy.  Below 80 Yen  Traders may use the combination of U.S. election results
and a Japanese holiday tomorrow to push the dollar below 80 yen
for the first time since April 1995, according to CMC Markets.  “Early poll results of U.S. mid-term elections will hit a
quieter-than-usual Asian Wednesday session as Japan is shut for
a holiday,”  Ashraf Laidi , chief market strategist at CMC
Markets in London, wrote in an e-mailed report today. “This
runs the risk of traders attacking the 80-yen figure on election
volatility, especially after dollar-yen ended October at a new
all time monthly low.”  The Rothenberg Political Report predicted Republican gains
of 55 to 65 seats in the House, and the Washington-based Cook
Political Report forecast an increase of 50 to 60 seats. Both
reports see Democrats losing 6 to 8 seats in the Senate.  “If the Republicans have a convincing deficit reduction
plan, foreign-exchange markets will presumably view it and the
dollar favorably,”  Greg Anderson , a currency strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in a note. “However, if
markets become convinced that gridlock in Washington will lead
to Republican unwillingness to raise taxes and Obama
administration unwillingness to cut spending, then a sweeping
Republican victory could become dollar-negative” by early 2011.  Policy Statement  The Fed will release a policy statement tomorrow at about
2:15 p.m. in Washington after its two-day meeting ends. The ECB
will go public with a policy decision about 19 hours later in
Frankfurt, a day before the Bank of Japan concludes a meeting.  The ECB is “in the process of phasing out” its non-
standard policy measures introduced at the height of the
financial crisis,  Axel Weber , a member of the bank’s Governing
Council, said last week in Stuttgart. It shouldn’t keep interest
rates “too low for too long,” he said. The ECB’s key  rate is 1
percent, compared with zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S. and zero
to 0.1 percent in Japan.  The Australian dollar climbed for a fourth day versus the
greenback as Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the
economy has “relatively modest amounts of spare capacity.” He
raised the overnight cash rate target by a quarter-percentage
point to 4.75 percent, the first increase in six months.  ‘Good Sign’  “They’re confident enough to raise rates while the U.S.
continues to ease policy, and they’re confident enough to raise
rates while their currencies appreciate -- that’s a good sign
for global risk appetite,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York.  The Aussie rose against all of its major counterparts
except the Swiss franc. It surged 1.3 percent to 99.95 U.S.
cents, from 98.71 cents, and reached $1.0024. It climbed 1.4
percent to 80.57 yen.  The pound fell against most major currencies, weakening 1
percent to 87.51 pence per euro and ending the day little
changed at $1.6040.  Britain’s October  construction  purchasing managers index
fell to 51.6 from 53.8 a month earlier, Markit Economics and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  