-- BP's Russian Unit Cuts Exports as Local Demand Rises
-- [bn:PRSN=6963266] Torrey Clark []
-- 2006-11-21T17:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-21/bp-s-russian-unit-cuts-exports-as-local-demand-rises-update2-.html

          
          
             TNK-BP (TNBP) , BP Plc's Russian unit, is
cutting exports of crude oil and refined products such as gasoline
and  fuel oil  as export taxes and surging demand make domestic
sales more attractive.  
 TNK-BP plans to decrease crude exports this year to 47.5
million tons (954,000 barrels a day) from 49 million last year,
Jonathan Kollek, vice president for sales, trading and logistics,
told reporters in Moscow today. Exports of refined products will
fall 2 percent to 14.5 million tons this year.  
 Fuel oil demand has risen this year, including in the first
quarter, when a severe cold snap caused a surge from electricity
producers. President  Vladimir Putin  said customers such as OAO
Unified Energy System, the national power utility, should use more
fuel oil and less natural gas as state-run OAO Gazprom increases
European gas exports.  
 TNK-BP cut fuel-oil exports by as much as 140,000 tons a
month to feed demand from Russian power stations, Kollek said. He
didn't specify the period.  
 Exports of Russian crude fell in the first 10 months of the
year as export duties soared to record levels.  
 TNK-BP wants to export crude to  China  next year under
contract with China National Petroleum Co., Kollek said. The
company shipped 400,000 tons of Russian oil across  Kazakhstan  to
China through the Atasu-Alashankou pipeline earlier this year.
Because of ``technical problems,'' TNK-BP won't send more this
year, Kollek said, without elaborating.  
 Output Goals  
 Crude production will probably match last year after the
company sold a unit to China's Sinopec and state-controlled OAO
Rosneft in August, TNK-BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley 
said Oct. 3. The company pumped about 1.76 million barrels of oil
a day last year.  
 TNK-BP expects to refine about 34 million tons of crude this
year within  Russia , as much as a fifth more than last year,
Executive Vice President Anthony Considine said today. The amount
includes TNK-BP's share in refining at OAO Slavneft, which it owns
equally with Gazprom's oil division.  
 The company's refinery  in Lisichansk , Ukraine, may refine
260,000 tons of oil this month after finishing an upgrade that
started Oct. 1, the company said on its Web site.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        