-- Stevens Crash Survivor, Photos Show Plane Plowed Into Mountain in Alaska
-- Angela Greiling Keane
-- 2010-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-14/stevens-crash-survivor-photos-show-plane-plowed-into-mountain-in-alaska.html

          
          
             The plane that crashed in Alaska,
killing former U.S. Senator Ted Stevens, was flying normally
before it plowed into a mountain, a survivor of the Aug. 9
accident told U.S. transportation-safety investigators.  
 The survivor, who was interviewed yesterday in Anchorage by
the National Transportation Safety Board, “said they were
flying along and then they just stopped flying,” board Chairman
Deborah Hersman said yesterday on a conference call with
reporters. The survivor, who she didn’t name, said “there was
no change in pitch or engine noise” before the crash, which
killed five people.  
 The board also released  three photos  of the crash site
showing the wrecked plane, a DeHavilland DHC-3T single-engine.
Before coming to rest on the remote, brush-covered mountain, the
plane carved a scar in the ground of 100 feet (30 meters) to 150
feet, Hersman said.  
 “The ground scar is pretty straight in one direction,”
she said, saying investigators have not named a cause for the
crash. “There is still a lot of analysis to do.”  
 The safety board previously investigated accidents
involving the pilot of the flight that carried Stevens and the
owner of the plane, Alaska telecommunications provider  General
Communication Inc. , Hersman said.  
 The accident involving pilot Theron “Terry” Smith was in
1997 when he failed “to maintain directional control” while
landing a plane with tundra tires in Alaska, the board found.
Smith, a former commercial pilot for Alaska Air Group Inc., died
in the Aug. 9 crash. The board also investigated a 2002 accident
that killed the pilot of a GCI-owned plane in the same region,
finding the cause was the pilot’s failure to retract the float
plane’s wheels before landing on water.  
 Second Survivor  
 The second survivor who was interviewed yesterday said he
recalls a safety briefing from Smith and that he was wearing his
seatbelt, Hersman said. The unidentified passenger said he fell
asleep in the front passenger seat of the plane once in flight
and woke up after the crash.  
 Four people, including  Sean O’Keefe , chief executive
officer of North American operations for European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co., survived the crash.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        