-- `Painful Trade' to Lift Hong Kong Property Prices in Year Ahead, CLSA Says
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-08-02T08:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/-painful-trade-to-lift-hong-kong-property-prices-in-year-ahead-clsa-says.html

          
          
             Hong Kong home prices will rise
another 15 percent in the next 12 months as limited supply
forces buyers to pay more for  property  that’s already expensive,
CLSA Ltd.’s  Nicole Wong  said.  
 Prices will increase because the city’s promising job
market and growing wealth will help drive demand for real estate
while supply doesn’t increase much, Wong, the regional head of
property research for CLSA, said at a media briefing in Hong
Kong today.  
 “Is Hong Kong real estate too expensive? Definitely,”
Wong said. “People who buy are making a painful trade. However,
those who make a rational choice not to buy find themselves
getting penalized because prices keep going higher. So in the
end, they’ll go for a less rational choice because it’s less
painful.”  
 Hong Kong’s real estate prices have been fueled by record-
low mortgage costs and buying by mainland Chinese. The city’s
home prices have risen 11 percent this year and are up 42
percent since early 2009, according to Centaline Property Agency
Ltd. Last month they rose to the highest level since 1997, when
the market peaked, according to Centaline, one of the city’s
biggest property agencies.  
 “If you call it a bubble, it means you expect it to burst
soon, but we don’t think that’s going to happen given that in
the next 12 to 18 months the lack of new supply won’t change,”
Wong said.  
 Nan Fung Development Ltd. and  Wharf (Holdings) Ltd.  bid
HK$10.4 billion ($1.34 billion) for a Mt. Nicholson Road site in
Hong Kong Island’s Peak district last week.  
 Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., the world’s biggest developer
by market value, bought a site in the Ho Man Tin district for
HK$10.9 billion in June.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        