-- A-List Rieslings Top Bordeaux, Cheaper Ones Soothe in Summer
-- Elin McCoy
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/a-list-rieslings-top-bordeaux-cheaper-ones-soothe-in-summer-elin-mccoy.html

          
          
             The lively, intense, utterly
delicious wine I’m swirling in my glass is 89 years old, and
it’s a white. Razor-sharp acidity is what preserved this German
riesling with the impossible-to-say-in-one-breath name: 1921
Hessische Staatsweinguter Kloster Eberbach Rudesheimer
Hinterhaus Rheingau. I checked that spelling, twice.  
 “Of course, 1921 is one of the two greatest vintages of
the last century,” confides bushy-mustached German vintner
Reinhard Lowenstein of  Heymann-Lowenstein winery  in the Mosel
region.  
 He and three other members of the VdP, the oldest national
winegrower’s association in the world, brought 19 wines,
vintages 1921 to 2009, to New York’s Le Bernardin restaurant to
show critics and sommeliers how top rieslings can age and why
they were once prized more than the best Bordeaux.  
 The VdP is Germany’s wine A-list and the organization is
celebrating its 100th birthday this year, including a September
wine auction featuring a century of rarities in Germany.  
 While we sip an unforgettable 1945 Schloss Johannisberg
Grulack Spatlese from the Rheingau (the other great 20th-century
vintage), Lowenstein, in a bright green tie that matches the
table centerpiece, explains that the nearly 200 vintner-members
agree to follow stricter viticulture regulations than required
by German law. In the Pfalz region, more than 50 percent grow
grapes organically or biodynamically.  
 All of them are basking in the latest news about riesling’s
recent rise in popularity in the U.S. According to  Nielsen Co. ,
in the year ended June, it was the fastest-growing white wine in
volume, with sales up 11.5 percent, and in dollars spent.  
 Cool Rieslings  
 I’ve been a riesling fan for years. When the temperature
hits 90, a bright German bottling with its modest alcohol levels
and pinpoint balance between pure fruitiness and tooth-tingling,
bone-crunching acidity is what I pour.  
 The racy, minerally 2008s like Donnhoff Northeimer Dellchen
($35) and just-arriving, richer 2009s, such as Heymann-
Lowenstein Uhlen Laubach ($30), are stunning and offer serious
quality for modest ($15 to $35) prices.  
 Many wine lovers think of acidity as a bad thing, but it
makes riesling ageworthy, more fragrant and more versatile with
just about any food other than red meat. Chef  Eric Ripert ’s fish
cuisine is tailor-made for these wines.  
 The complex, lime-scented 1997 Karthauserhof Eitelbacher
Karthauserhofberg Spatlese dry ($50) brilliantly pointed up the
tangy flavors of chef Ripert’s Vietnamese-style hamachi. With
seared langoustines, mache and wild mushroom salad with shaved
foie gras -- the killer dish of the lunch -- I savored the
spicy, vivid 2004 Okonomierat Rebholz Kastanienbusch GG ($70)
from Pfalz.  
 Crispy Bass  
 Fabulous 1959, 1976, and 1988 rieslings accompanied crispy
black bass and bean-sprout risotto. The 1988, a lemony, vibrant
Dr. Loosen Wehlener Sonnenuhr Auslese Mosel worked best.  
 If you think German labels are confusing (and you are not
alone), hang on. VdP members’ wines from vineyards the
organization has classified grand cru carry a logo of stylized
grapes and the numeral one, while GG indicates it’s dry.  
 Despite all the pedigree, German riesling is today’s anti-
establishment wine. People still suffer from fear of riesling.
I’m convinced it isn’t the impossible-to-decipher Gothic script
on the labels or the tall thin bottles that don’t fit into most
refrigerators or wine racks. It’s fear of sweetness that make
people pull back before buying the bottle. Just so you know:
Though they can vary from bone dry to very sweet, the vast
majority of German rieslings do not taste sweet because of the
counterbalance of zingy acidity.  
 Total Immersion  
 New York’s most dedicated riesling fanatic is acidhound
Paul Grieco, the goateed wine director and co-owner of New
York’s Hearth Restaurant and wine bars Terroir E.Vill. and
Terroir Tribeca. His method for attacking fear of riesling?
Aggressive immersion.  
 For the third summer, the only whites poured by the glass
at his wine bars are rieslings. No familiar chardonnay. No
popular bland pinot grigio. Grieco is out to convert, to change
lives, hearts and minds.  
 I missed his sold-out riesling rock concert at Brooklyn’s
Knitting Factory featuring “four bands chosen for their high
acidity, elegant concentration of fruit and incredible sense of
place.” Only riesling was poured.  
 “I’m trying to show it can be a rock and roll drink, that
it’s not your father’s wine,” he says.  
 There are still 7 days left of New York’s First Annual
Riesling Bar Crawl, and Terroir’s Summer of Riesling lasts until
Sept. 22. The stellar 2009s are starting to appear on retail
shelves and cost way less than 2009 Bordeaux futures. There’s
plenty of time to be converted. Take the acid test.  
 ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Riesling Grapes  
                       
                         
                           Wines of Germany USA via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Riesling grapes. The best and most long-lived rieslings come from the great historic vineyards of Germany, and produce wines that range from very dry to extremely sweet. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Riesling grapes. The best and most long-lived rieslings come from the great historic vineyards of Germany, and produce wines that range from very dry to extremely sweet. Source: Wines of Germany USA via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Old vintages of German riesling wine for a lunch at Le Bernardin restaurant in New York. The wines included offerings from the two best years of the twentieth century, 1921 and 1945, which retain their longevity with bright, razor sharp acidity. Source: Wines of Germany USA via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Rudesheimer Hinterhaus Riesling  
                       
                         
                           Wines of Germany USA via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A bottle of Hessische Staatsweinguter Kloster Eberbach 1921 Rudesheimer Hinterhaus Riesling, from Germany's Rheingau region. The vintage was the oldest wine at a lunch at Le Bernardin restaurant in New York. The wine ages well, and is still lively and delicious after 89 years. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A bottle of Hessische Staatsweinguter Kloster Eberbach 1921 Rudesheimer Hinterhaus Riesling, from Germany's Rheingau region. The vintage was the oldest wine at a lunch at Le Bernardin restaurant in New York. The wine ages well, and is still lively and delicious after 89 years. Source: Wines of Germany USA via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
