-- AbitibiBowater Wins Judge's Approval to Seek Votes on Reorganization Plan
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-08-02T17:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/abitibibowater-wins-judge-s-approval-to-seek-votes-on-reorganization-plan.html

          
          
             AbitibiBowater Inc. , the world’s
biggest newsprint maker by capacity, won court approval of its
restructuring plan outline, allowing the company to take votes
on the proposal.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  granted the company
permission to send its plan to creditors, over objections at a
hearing today in Wilmington, Delaware. He found that the
disclosure statement contains adequate information for creditors
to make an informed decision on the plan.  
 Under AbitibiBowater’s restructuring plan, unsecured
creditors would share the reorganized company’s stock in
addition to the right to participate in a $500 million notes
offering. The notes would be convertible into equity in the
reorganized company, according to a May 24 statement.  
 The Montreal-based paper maker would pay secured creditors
in full in cash, or get some other mutually agreed upon
treatment that would give them a full recovery, according to the
disclosure statement. The company’s existing shareholders would
be wiped out under the proposal.  
 AbitibiBowater  sought bankruptcy protection on April 16,
2009, after U.S. lenders refused to accept a proposed  debt 
restructuring. The company listed $7 billion in assets and
$9.5 billion in debt as of March 31, according to court
documents. The paper-maker had sales of $4.4 billion in 2009.  
 The company has 22 pulp and paper mills and 26 wood-
products plants in the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and South Korea.
The company was formed in October 2007 with the merger of
Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Bowater Inc. in a stock
transaction valued at about $4.8 billion.  
 The case is In re AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        