-- Macquarie Should Cut Jobs, Boost Compensation to Retain Talent, UBS Says
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-08-02T07:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/macquarie-should-cut-jobs-increase-pay-to-retain-talented-staff-ubs-says.html

          
          
             Macquarie Group Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest investment bank, should cut jobs to increase
compensation and retain talented staff, according to UBS AG.  
 Compensation at Macquarie’s investment banking division in
the six months ended March 2010 was $231,000 per employee, less
than half the figure at global rivals Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Deutsche Bank AG, UBS said in a July 30 report, which
analyzed employee numbers and revenue.  
 “This low compensation capability may become a material
hurdle for staff retention and the ability to attract high-
quality recruits,” UBS analyst  Jonathan Mott  said in the report.
“Macquarie should now actively address its staffing levels to
bring its compensation back into line with global peers.”  
 Macquarie, which is based in Sydney, has endured a stream
of senior-level departures this year including  Andrew Low , chief
operating officer of the investment banking unit, and U.S.
capital markets chief  Jim Rossman . Macquarie Chief Executive
Officer  Nicholas Moore  said July 30 that the bank’s three
largest units were set to report lower  earnings  as markets
faltered and deals dwindled. He declined to say whether he
planned to cut the 14,600-plus workforce.  
 Macquarie  today  rose 1.3 percent to A$37.67 at the 4:10 p.m.
local time close in Sydney after UBS upgraded its rating to
“buy” from “neutral,” citing valuations. Macquarie has
fallen 22 percent this year.  
 UBS, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc cut earnings forecasts for Macquarie after
the bank’s July 30 outlook statement.  
 For Related News and Information:
Link to Company News: MQG AU <Equity> CN <GO>
Top Stories: TOP <GO>  
          
          


  


        