-- Agliotti Not Involved in Shooting of Allan Gray Fund Manager, Lawyer Says
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-08-02T16:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/agliotti-not-involved-in-shooting-of-allan-gray-fund-manager-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             A lawyer for  Glenn Agliotti , charged
with organizing the killing of mining magnate  Brett Kebble  and
seeking to have four other people murdered, sought to pin the
blame for the shooting of an Allan Gray Ltd. fund manager on his
security manager.  
 Agliotti is charged with ordering Clinton Nassif to
organize the shooting of  Stephen Mildenhall , former chief
investment officer, at Cape Town’s Allan Gray on Aug. 31, 2005.  
 Mildenhall had been pressuring Kebble, at that time a
friend of Agliotti’s, to quit his role as the head of three
mining companies. Prosecutors say that a month later Agliotti
organized to have Kebble shot dead in his car in Johannesburg.
Agliotti says the murder was requested by Kebble, who feared
jail on fraud charges, and it was “an assisted suicide.”  
 Nassif “played the most important role in the shooting of
Mr. Mildenhall,” Laurence Hodes, Agliotti’s lawyer, said in
court today. “The accused had absolutely nothing to do with
it.”  
 Mildenhall told the South Gauteng High Court in
Johannesburg last week that he was shot in both shoulders at his
home. Nigel McGurk, a former nightclub doorman, said he had
hired two Cape Town residents on Nassif’s orders to attack the
money manager. Allan Gray, together with Investec Ltd., had
demanded that Kebble cede his roles as chief executive officer
of  Randgold & Exploration Ltd. ,  JCI Ltd.  and Western Areas Ltd.  
 Agliotti, a convicted drug dealer and former friend of
Kebble, was involved and had wanted Mildenhall attacked to
comply with orders he had been given, Nassif said. Agliotti was
the “pressure cooker” who ensured the instructions were
carried out, he said.  
 Waved to Killer  
 Nassif and the three men who carried out the killing of
Kebble have confessed to the crime in a bid to win immunity from
prosecution. Agliotti has said that it was “an assisted
suicide” carried out at Kebble’s request because he feared
going to jail.  
 On the day of Kebble’s death, Sept. 27, 2005, Nassif said
he went to Kebble’s house and the two said a prayer, according
to a court statement read out by Hodes. Nassif said that as he
left he told Kebble the man waiting for him in a car outside the
house, Michael Schultz, was the man who would shoot him. Kebble
waved to Schultz, Nassif said.  
 “This whole thing is ridiculous,” Nassif said.  
 Loan, Rights Offer  
 In an 11-year career in South Africa’s gold mining
industry, Kebble, who died at the age of 41, helped set up two
of the country’s four biggest gold companies,  Harmony Gold
Mining Co.  and  DRDGold Ltd.  Investec Ltd., a bank, and Allan
Gray pressed for his departure after hundreds of millions of
dollars worth of assets went missing from Randgold &
Exploration.  
 Investec Ltd. agreed to lend JCI 460 million rand ($66
million) to help complete a mine development by Western Areas on
the world’s biggest gold deposit on condition Kebble left.  
 Allan Gray wanted his departure as a condition to support a
concurrent rights offer by Western Areas, in which it held an
about 25-percent stake, Mildenhall said. JCI held 39 percent of
Western Areas.  
 Agliotti is also charged with conspiring to murder
 Mark Bristow , the chief executive officer of
 Randgold Resources Ltd. ,  Jean Nortier , the chief executive
officer of  Uranium One Ltd. , and Mark Wellesley-Wood, the former
chief executive officer of  DRDGold . Kebble was involved in
disputes with the three men.  
 Shares of Randgold & Exploration were suspended in 2005 and
recommenced trade on June 4, this year. The company now has a
market value of 411 million rand. JCI also has plans to have
trade in its shares restarted.  
 The case is: State versus Agliotti, Norbert Glenn, JPV
2008/264, SS154/2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at o
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        