-- Tiger, Thai Air Challenge AirAsia With Bangkok Low-Cost Venture
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-08-02T10:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/thai-air-tiger-to-set-up-new-low-fare-airline-on-leisure-travel-demand.html

          
          
             Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. , the
budget carrier part-owned by  Singapore Airlines Ltd. , will start
a low-fare airline in Bangkok, challenging  AirAsia Bhd.  in
Southeast Asia’s busiest airport.  
 Thai Airways International Pcl  and another local company
will own 51 percent of Thai Tiger Airways Pte, which is due to
start operations in the first quarter of next year, the carriers
said in a statement. Tiger Air will own the rest. The venture
will fly domestic and overseas routes of up to five hours.  
 Tiger Air plans to add a Bangkok base to its operations in
Singapore and Australia after rebounding economic growth helped
fuel a 14 percent jump in first-half Thai tourism arrivals. The
airline will compete with AirAsia, the region’s largest discount
carrier, which already has a hub in the Thai capital and plans
to list shares on the local stock exchange.  
 “This is a really big step up for Tiger Air in terms of
its regional competitiveness,” said  Peter Harbison , managing
director at the Sydney-based Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation.
“This puts it firmly in the competitive market place that
AirAsia and Jetstar are fighting to be in. It’s about
establishing a regional brand.” Jetstar is the budget carrier
owned by Qantas Airways Ltd.  
 The companies need approvals before the new airline can
start operation, according to the statement. The venture may
break even within two years of operations,  Melissa Yeap , an
analyst at DMG & Partners Securities, said in a note today.  
 “Market Big Enough”  
 Tiger Air, AirAsia and Jetstar are accelerating expansion
plans across Asia Pacific, which last year overtook intra-North
America as the world’s biggest aviation market. Asia-Pacific
airlines may post the biggest profit of any region this year,
the  International Air Transport Association  has predicted.  
 The “market is big enough,” AirAsia Chief Executive
officer  Tony Fernandes  said in an e-mail reply to Bloomberg
queries today. “We deal with competition every day.”  
 There is also “no change in plans” for a possible  dual
listing  of AirAsia’s shares in Thailand or the initial public
offering it is considering for its Thai unit next year, he said.
AirAsia has ordered  175 A320 planes  from Airbus SAS, making it
the biggest Asian customer for single-aisle models for the
Toulouse, France-based planemaker.  
 Shares Surge  
 Tiger Air  rose 5.4 percent to S$2.16, a record close since
it began trading in January in Singapore.  Thai Air  advanced 4.4
percent to 36 baht, the highest level in more than two and a
half years. AirAsia increased 0.7 percent to 1.50 ringgit in
Kuala Lumpur.  
 Including short-haul routes, budget carriers may account
for 30 percent of Asia-Pacific capacity by 2015 from 20 percent
now, estimated  Derek Sadubin , chief operating officer at the
Sydney- based Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation.  
 “It will be naive for AirAsia or anyone else to think they
have a monopoly in the local service in the region,” Tiger Air
CEO Tony Davis said in Bangkok. Competition in Asia’s low-cost
airline industry is “still very small compared to Europe.”  
 Tiger Air failed to set up a budget carrier in South Korea
in 2008.  
 For Bangkok-based Thai Air, the new airline will help boost
passenger traffic after it lost 6 billion baht in revenue ($186
million) earlier this year from the worst political unrest in
two decades. Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has kept
Bangkok under a state of emergency since May 19, when the
military quashed two months of protests against his rule.  
 The new venture will have “enormous potential” as only 6
million of the 65 million Thais have flown before, Thai Air
President  Piyasvasti Amranand  said in Bangkok today.  
 “Low-cost is the fastest-growing market and we want to
take part in this market,” he said. “We have been losing
market share to low-cost airlines and we think there is a lot of
opportunity for us.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A Tiger Airways Holdings Pte airplane  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Tiger Air plans to add a Bangkok base to its operations in Singapore and Australia after rebounding economic growth helped fuel a 14 percent jump in first-half Thai tourism arrivals. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tiger Air plans to add a Bangkok base to its operations in Singapore and Australia after rebounding economic growth helped fuel a 14 percent jump in first-half Thai tourism arrivals. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
