-- Thailand's Inflation Accelerates, Supporting Central Bank's Rate Increase
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-08-02T07:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/thailand-inflation-accelerated-in-july-providing-scope-for-rate-increase.html

          
          
             Thailand’s inflation accelerated in
July, supporting the central bank’s view it may need to raise
borrowing costs further.  
 An index of  consumer prices  rose 3.4 percent last month
from a year earlier after climbing 3.3 percent in June, the
Commerce Ministry said today. The median estimate of 12
economists in a Bloomberg  survey  was for a 3.6 percent increase.  
 The Bank of Thailand last month raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time in almost two years, joining
neighbors from Malaysia to India in boosting borrowing costs as
the Asian rebound gained momentum. Deputy Governor  Bandid Nijathaworn  said July 21 rate increases “will continue” with
economic recovery.  
 “Inflation in the second half is on an uptrend in line
with higher food prices,”  Pimonwan Mahujchariyawong , an
economist at Kasikorn Research Ltd. in Bangkok, said before the
report. “The central bank is expected to continue raising the
key rate to preempt surging inflation next year.”  
 The central bank on July 23 raised its forecast for
economic growth this year to as much as 7.5 percent, citing
exports and recovering local demand after the country’s
political unrest in April and May.  
 “Inflation is quite sustained in line with economic
growth,” Yanyong Phuangrach, permanent secretary for commerce,
said at a media briefing. “It’s still well within our forecast
range of between 3 percent and 3.5 percent. The average for the
whole year won’t exceed 3.5 percent.”  
 Core Inflation Gains  
 Thailand’s  core inflation  index, which excludes fresh food
and fuel prices, rose 1.2 percent last month from a year earlier,
the Commerce Ministry said. That matched the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists.  
 Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Cabinet last month
extended subsidies on public transportation and energy costs for
six months to help reduce the public’s burden following the
political violence.  
 “We think inflation from the third quarter may slow a
bit,” Yanyong said. “There is no sign of price increases from
the key products that we monitor.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        