-- All Blacks Close on Rugby Union Titles to Leave Wallabies Seeking Answers
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-08-02T03:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/all-blacks-close-on-rugby-union-titles-to-leave-wallabies-seeking-answers.html

          
          
             As New Zealand contemplates sealing
the Tri-Nations and Bledisloe Cup rugby titles this week,
Australia faces the prospect of tying its worst losing streak
against its neighbor.  
 The All Blacks’ 49-28 rout of the Wallabies in Melbourne
two days ago put them 11 points clear atop the southern
hemisphere championship standings and extended their winning
streak to eight in a rivalry stretching back to 1903.  
 Another victory in Christchurch on Aug. 7 would see New
Zealand match the record of nine straight wins between 1936 and
1947. It would also see the All Blacks retain the Bledisloe Cup
they contest with the Wallabies for the eighth year in a row
and likely guarantee a record-extending 10th Tri-Nations title.  
 “So where to from here? And in just one week!” former
Wallabies captain  John Eales  wrote today in the Australian
Financial Review. “Having trod a similar path, I know it will
be a long week. It will reveal character within the team, which
is important as character will lead the Wallabies out of this
situation.”  
 Former Australia hooker  Brendan Cannon , writing in
Sydney’s Sunday Telegraph, said the Wallabies’ execution at
“clutch plays” had again let them down at rugby’s elite
level.  
 “During the course of an 80-minute international
examination, there are elements of the game where the Wallabies
lose control too easily,” wrote Cannon, who played 42 Tests
for his country. “The All Blacks are a different story. Their
composure under sustained pressure is second to none. They are
always in the driver’s seat.”  
 Home Rout  
 Australia, which opened its Tri-Nations campaign last week
by beating defending champion South Africa, took an 8-3 lead in
Melbourne before falling to its biggest home defeat since
losing 50-21 to New Zealand seven years ago.  
 The All Blacks ran in seven tries to three at Etihad
Stadium, with full-back  Mils Muliaina  touching down twice, to
secure their third straight bonus-point victory and move to 15
points atop the standings. South Africa has no points following
three straight losses on the road last month.  
 Sean Fitzpatrick , who played a record 92 Tests for New
Zealand, said the All Blacks are currently “playing smarter,
better rugby than anyone else.” Head coach  Graham Henry  and
his assistants appeared to fix the squad’s weaknesses, he
added.  
 “This coaching team clearly identified problem areas
after last season -- the scrum, lineout, restarts, the aerial
game that we were pretty average at -- and they have worked
hard on these areas,” Fitzpatrick wrote in the New Zealand
Herald. “They are doing these things very well now.”  
 Confidence Trick  
 For their Australian counterparts, restoring the players’
belief in time for another meeting with the All Blacks in
Christchurch may be the biggest challenge, according to Eales.  
 “It’s a big week for the coaching staff,” wrote Eales,
who led the Wallabies to 1999 Rugby World Cup victory and their
only Tri-Nations titles in 2000 and 2001.  
 “How do they instill confidence for a return match in
just seven days?” he added. “The counseling would have begun
in what I imagine was a very quiet dressing room. The loudest
voices would have been in the players’ heads as they searched
their souls for answers.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jerome Kaino of the All Blacks is tackled by James O'Connor  
                       
                         
                           by Quinn Rooney/Getty Images 
                         
                         Jerome Kaino of the All Blacks is tackled by James O'Connor of the Wallabies during the 2010 Tri-Nations Bledisloe Cup match between the Australian Wallabies and the New Zealand All Blacks on July 31, 2010 in Melbourne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jerome Kaino of the All Blacks is tackled by James O'Connor of the Wallabies during the 2010 Tri-Nations Bledisloe Cup match between the Australian Wallabies and the New Zealand All Blacks on July 31, 2010 in Melbourne. Photographer: by Quinn Rooney/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
