-- Allergan's Botox Migraine Review Extended Three Months by U.S. Regulators
-- Ellen Gibson
-- 2010-08-02T20:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/allergan-s-botox-migraine-review-extended-three-months-by-u-s-regulators.html

          
          
             Allergan  Inc. rose the most in a
month in New York trading after U.S. regulators determined the
company won’t need to run more trials of its wrinkle smoother
Botox to win approval of the product as a migraine treatment.  
 Allergan climbed $3.66, or 6 percent, to $64.72 at 4:11
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
increase since July 2. The company, based in Irvine, California,
said today that the Food and Drug Administration extended by
three months a review of Botox as a migraine therapy, after
asking for information on safety monitoring and doctor training.
Allergan said it provided that information.  
 “The nature of these requests suggests that the agency is
far along in its review process and has not found any major
issues that would require a third clinical trial,”  Chris Schott , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co in New York, said in a
research report today. The FDA’s decision on use of the product
in migraines is expected in late October, he said.  
 The training program is focused on getting all of the
clinical trial information from the Botox studies in front of
doctors,  David Pyott , the chief executive officer of Allergan,
said today in a telephone interview.  
 “The FDA wants to make sure we’re really zoning in on a
group of patients we’ll help, and that’s our goal,” Pyott said.  
 Also today, Allergan reported second-quarter earnings of 85
cents a share, excluding certain items,  beating  by 4 cents the
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Botox Sales  
 Botox, Allergan’s top product with $1.3 billion in sales
last year, may generate an additional $1 billion as a migraine
remedy, said  Aaron Gal , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York. About 29.5 million Americans suffer migraines,
according to the Chicago-based National Headache Foundation. The
headaches are usually treated with over-the-counter painkillers,
as well as with  Johnson & Johnson’s  Topamax and  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc. ’s Imitrex.  
 The migraine indication alone may account for as much as 20
percent of Allergan’s revenue in five years, Gal said.  
 “This is a fairly large patient population and a
significant unmet need for a severe condition, so a drug with
material help is going to get high usage,” Gal said in a
telephone interview before today’s announcement. “Add to that
the higher dosing. It’s a very major indication.” Botox was
first cleared for U.S. sale, in 1989, as a treatment for eye-
muscle spasms. The drug won an added approval, in April 2002, as
a tool to eliminate wrinkles.  
 Poison Botulinum  
 The drug, a purified form of the poison  botulinum , is
administered by doctors as an injection. It helps to smooth
wrinkles in facial skin by paralyzing the muscles underneath.
Scientists don’t know how Botox helps to prevent migraines.  
 Migraine headaches last from 4 to 72 hours, with symptoms
that include pain and sensitivity to light, noise and odors.  
 In one medical trial, patients on Botox had 7.8 fewer days
a month afflicted with any headaches, including migraines,
compared with 6.4 fewer headache days on placebo.  
 In a second, patients getting Botox injections had 9 fewer
days of headaches a month, compared with 6.7 with a dummy
treatment, according to results reported in September at the
International Headache Congress in Philadelphia.  
 Allergan was, briefly, a target of takeover speculation
before Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA  made an informal approach
to Genzyme Corp. Pyott declined to comment on whether Allergan
spoke to Sanofi.  
 “We’re not for sale, we believe we have a bright future
and we don’t need anybody to help us,” Pyott said. “Of course
whilst we’re not for sale, I do work for our shareholders.
Whoever came knocking would have to pay a very royal premium. In
corporate life, everyone’s for sale at a price, and at $150 a
share, I’d say ‘merci beaucoup,’ and move on.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 Egibson9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The U.S.F.D.A. asked for information on Botox  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A doctor injects Botox into smile wrinkles on the bridge of Perla Pacheco's nose. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A doctor injects Botox into smile wrinkles on the bridge of Perla Pacheco's nose. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
