-- Aluminum Rises to 3-Month High in London as Traders Reverse Bets on Drop
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-08-02T13:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/aluminum-rises-to-3-month-high-in-london-as-traders-reverse-bets-on-drop.html

          
          
             Aluminum rose to a three-month high
in London as the biggest monthly gain in a year spurred traders
who had counted on a decline to reverse their bets.  
 The metal’s market  open interest , or futures outstanding,
fell 4.2 percent to 1.07 million contracts from the start of the
month through July 29, London Metal Exchange data show. Prices
rose 10 percent last month. The drop in open interest was
probably short sellers buying back positions, said  Robin Bhar ,
an analyst at Credit Agricole CIB in London.  
 “A lot of the increase in the price would have been
because of shorts covering,” said Bhar. “If most of them have
covered we would then tend to see the short-term hot money flow
playing these markets from the long side.”  
 Aluminum fell as much as 16 percent this year because of
concern that supply will outpace demand. The metal, used in
transport, packaging and construction, rallied since early June
on speculation that unprofitable smelters would shut and
carmakers predicted record production this year.  
 Aluminum for delivery in three months rose as much as $28,
or 1.3 percent, to $2,203 a metric ton on the LME today, the
highest compared with intraday prices since May 4. The metal
rallied 18 percent since June 7 and was at $2,202 as of 1:31
p.m. in London. One party holds at least 40 percent of the long
positions, or bets on higher prices, expiring in August, LME
data from July 29 showed.  
 Open Interest  
 Open interest reached a two-month low on July 28 and “we
are now down to a level where arguably we shouldn’t go any lower
and we should get some fresh buying coming through,” Bhar said.
Aluminum for immediate delivery will average $2,100 this quarter
and $2,300 in the fourth quarter, he said. The contract was at
$2,184.50 today in London.  
 Billionaire  Oleg Deripaska , chief executive officer of
United Co. Rusal, the largest producer, said in an interview on
June 9 that about 70 percent of the world’s smelters were
unprofitable and some would shut. Aluminum closed at $1,928 that
day.  Carlos Ghosn , CEO of Renault SA and Nissan Motor Corp.,
predicted record global car production.  
 Prices also rose as  stockpiles  in warehouses monitored by
the LME declined. Inventory peaked at 4.64 million tons in
January and was at 4.38 million tons today, LME data show. One
party holds 30 percent to 39 percent of the stockpiles, data
from July 29 show.  
 About 70 percent of all the inventory is probably tied up
in financing agreements, according to Mitsui Bussan Commodities.
Rusal said in June it was in talks with other producers to
supply metal for a possible exchange-traded fund.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        