-- Tanjong Shares Rise to Record After Billionaire Krishnan's Buyout Offer
-- Chan Tien Hin
-- 2010-08-02T09:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/tanjong-shares-rise-to-record-after-billionaire-krishnan-s-buyout-offer.html

          
          
             Tanjong Plc  surged to a record after
a group led by billionaire  T. Ananda Krishnan  offered 4.7
billion ringgit ($1.5 billion) in the second-biggest buyout
offer for a Malaysian company this year.  
 The owner of the country’s third-largest power producer
jumped 18 percent to 21.14 ringgit at the close in Kuala Lumpur.
Krishnan and his partners bid 21.80 ringgit a share for the 53
percent of Tanjong they don’t already own, according to a
company statement on July 30.  
 It’s an “irresistible offer,”  Keith Wee , an analyst at
OSK Research Sdn., said in a report today. Investors should
“accept the offer as the price also partially factors in future
growth accretion from future power acquisitions,” he said.  
 Taking Tanjong private will allow Krishnan, the country’s
second-richest man, to accelerate his  power investments  in
markets including the Middle East, South and Southeast Asia and
North Africa, without the need for shareholder approval. The
company owns 13 energy plants in markets including Malaysia,
United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Bangladesh and Pakistan, according
to its website.  
 Tanjong “will need to be restructured and recapitalized in
order to meet the prospective long term investments and debt
profile which will result in higher borrowing costs and
translate into medium term earnings volatility,” the company
said in the statement.  
 Capital Expenditure Stage  
 Krishnan’s bid is 22 percent higher than the last traded
 stock price  of 17.88 ringgit before suspension of trading on
July 28. The offer values Kuala Lumpur-based Tanjong at about
8.8 billion ringgit.  
 Tanjong may be “entering the heavy capital expenditure
stage,” ECM Libra Capital Sdn. analyst  Yin Shao Yang  said in a
report today. Tanjong has said it intends to double capacity to
about 4,000 megawatts, Yin said.  
 “Lest minority shareholders voice their displeasure in
being required to finance the acquisitions via rights issues or
have their dividends reduced, we believe the major shareholders
chose to privatize Tanjong,” Yin said.  
 Krishnan last week bid 662 million ringgit for the rest of
Measat Global Bhd. he didn’t already own. Krishnan in March
announced a 2.5 billion ringgit buyout bid with a group of
investors for Astro All Asia Networks Plc. He also privatized
mobile phone company Maxis Communications in 2007, before
relisting its domestic operations last year.  
 Krishnan is Malaysia’s richest person after  Robert Kuok ,
with wealth estimated at $8.1 billion, according to Forbes
magazine.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Standard Chartered Plc,
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and RHB Capital Bhd. are advising the
group which made the offer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        