-- Manufacturing in U.S. Expanded at Slower Pace in July
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-08-02T20:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/manufacturing-expansion-in-u-s-slows-less-than-estimated-ism-index-shows.html

          
          
             The manufacturing rebound that
propelled the U.S. out of the recession cooled in July,
reflecting a slowing in orders and production.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s  manufacturing gauge 
dropped to 55.5 last month, exceeding the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 56.2 in June.
Readings greater than 50 indicate growth. The group’s bookings
gauge, considered a leading indicator, fell to a one-year low.  
 “It’s important to keep an eye on the new-orders index,
which has lost a lot of ground in the past two months,” said
 Michael Moran , chief economist at Daiwa Capital Markets America
Inc. in New York, who accurately forecast the ISM reading.
“It’s signaling a slower pace of growth, though it still
suggests expansion in the economy.”  
 Stocks climbed, boosted by improving earnings and relief
that factories held up better than estimated, easing the risk
the world’s largest economy would again slump. Growing overseas
demand and a pickup in business investment are lifting companies
like  Caterpillar Inc. , while Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today said rising wages will spur consumer spending.  
 The moderation in manufacturing compares with a pickup in
Europe and a more pronounced slowing in China. The 16-nation
euro region factory gauge increased to 56.7 from 55.6 in the
previous month, signaling the region’s factories are overcoming
the debt crisis, data from London-based Markit Economics showed
today. An index of purchasing managers in China slid to 49.4
from 50.4 in June, according to figures from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit.  
 Shares Rally  
 The data helped shares rally, sending the  MSCI World Index 
to an 11-week high, while crude oil climbed above $81 a barrel
and U.S. Treasury securities dropped. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  rose 2.2 percent to 1,125.86 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose to 2.96
percent from 2.91 percent late on July 30.  
 The  median  estimate of 74 economists surveyed projected the
ISM index would drop to 54.5. Forecasts ranged from 52.5 to 56.  
 The factory gauge has peaked and will probably hold above
50 for the rest of the year,  Norbert Ore , chairman of the ISM
manufacturing survey, said in a conference call with reporters.
The slowdown in orders was a “major concern,” he said, adding
it will require a pickup in consumer spending to sustain the
recovery beyond gains in exports and business investment.  
 Manufacturing “is not really getting help from the rest of
the economy,” Ore said. “Job creation is not happening very
quickly.”  
 Bernanke’s Outlook  
 Bernanke said that help may soon come as Americans will
probably ratchet up their spending in coming months.  
 “Rising demand from households and businesses should help
sustain growth,” and consumer spending “seems likely to pick
up in coming quarters from its recent modest pace,” the Fed
chairman told lawmakers in Charleston, South Carolina.  
 A report from the Commerce Department today also showed
 construction spending  unexpectedly rose in June, boosted by a
gain in government programs that made up for declines in private
residential and commercial projects.  
 The 0.1 percent increase in outlays followed a revised 1
percent drop in May that was larger than previously estimated.  
 The ISM’s  new orders  measure dropped to 53.5, the lowest
level since June 2009, from 58.5. The measure was as high as
65.7 in May.  
 The group’s production gauge decreased to 57 from 61.4.  
 Jobs, Exports  
 Other areas were more upbeat as employment and  exports  grew
at a faster pace. Factories have boosted  payrolls  by 136,000
workers so far this year through June and a Labor Department
report on Aug. 6 may show another manufacturing employment
increased again last month, according to economists surveyed.  
 Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, this month raised its full-year earnings  forecast  on
higher demand in developing countries for mining, energy and
rail equipment.  
 “You’ve got strong growth in India and China that provides
demand for commodities,”  Ed Rapp , chief financial officer of
the Peoria, Illinois-based company, said in an interview on July
22. “Most of the mining is happening in the developing parts of
the world.”  
 Further gains in manufacturing require a pickup in consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. A
Commerce Department report last week showed second-quarter gross
domestic product grew at a 2.4 percent annual pace, less than
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, as
household purchases cooled.  
 Bloomberg Poll  
 A lack of jobs is one reason consumers aren’t convinced the
U.S. is in recovery. More than 7 out of 10 Americans say the
economy is still mired in recession, according to a Bloomberg
National Poll. The U.S. lost 8.4 million jobs during the slump
that began in December 2007.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s administration in trying to change
such perceptions heading into the November elections that will
determine the makeup of Congress. Obama last week said the
“tough decisions” he made to give almost $60 billion in aid to
the U.S. auto industry saved a million jobs and led to the
strongest period of growth for automakers in a decade.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace this year  
                       
                         
                           Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A worker assembles components for an automated teller machine (ATM) at a Diebold Inc. manufacturing plant. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A worker assembles components for an automated teller machine (ATM) at a Diebold Inc. manufacturing plant. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Norbert Ore, chairman of the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing business survey committee, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the ISM's July U.S. manufacturing report.
     Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in July at the slowest pace this year, signaling the world's largest economy is cooling at the start of the second half. The ISM's manufacturing gauge dropped to 55.5 last month from 56.2 in June. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at the Trust Company of the West, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Sri-Kumar, speaking from Los Angeles, also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy and Federal Reserve monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
