-- India's Manufacturing Growth Accelerated Last Month
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-08-02T12:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/manufacturing-growth-quickens-in-india-increasing-interest-rate-pressure.html

          
          
             India’s manufacturing growth
accelerated in July, increasing pressure on the central bank to
raise interest rates. Bond yields touched a three-month high.  
 The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 57.6 from 57.3 in
June, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an emailed
statement today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  
 The data, along with rising bank credit and automobile
sales, adds to evidence of strengthening consumer demand in
Asia’s largest economy after Japan and China. Reserve Bank of
India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  last week increased rates for
the fourth time in five months and pointed to capacity
constraints building up in industries.  
 “The economy was given another leg up in July as new
orders continued to pour in,” said  Frederic Neumann , a Hong
Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings. “The central bank will
need to apply the brakes more forcefully and dampen demand with
further interest-rate hikes.”  
 India’s 10-year government bond yields climbed 6 basis
points to 7.86 percent at the 5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The
rupee advanced 0.3 percent to 46.25 against the dollar. The
Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  gained 1.2 percent.  
 Subbarao on July 27 raised the reverse repurchase rate to
4.5 percent from 4 percent and the repurchase rate to 5.75
percent from 5.5 percent as the benchmark wholesale-price
 inflation rate  held above 10 percent since February.  
 ‘Strengthening’ Growth  
 The governor said India’s economic recovery is “firmly in
place and strengthening.”  
 By contrast, China’s manufacturing contracted in July for
the first time in more than a year, a survey of purchasing
executives showed, as the government clamped down on property
speculation and shuttered energy-intensive and polluting
factories.  
 In India,  bank lending  to companies and individuals grew
more than 21 percent in the year through July, the fastest pace
since January 2008, signaling rising demand in Asia’s fastest-
growing major economy after China.  
 Automobile sales are also surging.  Tata Motors Ltd. ,
India’s biggest truck maker, reported sales in July climbed 41
percent, while motorcycle maker  TVS Motor Co.  yesterday said its
sales grew 35 percent last month.  
 India’s  exports  in June jumped 30.4 percent to $17.7
billion, the commerce ministry said on its website today.
Imports gained 23 percent to $28.3 billion, widening the trade
deficit to $10.55 billion in the month.  
 Inflation Woes  
 Subbarao last week raised India’s  growth  forecast to 8.5
percent from 8 percent for the year ending March 31. He
projected inflation may accelerate to 6 percent during the
period, from 5.5 percent estimated earlier.  
 A central bank official on July 29 said India needs
“aggressive” monetary policy tightening to slow inflation. The
official declined to be identified because he isn’t authorized
to speak to the media.  
 Subbarao met Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  on July 31
as the opposition stepped up criticism of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government for failing to check prices.
Subbarao said he briefed Mukherjee about inflation, without
elaborating.  
 The opposition refused to allow parliament to function last
week and demanded a debate on prices.  
 “It is dismaying to note that the handling of the economy
by the government has been totally reckless,”  Nitin Gadkari ,
president of the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, said in
a July 29 statement. “The government does not appear to be in
control.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, head of Asia-Pacific sovereign group at Fitch Ratings, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the outlook for India's economy. 
     India’s central bank yesterday increased a key interest rate more than economists forecast, battling to contain a surge in inflation that’s led to strikes and street rallies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  7/28 RBI's Subbarao Excerpt 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
