-- Anwar Lawyers Say Prosecution Compromised, Seek Dismissal of Charges
-- Ranjeetha Pakiam
-- 2010-08-02T04:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/anwar-lawyers-want-malaysian-opposition-leader-s-case-dropped-over-affair.html

          
          
             Lawyers for Malaysian Opposition
Leader  Anwar Ibrahim  asked for the sodomy charges against him to
be dropped following accusations last week that a member of the
prosecution team had an affair with the main witness in the case.  
 “The integrity of the entire prosecution is compromised,”
Defense lawyer  Karpal Singh  told judge Mohamad Zabidin Mohd Diah.
Singh said that as a result of the alleged affair, Saiful would
have had access or been aware of papers from the investigation
and he called for the entire team to resign. The judge agreed to
hear the defense case and adjourned until Aug. 9.  
 Junior deputy public prosecutor Farah Azlina Latif was
dropped from the team after a news website alleged she was
sleeping with Mohd Saiful Bukhari Azlan, Anwar’s accuser, the
New Straits Times reported on July 28, citing Attorney-General
 Abdul Gani Patail . Solicitor-General II Mohd Yusof Zainal Abiden
hasn’t responded to a July 26 letter asking him to deny or
confirm the affair, said Anwar’s lawyer Sankara Nair.  
 Anwar is currently being tried for sodomy after the 24-
year-old former male aide filed a complaint with police in June
2008. Sodomy, defined as “carnal intercourse against the order
of nature,” carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in Malaysia,
even if the act is between two consenting men.  
 The latest allegations “support our case to show that the
prosecution is not and cannot be impartial,” Anwar said after
the case was adjourned. “This is all a farce, a politically
motivated trial, trumped-up charges.  
 Police Report  
 Karpal also said Anwar would lodge a police report later
today against Farah and Saiful under the Official Secrets Act.
‘‘The credibility of Saiful is an issue,’’ Karpal said.  
 When asked about the defense’s claims, Mohd Yusof said: 
‘‘Do they have personal knowledge?’’  
 During the morning hearing, he had said the ‘‘bare
allegations’’ didn’t warrant a halt in proceedings.  
 The judge disagreed, saying: ‘‘It cannot be denied that
there has been allegation of an affair.’’  
 At the start of the trial, Anwar said he planned to
subpoena Prime Minister  Najib Razak  to testify in the trial,
accusing the premier and his wife,  Rosmah Mansor , of conspiring
to frame him.  
 ‘‘The trial serves to distract Anwar and the opposition
from what they’re supposed to be doing,’’ said  Ibrahim Suffian ,
director of the Merdeka Center, an independent research
institute near Kuala Lumpur. But ‘‘it also undercuts Najib’s
credibility as being a reformist. The majority feels that it’s a
political trial” so it lacks credibility, he said.  
 Echoes of Past  
 Anwar, a former deputy prime minister who was widely tipped
to be the next leader of the country, faced similar allegations
in 1998 when he fell out with then-premier  Mahathir Mohamad . He
was sentenced to nine years in jail for sodomy and a separate
corruption charge. He was released from prison in 2004 after the
conviction was overturned.  
 Barred from politics until April 2008, Anwar won a seat in
his former constituency in Permatang Pauh in August that year.  
 The trial, which began on Feb 3 after a series of delays
following the defense team’s efforts to get certain documents,
was put on hold again as Anwar’s lawyers made another attempt to
see the prosecution’s medical evidence.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        