-- ArcelorMittal Ostrava Optimistic About Evraz Talks, Chief Executive Says
-- Lenka Ponikelska
-- 2010-08-02T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/arcelormittal-ostrava-optimistic-about-evraz-talks-chief-executive-says.html

          
          
             ArcelorMittal Ostrava AS , the Czech
unit of the world’s largest steelmaker, is “optimistic” it
will renew pig iron supplies to Evraz Vitkovice Steel, its
biggest customer, Chief Executive Officer  Augustine Kochuparampil  said.  
 “I believe we’re making some progress in talks but not
enough to conclude anything yet,” Kochuparampil said in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in  Ostrava , northeast
part of the Czech Republic. “I’m generally very optimistic that
we’ll be able to close a deal because from a business point of
view, it really makes sense for us and for them.”  
 Evraz Vikotvice Steel , a unit of Russia’s second-largest
 steelmaker , stopped taking pig iron orders from Arcelor after
June 30 after the two companies failed to settle on hot-metal
prices during regular monthly negotiations. ArcelorMittal
Ostrava agreed in May 2009 to a six-year contract with Evraz,
which took about 25 percent, or 40,000 tons, of Arcelor’s
monthly pig iron output.  
 “We need two hands to shake, mine is already there,”
Kochuparampil said. “We have to act as partners and share the
profits and share the losses.” The current proposal on the
table doesn’t cover ArcelorMittal’s production costs, the
executive said.  
 Evraz  said on June 30 it temporarily shut its steel shop
following the breakdown of talks with ArcelorMittal Ostrava over
the prices for hot iron. Evraz Vitkovice Steel spokesman Jaromir
Krisica declined to comment “on the situation at the moment”
when contacted by phone on July 30.  
 Monthly Price Settlement  
 ArcelorMittal six-year contract with Evraz allows the two
companies, whose units are only about 15 kilometers from each
other, to currently resettle prices monthly because of market
volatility. It also binds the two parties to supply and take in
minimum volumes of hot metal when market conditions remain
stable, Kochuparampil said.  
 Steelmakers worldwide are seeking to increase prices to
pass on surging raw material costs even as they face falling
demand in China and a seasonal slowdown in Europe during the
summer. Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal posted  forecasts  on July
28 that third-quarter profit may slump as much 30 percent from
the previous three-month period as.  
 “We started to see some weakness in June as market
sentiment was negatively impacted by the Greek crisis,”
Kochuparampil said. “My assessment is that this is temporary
and September is going to be back to normal.”  
 ArcelorMittal Ostrava expects to operate blast furnaces at
“roughly” 80 percent in June, July and August, compared with
full capacity in April and May, Kochuparampil said. The
steelmaker was able to mitigate some 50 percent of lost orders
from Evraz for July by selling volumes to other customers,
according to the executive.  
 “We keep our options open in August in case there’s no
deal with Evraz,” Kochuparampil said. The company will seek to
have long-term solutions for its deliveries in September, he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lenka Ponikelska  in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        