-- Areva, France Telecom, Iberia, Lloyds, Sage, TNT: European Equity Preview
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-08-02T02:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/areva-france-telecom-iberia-lloyds-sage-tnt-european-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in  European  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are from the last close.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.4 percent to 255.35. The
 Stoxx 50 Index  lost 0.4 percent to 2,476.2. The  Euro Stoxx 50
Index , a benchmark for nations using the euro, declined 0.4
percent to 2,742.14.  
 Acciona SA  (ANA SM): Spain’s second-biggest wind power
producer said its construction division will miss out on sales
of 817 million euros ($1.1 billion) because of cuts to
government infrastructure spending. The shares lost 3.8 percent
to 67.64 euros.  
 Allied Irish Banks Plc  (ALBK ID): Ireland’s second-biggest
lender by market value may cut as many as 2,000 jobs later this
year, the Sunday Tribune said, without citing anyone. The stock
remained unchanged at 0.939 Euros.  
 Areva SA  (CEI FP): The world’s biggest maker of nuclear
reactors said it expects to report a full-year operating loss
after booking provisions for mining assets and construction
delays at atomic plants. The non-voting investment certificates
rose 4.2 percent to 364.80 euros.  
 Aviva Plc  (AV/ LN): The U.K.’s second-biggest insurer and
Legal & General Group Plc are expected to raise their dividend
payments this week when presenting their first-half earnings as
the economy recovers, the Sunday Telegraph reported, citing
analysts. Aviva’s stock declined 2.3 percent to 357.4 pence and
Legal & General’s declined 2.8 percent to 89.55 pence.  
 BP Plc  (BP/ LN): The oil company wants to sell its German
gas station unit Aral to finance expenses related to the Gulf of
Mexico disaster, Wirtschaftswoche said, citing unidentified
bankers involved in the sale. The stock fell 1.8 percent to
405.95 pence.  
 Dana Petroleum Plc  (DNX LN): The U.K. oil and gas
explorer’s board may agree to shareholder demands that it begin
talks with Korea National Oil Corp. about a 1.7-billion pound
($2.7 billion) buyout offer from the South Korean company, the
Sunday Telegraph reported. The shares climbed less than 0.1
percent to 1,711 pence.  
 Eurazeo SA  (RF FP): France’s largest publicly traded
private equity firm said it’s in exclusive talks to sell B&B
Hotels, the budget chain it bought five years ago, to Carlyle
Group. The shares fell 0.6 percent to 48.885 euros.  
 France Telecom SA (FTE FP): Meditel, a Moroccan mobile
network operator, is in negotiations to sell a 40 percent stake
to France Telecom SA’s Orange unit, Moroccan newspaper Le Matin
reported, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
matter. France Telecom shares rose 0.4 percent to 16.07 euros.  
 Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA (GBLB BB): The Belgian
investment firm controlled by billionaires Albert Frere and Paul
Desmarais said it spent 110 million euros in the first half to
raise its holding in  Pernod-Ricard SA  (RI FP) to 9.8 percent.
GBL fell 0.1 percent to 59.64 euros.  
 Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA  (IBLA SM): Spain’s
largest airline may be active after ABC newspaper said air
traffic controllers will vote Aug. 3 on strike action, citing
union leader Camila Cela. The stock rose 2.3 percent to 2.61
euros.  
 KBC Groep NV  (KBC BB): Slovenia and Croatia reached an
agreement that will allow Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. to operate
in Croatia, Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor said. Belgium’s
biggest bank and insurer by market value owns 30.6 percent of
NLB, Slovenia’s largest lender with units in most of the former
Yugoslavia. KBC fell 4.4 percent to 33.90 euros.  
 Kuoni Reisen Holding AG  (KUNN SW): The largest Swiss travel
company plans to sell part of its visa-facilitation unit, VFS
Global, through an initial public offering in Mumbai later this
year, NZZ am Sonntag said, citing unidentified people familiar
with the matter. The shares fell 0.2 percent to 324.25 francs.  
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc  (LLOY LN): The U.K.’s largest
mortgage lender expects to report a 1 billion-pound profit ($1.6
billion) for the first half of the year, bolstering Chief
Executive Officer Eric Daniels’s position at the bank, the FT
reported. The shares climbed 0.5 percent to 69.26 pence.  
 Prudential Plc  (PRU LN): The U.K.’s biggest insurer may
raise its dividend payment when the company reports first-half
earnings, the Sunday Times reported, citing analysts. The stock
declined 1.2 percent to 554.5 pence.  
 Metro AG  (MEO GY): Germany’s largest retailer plans to
outsource at least 400 information-technology and accounting
jobs to eastern Europe and India to reduce costs,
Lebensmittelzeitung reported, citing unidentified people close
to the company. The stock gained 2.3 percent to 42.60 euros.  
 Nexans SA  (NEX FP): The world’s biggest maker of cables and
wires expects to raise revenue and profitability in the second
half of the year, even as the company faces uncertainty about
production of underwater cables, Journal des Finances said,
citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer Frederic
Vincent. The shares rose 0.4 percent to 52.07 euros.  
 OC Oerlikon Corp. AG  (OERL SW): The head of the company’s
solar division, Juerg Henz, said Applied Materials Inc.’s exit
from the thin-film solar business may slow that market’s growth,
Finanz und Wirtschaft reported. Henz added that he doesn’t
expect difficulties in financing new thin-film projects. The
shares fell 0.9 percent to 4.3 francs.  
 Pirelli & C SpA  (PC IM): Europe’s third-largest tiremaker
is increasing investment to add capacity at its plants,
 Francesco Gori , chief executive officer of the tire unit, was
quoted as saying by  Milano Finanza . The shares fell 2 percent to
5.37 euros.  
 Sage Group Plc  (SGE LN): The U.K.’s largest software maker
pulled out from the 600 million-euro ($783 million) TeamSystem
SpA auction, leaving Cinven Ltd. and HgCapital as the only
bidders, the Financial Times reported, citing an unidentified
person close to Sage. The shares declined 0.4 percent to 238.9
pence.  
      SGL Carbon SE  (SGL GY): The world’s largest maker of carbon
and graphite products said revenue from carbon fibers will rise
tenfold within the next ten years on rising demand from car and
airplane makers, Focus reported, citing an interview with Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Koehler . The shares rose 0.2 percent to
26.62 euros.  
 Solaria Energia y Medio Ambiente SA  (SLR SM),  Abengoa SA 
(ABG SM): Solar power operators may be active after the Spanish
government said it plans to cut subsidies for new photovoltaic
plants by as much as 45 percent. Solaria shares lost 1.2 percent
to 1.59 euros. Abengoa shares gained 0.6 percent to 20.16 euros.  
 TNT NV  (TNT NA): Europe’s second-biggest express-delivery
company may report second-quarter net income of 137.4 million
euros, according to the average estimate of seven analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. TNT advanced 1.6 percent to 22.90 euros.  
 Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA (UNI IM): The Italian insurer
is not discussing a combination with insurers including  Mapfre
SA  and  Axa SA ,  Il Sole 24 Ore  said, citing an interview with
Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Cimbri . The shares closed
unchanged at 58 euro cents.  
 Vinci SA  (DG FP): The world’s biggest builder and partners
won a contract to build and operate a new airport at Notre-Dame-
des-Landes, in western France, the government said in a
statement. The shares fell 1.7 percent to 37.15 euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        