-- Argentina `Squeeze' Cuts Yields as Fernandez Taps Central Bank's Profits
-- Eliana Raszewski
-- 2010-08-02T21:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/argentina-squeeze-cuts-bond-yields-as-kirchner-taps-central-bank-profits.html

          
          
             Argentina is drawing on central bank
profits to meet financing needs, putting off plans to sell its
first international bond since 2001 as yields tumble.  
 The central bank’s board on July 29 approved a transfer of
3 billion pesos ($762 million) from the bank’s 23.5 billion
pesos in 2009 profits to the government, following a 1.5 billion
peso transfer in February, spokesman  Fernando Meanos  said.  
 Argentine debt led the best month for emerging market bonds
since September last month after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s  $12.9 billion debt restructuring and a credit rating
upgrade helped restore investor confidence. Economy Minister
 Amado Boudou  shelved plans to sell up to $1 billion in dollar
bonds due in 2017 as part of the bond exchange, saying the
country would wait for the benchmark yields to drop below 10
percent. The yield on the government’s existing bonds due in
2017 fell 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 9.93
percent at 4:45 p.m. New York time, according to pricing from
Deutsche Bank AG.  
 “Everyone expects that 10 percent is the magic number --
that’s what they keep saying,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , who
manages about $5 billion of emerging-market debt at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc in London. “Maybe they’re trying to
squeeze the market a bit further.”  
 Provincial Sale  
 Chubut province, the nation’s top oil producer, last month
sold $150 million of notes backed by oil and gas royalties paid
by BP Plc-controlled Pan American Energy LLC, Argentina’s
biggest oil exporter. The southern province offered the notes
through a trust to yield 9.66 percent, placing $104 million on
international markets and $46 million in Argentina.  
 The federal government doesn’t need to rush to sell bonds
overseas and will wait until yields reflect what the country
should pay, an Argentine Economy Ministry official said July 30,
speaking on the condition he not be identified in accordance
with government policy.  
 Fernandez, 57, said the government has used $2.7 billion in
 central bank reserves  to pay off debt due this year. Foreign
holdings at the central bank hit an all-time high of $51.1
billion last week as a record soybean harvest brought in dollar
revenue.  
 The use of central bank funds, as well as the sale of debt
to government agencies, means the government “is not desperate
for cash,” Gutierrez said in a telephone interview. “They’ve
got themselves financed.”  
 Brazil Comparison  
 Boudou, 47, said in an April 14 interview with Bloomberg
that the debt structuring completed in June will help reduce
Argentina’s borrowing costs by a third to about two percentage
points over that of neighboring Brazil within a year.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine
government bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has risen 58 basis
points, or 0.58 percentage point, since then to 676. The yield
spread for Brazilian debt over Treasuries is 202 basis points.  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose two basis points
to 792 on July 30, leaving it down 179 in July, according to
data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Argentine warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.42 cent
to 10.1 U.S. cents. The peso rose 0.1 percent to 3.9375 per
dollar.  
 Pakistan Bonds  
 Argentina is rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
same level as Pakistan. Argentina’s 2017 bonds yield about 2
percentage points more than Pakistan’s bonds due the same year,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  
 While tapping central bank profits to meet spending needs
may spur inflation, the government’s decision to put off the
international debt sale is “right” because it will help set
benchmark borrowing costs for Argentine provinces and companies,
said former central bank President  Javier Gonzalez Fraga  in a
July 30 phone interview in Buenos Aires.  
 “The markets are disposed to buy debt,” Gonzalez Fraga
said. “So it’s OK to wait.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Argentina's president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Argentina's president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner attends a ceremony in Beijing. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Argentina's president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner attends a ceremony in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
