-- Marijuana Quarterback Has Coach Blowing Smoke: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-08-02T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/marijuana-quarterback-has-coach-blowing-smoke-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             Desperation makes people do things
they wouldn’t ordinarily do, especially  football coaches  in the
 Southeastern Conference , where the sport is a near-religious
experience.  
 Take the University of Mississippi, where the football
coach had no interest in a particular player with a checkered
past until that same football coach was suddenly and
unexpectedly faced with a dearth of depth at quarterback. Then,
just like that, he was interested.  
 Here we go again. It’s no wonder athletes are filled with a
sense of entitlement. When, pray tell, is someone, say a coach,
athletic director or university president going to scream:
“Stop. No more. Not again. Not here. Not on my watch.”  
 The Ole Miss  coach ,  Houston Nutt , about a week ago said the
Rebels had no interest in pursuing former University of Oregon
quarterback Jeremiah Masoli, who was dumped by the Ducks because
of run-ins with the police. Seems Masoli could find trouble
almost as well as holes in the defense.  
 A onetime Heisman candidate who led the Ducks to last
season’s Rose Bowl, Masoli in March pleaded guilty to a
misdemeanor burglary charge and was tossed from the team after a
marijuana possession charge ended with a guilty plea.  
 Yes, college kids deserve second chances. Masoli had his.
And blew it.  
 “He knew what he had at stake,” Oregon coach  Chip Kelly 
said at the time. “He failed to do the things that he needed to
do.”  
 Masoli gave his side of the story to  Sports Illustrated .  
 Hard Nutt  
 What makes this story so pathetic is that Nutt, according
to  ESPN , which cited a source that it didn’t identify, is about
to replace a failed second-chance experiment with another failed
second-chance experiment. After all, there was a reason his
initial reaction was to say, in nice terms, that Masoli wasn’t
welcome. And still, the lure of talent, coupled with the need
for a quarterback, neutralizes common sense.  
 “Rarely are there any talented players still available in
the summertime,” Nutt said on the university’s athletic
 website .  
 Uh, coach, now would be a good time to stop and ask why
such a talented player is available in the summertime.  
 Nutt’s stance on crime, punishment and this particular
passer surely changed after his main backup at quarterback,
Raymond Cotton, quit the team because he didn’t win the starting
job.  
 The departure leaves Ole Miss with just two quarterbacks,
starter Nathan Stanley, who played in five games last season,
and a junior college transfer who wasn’t around for spring
practice.  
 Smart Men  
 Enter Masoli, who during the  2009 season  with Oregon
completed 58 percent of his passes for 2,147 yards, 15
touchdowns and six interceptions.  
 What is it they say about a smart man and his own mistakes?
Don’t bother asking Masoli or Nutt, who clearly don’t know the
answer.  
 Here’s a coach who last year took a chance on former
Florida safety Jamar Hornsby, who was jettisoned by the Gators
after his arrest for making charges on the credit card of a
Florida student who had died six months earlier in a motorcycle
accident.  
 About a month after his arrival at Ole Miss Hornsby was
booted from the team after he was indicted on a felony assault
charge.  
 Scanning the “ Mission & Goals ” section of Mississippi’s
website, it’s hard to believe that winning football games, that
beating Alabama, isn’t mentioned anywhere.  
 School’s Out  
 Why, then, would an institution of higher learning allow
its coach to demonstrate publicly that he hasn’t learned a
thing.  
 Can’t answer that one because Mississippi  Chancellor  Daniel
W. Jones didn’t return calls or an e-mail. Ole Miss Athletic
Director  Pete Boone  in an e-mail said the school can’t comment
on a prospective student athlete.  
 Regular readers know that I consider it long past due that
university presidents, theoretically the bosses, reclaim control
of athletic programs, too many of which operate without regard
for rules and regulations. See Southern Cal.  
 Just Win, Baby, works just fine for the Raiders, not the
Rebels.  
 Masoli, according to the Oregonian newspaper, completed his
undergraduate requirements at Oregon. In order to transfer to
another school and play football, he’d have to enroll in a
graduate program that Oregon doesn’t offer.  
 If Masoli wishes to pursue an advanced degree at Ole Miss,
so be it. He should not, though, be allowed to represent the
university by donning a football jersey. National Collegiate
Athletic Association rules permit Masoli to play at Ole Miss
immediately.  
 What we have here is a big-time football coach who shares
the same job description as most politicians: Keep your job.
Even if that requires a public and pathetic flip-flop that gives
an undeserving athlete his second second chance.  
 ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        