-- Billionaire Cuban Fights Effort to Revive Mamma.com Insider Trading Case
-- Allen Johnson Jr.
-- 2010-08-02T18:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/mark-cuban-fights-sec-s-effort-to-revive-insider-trading-allegations.html

          
          
             Mark Cuban , the billionaire owner of
the Dallas Mavericks, should face insider-trading allegations
that were dismissed last year by a lower-court judge, securities
regulators told an appeals court.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Cuban in
2008 for allegedly trading on confidential information when he
sold his stake in Mamma.com Inc., a Canadian internet search
company, just before it announced a private placement of shares.
U.S. District Judge  Sidney A. Fitzwater  in Dallas threw out the
case in July 2009, finding flaws in the government’s claim.  
 Cuban, who announced plans to bid on the Texas Rangers
baseball team last month, has denied any wrongdoing. He claims
he had no legal obligation not to sell the stock after the head
of Mamma.com told him of the impending private  offering  of
below-market shares in a 2004 telephone call. Cuban sold ahead
of the deal, which diluted the company’s shares by 8.5 percent.  
 “The district court was not correct and should be
reversed,” Randall Quinn, the SEC’s lawyer, told a three-judge
panel in oral arguments at the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans today. The judge didn’t give “proper weight” to an
agreement by Cuban not to sell stock after receiving
confidential information, Quinn said.  
 The appellate judges didn’t indicate when they would make a
decision.  
 Sale of Stake  
 Cuban avoided $750,000 in losses by ordering the sale of
his 6.3 percent stake in the Montreal-based company now called
Copernic Inc. within hours of talking to  Guy Faure , then
Mamma.com’s chief executive, the SEC alleged. The stock fell 8.5
percent on June 30, the first trading day after the private
placement was announced, and 15 percent the day after Cuban’s
sales were disclosed in a regulatory filing made public July 2,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 The agency claimed Cuban agreed with Faure at the beginning
of their call to keep the information confidential and told
Faure after learning details of the plan, “Well, now I’m
screwed. I can’t sell.”  
 Fitzwater dismissed the case, ruling that Cuban didn’t
agree not to trade on the information, only to keep it
confidential.  
 “The SEC has failed to allege that Cuban undertook a duty
to refrain from trading on information about the impending”
private placement offering, Fitzwater wrote in his opinion.  
 ‘Explicitly Agreed’  
 The U.S. believes that Cuban “explicitly agreed not to use
the information,” Quinn, the SEC lawyer, said today. “He
agreed not to use it and he used it. That’s deception,” he told
the judges.  
 Mamma.com was never defrauded and Fitzwater’s dismissal of
the SEC suit should be upheld, Cuban’s attorney  Lyle Roberts 
told the appeals court today. The judge had correctly looked at
“the four corners of the complaint,” he said.  
 “You don’t think there is a little fraud here?” U.S.
Circuit Judge  Carolyn D. King  asked Roberts at today’s hearing.
“Fraud in the air, so to speak?”  
 “No, your honor,” Roberts replied.  
 “Somebody lost $700,000 because he didn’t have that same
information, right?” U.S. Circuit Judge  Patrick E. Higginbotham 
asked Roberts at the hearing.  
 The judge was “technically correct,” Roberts told
Higginbotham. “What you’re describing is financial unfairness.
You’re not describing fraud.”  
 Full Disclosure  
 Cuban’s lawyers claim the Dallas entrepreneur didn’t need
the company’s permission to sell. They say he kept the
information private and fully disclosed his stock sale to
regulators after the fact, as required by securities laws.  
 Cuban wasn’t an officer or corporate insider who owed the
company a duty to disclose, Roberts argued today. Courts have
uniformly rejected the idea that agreeing to keep something
confidential triggers a fiduciary duty, he said.  
 “The law does not allow people just to slip into fiduciary
relationships,” he said.  
 Five law professors filed a friend-of-the-court brief urging
the New Orleans appeals court to reject the government’s bid to
reinstate Cuban’s insider trading case. They accuse the SEC of
trying to “significantly expand” the legal definition of
insider trading to include any act of “financial unfairness”
by an investor who may not owe any fiduciary responsibility to
the company.  
 If securities regulators succeed in stretching the scope of
insider trading, “anyone who receives confidential information
regarding a public company is potentially at risk of becoming a
target of an SEC investigation or litigation,” Nicholas Porritt
of  Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP  in Washington said in the
law professors’ brief.  
 Fortune Earned  
 Cuban owns the HDNet high-definition television channel and
the Landmark Theater chain. He made his fortune through the sale
of Broadcast.com, the multimedia Web service he co-founded and
that Yahoo! Inc. bought for $4.7 billion in 1999.  
 The next year, Cuban purchased the Mavericks from  Ross Perot Jr . for $280 million, a record at the time for a National
Basketball Association team. Cuban’s lawyer told a Texas
bankruptcy judge last week that he plans to bid on the Texas
Rangers, when the  Major League Baseball  franchise attempts to
emerge from bankruptcy at an auction set this week in federal
court in Fort Worth, Texas.  
 The case is SEC v. Cuban, 09-10996, 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  
          
          


  


        