-- Webber Gets F-1 Gift in Hungary as Vettel Is Caught `Sleeping'
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-08-02T00:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/mark-webber-wins-hungarian-formula-1-grand-prix-leads-drivers-standings.html

          
          
             Mark Webber  won the Hungarian Grand
Prix to regain the lead in the Formula One championship after a
lapse by Red Bull teammate  Sebastian Vettel .  
 Vettel, who started yesterday’s race in pole position, had
his chances of victory at the Hungaroring near Budapest set back
by an early drive-through penalty and eventually finished third,
behind  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari.  
 “It was a bit of a gift for me but I haven’t had many of
them, so I’ll take today’s,” Webber said at the post-race news
conference. “A 1-2 was our goal, unfortunately we didn’t get
that but we still got a big chunk of points.”  
 Webber took a 4-point lead atop the drivers’ standings
after previous leader Lewis Hamilton dropped out on lap 24 of 70
with a gearbox problem and his McLaren teammate  Jenson Button 
finished eighth. Red Bull also overtook McLaren in the
constructors’ championship.  
 Vettel has now converted just one of his seven pole
positions this season into a victory. He maintained his lead at
the start yesterday, while Webber was overtaken in second place
by Alonso. Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  kept fourth place.  
 Vettel’s superior pace enabled him to build a 9-second lead
by lap 11, and soon after the field closed up as the safety car
came out when debris was being cleared. Vettel went into the
pits, as did most other drivers, though was then handed a drive-
through penalty for failing to keep within 10 car lengths of the
safety car.  
 ‘Sleeping’  
 “I guess at the restart I was sleeping,” he said. “I was
probably relying too much on the radio, I lost the connection
and didn’t hear anything. I should have won, but in the end I
was third and I am very disappointed.”  
 The slip allowed Alonso to move into second place behind
Webber, who headed the field because he hadn’t pitted. Webber
surged into a 23-second lead, which enabled him to make a pit
stop and keep first place.  
 The Australian saw out the final 27 laps for his fourth win
this season and sixth in 150 career Grands Prix. Massa finished
fourth in a race where he suffered serious head injuries during
qualifying last year. Renault’s  Vitaly Petrov  was fifth ahead of
Nico Hulkenberg in a Williams and Sauber’s Pedro de la Rosa.  
 “To maximize your opportunities is always good
irrespective of what happens to your rivals,” Webber added.  
 A move by  Michael Schumacher  toward the end almost put his
former Ferrari teammate  Rubens Barrichello  into a wall, though
the Brazilian got past to finish 10th. Mercedes GP’s Schumacher
was later given a 10-place grid penalty for the next race.  
 ‘Dangerous Maneuver’  
 “It was the most dangerous maneuver against me in my
career,” Barrichello told the British Broadcasting Corp. after
his 301st race.  
 Schumacher, the record seven-time world champion, defended
his actions.  
 “I was making it obvious to him to go on the other side,
there was more room there, but he chose not to,” Schumacher
said. “I ran a little wide and started sliding, it got a bit
tight.”  
 Among off-track incidents, Renault’s  Robert Kubica  and
Force India’s  Adrian Sutil  collided in the pits in the safety-
car period, and a rear wheel on  Nico Rosberg ’s Mercedes worked
loose and hurtled through the pit area. Renault and Mercedes
each were fined $50,000.  
 Webber tops the drivers’ standings with 161 points, with
Hamilton on 157. Vettel has 151, Button 147 and Alonso 141. In
the constructors’ event, Red Bull has 312 points, McLaren 304
and Ferrari 238.  
 “It’s nice to have more points than anybody else, but
we’re not getting ahead of ourselves as there are some big
events coming up,” Webber said.  
 Formula One now has a midseason break. The Belgian Grand
Prix, the 13th race on the 19-event calendar, is Aug. 29 at Spa-
Francorchamps.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Red Bull's Australian driver Mark Webber  
                       
                         
                           Dimitar Dilkoff/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Red Bull's Australian driver Mark Webber celebrates with his team members in the paddock of the Hungaroring circuit on August 01, 2010 in Budapest. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Red Bull's Australian driver Mark Webber celebrates with his team members in the paddock of the Hungaroring circuit on August 01, 2010 in Budapest. Photographer: Dimitar Dilkoff/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
