-- Harman Agrees to Buy Newsweek Magazine From Washington Post
-- Brett Pulley
-- 2010-08-02T23:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/harman-agrees-to-buy-newsweek-magazine-from-washington-post.html

          
          
             Sidney Harman , the founder of  Harman
International Industries Inc. , agreed to buy Newsweek magazine
from  Washington Post Co. , ending a three-month bidding process
for the money-losing publication.  
 The terms of the deal weren’t disclosed and the sale won’t
have a material effect on Post Co., the company said in a
statement today.  Post Co.  will retain pension assets and
liabilities and certain employee obligations.  
 “In seeking a buyer for Newsweek, we wanted someone who
feels as strongly as we do about the importance of quality
journalism,”  Donald E. Graham , chairman and chief executive
officer at  Post Co. , said in a statement. “We found that person
in Sidney Harman.”  
 Harman, 91, agreed to keep most of the magazine’s more than
300 employees after the sale. Post Co. agreed to assume
severance costs for Newsweek employees that any buyer didn’t
keep, making Harman’s bid more attractive than offers from other
suitors who would have cut more, people with knowledge of the
situation said.  
 “I am very pleased with the top management of this
place,” Harman said in an interview, adding Newsweek’s
performance may improve once the magazine is no longer part of a
larger corporation.  
 Newsweek’s editor,  Jon Meacham , issued a statement to the
magazine’s staff announcing he would leave once the ownership
transition is complete. Harman said he is searching for a
replacement.  
 Operating Losses  
 Post Co. said in May it was considering selling the weekly
publication it has owned since 1961. The circulation of general
interest newsmagazines, including Newsweek and  Time Warner
Inc. ’s Time, has plunged as more readers seek their news from
the Web, where stories are updated more frequently.  
 Other bidders included  Fred Drasner , a former executive at
U.S. News & World Report and the New York Daily News, and
investment firm Avenue Capital Group, the people said.  Andrew Nikou , chief executive of private-equity firm OpenGate Capital
LLC, issued a statement confirming that OpenGate “made a
significant bid” for Newsweek. Publisher Newsmax Media Inc.
also considered buying the magazine.  
 “I wish him the best of luck,” Drasner said in an
interview today. “I’m pleased somebody is going to devote this
amount of resources to preserve serious journalism.”  
 Newsweek, which was  founded  in 1933, posted  losses  from
2007 to 2009 and its owner in May predicted this year will be
unprofitable too. Newsweek redesigned the magazine last year and
cut its guaranteed circulation for advertisers to 1.5 million
from 2.6 million.  
 Congresswoman’s Spouse  
 Post Co. rose $13.40, or 3.2 percent, to $433.89 at 4:04
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock has
lost 1.3 percent this year.  
 Harman, who resides in California, is chairman emeritus of
Harman International, the Stamford, Connecticut-based maker of
audio equipment including the Harman Kardon, Infinity and JBL
brands. He is married to U.S. Representative  Jane Harman , who
represents a Southern California district that includes the
cities of Redondo Beach and Torrance.  
 Since 2007, Newsweek has lost $44 million on an operating
basis, according to documents sent to prospective buyers. Print
advertising revenue plunged 39 percent to $70.3 million last
year from $115.5 million in 2008, the documents show.  
 Post Co. was advised by Allen & Co.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Harman Agrees to Buy Newsweek From Washington Post  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Harman, 91, agreed to keep most of the magazine’s more than 300 employees after the sale. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Harman, 91, agreed to keep most of the magazine’s more than 300 employees after the sale. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Harman Agrees to Buy Newsweek From Washington Post  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Copies of Newsweek magazine are arranged for a photograph in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Copies of Newsweek magazine are arranged for a photograph in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
