-- Asia Stocks Rise to 11-Week High on Earnings Outlook; Yen, Dollar Weaken
-- Kana Nishizawa
-- 2010-08-02T07:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/asia-stocks-rise-to-11-week-high-as-earnings-outlook-improves-yen-weakens.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  climbed, driving the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index to an 11-week high, as companies
increased profit forecasts. The yen and dollar weakened and
commodities rose as demand for higher-yielding assets increased.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 1.1 percent to 120.40
at 4 p.m. in Tokyo, extending four weeks of gains. The Stoxx
Europe 600 increased 0.8 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500 futures
gained 0.7 percent. The yen declined to 113.25 per euro from
112.84 in New York last week. The dollar slipped to $1.3074 per
euro from $1.3052, after declining to $1.3107 on July 29, the
weakest since May. Wheat surged to the highest price since 2008.  
 Investor confidence increased after companies from Honda
Motor Co. to Hyundai Mobis Co. reported higher earnings or
forecasts. About 42 percent of the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s
companies that posted profit since July 12 have beaten  analyst
estimates , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Chinese companies
recorded a 50 percent gain in first-half net income, Shanghai
Securities News reported today.  
 “Positive earnings are easing investor concerns about the
global economy,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $5.77
billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “While
uncertainties linger, investors don’t have to be fearful of
current conditions.”  
 About three stocks advanced for each one that fell in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index , which was headed for its highest close
since May 13. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 0.4
percent, Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 1.1 percent and Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index jumped 1.4 percent.  
 ‘In Good Shape’  
 Honda  advanced 4 percent to 2,818 yen after raising its
full-year profit forecast by 34 percent as vehicle demand in the
U.S. and Asia increased.  Hitachi Ltd.  climbed 4.3 percent to 367
yen as the electronics and heavy machinery maker boosted its
forecast for first-half profit by 82 percent.  
 “Earnings are in good shape, and we are seeing upward
revisions to forecasts,” said  Tomochika Kitaoka , a senior
strategist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 Hyundai Mobis , South Korea’s biggest auto-parts maker,
jumped 8.6 percent to 222,000 won in Seoul. Second-quarter
profit jumped 60 percent after customers Hyundai Motor Co. and
Kia Motors Corp. boosted vehicle sales.  
 Suning Appliance Co. , China’s biggest home appliance
retailer by market value, jumped 2.5 percent to 12.81 yuan in
the southern city of Shenzhen. The company reported a 56 percent
climb in first-half profit.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 1.1 percent on the
prospect the government will reverse policies aimed at slowing
economic growth after the government’s Purchasing Managers’
Index grew at the slowest pace in 17 months.  
 ‘Sigh of Relief’  
 “The government’s tightening policies have already
achieved the desired effect,” said  Zhang Kun , a strategist at
Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shanghai. “There won’t be any
intensified measures going forward. The market can breathe a
sigh of relief.”  
 South Korea’s  Kospi  index rose 1.3 percent as a government
report showed exports increased for a ninth month in July. The
won appreciated 0.9 percent to 1,172.45 per dollar. It earlier
reached 1,171.95, the highest level since June 21. Malaysia’s
ringgit advanced 0.5 percent to 3.165 per dollar.  
 The yen and the dollar depreciated against most major
currencies as signs the Asian economic recovery is gathering
momentum spurred demand for higher-yielding assets. The yen
weakened versus all of its 16 major counterparts.  
 The dollar fell toward its lowest level in almost three
months against the euro before a report today that may show U.S.
manufacturing expanded at a slower pace in July, giving the
Federal Reserve more reason to keep interest rates near zero.  
 Appetite For Risk  
 “Growth in Asian economies looks solid,” said  Yuji Saito ,
director of the foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank in Tokyo. “This is supportive of
equities and risk-taking appetite. The yen and the dollar are
likely to be sold.”  
 Australia’s dollar rose 0.6 percent to 90.94 U.S. cents.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey expect reports tomorrow will
show the country’s retail sales and building approvals advanced
in June.  
 Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange rose for a fourth day, climbing 1.4 percent to $7,395 a
metric ton on speculation economic growth will drive demand. Oil
futures in New York rose for a third day in after-hours trading,
advancing 0.3 percent to $79.18 a barrel.  
 Wheat Gains  
 Wheat increased on speculation that a drought in Russia may
force the country to curb exports, squeezing global supplies and
boosting demand for U.S. shipments.  
 The September-delivery contract jumped as much as 2.4
percent to $6.775 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
highest price since Oct. 2, 2008. The best-performing commodity
of the past month traded at $6.7725 in Singapore, rising for a
fifth straight day.  
 Treasuries fell as credit-market yields indicated investors
are seeking higher yields than those available on government
debt. The 10-year  yield  rose one basis point to 2.919 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The credit market is recovering and it will strengthen
through the rest of the year,” said  Hiroki Shimazu , an
economist in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc., a unit of
Japan’s third-largest publicly traded bank. “The economic
recovery continues. Treasury yields will go up.”  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Darren Boey  in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Asian Stocks Advance on Earnings Outlook  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent to 119.82 as of 9:22 a.m. in Tokyo, with four stocks advancing for each one that declined. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent to 119.82 as of 9:22 a.m. in Tokyo, with four stocks advancing for each one that declined. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Darby, chief Asian equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, speaks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's stock market and economy.
     China’s manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in 17 months in July as the government clamped down on property speculation and investment in energy-intensive and polluting factories. Darby also discusses China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Kurtz, head of China research at Macquarie Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for China stocks. 
     Kurtz, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy, central bank monetary policy and real estate market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
