-- Asian Currencies Rally on Recovery Signs; Ringgit Climbs to Two-Year High
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-08-02T08:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/asian-currencies-rally-on-recovery-signs-ringgit-climbs-to-two-year-high.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s ringgit led gains in Asian
currencies, rising to the highest level in more than two years,
as signs the regional recovery is gathering pace boosted demand
for emerging-market assets.  
 The ringgit rallied 1 percent, its biggest advance in six
weeks, before a government report tomorrow that may show exports
increased for a seventh month in June, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. South Korea’s won climbed for a second day and
equities rose after data yesterday showed overseas sales in July
beat analysts’ estimates.  
 “Stocks are doing quite well today and that is leading
Asian currencies higher,” said  Robert Reilly , co-head of Asian
fixed-income at Societe Generale in Hong Kong. “We had some
good data out of South Korea and that’s helping the won and
leading the others along too.”  
 The ringgit traded at 3.1605 per dollar as of 4:47 p.m. in
Kuala Lumpur and reached 3.1560, the strongest level since May
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won
appreciated 0.9 percent to 1,172.45 and Taiwan’s dollar climbed
as much as 0.8 percent to NT$31.798, its highest since June 22.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  of regional
currencies and the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index  of shares both rose
to their strongest levels since early May. Foreign investors
bought almost a net $9 billion of stocks in India, Indonesia,
South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam and Pakistan in July.  
 Asia is leading the world economy out of recession,
prompting regional central banks to withdraw stimulus measures
put in place at the height of the financial crisis.  
 U.S. Growth  
 U.S. gross domestic product increased at a 2.4 percent
annual pace last quarter, less than the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey for 2.6 percent, data from the Commerce
Department showed on July 30. A report from the Institute for
Supply Management later today may show growth in July’s
manufacturing cooled, according to another survey.  
 “There’s a shift in thinking and fund flows favoring Asian
local markets as the U.S. economy slows,” said  Suresh Kumar Ramanathan , a currency strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur. “It’s not just one that’s based on sentiment,
it’s clearly a clear fundamental story now.”  
 China’s yuan forwards rose the most in more than a week
even as reports showed manufacturing is cooling, after People’s
Bank of China Deputy Governor Hu Xiaolian said in a July 30
statement that the relaxation of exchange-rate controls aided in
balancing international payments, boosting domestic demand and
economic structuring.  
 Yuan Policy  
 The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 51.2 from 52.1 in
June, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on its
website yesterday. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. A PMI
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped
to 49.4 from 50.4 in June.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards contracts rose 0.18
percent to 6.6743 per dollar in Hong Kong, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, reflecting bets the currency will
strengthen 1.5 percent from the spot rate of 6.7745.  
 “Slower economic growth won’t likely shift the direction
of allowing gradual appreciation in the yuan as policy makers
are not focusing on the pace of growth,” said  Liu Dongliang , a
Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the
country’s fifth-largest lender by market value. “The yuan rate
will be more affected by movements of major global currencies in
the near term.”  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed at 8,949
per dollar. Thailand’s baht gained 0.2 percent to 32.23 and the
Philippine peso climbed 0.5 percent to 45.302. Singapore’s
dollar advanced o.6 percent to S$1.3537 and reached a two-year
high of S$1.3528.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at  at
 plui4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        