-- Astellas Cuts Profit Outlook, Says Earnings May Fall Further on OSI Costs
-- Kanoko Matsuyama
-- 2010-08-02T07:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/astellas-cuts-profit-outlook-says-earnings-may-fall-further-on-osi-costs.html

          
          
             Astellas Pharma Inc. , Japan’s second-
biggest drugmaker, cut its full-year profit forecast by 12
percent and said earnings will probably fall further after the
company includes costs relating to the $4 billion takeover of
 OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc.   
 Net income will drop to 94 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in
the year to March 31, lower than the previous forecast of 107
billion yen, and sales will be 2.8 percent less than predicted
at 914 billion yen, Tokyo-based Astellas  said  today. The figures
missed  analyst projections  of 95.8 billion yen and 945 billion
yen, based on the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Chief Financial Officer  Yoshihiko Hatanaka  said Astellas
will probably cut the earnings outlook again when announcing
second-quarter earnings, to include expenses for the June
takeover of the Tarceva cancer-drug maker. Astellas, which needs
new medicines to cope with a revenue drop from its bestselling
Prograf and Flomax treatments, agreed last week to pay as much
as $295 million to extend a drug-discovery agreement with
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc.  
 Astellas  was unchanged at 2,931 yen at the 3 p.m. close on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange before earnings were reported. The
stock has lost 15 percent this year, steeper than the 6.3
percent decline for the benchmark Topix Index.  
 The new forecast takes into account the payments to
Regeneron and the stronger yen, Astellas said. The company
predicts the yen will average 112 to the euro this fiscal year,
compared with 130 previously projected. The company expects the
dollar at 91 yen, compared with 90 estimated earlier.  
 OSI Expenses  
 Astellas, led by Chief Executive Officer  Masafumi Nogimori ,
in May estimated full-year amortization expenses of 31 billion
yen from buying Melville, New York-based OSI. Excluding the cost
of amortization, OSI will probably add 14 billion yen to
operating profit and 34 billion yen to sales this fiscal year,
Astellas said May 17.  
 First-quarter net income dropped 10 percent to 39.5 billion
yen on generic competition for Prograf and lower royalties for
Flomax, also known as Harnal, from Astellas’s marketing partner
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals Inc. Sales dropped 5.8
percent to 237.5 billion yen in the three months ended June 30,
Astellas said.  
 Prograf, given to transplant patients to avoid organ
rejection, has faced generic competition since August 2009 in
the U.S., the world’s largest pharmaceutical market. A copycat
of the prostate drug Flomax has been sold in the U.S. since
March this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        