-- AT&T, Verizon to Target Visa, MasterCard With Smartphones
-- Margaret Collins
-- 2010-08-02T20:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/at-t-verizon-said-to-target-visa-mastercard-with-smartphones.html

          
          
             AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon Wireless , the
biggest U.S. mobile carriers, are planning a venture to displace
credit and debit cards with smartphones, posing a new threat to
 Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , three people with direct
knowledge of the plan said.  
 The partnership, which also includes  Deutsche Telekom AG 
unit T-Mobile USA, may work with  Discover Financial Services  and
 Barclays Plc  to test a system at stores in Atlanta and three
other U.S. cities that would let a consumer pay with the
contactless wave of a smartphone, the people said. The carriers
have been searching for a chief executive officer.  
 The trial would be the carriers’ biggest effort to spur
mobile payments in the U.S. and supplant more than 1 billion
plastic cards in American wallets. Smartphones have encroached
on tasks ranging from Web browsing to street navigation and now
may help the phone companies compete with San Francisco-based
Visa and MasterCard, the world’s biggest payments networks.  
 “This is definitely a game-changer,” said industry
consultant  Richard Crone  of San Carlos, California-based Crone
Consulting LLC. The  firm advises  card networks, issuers and
phone companies. The mobile carriers “are the biggest recurring
billers in every market. They are experts at processing
payments,” Crone said.  
 Market Dominance  
 Visa and Purchase, New York-based MasterCard handled $2.45
trillion, or 82 percent, of U.S. consumer spending on general-
purpose cards last year, according to the  Nilson Report , an
industry newsletter. That dominance has helped fuel profit
growth for both companies. Visa’s annual  operating income  has
grown sixfold since fiscal 2005 to $3.54 billion last year.
MasterCard’s has  surged  more than fivefold to $2.27 billion.  
 Visa fell 1.5 percent to $72.23 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading and MasterCard declined 3.6
percent to $202.52, the worst  performance  in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  
 The service, similar to those already available in Japan,
Turkey and the U.K., would use contactless technology to
complete purchases in stores. They’d be processed through
Discover’s payments network, currently the fourth-biggest behind
Visa, MasterCard and  American Express Co . Barclays would be the
bank helping to manage the accounts, said the people, who
requested anonymity because of confidentiality agreements.  
 ‘Logical Next Step’  
 AT&T and Verizon Wireless are equal partners in the venture
and T-Mobile has a smaller stake, one person said.  
 Representatives for the carriers, London-based Barclays and
Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover declined to comment on the
venture.  
 “Mobile payments are the logical next step for
consumers,” said  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based
AT&T. Siegel, Marquett Smith of Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based
Verizon Wireless, and Peter Dobrow of the Bellevue, Washington-
based T-Mobile unit, all said their companies “have nothing to
announce.”  
 At Discover, spokeswoman  Leslie Sutton  said the company
“is always evaluating technology solutions that make things
faster, safer and more convenient.” Barclays spokesman Kevin
Sullivan said, “facilitating mobile payments is a big part of
Barclaycard’s strategy globally.”  
 The phone companies probably wouldn’t replace the biggest
U.S. credit- and debit-card issuers, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  and  Wells Fargo & Co. , said  Gary Townsend , CEO of Hill-
Townsend Capital LLC, a  Chevy Chase , Maryland-based hedge fund
that specializes in financial firms.  
 Swipe Fees  
 “What is a cell phone, except a mechanism for consumers to
address their lives in whatever way they choose?” Townsend said
today in a telephone interview. “There’s certainly no reason if
an AT&T account can effectively be carried on a phone that a
JPMorgan or a Wells Fargo card can’t be there, too. In fact, the
antitrust issues would demand that that be allowed.”  
 Retailers may be eager to help another network after years
of fighting over transaction fees set by Visa and MasterCard.
The merchants persuaded Congress last month to approve caps on
interchange, or “swipe” fees, for debit transactions and filed
a 2005 federal antitrust lawsuit that is still pending. The U.S.
Department of Justice is weighing whether to bring a civil
lawsuit against Visa for barring merchants from surcharging
customers who use credit cards, according to the company.  
 ‘Material, Adverse Effect’  
 “If we change our rules in these areas, this could cause a
material, adverse effect on our business,” Visa said today in a
regulatory filing.  
 Interchange fees on credit and debit cards exceed $40
billion a year and average about 1 percent to 2 percent of every
transaction.  
 The people with knowledge of the carriers’ venture didn’t
say how much merchants may be charged per transaction or when
the trial will start.  
 “We have long argued that real competition is missing from
today’s payments market,” said  Brian Dodge , a spokesman for the
 Retail Industry Leaders Association , which represents merchants
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , Home Depot Inc. and  Target Corp .
“The emergence of a secure and reliable competing network that
serves the demand from consumers for mobility payment options
and reduces retailers’ costs would be welcomed news.”  
 ‘Tipping Point’  
 Visa and MasterCard are benefiting as people abandon cash
and paper checks for cards and electronic payments, which
account for more than half of U.S. consumer purchases, compared
with 36 percent in 2003, according to the Nilson Report.  
 Mobile technology for banking and payments is reaching “a
tipping point,” with younger consumers leading the way,
 Mercatus LLC , a Boston-based consulting firm, said in a June 7
study. More than half of U.S. consumers, and almost 80 percent
of those between the ages of 18 and 34, will use mobile
financial services within five years, according to Mercatus.  
 “Rapid and broad-based consumer adoption of mobile
financial services is imminent,” as people rely on their phones
to manage every aspect of their lives, said Mercatus Managing
Partner  Bob Hedges , former head of retail banking and payments
at Fleet Bank. “Consumers want it to happen.”  
 MasterCard and Visa have been investing in their own mobile
projects. Visa and Richardson, Texas-based  DeviceFidelity , have
developed technology that can transform phones consumers carry
today, including  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone, into a payment device that
can store multiple card accounts, said  Bill Gajda , head of
mobile for Visa.  
 Zong, Bling, Boku  
 “Visa is in discussions with a number of mobile operators
around the world,” Gajda said in a July 28 interview. “We
continue to believe that the best opportunity to create a
secure, scalable, mobile-payment service is by working together,
converging mobile and financial networks, and extending the
value of electronic payments to the mobile channel.”  
 In June, New York-based  Citigroup Inc.  introduced
MasterCard PayPass stickers that can be affixed to the back of
mobile phones to make contactless payments at about 230,000 U.S.
merchants, MasterCard spokeswoman Joanne Trout said in an e-
mail.  
 Startups based near Silicon Valley,  California , such as
Zong, Bling Nation and Boku Inc., offer alternative payment
solutions. Zong users enter their mobile phone numbers to make
purchases on the Internet. Bling Nation works with community
banks and local businesses, allowing customers to “tap-and-
pay” with their devices. Boku lets online gamers buy “digital
goods and social experiences,” the company says on its  website .  
 ‘Card Is Dumb’  
 Any new payment system may face barriers that prevent the
technology from taking hold in the U.S., the Federal Reserve
Bank of Boston said in a May  policy paper .  
 Consumers won’t demand mobile payments “until they know
that enough merchants accept them, and merchants will not
implement the technology until a critical mass of consumers
justifies the cost of doing so,” the report said.  
 Merchants would have to spend an estimated $200 per reader,
and updating mobile phones with embedded microchips would
increase manufacturing costs by $10 to $15 per handset,
according to the Boston Fed. That may be worthwhile if accepting
mobile payments allows retailers to send rewards and information
about promotions to their customers’ phones at checkout.  
 Contactless, or near-field communication, technology “is
no less secure” than today’s plastic cards, according to the
Fed. Consumers may also be able to sync their phones to a
computer, allowing them to make purchases even if there’s no
mobile signal or the battery dies.  
 “These are important issues if people are to be convinced
to rely on this technology as an alternative to carrying a
wallet,” the policy paper said.  
 The wireless carriers have an advantage over Visa and
MasterCard in the race to control the U.S. payments market
because the phone companies have access to their customers’
mobile numbers and bank account information, said Crone, the
industry consultant.  
 “A mobile device is online, real-time interactivity that
changes the customer relationship,” he said. “A card is
dumb.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net 
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Visa Inc.'s new contactless payment application  
                       
                         
                           Visa Inc. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Visa Inc.'s new contactless payment application, "Visa payWave." 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Visa Inc.'s new contactless payment application, "Visa payWave." Source: Visa Inc. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Peter Eichenbaum talks with Julie Hyman about AT&T Inc. and Verizon Wireless's plan to displace credit and debit cards with smartphones, posing a new threat to Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc.
     The trial would be the carriers’ biggest effort to spur mobile payments in the U.S. and supplant more than 1 billion plastic cards in American wallets. The system would allow consumers to pay at stores with a contactless wave of a smartphone. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Kupferberg, an analyst at UBS AG, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Visa Inc.'s financial results and outlook.
     Visa, the world’s biggest payments network, posted a fiscal third-quarter profit that exceeded most Wall Street estimates for a 10th straight quarter as more consumers paid with plastic. Kupferberg, speaking from New York, also discusses the Federal Reserve's new debit-card regulations aimed at Visa and No. 2 network MasterCard Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
