-- Australia's Gillard `Takes Control' as Poll Lead Evaporates
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-08-02T05:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/australia-s-gillard-takes-control-of-campaigning-as-poll-lead-evaporates.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will take charge of the election campaign from Labor’s
“faceless men” and focus attention on the economy after her
party lost its lead three weeks before the national ballot.  
 “You’ve been seeing glimpses of me but I’m going to make
sure you see a whole lot more of me,” Gillard told Nine Network
television today from Sydney. “I’m going to throw that rule
book out” and “take control,” she said.  
 Gillard won a boost in opinion polls after she ousted  Kevin Rudd  as leader in June after his standoff with mining companies
and decision in April to shelve carbon trading plans saw voter
support fall to an election-losing level.  
 Labor is now tied with  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National
coalition, losing a 55 percent to 45 percent lead from two weeks
ago, according to a Newspoll opinion survey published in the
Australian newspaper today. Voter support is 50-50, the
telephone survey of 1,137 voters between July 31 and yesterday
showed. The margin of error was 3 percentage points.  
 “They’re on their way to defeat,” said  Nick Economou , a
political scientist at Monash University in Melbourne, reversing
his view that Labor would win. “If you’ve got a party that is
wracked with hubris as the Labor party is at the moment, the
voters will say ‘you can’t govern’ and they’ll look to the
alternative.”  
 Gillard today pledged to fight for a strong economy and
promised a tax break of as much as A$4,000 a year for parents of
about 650,000 teenagers to help with the cost of their education,
food and clothing as she campaigned in western Sydney.  
 Interest Rates  
 The so-called mortgage belt of the nation’s biggest city,
and Labor, may get a boost tomorrow if the Reserve Bank of
Australia keeps the benchmark rate on hold at 4.5 percent, as
expected by all 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The Labor party’s campaign, described by Gillard today as
“risk-averse” and “stage managed,” is run by its national
secretary, Karl Bitar.  
 “The faceless men are the heart and soul of the Labor
party,” Abbott told reporters in Cairns today as he pledged to
make controlling the debt and deficit the first priority of a
coalition government. Both Gillard and Abbott promise to get the
budget back into surplus in three years.  
 Abbott will scrap the 30 percent levy on coal and iron ore
profits that Gillard will charge from 2012 after she clinched a
deal with  BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio Tinto Group  and Xstrata Plc to
try to rob the coalition of a key campaign platform. Smaller
 mining companies  began an advertising campaign today that warns
Australians they will “get whacked” by the tax.  
 Economic Growth  
 Labor’s focus on the  economy , which grew while bigger
countries fell into recession, was lost last week as Gillard
defended herself against a series of leaks that Australian media
reported came from within the Cabinet led by Rudd.  
 Abbott leads Gillard by 47 percent to 40 percent on which
leader is more capable of handling the economy, according to the
Newspoll survey, while Gillard has 54 percent support on health
and 59 percent on education versus 30 and 28 percent for Abbott.  
 A separate opinion survey showed the Liberal-National
coalition would win if an election were held now. The coalition
leads Labor 52 to 48, according to a Nielsen poll published by
the Sydney Morning Herald newspaper two days ago.  
 Gillard, who called the opposition leader “phony Tony” in
May, confirmed media reports last week that she spoke in Cabinet
against paid-parental leave and a rise in the aged pension,
which will cost A$50 billion ($45 billion) over the next decade.  
 Gillard also failed to seek Cabinet approval for a
citizens’ assembly on climate change before she unveiled it as
the centerpiece of Labor’s policy on emissions last month,
contradicting her pledge to involve the team when she became
leader, the Australian Financial Review reported today.  
 “Will the real Julia please stand up,” Abbott said.  
 Labor’s “presidential” campaign is a “disaster” because
they underestimated Abbott, said Economou. The election turns on
who wins a majority in the 150-member  House of Representatives 
on Aug. 21.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australia's Gillard `Takes Control'  
                       
                         
                           Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Julia Gillard, Australia's prime minister, speaks during a meeting in Melbourne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Julia Gillard, Australia's prime minister, speaks during a meeting in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's William Pesek speaks from Tokyo with Bloomberg’s Haslinda Amin about next month's Australian election.
     Australian opposition leader Tony Abbott and Prime Minister Julia Gillard have placed management of the economy at the top of their election campaigns before a national vote next month largely being fought over how much taxes companies pay and who gets to come to Australia. (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
