-- Bank of America, KPMG Settlement With Countrywide Investors Wins Approval
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-08-02T19:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/bank-of-america-kpmg-settlement-with-countrywide-investors-wins-approval.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp.  and  KPMG LLP ’s
$624 million settlement with investors in  Countrywide Financial
Corp.  led by New York pension funds won initial court approval.  
 U.S. District Judge  Mariana Pfaelzer  in Los Angeles ruled
today on the accord. A fairness hearing will be held on final
approval for the settlement, first announced in May.  
 The New York State Common Retirement Fund and five New York
City pension funds claimed former Countrywide Chief Executive
Officer  Angelo Mozilo  and other executives hid the fact that the
company was fueling its growth by letting underwriting standards
deteriorate. Bank of America acquired Calabasas, California-
based Countrywide, the biggest U.S. home lender, in July 2008.  
 “This settlement was reached, as I assume all settlements
are, to resolve the uncertainty of continued litigation,”  Brian Pastuszenski , a lawyer for Bank of America, said at the hearing.
“It is by no means a concession that anything was done that
violated securities law.”  
 Mozilo, 71, is also a defendant, together with two other
former Countrywide executives, in a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit alleging he publicly reassured investors
about the quality of the company’s home loans while he issued
“dire” internal warnings and sold about $140 million of his
own Countrywide shares.  
 Joel Bernstein , a lawyer for the New York funds, said at
the hearing that the settlement represents about 22 percent of
the maximum possible recovery the plaintiffs could have expected
if the case had gone to trial.  
 Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, is
responsible for $600 million of the settlement, with New York-
based KPMG responsible for the remaining $24 million.  
 The case is In re Countrywide Financial Corp. Securities
Litigation, 07-05295, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        