-- Barclays Hires Options Traders Xenakis, Simblist From Goldman, Macro Risk
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-08-02T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/barclays-hires-u-s-options-traders-from-goldman-macro-risk-on-expansion.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc hired  J.P. Xenakis  of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Jonathan Simblist  of Macro Risk
Advisors LLC to oversee and expand electronic options trading
and sales in New York.  
 Xenakis, 39, will be a director and head of electronic
options trading distribution and previously was a vice president
of electronic derivatives sales at Goldman Sachs, according to
 Bill Bell , head of Americas equities electronic trading
distribution at Barclays in New York. Xenakis will report to
Bell. Simblist, 31, will be a director on the electronic options
trading distribution team and report to Xenakis, Bell said.  
 Barclays is expanding its electronic options trading to
capture a larger share of business from clients executing orders
directly themselves instead of giving their buy and sell
requests to brokers over the phone. Bell said he plans to make
more hires this year.  
 “More and more clients are looking at ways to trade more
quickly and more efficiently,” Bell said. “The electronic
options market really is a tremendous growth opportunity. Firms
that are not trading options electronically today will be
tomorrow.”  
 Prior to Barclays, Xenakis spent 10 years at Goldman Sachs
and before that was a derivatives marketing manager at the
American Stock Exchange for three years.  
 Trading, Technology  
 Simblist joined Barclays after two years at Macro Risk, a
New York-based trading and advisory firm that specializes in
equity derivatives where he focused on options execution and
trading technology. Before that he traded options at Bank of
America Corp. for three years.  
 Electronic trading has been fueled by regulatory changes,
competition among eight exchanges and the use of quotes that can
change by a penny for some options contracts. The one-cent
increment decreases the spread, or difference between the bid
and ask prices, enabling traders to employ more electronic
options trading strategies.  
 “Options trading remains an intricate process and this
complexity is a prime factor behind the buy-side traders’
dependence on brokers, especially among those accounts that need
capital, counsel and advice,”  Andy Nybo , a principal at New
York-based research firm Tabb Group LLC, said in a July report.
“But there is also growing demand for tools and systems that
can make the business of trading options more efficient,
especially among technology-driven strategies.”  
 Brokers providing electronic options tools mentioned most
often by asset managers, hedge funds and firms trading their own
money are Credit Suisse AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Knight
Capital Group Inc and UBS AG, according to the Tabb report.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ,
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        