-- Barnes & Noble, Pfizer, KV: Intellectual Property (Update1)
-- Carla Main
-- 2010-08-02T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/barnes-noble-pfizer-kv-pharmaceutical-disney-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Barnes & Noble Inc. , which makes the
Nook electronic reader and sells books from its website, sued
 Xerox Corp.  and  Alcatel-Lucent SA  over demands the bookseller
pay royalties for patents.  
 The U.S. subsidiary of  Alcatel  says the Nook violates seven
of its patents, New York-based Barnes & Noble said in a lawsuit
filed July 29. Xerox says that barnesandnoble.com violates four
of its patents, the bookseller said in a separate court filing
the same day. Neither claim is valid, Barnes & Noble said in its
lawsuit. It asked the court to rule in its favor by issuing a
so-called declaratory judgment, or statement that the company
isn’t infringing any valid patents of Xerox and Alcatel-Lucent.  
 Barnes & Noble spokeswoman Mary Ellen Keating declined to
comment further on pending litigation other than to confirm the
filing of the suit. Mary Ward, a spokeswoman for Alcatel-Lucent,
declined to comment in an e-mail. A Xerox spokeswoman didn’t
respond to an e-mail asking for comment.  
 The cases are barnesandnoble.com LLC v. Xerox Corp., 1:10-
cv-05758, and Barnes & Noble Inc. v. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.,
1:10-cv-05759, both in U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York.  
 To see the Xerox patents:  5,513,126 ;  5,689,642 ;  6,236,994 ;
and  6,999,962 .  
 Panel Doesn’t Vote on Pfizer’s Revatio Study in Kids  
 Pfizer Inc.  didn’t get a U.S. panel’s decision for changes
to a pediatric lung study that, if accepted by regulators, would
give the erection pill Viagra an extra six months on the market
without generic competition.  
 Outside advisers to the Food and Drug Administration were
scheduled to vote July 29 on whether a test measuring blood flow
inside the arteries is sufficient to determine if a form of the
drug, sold as Revatio for adults with pulmonary hypertension,
works for children with the rare lung disorder.  
 The panel declined to vote because “the data aren’t as
perfect as people would like,” said Robert Temple, director of
the FDA’s  Office of Drug Evaluation , in an interview. The agency
now must decide, without a vote by advisers, whether the blood-
flow test can be used to determine if Revatio works in children,
Temple said.  
 The FDA asked Pfizer in 2001 to study sildenafil in
children with pulmonary hypertension. If the New York-based
company meets FDA requirements for testing the treatment in
children, it will get a six-month patent extension for the drug,
which had 2009  sales  of $1.89 billion as Viagra and $450 million
as Revatio. The patents are expected to expire in 2012.  
 KV Pharmaceutical Sues Perrigo Over Gynazole Patent  
 KV Pharmaceutical Co.  sued generic-drug maker  Perrigo Co. ,
alleging patent infringement with plans to make low-cost copies
of the drug  Gynazole  used to treat female yeast infections.  
 KV asked a federal judge in Delaware July 29 to rule that
Perrigo’s sale of its version of the medicinal cream would
violate U.S. patent laws, and to issue an injunction to stop
Perrigo from marketing the drug until the patent expires in
2017. The suit also seeks attorney fees.  
 KV reported a $313.6 million net loss on $312.3 million in
sales for the fiscal year ended in March 2009. The company said
in March it cut more than 200 jobs after manufacturing problems.
Company stock has fallen about 70 percent this year.  
 Perrigo, which also makes store-brand drugs, reported $2
billion in sales for the fiscal year ended in June 2009. Its
shares have risen about 40 percent this year.  
 Daniel Willard, a Perrigo spokesman, didn’t immediately
return voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  
 The case is KV Pharmaceutical Co. v. Perrigo Israel
Pharmaceuticals Ltd., 10CV641, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To see the patent: 5,993,856.  
 Sony, McAfee Sued by Uniloc Over Anti-Piracy Software Patent  
 Sony Corp. ,  McAfee Inc . and other technology companies were
sued by  Uniloc USA Inc.  over claims they infringe a patent it
holds for anti-piracy software.  
 Uniloc claims Sony’s SecuROM system uses its technology, as
does McAfee’s Total Protection product. The lawsuit, filed in
federal court in Tyler, Texas, seeks an order barring the
infringement and unspecified damages.  
 Uniloc persuaded a federal court jury last year to award
$388 million in damages in a patent-infringement claim against
 Microsoft Corp.  The award against Microsoft was later thrown out
by the trial judge and is on appeal.  
 Activision Blizzard Inc. ,  Quark Inc.  and  Micro Focus US
Inc. ’s  Borland Software  were also sued.  
 A spokeswoman for Santa Monica, California-based Activision
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail and e-mail asking for
comment, and neither did a spokeswoman at Quark.  
 Tracy Ross, a spokeswoman for Santa Clara, California-based
McAfee, declined to comment. A voice-mail left in the legal
department of Sony’s office in New York wasn’t immediately
returned.  
 The case is Uniloc USA Inc. and Uniloc Singapore Private
Limited v. Sony Corp. of America, 10cv373, U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  
 For other patent news from last week, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Disney to Sell Miramax to Filmyard for $660 Million  
 Walt Disney Co.  agreed to sell Miramax to investors
including Ronald Tutor and private-equity firm Colony Capital
LLC for more than $660 million, ending a six-month search to
find a buyer for the art-house moviemaker. Rights to titles are
part of the deal.  
 The sale to Filmyard Holding LLC, backed by partners
including construction executive Tutor and Colony, is expected
to be completed by the end of the year, Burbank, California-
based Disney said July 30 in a statement. Disney, the world’s
largest media company, began winding down Miramax, founded by
brothers Harvey and Bob Weinstein, in October.  
 Miramax, with rights to more than 700 titles including
Academy Award winners such as “Chicago” and “Shakespeare in
Love,” was one of several film assets on the block.  Liberty
Media Corp.  agreed to sell its Overture unit to Relativity Media
LLC last month. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. is seeking buyers after
falling behind on $3.7 billion of debt.  
 Walt Disney Studios is focusing on film development “under
the Disney,  Pixar  and  Marvel  brands,” President and Chief
Executive Officer Robert Iger said in the statement.  
 The Weinsteins sold Miramax to Disney in 1993. The two, who
left in 2005, control rights to some films. Disney had been
seeking $600 million to $700 million for Miramax.  
 For more, click here.  
 For other copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Diageo Wins Vodka Protection, ICB Can Still Sell Vodkat Drink  
 Diageo Plc , maker of Smirnoff, the best-selling vodka brand
in the U.K., won a ruling in London that  Intercontinental Brands
Ltd. ’s Vodkat drink misrepresented its contents.  
 ICB can only continue to use the name for Vodkat, a mixture
of vodka and neutral fermented alcohol with a citrus base, if it
is “clearly distinguished” from vodka, the court of appeal
ruled July 30.  
 Vodkat is less than half vodka and costs about a third of
the price, according to the judgment. Vodka must contain at
least 37.5 percent alcohol under regulations governing the
drink. The court ruled that ICB should be able to market a
“vodka-type product” in such a way that consumers are clear
about what they’re getting.  
 Simon Litherland, managing director of Diageo GB, said in a
statement that continued use of the Vodkat name will cause
“substantial numbers of consumers” to be misled.  
 ICB Director Paul Burton said the company is “extremely
pleased” it can continue to sell Vodkat and was always
“convinced about the merits” of its case. The judgment
“encourages” ICB that it “may ultimately win the case,” if
it gets permission to appeal, Burton said.  
 The case is  Diageo North America Inc. v. Intercontinental
Brands Ltd., case nos. A3/2010/0411 and A3/2010/0408, Court of
Appeal (Civil Division)).  
 For other trademark news from last week, click here.  
 IP Moves  
 Sparks Joins McCarter & English as Partner, Firm Says  
 Jonathan Sparks  joined  McCarter & English LLP  as a partner
in the firm’s intellectual property and information technology
group, the law firm said in a statement. He will work in the
firm’s Boston office.  
 Sparks, who holds a Ph.D. in biochemistry and biophysics
from  Texas A&M University , counsels clients on general
intellectual property matters, including patent prosecution,
domestic and foreign patent strategy, and due diligence and
patent lifecycle management, the firm said.  
 He also helps clients prepare patentability, infringement,
validity and freedom-to-operate opinions, according to the firm.  
 IP Funds  
 Acacia Seeks $250 Million for IP Investment Fund  
 Acacia Research Corp. , a publicly traded firm that invests
in and licenses patents, is raising as much as $250 million for
a private fund to expand its business with big technology
companies.  
 The company, which shares licensing revenue with inventors
and patent owners, is asking institutions such as endowments and
pension managers to invest in the Acacia Intellectual Property
Fund LP, according to a regulatory filing.  
 Acacia Intellectual Property is asking each investor to
commit a minimum of $10 million, according to a private-
placement notice filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission on July 19. Ryan said the partnership will require a
10-year commitment from investors, equivalent to a private-
equity fund’s lock-up period.  
 The fund will allow the company to invest in more patent
agreements without selling additional stock and diluting its
value for existing shareholders. The company will earn an
estimated $44.4 million in management fees for overseeing Acacia
Intellectual Property during its lifespan, assuming the fund
raises $250 million, according to the SEC filing. That figure
doesn’t include performance fees.  
 For more, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in Jersey City, New Jersey, at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        