-- Barrick Gold Seeks Ventures With Smaller Rivals to Develop Untapped Mines
-- Jason Scott
-- 2010-08-02T05:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/barrick-gold-seeks-ventures-with-smaller-rivals-to-develop-untapped-mines.html

          
          
             Barrick Gold Corp. , the world’s
largest producer, said it’s seeking ventures with smaller rivals 
to turn some of its undeveloped reserves into working mines.  
 “We have greater opportunities by working with the juniors
that can actually develop some of our projects’ potential,”
 Gary Halverson , president of Barrick’s Asia Pacific operations,
said today at the Diggers and Dealers conference in Kalgoorlie,
Western Australia. “Having them sit in the ground isn’t good
value,” he said, without identifying any partner or project.  
 Chief Executive Officer Aaron Regent last week reiterated
plans to boost the company’s gold output this year to as much as
8 million ounces from  7.4 million ounces last year . The Toronto-
based company is attempting to benefit from prices that climbed
to a record $1,266.50 an ounce on June 21 in New York trading.  
 “When we get into some of the smaller assets, it’s for us
to focus on what’s the best to grow the business,” Halverson
said. “Part of that is actually better done by allowing other
people to pick up those assets and working on joint ventures or
purchases that they benefit from and we benefit from.”  
 Barrick’s second-quarter profit increased 59 percent to
$783 million, enabling the company to raise its dividend. About
35 percent of Barrick’s $175 million exploration budget is being
spent in Australia, with Papua New Guinea also a major focus,
Halverson said today.  
 Barrick “assumes” Newcrest Mining Ltd.’s acquisition of
Lihir Gold Ltd. will proceed because the deal made more sense to
Newcrest than Barrick, Halverson said. Newcrest is in the
process of buying Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea-based Lihir,
the second-largest gold producer on the Australian stock
exchange, to create the world’s fifth-biggest gold company.  
 Barrick and Newmont Mining Corp., joint owners of
Australia’s second-largest gold mine, in January won
environmental approval to expand the site in Kalgoorlie and
operate until 2021.  
 The Super Pit is managed by Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold
Mines Ltd., jointly owned by Barrick and Newmont, the largest
U.S. bullion producer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        