-- Batelco Seeks Credit Rating, Pursues $1.5 Billion of Takeovers, CEO Says
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-08-02T09:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/batelco-seeks-credit-rating-pursues-acquisitions-ceo-kaliaropoulos-says.html

          
          
             Bahrain Telecommunications Co.  is
seeking a credit rating to tap debt markets and raise funds for
acquisitions as competition at home forces it to look abroad for
growth, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Kaliaropoulos  said.  
 The fixed and mobile-phone and Internet-service provider,
known as Batelco, may receive the rating in about eight weeks,
Kaliaropoulos said in a telephone interview today. The company
is looking for acquisition targets valued at about $1.5 billion
from North Africa to the Asia-Pacific region, he said.  
 Middle East phone companies are expanding abroad into
markets with young and growing populations. These countries
often have lower penetration rates, or proportions of people
with phones, than more developed European or Persian Gulf
markets.  
 “Our challenge is finding acquisition targets that are
right at the right price,” Kaliaropoulos said. “We are in
discussions. The global economic environment has created
opportunities as prices for assets have come down, but the good
targets people aren’t selling.”  
 Batelco, whose Middle East business includes divisions in
Saudi Arabia and Jordan, could raise about $1.2 billion in debt
to foster expansion outside the region. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is
advising Batelco in pursuing a rating, Kaliaropoulos said. The
company has no plans to sell debt at the moment and will borrow
depending on its needs for acquisitions, he said.  
 The company aims to form “clusters” in regions where it
sees growth and a high level of phone traffic between countries
within those markets, he said. Kaliaropoulos didn’t give further
details on what companies Batelco was pursuing or how advanced
talks were.  
 Competition at Home  
 At home, Batelco’s average revenue per user, an industry
measure of how profitable each client is for the company, has
slumped by 12 percent to 15 percent in the last year to about
$10 now, Kaliaropoulos said.  
 The company said last month that second-quarter profit
declined 20 percent as greater competition in its home market
eroded sales, even as customer numbers rose. Viva, a unit of
 Saudi Telecom Co. , became Bahrain’s third mobile-phone company
when it started services in March. Batelco also competes with
Kuwait’s Mobile Telecommunications Co., known as Zain.  
 Kaliaropoulos said the company has not received any
instructions from government authorities to restrict services of
 Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry smartphone after regulators
in the United Arab Emirates ordered phone companies to cut off
some e-mail and messaging services in October.  
 “There hasn’t been any consultation between us and the
regulator on this,” he said.  
 Bahrain is imposing a ban on sharing of a local news
service on BlackBerry devices to avoid “confusion and chaos,”
 Gulf News  reported April 9.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        