-- Bernanke Says U.S. Consumer Spending to Accelerate
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-08-02T17:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/bernanke-says-consumer-spending-will-accelerate-as-household-incomes-climb.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said rising wages will probably spur household spending
in the next few quarters, even as weak job gains drag down
consumer confidence.  
 While the U.S. has “a considerable way to go” for a full
recovery, “rising demand from households and businesses should
help sustain growth,” Bernanke said today in a speech in
Charleston, South Carolina. “We are maintaining strong monetary
policy support for the recovery,” he said in response to an
audience question, without discussing any further action the Fed
could take to aid growth.  
 The remarks signal Bernanke and his colleagues, when they
meet in Washington next week, will stop short of making major
changes in their policy statement or taking new steps to lower
interest rates and reduce unemployment, said  John Ryding , a
former Fed researcher. Consumer spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, “seems likely to pick up in
coming quarters from its recent modest pace,” Bernanke said.  
 “Further action still has a pretty high hurdle to get
over,” said Ryding, co-founder and chief economist at RDQ
Economics LLC in New York. “The status quo on policy remains.”  
 Fed policy makers are now starting to consider how to
bolster the recovery and reduce unemployment after a year of
developing tools to remove record monetary stimulus.  
 A report July 30 showed that the U.S. economy, recovering
from the worst recession since the 1930s, slowed to a 2.4
percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than forecast,
as a scarcity of jobs eroded consumer spending.  
 ‘Moderate Pace’  
 The economy “is now expanding at a moderate pace,”
Bernanke said to the Southern Legislative Conference, a group of
lawmakers from 15 states including Georgia, Texas and Virginia.
“To be sure, notable restraints on the recovery persist,”
including housing, commercial real estate and the labor market,
he said.  
 A lesson from the Great Depression is that “we need to
make sure that monetary policy continues to provide support the
economy needs until we begin to see sustained growth and
particularly growth in jobs,” Bernanke said in response to an
audience question.  
 The Fed chief devoted most of the speech to current and
long-term budget issues for state and local governments. States
are cutting spending to close a combined $84 billion of budget
deficits. The reductions are “weighing on economic activity,”
Bernanke said.  
 Investor Confidence  
 Treasuries fell for the first time in four days as a report
showed U.S. manufacturing expanded for a 12th-straight month,
giving investors the confidence to seek higher returns than
those available from government debt. The yield on the 10-year
note climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
2.945 percent at 1:10 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data.  
 Bernanke and the Fed’s Open Market Committee gather Aug.
10 in Washington to discuss interest rates and the economy.  
 Options outlined last month by Bernanke to aid growth and
keep rates low include using communication to convey the path of
borrowing costs, reduce the rate the Fed pays on excess reserves
deposited with the central bank and expand the balance sheet
through asset purchases. He didn’t discuss the options today.  
 The Fed signaled in June that Europe’s debt crisis may harm
U.S. growth and repeated a pledge to keep interest rates near
zero “for an extended period.” The central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate almost to zero in December 2008 and
turned to purchases of Treasury, housing-agency and mortgage-
backed securities as the main tool of monetary policy.  
 Economy Expanded  
 The U.S. economy expanded at a 3.7 percent annual pace in
the first quarter and 5 percent in the last three months of
2009, according to revised figures released July 30 by the
government. Employers probably eliminated 63,000 jobs last month
and the jobless rate may have climbed to 9.6 percent, the median
estimates of analysts in a Bloomberg News survey for an Aug. 6
monthly Labor Department report.  
 Financial conditions “have become somewhat less supportive
of economic growth in recent months,” Bernanke said,
reiterating a point from the June FOMC statement. European
officials’ aid for Greece and backstop financing, along with
stress tests of the continent’s banks, “appear to have reduced
concerns in financial markets about European prospects.”  
 In the U.S., “inflation has been low,” and the Fed
expects it to “remain subdued over the next couple of years,”
Bernanke said.  
 Economy Might Contract  
 Alan Greenspan , Bernanke’s predecessor as Fed chief from
1987 to 2006, said in an NBC interview broadcast yesterday that
the slowing U.S. recovery feels like a “quasi-recession” and
the economy might contract again if home prices decline.  
 Last week, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said the
central bank should resume purchases of Treasury securities if
the economy slows and prices fall rather than maintain a pledge
to keep rates near zero. “The U.S. is closer to a Japanese-
style outcome today than at any time in recent history,”
Bullard said, warning about the possibility of deflation.  
 Other Fed policy makers are skeptical about taking further
action to bolster monetary stimulus. “Talk of new efforts to
stimulate the economy are premature right now,” Philadelphia
Fed President  Charles Plosser  said in a July 26 interview with
Bloomberg News. “I don’t think the data have been sufficiently
compelling one way or another.”  
 Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  told reporters last
week that he doesn’t “see any deflationary net pressure.”  
 ‘Substantial Pressure’  
 For state governments, while budgets will “probably remain
under substantial pressure for a while,” revenue may increase
in some states for fiscal 2011 and the municipal bond market
“has remained reasonably receptive this year to most borrowers,
with rates low and new issuance relatively solid,” Bernanke
said.  
 In the longer term, states must deal with unfunded pension
liabilities of as much as $2 trillion and a potential collective
liability of $600 billion for retiree health benefits, Bernanke
said.  
 “I don’t think these problems can be solved simply through
across-the-board cuts in existing state programs,” Bernanke
said. “Instead, states should intensively review the
effectiveness of all of their programs and be willing to make
significant changes to deliver necessary services at lower
cost.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Charleston at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bernanke said rising wages will probably spur spending  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, delivers his semiannual monetary policy report. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, delivers his semiannual monetary policy report. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at the Trust Company of the West, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Sri-Kumar, speaking from Los Angeles, also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy and Federal Reserve monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
