-- Black Keys Swing Central Park, Chicago Festival Boasts Pavement
-- Jaime Widder
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/black-keys-swing-in-central-park-chicago-boasts-pavement-august-music.html

          
          
             The Black Keys, two ordinary-looking
dudes from Akron, Ohio, treated a sold-out crowd in Central Park
to bluesy rock last week as part of New York City’s free
 SummerStage  concerts.  
 Singer-guitarist Dan Auerbach and drummer Patrick Carney
opened with “Thickfreakness,” the title track from their
second album. A few songs later they went into “The Breaks”
from their 2002 debut.  
 Auerbach said they “recorded this when we were kids... We
still sort of are kids.”  
 Formed in 2001, the Black Keys has released six albums,
keeping fans and critics pleased. The latest, “Brothers,”
finds the pair wading into the mainstream with a May 18 debut at
No. 3 on the Billboard charts.  
 How does a duo do it, soundwise? “The Breaks” was
typical. Dirty distorted guitar chomped through the song, with
Auerbach alternating single chords and held notes -- reminiscent
of  Neil Young ’s Crazy Horse incarnations. Over this came his
soft and smooth vocals and Kearney’s rippling drum work.  
 With any two-piece, there are limitations, so keyboardist
Leon Michels and bassist Nick Movshon came on for some material.
After a timid start, the sound filled out with “Everlasting
Light,” which had Dan stretching to falsetto and felt like a
great take on T-Rex. “Next Girl” and “Howlin’ for You” also
showed that four was the magic number to play these live.  
 The Black Keys will continue to tour the U.S. through
October hitting the  Lollapalooza  and  Austin City Limits 
festivals before heading to Europe for the conclusion of their
tour.  
 Pavement Returns  
 Chicago’s Union Park played host to the fifth Pitchfork
Music Festival, July 16-18, with headliners including Modest
Mouse, LCD Soundsystem and Pavement.  The sellout drew 18,000
each day to an event with a grass-roots vibe, scant corporate
sponsorship and an intimacy at all three stages.  
 Many of the acts have New York area dates in the near
future. Sweden’s Robyn, a pop dance performer who warmed up the
Friday crowd with catchy songs from her latest release, “Body
Talk Pt. 1,” will be at  Webster Hall  Aug. 4-5.  
 Rock veterans Modest Mouse closed Friday and got the crowd
shouting along with “Tiny Cities Made of Ashes.” The
understated rodent plays at  Williamsburg Waterfront  Sept. 14.  
 On Saturday, Chicago’s Smith Westerns put together one of
the day’s most surprising sets. Offering material from the self-
titled debut album, the band managed to be both refined and
crass while its psychedelic garage-rock sound combined foggy
vocals and dripping guitar effects that fit right with the humid
weather. The Smith Westerns perform tonight at  Bowery Ballroom .  
 Poor Panda Bear  
 The other side of the coin was the letdown of Panda Bear’s
Saturday set. As one third of the band Animal Collective, Noah
Lennox -- Panda Bear’s real name - released in 2007 one of the
decade’s best albums with “Person Pitch.”  
 His 40-minute set, however, ignored that material and
focused almost solely on the coming release “Tomboy.” The
crowd seemed lost. Panda Bear performs Sept. 11 at  Governors
Island .  
 As Saturday’s closer, LCD Soundsystem transformed Union
Park into a full-on party. During “All My Friends,” glow
sticks flew overhead and smiles abounded. Everyone left soaked
with happy sweat. LCD Soundsystem is rumored to be playing New
York soon.  
 California’s Local Natives on Sunday showcased flawless
harmonies and infectious material, from their powerful cover of
the Talking Heads’ “Warning Sign” to several songs from debut
album “Gorilla Manor.” The band performs Aug. 7 at Governors
Island.  
 ‘Cut Your Hair’  
 Indie-rock pioneers Pavement closed out the weekend in
grand style. The band opened with “Cut Your Hair” and struck a
chord with countless attendees estranged from their barbers and
stylists. Emotions were high for a beloved group just back from
more than a decade’s break.  
 The music wasn’t flawless, but perfection isn’t what you
come to see in Pavement. It’s the essence of tunes like “Range
Life,” “Stereo,” “Shady Lane,” and “Spit on a Stranger”
that exemplified the diversity in sound and impact on bands
today.  
 Pavement performs Sept. 21-24 at Central Park SummerStage
and Sept. 19 at the Williamsburg Waterfront.  
 Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in August. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets:  

 

Aug. 2
Wavves/The Smith Westerns/Total Slacker at Bowery Ballroom
Aug. 3
Dead Weather/Harlem at Prospect Park Bandshell
Aug. 4
Arcade Fire/Spoon/Owen Pallett at Madison Square Garden (SO)
Hot Chip/Hercules and Love Affair at Central Park SummerStage
Aug. 5
Arcade Fire/Spoon/Owen Pallett at Madison Square Garden (SO)
Metric/Joan as Police Woman/Holly Miranda at Prospect Park
Bandshell (Free)
Aug. 6
Yacht at South Street Seaport (Free)
Aug. 7
Local Natives/We Barbarians/Young Man at Governors Island
Aug. 8
Cut Copy/Memory Tapes/Restless People/Glasser at Williamsburg
Waterfront (Free)
Aug. 9
Empire of the Sun at Terminal 5 (SO)
Aug. 10
Acrylics/Sebastian Blanck at Cake Shop
Aug. 11
Memoryhouse/Twin Sister/Oberhofer at Mercury Lounge
Wild Beasts/Lone Wolf/The Kissaway Trail at Highline Ballroom
Aug. 12
Deerhunter/Real Estate at Pier 54 (Free)
Grizzly Bear/The Walkmen/Gang Gang Dance at Governors Island
Aug. 13
Deer Tick at Webster Hall
Aug. 14
Neon Indian/Nite Jewel/Prefuse 73/DOM at Governors Island (Free)
Aug. 15
!!!/Lee Fields and the Expressions/The Strange Boys/Future
Islands at Williamsburg Waterfront (Free)
Aug. 16
Clinic at Bell House
Aug. 17
Phish at Jones Beach (SO)
Sean Bones/Twin Shadow/New Numbers at Mercury Lounge
Aug. 18
Phish at Jones Beach (SO)
Aug. 19
Titus Andronicus/Free Energy at Maxwell’s
Aug. 20
Black Joe Lewis and the Honeybears/Hacienda at Maxwell’s
O’Death/Jonny Corndawg at the Rock Shop
Aug. 21
Hacienda at Mercury Lounge
Aug. 22
Chromeo at Williamsburg Waterfront (Free)
Aug. 24
Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers/My Morning Jacket at IZOD Center
Aug. 25
Tennis/Ducktails/Family Portrait at Cake Shop
Aug. 26
Autolux at Bowery Ballroom
Aug. 27
DJ/rupture/Tanlines at Whitney Museum (Free)
Aug. 28
Rock the Bells at Governors Island
Aug. 29
Delorean/Dominique Young Unique at Williamsburg Waterfront
(Free)
Aug. 30
Black Mountain at Knitting Factory
Aug. 31
Light Pollution at the Rock Shop
 
 ( Jaime Widder  works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Black Keys  
                       
                         
                           Paul Meier via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Black Keys at the Summer Stage in Central Park. Both singer-guitarist Dan Auerbach and drummer Patrick Kearney are from Akron, Ohio. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Black Keys at the Summer Stage in Central Park. Both singer-guitarist Dan Auerbach and drummer Patrick Kearney are from Akron, Ohio. Photographer: Paul Meier via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Dan Auerbach  
                       
                         
                           Paul Meier via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Dan Auerbach of The Black Keys at the Summer Stage in Central Park.  The band's latest album, "Brothers," was released on May 18th, on Nonesuch Records. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Dan Auerbach of The Black Keys at the Summer Stage in Central Park.  The band's latest album, "Brothers," was released on May 18th, on Nonesuch Records.  Photographer: Paul Meier via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Patrick Carney  
                       
                         
                           Paul Meier via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Drummer Patrick Carney of the band The Black Keys at the Summer Stage in Central Park. The band formed in 2001 and has released six albums. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Drummer Patrick Carney of the band The Black Keys at the Summer Stage in Central Park. The band formed in 2001 and has released six albums. Photographer: Paul Meier via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pavement  
                       
                         
                           Domino Records via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Members of the band Pavement. After a decade long hiatus, the band has returned to the road in 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Members of the band Pavement. After a decade long hiatus, the band has returned to the road in 2010. Source: Domino Records via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       James Murphy  
                       
                         
                           Ruvan 
                         
                         Frontman James Murphy of the band LCD Soundsystem. The band's final, farewell
show will be at Madison Square Garden on Saturday night. 
Wijesooriya/Nasty Little Man via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Frontman James Murphy of the band LCD Soundsystem. The band's final, farewell
show will be at Madison Square Garden on Saturday night. Photographer: Ruvan
Wijesooriya/Nasty Little Man via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Animal Collective  
                       
                         
                           Takahiro Imamura/MOTORMOUTHMEDIA via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Members of the band Animal Collective. Noah Lennox (aka Panda Bear), a member of the band, will perform at Governors Island on Sept. 11. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Members of the band Animal Collective. Noah Lennox (aka Panda Bear), a member of the band, will perform at Governors Island on Sept. 11. Photographer: Takahiro Imamura/MOTORMOUTHMEDIA via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Arcade Fire  
                       
                         
                           Eric Kayne/Merge Records via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Members of the Canadian band Arcade Fire. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Members of the Canadian band Arcade Fire. Photographer: Eric Kayne/Merge Records via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       'The Suburbs'  
                       
                         
                           Merge Records via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The CD cover of "The Suburbs'' by Arcade Fire, the Canadian band's third album. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The CD cover of "The Suburbs'' by Arcade Fire, the Canadian band's third album. Source: Merge Records via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
