-- Blackstone Group Said to Buy Hawaii Mall, Warehouse Stake for $859 Million
-- Hui-yong Yu
-- 2010-08-02T23:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/blackstone-said-to-buy-mall-in-oahu-plus-warehouse-stake-for-859-million.html

          
          
             Blackstone Group LP  agreed to buy a
shopping mall in Hawaii with Glimcher Realty Trust and a stake
in a warehouse venture with ProLogis for a combined $859
million, said two people with knowledge of the deals.  
 Blackstone is buying the Pearlridge Center on Oahu with
Columbus, Ohio-based  Glimcher  for $242 million, the people said.
The private equity firm also agreed to buy Eaton Vance Corp.’s
80 percent stake in a joint venture with ProLogis, the world’s
biggest warehouse owner, for $105 million plus $512 million in
assumed debt, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  
 Industrial landlords are struggling to fill space and
maintain rents after the U.S. recession, while Blackstone and
Glimcher have been looking for retail acquisitions since they
formed a partnership in March.  
 “We are actively looking for quality transactions with
Blackstone but we don’t have any transactions to report at this
time,”  Lisa Indest , senior vice president for finance and
accounting at Glimcher, said today in a telephone interview.  
 Jean Towell, a spokeswoman for Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance Co., which is selling the Oahu property, confirmed the
transaction with Blackstone. She said she couldn’t immediately
confirm the price.  
 “We’re certainly selling the property,” Towell said.
“It’s part of our active portfolio management for our real
estate.”  
 Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone, and
 Robyn Tice , a spokeswoman for Eaton Vance, declined to comment.
Krista Shepard, a spokeswoman for ProLogis, said the company’s
policy is not to comment on market speculation.  
 The deals were reported earlier today by the Wall Street
Journal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        