-- BNP Paribas Profit Rises 31% as Loan Provisions Fall
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2010-08-02T16:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/bnp-paribas-profit-rises-31-beating-estimates-as-loan-provisions-drop.html

          
          
             BNP Paribas SA , France’s biggest
bank, said second-quarter profit rose 31 percent as bad-loan
provisions dropped to the lowest level since before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy.  
 BNP Paribas climbed 5.3 percent in Paris trading after
saying net income rose to 2.11 billion euros ($2.76 billion),
topping the 1.61 billion-euro estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 Profits at  BNP Paribas ’s branch networks in France, Belgium
and the U.S. rose, more than offsetting a drop in corporate- and
investment-banking earnings. BNP Paribas, like competitors
 Deutsche Bank AG  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., had a drop in
trading revenue in the quarter as concerns about swollen budget
deficits dragged down the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal
and roiled stock markets.  
 “It wasn’t a great quarter for investment banking, but the
other businesses are improving,” said  Simon Maughan , a London-
based analyst at MF Global Securities Ltd., who rates the stock
“buy.” “Their diversified model shows its strength.”  
 BNP Paribas’s  purchase  of Fortis operations during the
depths of the financial crisis helped buoy profit. The bank’s
overall provisions from doubtful loans fell 54 percent to 1.08
billion euros from a year earlier, the lowest since the second
quarter of 2008.  
 Loan Losses Decline  
 BNP Paribas’ doubtful-loan provisions overall “should
continue to slowly decline over the next few quarters,” Chief
Executive Officer  Baudouin Prot  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “I have no reason to believe that this trend should
reverse anytime soon. It’s a positive for BNP Paribas and it’s a
positive for the economy overall.”  
 At the corporate and investment bank, revenue dropped 30
percent from a year earlier as sales from advisory and capital
markets declined 50 percent. Fixed-income revenues were affected
by “the considerable contraction in primary markets, the
widening credit spreads and the sharp rise in volatility,” the
bank said.  
 European  banks rallied  last week as all but seven of 91
European Union lenders passed stress tests, and as regulators
said they would soften rules proposed for the industry. French
banks are among the biggest beneficiaries of the changes in
proposed rules on capital and liquidity announced July 26 by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, analysts said.  
 Stress Tests, Basel  
 BNP Paribas   rose  2.78 euros to 55.49 euros in Paris today,
valuing the company at 66.5 billion euros. That follows a 5.8
percent gain last week.  Societe Generale , France’s No. 2 bank by
market value, climbed 16 percent last week and  Credit Agricole 
SA, the third-largest bank in France, jumped 12 percent. Societe
Generale and Credit Agricole are also based in Paris.  
 The stress tests showed that  BNP Paribas  has more than 20
billion euros of excess capital under the “worst case
scenario,” the company said. Its total net exposure to Greece,
Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Italy amounted to 34 billion euros
at the end of March, compared with 17.9 billion euros at Credit
Agricole and 10.6 billion euros at Societe Generale, the French
banking regulator said on July 23.  
 Investment Bank, Retail  
 Pretax  profit  at BNP Paribas’s corporate- and investment-
banking division fell 7.3 percent to 1.28 billion euros, beating
the 1.19 billion-euro estimate of analysts. The second-quarter
advisory- capital-markets revenue of 1.53 billion euros “is a
level from which we can hope to do better, especially in the
equities business,” Prot told reporters today in Paris.  
 BNP Paribas’ equity and advisory business, whose revenue
declined 66 percent to 268 million euros, remained profitable in
the second quarter as the bank had hedging costs as part of a
“rather conservative” risk management policy, Prot said.  
 “This quarter, for the first time since the second quarter
2007, provision write-backs exceeded new provisions,” BNP
Paribas said. The unit’s loan book “saw no new significant
doubtful loans.”  
 BNP Paribas’s French branch network had second-quarter
pretax earnings of 479 million euros, up from 414 million euros
a year earlier, the bank said. The consumer-banking unit in
Belgium and Luxembourg had a 156 million-euro pretax profit,
compared with a 26 million-euro loss last year.  
 BancWest Profit  
 BancWest, BNP Paribas’s U.S. branch network, had a 153
million-euro pretax profit, compared with a 62 million-euro loss
last year. BNP Paribas is seeking “a growth drive in the United
States, taking advantage of the group’s new size with large
clients and consolidating BancWest’s return to profit,” it
said.  
 Pretax profit at BNP Paribas’s investment-solutions unit,
which includes asset management, private banking and insurance,
rose 32 percent to 473 million euros, the bank said. The asset-
management unit had 8.9 billion euros of outflows in the quarter
because of “customers’ greater aversion to risk” as equity
markets fell and credit spreads widened, BNP Paribas said.  
 Pretax earnings from branch networks in “Europe-
Mediterranean” countries including Poland and Turkey was 20
million euros in the second quarter, compared with a 39 million-
euro loss last year.  
 Following the Fortis purchase, BNP Paribas has 640 branches
in Turkey and 240 in Poland. BNP Paribas in Poland has almost 2
percent of consumer-banking market share and plans to increase
that to 4 percent over the “medium term,” excluding the
effects of acquisitions, Chief Operating Officer  Jean-Laurent Bonnafe  told analysts on a call.  
 “BNP Paribas in its new dimension has no need for
acquisitions,” Prot told reporters today. BNP Paribas will
maintain “discipline” on possible takeovers, Prot said,
without mentioning any specific acquisition plan.  
 Pretax profit at the Italian consumer-banking network, BNL,
fell 21 percent to 100 million euros, hurt by higher bad-loan
provisions from loans to small- and medium-sized companies, the
bank said. BNL’s provisions “should stay at this level for at
least one or two quarters,” Bonnafe said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pedestrians pass a branch of BNP Paribas  
                       
                         
                           Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pedestrians pass a branch of BNP Paribas in Paris. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pedestrians pass a branch of BNP Paribas in Paris. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
