-- Boozy Bankers Toss Cash; Lesbian Love Fizzles in Salzburg
-- Shirley Apthorp
-- 2010-08-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/boozy-bankers-toss-cash-lesbian-love-fizzles-in-salzburg.html

          
          
             Men in dinner jackets and women in
backless dresses are quaffing champagne and trading stocks at
the Felsenreitschule in Salzburg, Austria.  
 The  Vienna Philharmonic  sits mutely on stage as soused
bankers shout across the audience and hurl handfuls of 500 euro
($659.45) bills into the air. The shares have crashed.  
 The third act of  Alban Berg ’s “Lulu” caused a small
flurry of excitement in Salzburg on Aug. 1 when director Vera
Nemirova staged the action beneath disco balls in the middle of
the audience. It was the only hint of scandal in an otherwise
depressingly tame premiere. “Lulu” was the third in a row of
lame operatic first nights at this year’s  Salzburg Festival ,
provoking just one loud boo amid tired applause at the end of a
four-hour evening.  
 Nemirova teamed up with German painter  Daniel Richter  for
a coldly abstract staging in the cavernous hall. A glamorous
cast and gaudy backdrops failed to make this premiere the
highlight it could have been. Nemirova presented Berg’s
shocking femme fatale as a historic archetype, reducing her
murderous seductive power to a series of flat cliches. Not even
lesbian Countess Geschwitz’s selfless love could elicit a
frisson from the overdressed audience members, who paid up to
330 euros a seat.  
 Steamy Lulu  
 In the title role, Patricia Petibon was fragile, doll-
like, and scantily clad. She sang with scorching intensity,
surrounded by a cast of outstanding men. Pavol Breslik had his
shirt off within minutes as the passionate painter, Michael
Volle was commanding and sinister as the compromised Dr.
Schoen, Franz Grundheber made an unusually virile and
extroverted Schigolch, usually the opera’s most shadowy figure.  
 Marc Albrecht drew gorgeous sounds from the orchestra,
ranging from silky to violent, and made sure his singers could
all be heard. This musically outstanding evening was marred by
Nemirova’s insipid staging. It revealed nothing new about one
of literature’s most fascinating figures, and was infinitely
less progressive than  Peter Mussbach ’s multilayered staging of
the same piece in Salzburg 15 years earlier.  
 Still, it was gripping in comparison to the previous
evening’s premiere of Gluck’s “Orfeo ed Euridice.” For this,
conductor  Riccardo Muti  held center stage, strangling every
ounce of life from Gluck’s revolutionary score. It was an
evening for old men, a monument to the moribund rule of 69-
year-old Festival Director Juergen Flimm. Muti, also 69, is
known for his taste for dreary productions. He found his match
in 74-year-old director Dieter Dorn and 72-year-old designer
Juergen Rose, who staged an “Orfeo” in which almost nothing
happened.  
 Bad Trousers  
 Elisabeth Kulman, singing the title role in an
unflattering trouser suit, had her work cut out filling the
huge Grosses Festspielhaus, a venue that would have been too
big for this opera even without the cinemascope stage. Genia
Kuehmeier, even more unfortunately dressed in a sack-like red
frock, also struggled to be heard above the din as Euridice.  
 Muti’s take on Gluck is reactionary. Tempi are leaden,
phrases are limp, vibrato is lathered over everything. In his
iron grip, the Vienna Philharmonic sounds dour and toothless.
Mercilessly, he adds all the ballet music of the 1762 Vienna
version, which is often cut. In place of dancing, Dorn stages a
parody of collective marital strife, letting the men and women
of the chorus hurl flowers to the floor and beat each other.
It’s the only touch of levity in a disappointing performance.  
 Not even  Wolfgang Rihm ’s “Dionysos,” the festival’s
world premiere four nights earlier, caused a stir. Rihm’s score
was a regressive pastiche of Strauss, Bach and Berg to a text
that was staggeringly static and impenetrable.  
 The festival continues through Aug. 30, with a large
program of concerts, plenty of theater, and one more opera
premiere. Things can only improve.  
 Information:  http://www.salzburgfestival.com . The
festival’s sponsors include Siemens AG, Nestle SA, Uniqa
Versicherungen AG and Volkswagen AG’s Audi AG.  
 ( Shirley Apthorp  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Shirley Apthorp at  Sarabande@me.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Lulu"  
                       
                         
                           Monika Rittershaus/Salzburg Festival via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Michael Volle and Patricia Petibon in "Lulu" in Salzburg, Austria. The Berg's opera was part of the Salzburg Festival. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Michael Volle and Patricia Petibon in "Lulu" in Salzburg, Austria. The Berg's opera was part of the Salzburg Festival. Photographer: Monika Rittershaus/Salzburg Festival via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Lulu"  
                       
                         
                           Monika Rittershaus/Salzburg Festival via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Patricia Petibon in "Lulu" in Salzburg, Austria. The Alban Berg opera was part of the Salzburg Festival. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Patricia Petibon in "Lulu" in Salzburg, Austria. The Alban Berg opera was part of the Salzburg Festival. Photographer: Monika Rittershaus/Salzburg Festival via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
