-- Bovespa Stock Index Gains, Paring 2010 Drop, on Rate Outlook, Commodities
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-08-02T20:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/bovespa-stock-index-futures-gain-on-commodity-rally-easing-rate-concern.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index gained
for an 11th day, paring its 2010 drop to 0.1 percent, as
commodity prices rose and traders speculated central banks in
Brazil and China will slow policies to curb credit growth.  
 Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron ore miner, surged after
China’s manufacturing growth slowed. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the
state-controlled oil company, jumped as oil surged above $81 a
barrel for the first time since May.  Empresas Brasileiro de
Aeronautical SA  jumped for a fourth day as Credit Suisse Group
AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended adding to holdings of
the stock.  
 “You’re seeing a return to risk and people pricing in a
smaller budget for monetary policy,” said  Fabio Spinoza , who
helps oversee $1 billion as equity strategist at Sao Paulo-based
Quest Investimentos Ltda., the hedge fund run by former
Communications Minister  Luiz Carlos Mendon de Barros . “There’s
the prevailing question of less hikes and at the same time
commodity stocks are rebounding.”  
 The Bovespa index climbed 1.5 percent to 68,517.46. The
measure has climbed for 11 days, the longest stretch since
August 2003. Two stocks gained on the index for every one that
fell. The measure rallied on July 30, completing the biggest
monthly advance in more than a year, after Brazilian companies
reported a jump in profit. The real gained 0.1 percent to 1.7527
per dollar today from 1.7549 on July 30.  
 Copper Rallies  
 Copper, a bellwether for global growth, rose to a three-
month high in London, wiping out this year’s drop, on
speculation China’s government may cut back on policy
tightening. China is Brazil’s biggest trade partner and the
world’s biggest consumer of metals.  
 Vale, whose biggest export market it China, jumped 3.4
percent to 44.10 reais. Steelmaker  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA ,
which also produces iron ore, gained 1.9 percent to 29.80 reais.  
 The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 51.2 in July from
52.1 in June, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on
its website yesterday. That was the lowest since China’s
manufacturing stopped contracting in March 2009 and was less
than the median forecast of 51.4 in a Bloomberg News survey of
15 economists. A reading above 50 shows an expansion.  
 Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, advanced 2.9 percent to
25.51 reais.  
 Analysts covering Brazil’s economy cut their year-end
interest rate forecast to 11.50 percent from the current 10.75
percent, down from a week earlier forecast of 11.75 percent,
according to the median estimate in a July 30 central bank
survey of about 100 economists published today.  
 Slower Growth  
 Slowing manufacturing growth in Brazil also bolstered
speculation policy makers will pare rate increases. Brazil’s
HSBC Purchasing Managers’ Index for the manufacturing sector
fell to 51.8 in July compared with 52.7 in June, Markit
Economics said today on their website. A reading above 50 shows
an expansion.  
 Embraer gained 1 percent to 11.61 reais. The world’s
fourth-biggest aircraft maker was raised to “outperform” from
“underperform” at Credit Suisse, which said earnings will
benefit as the company wins orders amid growing global air
traffic.  
 ‘Benign Environment’  
 “After several quarters of declining backlog and tough
revenue and margin environment, we think Embraer is entering
into a more benign environment,” Credit Suisse analysts
including  Luiz Otavio Campos  wrote in a note to clients dated
yesterday.  
 Embraer was also raised to “neutral” from “underweight”
by JPMorgan analyst  Joseph Nadol .  
 Brazilian stocks are more attractive after the central bank
moderated the pace of interest-rate increases and are “less
exposed” than Mexico’s to the prospect of a global economic
slowdown, Credit Suisse said.  
 Investors should remain “overweight” Brazilian equities,
buying financial, real-estate and industrial stocks best
positioned to gain from domestic growth, Credit Suisse analysts
including  Andrew T. Campbell  wrote in a note to clients dated
yesterday.  
 Natura Cosmeticos SA, Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker,
fell after Banco Santander SA cut its rating on the shares,
saying a rally already reflects future earnings growth.  
 Natura dropped 2.6 percent to 44.50 reais.  
 Natura now trades at a “pricey” valuation of 22.6 times
Santander’s estimated 2011 earnings, a 66 percent premium to
international competitors, Santander analysts  Joaquin Ley  and
 Tobias Stingelin  wrote in a note to clients today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        