-- Bow Energy, LNG Ltd. Enter into Talks on Potential Natural Gas Accords
-- James Paton
-- 2010-08-02T02:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/bow-energy-lng-ltd-enter-into-talks-on-potential-natural-gas-accords.html

          
          
             Bow Energy Ltd.  and Liquefied Natural
Gas Ltd., the developer of the proposed $1.3 billion Fisherman’s
Landing project in Australia’s Queensland state, said they are
discussing a number of potential transactions.  
 The talks that are continuing may not lead to a binding
agreement, Brisbane-based Bow and Perth-based LNG Ltd. said in
separate statements today to the Australian stock exchange.  
 LNG Ltd. has been in negotiations with two companies to
supply natural gas to the Fisherman’s Landing venture and
expects to make an announcement on an accord by the end of this
quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Maurice Brand  said in a July 30
phone interview. Bow is interested in feeding gas to the project,
Chief Executive Officer  John De Stefani  said May 18.  
 LNG Ltd. , whose shares have doubled over the past month,
rose as much as 12 percent to 66.5 Australian cents in Sydney
trading, compared with a gain of 0.9 percent for the S&P/ASX 200
Index. Bow advanced as much as 3.9 percent to A$1.34.  
 LNG Ltd. aims to replace supplies from Arrow Energy Ltd.,
which agreed in March to be acquired by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc 
and PetroChina Co. LNG Ltd. also is seeking to sign up a partner
to invest in Fisherman’s Landing and buy fuel from the proposed
plant on the Queensland coast, Brand said. LNG Ltd. may sell as
much as 80 percent of the project to a partner, he said in May.  
 LNG Ltd. is considering three more LNG project concepts in
Australia and two in Papua New Guinea, Brand said last week.  
 The Arrow takeover gives Shell reserves for a proposed LNG
venture on Curtis Island. Arrow previously had planned to supply
gas to Fisherman’s Landing to support a 1.5 million metric ton-
a-year LNG processing unit and had signed a preliminary pact
with LNG Ltd. to buy the entire project.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        