-- BP Ex-Employees Deny Wrongdoing in Singapore Lawsuit
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-08-02T08:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/bp-former-head-of-residues-trading-denies-wrongdoing-in-singapore-suit.html

          
          
             (Corrects to delete misuse of confidential information in
third paragraph.)  
 Quek Chin Thean, a former  BP Plc (BP/)  head
of commodities trading who’s being sued for misusing
confidential information to help rival Shenzhen  Brightoil (933)  Group,
has denied any wrongdoing in papers filed at a  Singapore  court.  
 “I have never at any time during my employment with BP
compromised BP’s interests,” Quek said in the papers filed with
the Singapore High Court on July 29.  
 BP claimed in a July 5 lawsuit Quek and five others
breached their obligations and accepted a sign-on fee from
Brightoil. Quek and legal manager Simon Cheong also lured
another 14 BP colleagues to quit en masse and “actively
assisted” Brightoil in setting up a competing business, BP
said.  
 Chinese companies including  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp (600028) ,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, and Brightoil have been acquiring
assets and adding traders as they expand overseas and seek to
meet demand in the world’s largest energy-consuming nation. BP
may also be losing employees after the Gulf of Mexico  oil spill ,
Quek said.  
 Quek denied engineering the mass departures from BP. The
London-based company changed the way bonuses were paid from
2007, causing “unhappiness and distrust” among the traders, he
said.  
 BP accused five of them, excluding Cheong, of misusing
confidential information.  
 ‘Musical Chairs’  
 Asia’s oil trading industry is seeing “musical chairs
movement” as regional economies expand, Liu Yiling and Annie
Sachdev, consultants at London-based recruitment firm  Robert
Walters Plc (RWA)  said in an e-mail. “Traders often move via
referrals and their personal networks due to the small and
competitive nature of the oil industry.”  
 Lau Lu Ching, a Singapore-based BP spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  
 The six former workers being sued include head of
operations Paul John Bradshaw, trading manager John Foo,
regional operating unit manager Clarence Chang, and executive
assistant Laura Kuan.  
 They had “access to and possessed intricate knowledge” of
BP’s business strategies and trade secrets, the oil company
said. Unauthorized disclosure of the information would harm BP
“immeasurably” and create a “significant new competitor that
is well aware of our trading strategies,” BP said.  
 All six said they have never misused the confidential
information, according to their affidavits.  
 BP, which reported  a record loss  of $17.2 billion in the
second quarter, replaced Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward 
and has pledged to speed up asset sales of as much as $30
billion after the oil spill led to a record loss.  
 40 Workers Left  
 The oil company has operated in Singapore, Asia’s biggest
oil-trading hub, since 1964 and has 640 employees in the city
state, according to  BP’s website . At least 40 employees have
left BP’s Eastern Hemisphere trading operations since the start
of the year, said Quek, who worked at BP since 1992.  
 The residues trading division has been “under constant
pressure” to boost profits and “fear tactics” were used by BP
to manage the team, he said. “BP was treating its staff as
commodities.”  
 BP, which had search orders for the homes of the group and
their personal electronic equipment, has asked the court for a
temporary order preventing the six using the information.  
 All six asked the court to set aside the search orders,
claiming they are “extremely intrusive and oppressive.” The
court is scheduled to privately hear the application to quash
the search orders on Aug. 17.  
 BP uncovered evidence of e-mail correspondence between Quek
and Brightoil Chairman Raymond Sit Kwong Lam as well as Vice
President Michael Zhang, indicating they planned to set up a
Singapore-based oil-trading firm, according to court papers.
Brightoil isn’t named as a defendant in this lawsuit.  
 The British  oil company  said it lost the opportunity to
address any human-resources issues and stem the loss of its
staff as a result of the sudden and mass resignations of “so
many valuable employees.”  
 The case is BP Singapore Pte vs Quek Chin Thean & Ors
S482/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        