-- BP Gulf Well Spewed About 4.1 Million Barrels, U.S. Government Panel Says
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-08-03T01:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/bp-s-damaged-well-has-spewed-about-4-9-million-barrels-of-oil-u-s-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s Macondo well released 4.1
million barrels of oil in the waters of the Gulf of Mexico
before it was capped, a team of scientists said today.  
 An additional 800,000 barrels that flowed from the well
after it started leaking were captured by  BP , the U.S.
government-appointed group said in its most specific estimate
yet of the magnitude of the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 At 4.1 million barrels, the spill would be about 16 times
the amount leaked by the Exxon Valdez, which released an
estimated 257,000 barrels in a 1989 accident.  
 The well was gushing about 62,000 barrels a day when it
started leaking and about 53,000 barrels when it was capped on
July 15, according to an e-mailed  statement  from the U.S.
government’s joint information center. The estimate, made using
pressure readings and oil reservoir modeling, is an update from
the group’s earlier range of 35,000 to 60,000 barrels a day.  
 During the 87 days that the well was leaking, the flow rate
decreased as the reservoir became depleted, according to the
researchers.  
 The spill was triggered April 20 when the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig, which BP leased from  Transocean Ltd. , caught fire
and sank, killing 11 workers.  
 “The revised estimates are part of this administration’s
ongoing commitment to ensuring that we have the most accurate
information possible,” U.S. Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  said in
the statement.  
 ‘Static Kill’ Delayed  
 The new numbers could be used to help determine how much
London-based BP is penalized because federal law requires that
companies that spill oil into the ocean pay a per-barrel fine.  
 BP continues to work on a permanent plug for the well. A
pumping test and a “static kill” at the site will be delayed
until tomorrow after a small hydraulic leak was discovered in
the capping stack hydraulic control system, BP said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 The test will determine whether oil and gas trapped in the
sealed well can be pushed back into the reservoir, BP Senior
Vice President  Kent Wells  said today on a conference call with
reporters.  
 After the test, the company will begin injecting drilling
mud with the goal of clogging the oil and gas reservoir. Static
kill work may extend into Aug. 4, Wells said.  
 The static kill will help  BP  determine whether to try to
plug the well from the top with cement this week, or inject
cement from the bottom via a relief well that may intercept the
damaged hole between Aug. 11 and Aug. 13.  
 Regardless of the result of the test, BP will continue
drilling the relief well it began in May to intercept the
damaged bore, Wells said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Fadel Gheit, oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., discusses BP Plc's efforts to permanently plug the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
