-- BP to Start Pumping Test in Damaged Gulf Well
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-08-02T20:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/bp-to-start-pumping-mud-into-gulf-well-as-company-prepares-permanent-seal.html

          
          
             BP Plc  plans to start pumping a type
of oil into its damaged Gulf of Mexico well as a test today and
will attempt to kill the well from the top tomorrow using
drilling mud.  
 Today’s test will determine whether oil and gas trapped in
the sealed well can be pushed back into the reservoir, BP Senior
Vice President  Kent Wells  said today on a conference call with
reporters. For the test, BP will pump base oil, a refined
product used to make lubricants, to assess how much friction
must be overcome, he said.  
 After that, the company will begin injecting drilling mud,
an effort known as “static kill,” with the goal of clogging
the oil and gas reservoir. Static kill work may extend into Aug.
4, Wells said.  
 “The mud will hold back a lot of the pressure,” Wells
said. Forcing the oil and gas back into the reservoir will mean
“we’ll have hydrostatically controlled or killed the well,” he
said.  
 The Macondo well in the Gulf began spewing as much as
60,000 barrels of oil a day after the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig exploded on April 20. It is the biggest oil spill in U.S.
history. BP, based in London, capped the well on July 15 and is
still working to permanently plug it.  
 BP, which has lost 37 percent of its value since the rig
exploded,  rose  7.15 pence, or 1.8 percent, to 413.1 pence at
4:35 p.m. in London trading. The company has risen 36 percent
since closing at a 14-year low last month.  
 Relief Well  
 The static kill will help  BP  determine whether to try to
plug the well from the top with cement this week, or inject
cement from the bottom via a relief well that may intercept the
damaged hole between Aug. 11 and Aug. 13. Begun in May, the
relief well is 17,864 feet (5,445 meters) below the surface of
the Gulf and Wells said it must go another 100 feet before
intercepting.  
 The weight of the injected mud should reduce or eliminate
pressure on the sealing cap installed last month, Nansen Saleri,
Chief Executive Officer of Quantum Reservoir Impact LLC, a
Houston-based adviser to oil companies on how to improve
production.  
 “They are going to be successful, and they’re going to be
successful quickly,” Saleri, the former chief of reservoir
management for Saudi Arabian Oil Co., said in a July 30
interview. “In six hours, they’ll know.”  
 Killing the Well  
 Regardless of the result of the test, BP will continue
drilling the relief well it began in May to intercept the
damaged bore, Wells said. The bottom of the well was built with
a cement casing that formed an area, called the annulus, around
the drill pipe. Drilling through those from the relief well is
necessary to confirm both the annulus and the drill pipe are
plugged, he said.  
 “We’re going to need the final step of drilling into the
annulus and making sure that the mud effort from the top got
everything done,” National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said
today at a press conference in New Orleans. “You cannot kill
the well without filling the annulus.”  
 The static kill may take 33 hours to 61 hours to complete,
depending on whether just the drill pipe, or both it and the
annulus, must be plugged with mud, Allen said.  
 BP will begin to pump mud at the rate of two barrels per
minute, expecting pressure at the top of the well to fall slowly
as oil and gas is displaced, Allen said. That rate compares with
65 barrels a minute at the peak of BP’s failed effort to plug
the uncapped well with the “top kill” in May.  
 ‘Weather Window’  
 If additional pumping and plugging from the relief well is
required, it may take another several weeks to permanently kill
Macondo, Allen said.  
 The company sees a good “weather window” for its planned
work, Wells said.  
 A tropical depression formed today in the middle of the
Atlantic, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in a bulletin.  
 The official hurricane center track shows the depression
strengthening into a tropical storm and curving to the north
between Bermuda and the U.S. East Coast.  
 “All U.S. interests in the Southeast and the Gulf have to
watch this storm as it develops in the next five days,” said
 Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc.
in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. “The models are having a real tough
problem with it, and I suspect there will be some fairly
dramatic swings.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP will attempt to kill the damaged well from the top  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Transocean Development Driller II works to drill a back-up relief well at the BP Plc Macondo well site. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Transocean Development Driller II works to drill a back-up relief well at the BP Plc Macondo well site. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
