-- Buy Brazil Stocks, Avoid Mexico on Economic Exposure, Credit Suisse Says
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-08-02T18:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/buy-brazil-stocks-avoid-mexico-on-economic-exposure-credit-suisse-says.html

          
          
             Brazilian  stocks  are more attractive
after the central bank moderated the pace of interest-rate
increases and are “less exposed” than Mexico’s to the prospect
of a global economic slowdown, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  
 Investors should remain “overweight” Brazilian equities,
buying financial, real-estate and industrial stocks best
positioned to gain from domestic growth, analysts including
 Andrew T. Campbell  wrote in a note to clients dated yesterday.  
 Brazil policy makers’ monetary tightening cycle probably
ended with last month’s 50 basis-point rise, according to the
note. The central bank in the second half of next year may lower
the benchmark Selic rate to 10 percent from 10.75 percent now,
Credit Suisse said.  
 “Brazil is much better positioned to weather less vigorous
global growth and especially lower growth in the U.S.,”
Campbell wrote.  
 Brazil is also cheaper, even if the outlook for positive
earnings revisions may be more favorable for Mexico, Campbell
said. The benchmark  Bovespa  index trades at 13.2 times estimated
earnings, compared to a ratio of 16.4 for Mexico’s IPC index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Lenders  Itau Unibanco Holding SA  and  Banco do Brasil SA  and
exchange operator  BM&FBovespa SA  are among the most attractive
Brazilian financial stocks, according to Credit Suisse.
Investors should also buy homebuilder  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes  and auto-parts maker  Randon SA
Implementos e Participacoes , the analysts said.  
 The most attractive stocks in Mexico are “defensive”
companies in the telecommunications, retail and beverage
industries because they’re most insulated from slower U.S.
growth, the analysts wrote. Investors should stay
“underweight” in the country as inflation will likely quicken,
ruling out interest-rate reductions, according to Credit Suisse.  
 Wireless carrier  America Movil SAB  and retailer  Wal-Mart de
Mexico SAB  are among the best bets in Mexico, the note said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        