-- California Bond Shortage Shows Most-Indebted State Eludes Borrower Penalty
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/california-bond-shortage-shows-most-indebted-state-eludes-borrower-penalty.html

          
          
             California  bond investors aren’t
forcing the state’s borrowing costs higher amid the month-long
budget impasse, even as Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and
lawmakers say the stalemate may last into next year.  
 That’s because legislation passed in February allows the
state to postpone some expenditures instead of having to issue
IOUs as it did in 2009, said  David Blair , a municipal debt
analyst for Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the
world’s biggest bond  fund.   
 “The state has more flexibility this summer to manage its
cash situation,” Blair, who is based in Newport Beach,
California, said in an e-mail.  
 California, the largest U.S. municipal borrower, began its
fiscal year July 1 without a spending plan as Schwarzenegger and
Democrats remained deadlocked over how to best fill a $19.1
billion deficit. Closed-door negotiations haven’t produced any
compromise, prompting state Controller  John Chiang  to warn he
may need to issue IOUs again to pay bills this month.  
 The  extra yield  investors are demanding on the state’s 10-
year bonds above those of AAA-rated municipal securities stood
at 120 basis points last week, according to Bloomberg Fair Value
Index data. Spreads typically widen when investors perceive
there is more risk. The difference is below the 171-basis-point
spread that the bonds reached on July 1 of last year, just
before the state began issuing IOUs. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 Lawmakers gave Chiang the authority earlier this year to
suspend  $4.7 billion  in payments, including those to schools,
universities and local governments, to conserve money for debt
service and other key expenses.  
 Tax-Exempt Demand  
 Yields on California bonds are also being kept low because
investor demand for tax-exempt bonds that has pushed the rates
on all municipal debt to historic lows, Blair said. Yields on
top-rated, tax-exempt general obligations that mature in 10
years have averaged  2.86 percent  since July 21 and have not
increased since June 15, according to data compiled by Concord-
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  
 Still, California pays a penalty when it borrows because of
its chronic budget problems. A decade ago, the state paid 25
basis below AAA-rated bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Standard & Poor’s, which gives the state its fourth-lowest
investment-grade rating of A-, said June 8 that California’s $69
billion of  outstanding debt  may be downgraded if the current
standoff is protracted. California sold $28 billion of long- and
short-term bonds in the past 12 months, according to Bloomberg
data. The state also has the authority to sell another $41.6
billion.  
 Downgrade Potential  
 “We are always cognizant of Wall Street’s reaction and we
know that the single biggest thing we can do to gain the
confidence of Wall Street is to pass not just a budget but a
fair budget and a balanced budget,” Senate President  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat from Sacramento, said in an interview.
“The tension is all about getting it done and getting it done
right.”  
 Schwarzenegger, a Republican, has proposed $12.4 billion in
spending cuts, including eliminating the state’s main welfare
program. He is also counting on $3.4 billion in additional
federal aid and $3.4 billion in fund shifts, fees and
assessments to erase the gap.  
 The governor has vowed to block tax increases and said July
26 that if he doesn’t get what he wants, including changes to
state pensions, he will leave office in January without signing
a budget. That would be the longest the state has gone without a
spending plan.  
 Democratic Opposition  
 Democrats have resisted his proposed spending cuts and
instead have said the state must raise new revenue, extend
temporary income-tax and vehicle-license fee increases passed
last year and rescind tax credits for businesses. Steinberg said
Democratic leaders will present a new proposal to increase
personal income tax rates by 1 percentage point to a joint
Assembly and Senate budget committee this week.  
 “We believe there is a willingness to pay and the ability
to pay, so it’s a question of getting folks to the table to make
some of the tough decisions,”  Richard Taormina , JPMorgan Chase &
Co. head of municipal strategies, told Bloomberg Television July
30, referring to debt service.  
 New York, the nation’s third-most populous state, has
operated under emergency spending measures since April 1, after
lawmakers and the governor failed to agree on how to close the
deficit.  
 New York  
 New York’s borrowing costs have risen relative to AAA rated
municipal debt since April 1, the start of the state’s fiscal
year, according to Bloomberg data. The spread, or  risk premium ,
between its general-obligation bonds maturing in 10 years and
comparable top-rated debt has widened by 20 basis points since
March 29. New York’s 10-year bonds yield 3.36 percent, or 60
basis points more than AAA securities.  
 Blair, the Pimco analyst, said the market’s reaction could
change and California’s borrowing costs could climb if the state
begins issuing IOUs later this month.  
 “If IOU issuance were to occur, it would likely lead to
spread widening from the current levels,” Blair said.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT , which manages mass-
transit operations in and around Denver, plans to issue $404
million in tax-exempt debt Aug. 5. The bonds, rated Baa3 by
Moody’s, the lowest investment grade, will be used for capital
improvements including two rail lines. Barclays Capital and Bank
of America Merrill Lynch will market the securities. (Updated
Aug. 2)  
 MIAMI-DADE COUNTY EXPRESSWAY AUTHORITY, which operates 31
miles of highways in Florida’s biggest county, plans to sell
$350 million in tax-exempt debt Aug. 4 for capital projects and
to add to debt-service reserves. The bonds, backed by toll
revenue, are rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by Fitch, the fourth-
lowest investment grades, and A by S&P, one level higher.
Underwriters led by Citigroup Inc. will market the securities.
(Updated Aug. 2)  
 MINNESOTA,  which is delaying tax refunds for a second year
to conserve cash and balance its budget, plans to sell through
competitive bidding $865 million in general-obligation taxable
and tax-exempt bonds as soon as this week. The state is raising
$635 million for various purposes and $225 million for trunk
highways, both of which are tax-exempt, and $5 million of
taxable debt. The bonds are top-rated by Fitch and carry Moody’s
second-highest grade at Aa1. (Added July 29)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento, California,
at   mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at
   cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bond Investors Betting Against Another Cash Crunch  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and Democrats have been deadlocked over how to best fill a $19.1 billion deficit. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and Democrats have been deadlocked over how to best fill a $19.1 billion deficit. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- California, the largest U.S. municipal borrower, began its fiscal year July 1 without a spending plan as Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and Democrats remained deadlocked over how to best fill a $19.1 billion deficit. Bloomberg's Matt Miller reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
