-- CBS, Comcast Sign 10-Year Contract to Carry TV Shows
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-08-02T20:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/cbs-signs-10-year-contract-allowing-comcast-to-carry-its-television-shows.html

          
          
             CBS Corp. , owner of the most-watched
U.S. broadcast network, signed a 10-year agreement allowing
 Comcast Corp.  to carry programming from its television stations.  
 The so-called retransmission consent deal expires in 2020,
New York-based CBS said today in a statement. The contract also
provides Comcast customers with Showtime Networks, the new
Smithsonian channel, expanded distribution of CBS College Sports
and more on-demand access to CBS and Showtime online and on TV.  
 CBS Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves , the first
broadcast network owner to seek retransmission fees to add to
advertising revenue, said the deal boosts the future prospects
for such fees and gives long-term stability for the Showtime
pay-TV channel. CBS and Comcast’s agreement offers flexibility
for making money from shows and movies across new media,
including putting programs online for paying cable customers.  
 “There’s a great deal of flexibility because God knows the
world’s going to look very different in 3 years, no less 10
years,” Moonves said in an interview. “There are benchmarks in
some of the new-media terms that depend on how the world is
going at that point.”  
 CBS and Philadelphia-based Comcast, the  largest  U.S. cable
company, were able to strike a deal without the disruption in TV
service that came during other similar talks this year. The
negotiations were wrapped up a year and a half before the
expiration of CBS’s prior contract with Comcast, and Showtime’s
agreement was up “shortly,” Moonves said.  
 Good-Faith Talks  
 Comcast last month pledged to U.S. regulators that it would
negotiate in good faith with TV-station owners after its planned
takeover of  General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal.  
 “We’re in a marketplace where Comcast is going to be our
rival as the owner of NBC, but as a cable carrier there was
totally good faith in their negotiations,” Moonves said. “They
lived up to their word.”  
 CBS will likely receive 50 cents a month per subscriber
from Comcast starting in 2012, making the contract worth about
$75 million that year, estimates  Anthony DiClemente , an analyst
with Barclays Capital in New York. The fee will steadily rise to
more than $1 per subscriber by 2020, he said in a report.  
 “It’s helpful that it’s a longer term deal because it adds
to the predictability of the retransmission consent revenue
stream,” DiClemente, who  recommends  holding the shares, said in
an interview. “CBS was able to negotiate pretty healthy
escalators in the contract.”  
 Annual Target  
 Financial terms weren’t disclosed. CBS has said it’s aiming
for $250 million a year in total retransmission fees by 2012, a
goal CBS Chief Financial Officer  Joseph Ianniello  called
“conservative” on a February conference call.  
 “It’s certainly in line with that goal, and that’s all I’m
going to say,” Moonves said.  
 The $250 million goal is calculated based on monthly fees
of about 50 cents per subscriber, Ianniello explained at a June
analyst conference.  
 CBS rose 52 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $15.30 at 4:02 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
gained 8.9 percent this year. Comcast climbed 1 cent to $19.48
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 CBS plans to report second-quarter earnings after U.S.
markets close tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       CBS, Comcast Sign Contract for Shows  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         CBS CEO Leslie Moonves is the first broadcast network owner to seek retransmission fees to add to advertising revenue. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     CBS CEO Leslie Moonves is the first broadcast network owner to seek retransmission fees to add to advertising revenue. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
