-- Ceska Sporitelna Expects Fourth-Quarter Rebound in Loan Demand, Chief Says
-- Lenka Ponikelska
-- 2010-08-02T09:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/ceska-sporitelna-expects-fourth-quarter-rebound-in-loan-demand-chief-says.html

          
          
             Ceska Sporitelna AS , the Czech unit
of  Erste Group Bank AG , said demand for loans by companies may
rebound at the end of the third quarter following a seasonal
slowdown during the summer.  
 “We expect a market rebound in the second half of the
year,” Chief Executive Officer  Gernot Mittendorfer  said on the
sidelines of a press conference on July 30. “I’d guess after
the summer break we’ll see a revival in corporate loans but it
will be mainly visible in the fourth quarter.”  
 Ceska Sporitelna’s total  loan portfolio  fell 1.1 percent
from 463.5 billion koruna ($24.5 billion) as of June 30 from a
year ago, the lender said in a presentation on its  website .
Corporate loans fell 5 percent, while retail loans rose 2
percent, it said.  
 “We see continuous growth on a relatively moderate level
from micro-, small- and medium-sized companies, but no big
corporates need financing at the moment,” Mittendorfer said,
adding that retail loan-portfolio volumes remain stable.  
 Ceska Sporitelna ’s first-half profit fell 6.8 percent to
5.8 billion koruna from 6.3 billion koruna a year ago as
provisions for bad loans rose, the Prague-based lender said
today. Risk provisions for loans and advances rose 39.2 percent
to 5.33 billion koruna in the first half from a year ago.  
 ‘Very Prudent’  
 Sporitelna has taken a “very prudent” approach to
assessing non-performing loans in its portfolio, he said. The
portfolio “includes not only clients that are 90 percent
overdue for 90 days but also clients that are not overdue a
single crown,” Mittendorfer said. “This is based on our expert
assessment of client’s ability to fully repay the loan.”  
 Lenders assess the financial situations of clients and
create provisions for parts of loans in case there are
indications customers may run into problems with repayments.
Such provisions may rise or disappear over the time from the
portfolio depending on the developments of clients’ financial
situation.  
 Sporitelna  risk costs  peaked in the first quarter and the
growth of non-performing loans volume has slowed, Mittendorfer
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lenka Ponikelska  in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        