-- Chilean Central Bank Voted Unanimously to Raise Rate at July 15 Meeting
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-08-02T13:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/chilean-central-bank-voted-unanimously-to-raise-rate-at-july-15-meeting.html

          
          
             Chile’s central bank committee
members only debated raising the  benchmark interest rate  by half
a percentage point on July 15, according to minutes of the
meeting published today on the central bank website.  
 The five-member policy board, led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio , last month raised the rate to 1.5 percent from 1
percent, matching the forecasts of all but one of the 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In June they also considered a
quarter-point rise.  
 The policy-committee voted unanimously for the half-point
increase, considering that rising inflation expectations weren’t
“yet” enough to warrant a change in policy.  Economic activity ,
which surprised economists by expanding the most in five years
in May, was in line with the bank’s last forecasts, while
expanding demand was driving faster inflation, the central bank
said.  
 “All the councilors agreed that the information gathered
in the last month indicated that the most reasonable thing was
to continue with the process of monetary-policy normalization
and raise the monetary-policy rate by 50 basis points,” the
bank said. “One of the councilors ruled out other options,
because they could insinuate or suggest a change in diagnosis or
vision about the pace at which the rate would be normalized.”  
 Chile’s economic recovery is forcing the central bank to
raise the overnight rate from a record low 0.5 percent reached
in July last year back towards levels it considers “neutral.”  
 Three Percent Target  
 Chile’s central bank aims for inflation to be 3 percent in
two year’s time. The inflation forwards market suggests the pace
of price increase may breach the upper limit of the bank’s 2
percent to 4 percent range in March of next year, according to
Banco Santander SA prices.  
 The annual pace of inflation may pass 3 percent this month,
according to the inflation forwards market as electricity
providers pass on wholesale price rises. Prices rose 1.2 percent
in June from a year earlier after rising at an annual rate of
1.5 percent in May. Inflation may reach 3.29 percent in August,
the inflation forwards market shows.  
 The central bank in July 2009 reduced the benchmark rate to
0.5 percent to help pull South America’s fifth-biggest economy
out of its deepest slump in a decade. The bank kept the rate at
the record low until June’s policy meeting as Chile recovered
from February’s 8.8-magnitude earthquake.  
 Chile’s economy  grew at the fastest annual pace in almost
five years in May, expanding 7.1 percent from a year earlier and
a seasonally adjusted 1.4 percent from April, the central bank
said July 5. Economists had forecast annual growth of 5.5
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Unemployment  slid to 8.5 percent in the three months
through June from 8.8 percent in the three months through May.
The median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a rise in the rate to 8.9 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        