-- Chile Interest-Rate Swaps Rise as Meeting Minutes Spur Economist Estimates
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-08-02T20:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/chile-interest-rate-swaps-rise-as-meeting-minutes-spur-economist-estimates.html

          
          
             Chilean  interest-rate swap  rates rose
as central bank meeting minutes released today led economists to
forecast a third half-point increase in borrowing costs.  
 The one-year swap rate in pesos climbed nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.56 percent and the two-year rate
rose 12 basis points to 4.09 percent at 4 p.m. New York time.  
 Chile’s central bank committee only debated raising the
benchmark  rate  by half a percentage point on July 15, according
to minutes published on the banks’ website. They voted
unanimously, considering that rising inflation expectations
weren’t “yet” enough to justify a policy change. Brazil’s
central bank said July 29 that growth may have slowed to
sustainable levels, helping to contain inflation risks.  
 “The Brazil minutes were more dovish than the market
expected, but not here,” said  Juan Pablo Castro  at Banco
Santander SA. “The central bank is concerned about higher
inflation expectations and the risk it sees are to the upside.”  
 Castro,  Alberto Ramos  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
economists at Santiago-based Bice Inversiones all published
research calling for a half-point rise in the Aug. 12 meeting.
Economists at BCI Corredor de Bolsa SA reiterated an earlier
forecast of a 75 basis-point increase, which would be the
biggest since 2001.  
 The rate may reach three percent by October and six percent
by the middle of next year, Banco Security chief economist  Aldo Lema  wrote today in a note to clients.  
 Inflation-Linked Rate  
 The one-year inflation-linked swap rate rose 25 basis
points to minus 0.68 percent. Interest-rate swap rates reflect
traders’ estimates of the likely average interest rate over the
life of the contract.  
 The five-member policy board, led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio , last month raised the rate to 1.5 percent from 1
percent, matching the forecasts of all but one of the 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In June they also considered a
quarter-point rise.  
 “There’s no reason to accelerate the pace of hiking given
the uncertainty of the global outlook,” Ramos said. “For a
central bank that meets every month, 50 basis points is more
than enough. There’s no reason to go to more than that unless
inflation is a big surprise.”  
 Prices may have risen 0.7 percent last month and the annual
pace of inflation may reach 3.29 percent this month, according
to the inflation forwards market, as electricity providers pass
on wholesale price rises. Prices climbed 1.2 percent in June
from a year earlier and 1.5 percent in May.  
 Economy Expands  
 Economic activity , which surprised economists by expanding
the most in five years in May, was in line with the bank’s last
forecasts, while expanding demand was driving faster inflation,
the central bank said.  
 “All the councilors agreed that the information gathered
in the last month indicated that the most reasonable thing was
to continue with the process of monetary-policy normalization
and raise the monetary-policy rate by 50 basis points,” the
bank said.  
 Chile’s peso gained the most among major Latin American
currencies today, rising 0.7 percent to 517.55 per U.S. dollar
from 521.25 on July 30. It reached 516.25, the highest since
April 30.  
 Chile’s economy  grew 7.1 percent in May from a year
earlier. Economists had forecast annual growth of 5.5 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Unemployment  slid to 8.5 percent in the three months
through June from 8.8 percent in the three months through May.
The median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a rise in the rate to 8.9 percent.  
 Chile’s central bank aims for inflation to be 3 percent in
two year’s time. The inflation forwards market suggests the pace
of price increases may breach the upper limit of the bank’s 2
percent to 4 percent range in March of next year, according to
Banco Santander SA prices.  
 The central bank in July 2009 reduced the benchmark rate to
0.5 percent to help pull South America’s fifth-biggest economy
out of its deepest slump in a decade. The bank kept the rate at
the record low until June’s policy meeting as Chile recovered
from February’s 8.8-magnitude earthquake.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        