-- China Manufacturing Faces `Slowdown, Not a Meltdown'
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-02T15:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/china-manufacturing-contracts-as-economy-enters-slowdown-.html

          
          
             China’s July manufacturing data were
the weakest in more than a year as the government clamped down
on property speculation and investment in polluting and energy-
intensive factories.  
 A purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics slid to 49.4 from 50.4 in
June. A separate, government-backed PMI fell to 51.2 from 52.1,
the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported yesterday.
Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  
 Officials may delay raising interest rates from crisis
levels as austerity measures and unemployment in advanced
economies dim the outlook for exports. China’s stocks rose after
today’s data, as analysts including those at Morgan Stanley said
the government may do more to aid growth by year-end.  
 “Government measures are taking overheating risks out of
the economy, but any further weakening would be worrisome as
China’s export outlook may also deteriorate,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Agricole CIB.
“The scope for yuan appreciation is declining further and there
will be no interest rate hikes in the second half.”  
 The HSBC PMI’s reading was the first below 50 in 16 months.
Measures of output, orders and export orders all showed
contractions. The government PMI, released by the statistics
bureau and the logistics federation, showed the weakest
expansion in 17 months.  
 ‘No Need to Panic’  
 The Shanghai Composite Index closed 1.3 percent higher
today after climbing 10 percent in July for the biggest monthly
increase in a year. Twelve-month yuan forwards also gained
today.  
 “We’re in a moderate slowdown, not a double-dip,” said
 Ken Peng , a Beijing-based economist for Citigroup Inc.
Similarly, HSBC economist  Qu Hongbin  said China is having a
“slowdown not a meltdown” and “there is no need to panic.”  
 Passenger-car sales grew at a faster pace in July, the
China Automotive Technology & Research Center reported today.
The annual 15.4 percent gain compared with 10.9 percent in June.  
 Across Asia, manufacturing PMIs released by HSBC and Markit
today showed a slowdown in Taiwan and a dip to 53.2 from 53.3
for South Korea. In India, growth accelerated.  
 China’s economy is still helping to power growth in Europe,
reports published today showed. Euro region manufacturing
expanded faster than initially estimated in July, with a gauge
compiled by Markit Economics rising to 56.7 from 55.6 in the
previous month. Swiss manufacturing grew the most on record and
U.K. activity slowed less than economists had forecast.  
 U.S. Slows  
 In the U.S., manufacturing expanded in July at the slowest
pace this year. The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory
index  fell to 55.5 last month from 56.2 in June. A reading
greater than 50 points to expansion, and the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 54.5.  
 Elevated unemployment in the U.S. and austerity measures by
indebted European governments put an extra focus on China’s role
as a driver of world growth.  
 Yi Gang , a vice governor of the central bank, said last
week that China already had the world’s second-biggest economy.
In contrast, the government’s Xinhua News Agency reported July
23 that Japan could retain the No. 2 slot this year because of
gains by the yen and China’s moderating growth.  
 Societe Generale SA cautioned last week that seasonal
distortions raised the risk that July PMI readings could fall
below 50. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday that, adjusted
for seasonality, the official PMI rose rather than declined.  
 HSBC’s PMI is weighted more toward smaller, private
businesses, including exporters, than the government’s survey.  
 Government Goals  
 The economy is cooling as the government trims credit
growth from last year’s  record  $1.4 trillion, presses for gains
in energy efficiency as a five-year plan comes to an end, and
discourages multiple-home purchases. Signs of a slowdown include
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , or Sinopec, reporting July 20
that its crude-oil processing increased at a weaker pace in the
second quarter.  
 The government is part-way through exiting crisis policies
after raising banks’ reserve requirements three times this year
and scrapping the yuan’s peg to the dollar. The benchmark one-
year lending rate is 5.31 percent, compared with 7.47 percent
before cuts in 2008 to combat the effects of the global
financial crisis.  
 While the nation’s expansion may continue to moderate from
a peak in the first quarter, the full-year growth rate may be as
high as 9.5 percent, up from 9.1 percent in 2009, State Council
researcher  Zhang Liqun  said yesterday.  
 Hit to Growth  
 Morgan Stanley economist  Wang Qing  said yesterday that a
government campaign to close energy-inefficient businesses
likely contributed to a slowdown in heavy industry. UBS AG
economist  Wang Tao  estimates economic growth could be cut by 2
percentage points in the second half of the year if officials
don’t waiver from energy-efficiency goals.  
 China’s economic growth dipped to a 10.3 percent annual
pace in the second quarter from 11.9 percent in the first three
months of the year.  
 “The Chinese economy is slowing down mainly due to the
ongoing property-tightening measures,”  Lu Ting , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, said
yesterday. “Beijing will surely ramp up spending on public
housing and other public works to stabilize growth.”  
 The government may keep policies largely unchanged for the
rest of the year, making adjustments for “selected” industries
as needed to sustain growth, the  logistics federation  said in a
statement on its website today analyzing the official PMI
numbers. China’s export rebound is not yet solid, natural
disasters could cut agricultural output and inflation risks
remain, the organization said.  
 -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  John Fraher  in London.
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       China’s Manufacturing Growth Is Weakest in 17 Months  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A textile industry worker sews clothing at a wholesale market in Dongguan. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A textile industry worker sews clothing at a wholesale market in Dongguan. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Marc Faber, publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom Report, discusses China's economy.
     Faber, speaking with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also talks about Chinese stocks and interest-rate policy. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
