-- Passenger-Car Sales in China Increase 15.4% to 822,300 Vehicles Last Month
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-02T08:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/china-s-july-passenger-car-sales-rise-15-on-dealer-discounts-new-models.html

          
          
             China’s passenger-car sales  grew at a
faster pace in July as the government introduced subsidies for
fuel-efficient models and dealers offered discounts to clear
inventories in the world’s biggest automobile market.  
 Retail deliveries of cars, sport-utility vehicles and
multipurpose vehicles rose 15.4 percent last month from a year
earlier to 822,300, the China Automotive Technology & Research
Center said in a statement today. That compared with 10.9
percent growth in June.  
 Auto dealers stepped up incentives to lure customers after
demand began growing at a slower pace in April amid higher
inflation and easing economic expansion. The government also
began offering subsidies of 3,000 yuan ($443) to promote
purchases of fuel-efficient models. Rising inventories may lead
to weaker growth in August, the center said.  
 “Despite dealers’ promotion efforts, monthly car sales may
fall from year-earlier levels as early as September,” said
 Ricon Xia , an analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research in Hong
Kong. “The abnormal car sales surge we had last year was caused
by temporary policies.”  
 Denway Motors Ltd. , which makes cars in China with Honda
Motor Co., rose 7.8 percent, the most since June 8, and traded
at HK$4.27 at 4 p.m. in Hong Kong.  BYD Co. , the Shenzhen-based
carmaker backed by  Warren Buffett , climbed 4.7 percent.  
 New Models  
 New models introduced by carmakers also boosted sales in
July,  Zhao Hang , president of the Automotive Technology &
Research center, said today. On average, three new models were
rolled out in China every week last month, according to the
National Development and Reform Commission.  
 Vehicle inventories rose in July, pushing dealers to offer
discounts. The average stockpile period, a measure of the time
between vehicle production and registration, lengthened to 58
days from 55 in June, according to the center. Domestic auto
output exceeded sales by 1.29 million vehicles in the first half
of this year, the center said July 5.  
 Automakers may join dealers in offering discounts in the
fourth quarter,  Cheng Xiaodong , an official with the Development
and Reform Commission, said July 23. China’s car prices fell 1.2
percent in the first half from a year earlier, according to the
agency.  
 Vehicle prices may decline steadily in the second half of
the year because of pressure by wholesalers to meet sales
targets, the planning ministry said July 23.  
 Housing, Food Prices  
 China’s car sales, which have risen every month since
February 2009, began growing at a slower pace in April,
according to wholesale data from the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers.  
 Weaker economic growth and higher prices for food and
housing are discouraging some consumers from visiting showrooms,
contrasting with last year, when rising incomes and government
subsidies spurred a 46 percent surge in vehicle sales.  
 China’s inflation may have accelerated to 3.3 percent last
month from 2.9 percent in June, Morgan Stanley said July 28. The
nation’s manufacturing contracted for the first time in 16
months in July, according to a survey of purchasing executives
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  
 Economic growth  dipped to a 10.3 percent annual pace in the
second quarter from 11.9 percent in the first three months of
the year as the government tightened credit to reduce the risk
of overheating in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 GM, Honda  
 The government boosted the sales tax on small cars to 7.5
percent this year after halving it to 5 percent last year. The
tax cut helped vehicle sales surge to a record 13.6 million in
2009.  
 Carmakers, including General Motors Co. and  Honda , are
still counting on rising Chinese sales to help offset falling
demand in Europe and a slowing U.S. recovery. Full-year auto
demand may climb 17 percent to 16 million vehicles, the State
Information Center said in April.  
 “Even if annual sales growth comes down to 20 percent,
it’s still a very good rate,” Xia said.  
 Honda , Japan’s second-largest automaker, raised its full-
year profit forecast last week, citing higher-than-expected
sales in Asia excluding Japan. The Tokyo-based company boosted
its fiscal-year sales estimate for China by 30,000 vehicles.  
 GM sold 1.21 million vehicles in China in the first half of
this year, surpassing the Detroit-based carmaker’s U.S.
deliveries for the first time in the company’s 102-year history.  
 Total auto sales in China, including trucks and buses,
increased 17 percent from a year earlier to 1.06 million
vehicles in July, the center said.  
 -- Tian Ying . Editors:  Terje Langeland ,  Kae Inoue   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        