-- China Manufacturing Contracts as Economy Enters `Slowdown'
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-02T02:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/china-manufacturing-contracts-as-economy-enters-slowdown-not-a-meltdown-.html

          
          
             China’s  manufacturing  contracted for
the first time in 16 months in July, a survey of purchasing
executives showed.  
 A purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell to 49.4 from 50.4 in June.
Societe Generale SA cautioned last week that seasonal
distortions raised the risk that July PMI readings could fall
below 50.  
 The fastest-growing major economy is cooling as the
government clamps down on property speculation, trims credit
growth and shutters energy-intensive and polluting factories. A
 government-backed manufacturing index  released yesterday showed
the slowest expansion in 17 months in July.  
 “There is no need to panic,” said  Qu Hongbin , a  Hong
Kong-based economist at HSBC, repeating his assessment of last
month that China is having a “slowdown not a meltdown.”  
 A separate manufacturing index released yesterday by the
statistics bureau and the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
slid to 51.2, the lowest level in 17 months.  
 HSBC’s manufacturing survey covers more than 400 companies
and is weighted more toward smaller, privately owned business
than the government’s PMI, according to the bank. The PMI
released by the logistics federation and the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics covers more than 730 companies.  
 China’s Rise  
 Chinese manufacturing data can move global markets because
of the nation’s rising clout, especially as a consumer of
commodities.  Yi Gang , a vice governor of the central bank, said
last week that China’s economy was already the world’s second-
biggest. In contrast, the government’s Xinhua News Agency
reported July 23 that Japan could retain the No. 2 slot this
year because of gains by the yen against the dollar and
moderating growth in China.  
 The Chinese  economy  is cooling as the government trims
credit growth from last year’s record $1.4 trillion, targets
energy efficiency, and discourages multiple-home purchases.
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , also called Sinopec, reported
July 20 that its crude-oil processing increased at a slower pace
in the second quarter.  
 The government is part-way through exiting policies adopted
to counter the global financial crisis. While the central bank
has raised lenders’ reserve requirements and scrapped the yuan’s
peg to the dollar, interest rates have yet to increase.  
 Credit Suisse Group AG described yesterday’s data as “not
bad enough” to force a significant policy change.  
 Heavy Industry  
 While the nation’s expansion may moderate each quarter from
a peak in the first three months of the year, the full-year
growth may be as much as 9.5 percent, up from 9.1 percent in
2009, State Council researcher  Zhang Liqun  said yesterday.  
 Morgan Stanley economist Wang Qing said yesterday that a
government campaign to close energy-inefficient businesses has
likely contributed to a slowdown in heavy industry. UBS AG
economist  Wang Tao  estimates economic growth could be cut by 2
percentage points in the second half of the year if the
government doesn’t waiver in meeting its goal.  
 “The Chinese economy is slowing down mainly due to the
ongoing property-tightening measures,”  Lu Ting , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, said yesterday.
“Beijing will surely ramp up spending on public housing and
other public works to stabilize growth.”  
 China’s economic growth dipped to a 10.3 percent annual
pace in the second quarter from 11.9 percent in the first three
months of the year. China’s demand for raw materials is
weakening, and a slowing U.S. economy and Europe’s debt crisis
are weighing on export orders, the  statistics bureau  said in a
statement today on its website, commenting on yesterday’s
manufacturing data.  
 For Related News and Information:
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA 1W <GO>
Most-read China economy stories:
TNI CHECO MOSTREAD BN <GO>
Emerging markets view: EMMV <GO>
Top China news: TOP CHINA <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>
Top economic news: TOP ECO <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Darby, chief Asian equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, speaks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's stock market and economy.
     China’s manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in 17 months in July as the government clamped down on property speculation and investment in energy-intensive and polluting factories. Darby also discusses China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
