-- China Manufacturing Contracts as Economy Enters `Slowdown'
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-02T04:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/chinese-manufacturing-weakens-as-economy-enters-slowdown-not-a-meltdown-.html

          
          
             China’s July manufacturing data were
the weakest in more than a year as the government clamped down
on property speculation and investment in polluting and energy-
intensive factories.  
 A purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed a contraction. A
government-backed PMI slid to 51.2 from 52.1, the Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday.  
 Officials may delay raising interest rates from crisis
levels as austerity measures and unemployment in advanced
economies dim the outlook for exports. The Shanghai Composite
Index extended gains after today’s data as Morgan Stanley said
that the government will do more to support growth from the
fourth quarter.  
 “Government measures are taking overheating risks out of
the economy, but any further weakening would be worrisome as
China’s export outlook may also deteriorate,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Agricole CIB.
“The scope for yuan appreciation is declining further and there
will be no interest rate hikes in the second half.”  
 The HSBC PMI slid to 49.4, the first reading below 50 in 16
months, from 50.4 in June. Measures of output, orders and export
orders all showed contractions. The government PMI, released by
the statistics bureau and the logistics federation, showed the
weakest expansion in 17 months.  
 Shanghai’s stock benchmark rose 1.2 percent as of the 11:30
a.m. trading break after climbing 10 percent in July for the
biggest monthly increase in a year. Twelve-month yuan forwards
also gained today.  
 ‘Moderate Slowdown’  
 “We’re in a moderate slowdown, not a double-dip,” said
 Ken Peng , a Beijing-based economist for Citigroup Inc. Similarly,
HSBC economist  Qu Hongbin  said China is having a “slowdown not a
meltdown” and “there is no need to panic.”  
 Chinese manufacturing data can move global markets because
of the economy’s rising clout, especially as a consumer of
commodities.  Yi Gang , a vice governor of the central bank, said
last week that China’s economy was already the world’s second-
biggest. In contrast, the government’s Xinhua News Agency
reported July 23 that Japan could retain the No. 2 slot this
year because of gains by the yen against the dollar and China’s
moderating growth.  
 Societe Generale SA cautioned last week that seasonal
distortions raised the risk that July PMI readings could fall
below 50. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday that, adjusted
for seasonality, the official PMI rose rather than declined.  
 Credit Growth  
 HSBC’s PMI is weighted more toward smaller, private
businesses, including exporters, than the government’s survey.  
 The economy is cooling as the government trims credit
growth from last year’s  record  $1.4 trillion, presses for gains
in energy efficiency as a five-year plan comes to an end, and
discourages multiple-home purchases. Signs of a slowdown include
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , or Sinopec, reporting July 20
that its crude-oil processing increased at a weaker pace in the
second quarter.  
 The government is part-way through exiting crisis policies
after raising banks’ reserve requirements three times this year
and scrapping the yuan’s peg to the dollar. The benchmark one-
year lending rate is 5.31 percent, compared with 7.47 percent
before cuts in 2008 to combat the effects of the global
financial crisis.  
 While the nation’s expansion may continue to moderate from
a peak in the first quarter, the full-year growth rate may be as
high as 9.5 percent, up from 9.1 percent in 2009, State Council
researcher  Zhang Liqun  said yesterday.  
 Heavy Industry  
 Morgan Stanley economist  Wang Qing  said yesterday that a
government campaign to close energy-inefficient businesses
likely contributed to a slowdown in heavy industry. UBS AG
economist  Wang Tao  estimates economic growth could be cut by 2
percentage points in the second half of the year if officials
don’t waiver from energy-efficiency goals.  
 China’s economic growth dipped to a 10.3 percent annual
pace in the second quarter from 11.9 percent in the first three
months of the year.  
 “The Chinese economy is slowing down mainly due to the
ongoing property-tightening measures,”  Lu Ting , a Hong
Kong-based economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, said
yesterday. “Beijing will surely ramp up spending on public
housing and other public works to stabilize growth.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA 1W <GO>
Most-read China economy stories:
TNI CHECO MOSTREAD BN <GO>
Emerging markets view: EMMV <GO>
Top China news: TOP CHINA <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>
Top economic news: TOP ECO <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Darby, chief Asian equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, speaks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's stock market and economy.
     China’s manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in 17 months in July as the government clamped down on property speculation and investment in energy-intensive and polluting factories. Darby also discusses China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
