-- China Police Revoke Warrant Against Journalist Reporting on Insider Trades
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-02T03:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/china-police-apologize-to-reporter-on-wanted-list-over-corruption-stories.html

          
          
             China’s police apologized to an
investigative reporter who was placed on a wanted list for
writing about alleged insider trading at  Zhejiang Kan
Specialities Material Co. , a publicly traded paper-maker.  
 The public security bureau of Lishui city in eastern
Zhejiang Province ordered the local Suichang county branch to
drop its pursuit of Qiu Ziming, a reporter of the Economic
Observer, the paper said. The county propaganda chief and the
deputy director of police traveled to Beijing on July 30 to
apologize to Qiu and the weekly publication, it said.  
 China’s media watchdog, the General Administration of Press
and Publication, said it had been in contact with police
regarding the case.  
 “News-gathering activities conducted by news agencies and
journalists in accordance with the law are protected by the
law,” the watchdog said in a  statement  published July 30, “The
media has the right to know, interview, publish, criticize, and
supervise issues that are related to the national and public
interests.”  
 Zhejiang Kan Specialties and its “controlling figure,”  Wang Bailang , had been “extremely angry” with Qiu’s articles, the
newspaper said in a report on its website.  
 Wang attempted to “communicate” with Qiu and suggested
through an intermediary a “private settlement” provided he
suspend further reporting, it said. Both suggestions were
rejected by Qiu and the newspaper, it said.  
 Zhejiang Kan Specialities  issued a statement on June 8 
denying any wrongdoing, saying that it hadn’t been investigated
by the securities watchdog and that Wang had done nothing to
harm the interests of the listed company. It also said it had
notified local police about what it referred to as “malicious
defamation.” Calls today to the company, which is based in
 Suichang County , went unanswered.  
 Qiu called his editors for help after he learned that
county police had listed him as a wanted person on July 27, the
newspaper said. He subsequently switched off his mobile phone
and went into hiding, it said.  
 -- Yidi Zhao . Editors:  Bill Austin ,  Ben Richardson .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        