-- Comcast-NBC Merger Should Be Approved, With Conditions, Rick Boucher Says
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-08-02T17:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/comcast-nbc-merger-should-be-approved-with-conditions-rick-boucher-says.html

          
          
             Comcast Corp. ’s proposed takeover of
 General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal should be approved by U.S.
regulators after setting requirements to avoid harming viewers,
the chairman of a House panel on communications said.  
 The Federal Communications Commission and Justice
Department should ensure consumers who aren’t Comcast
subscribers retain access to programming they received before
the merger, Representative  Rick Boucher , a Virginia Democrat,
said in letters to the agencies released today by his office.  
 “I have some concerns about the potential for consumer
harm,” Boucher wrote to FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski . He
urged approval after requiring the companies to prevent a
reduction in consumer choice and competition. Boucher sent a
similar letter to  Christine Varney , assistant attorney general
for antitrust who is heading a review of the $28 billion deal.  
 The proposed takeover would give Comcast, the largest U.S.
cable company, control of NBC’s television network; broadcast
stations in markets including New York, Los Angeles and Miami;
cable channels such as USA Network and Bravo, and a library of
more than 4,000 movies.  
 Comcast should keep sports programming such as professional
football, baseball and golf available to an over-the-air
audience after acquiring NBC, Boucher said in the letters.
Boucher urged both agencies to act by Dec. 1.  
 NBC network programming offered for free online viewing
today shouldn’t be moved to services solely for Comcast
customers, Boucher said. Comcast shouldn’t be allowed to demand
exclusivity for online video programming, just as it may not
keep other national programming to itself, he said.  
 Good-Faith Pledge  
 Because he is a chairman of a House Energy and Commerce
Committee panel, Boucher’s opinion is closely followed. Members
don’t have a direct role in approving mergers, which are
scrutinized by the agencies Congress oversees.  
 Comcast fell 5 cents to $19.42 at 1:39 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 Philadelphia-based Comcast has pledged good-faith
negotiations to carry NBC’s competitors on its cable systems,
and has promised not to shift major sporting events such as the
Olympics and National Football League games to cable.  
 Opponents say Comcast-NBC will have an incentive to raise
prices and withhold programs from rivals.  
 “If the merger is approved, Comcast will own one in five
TV viewing hours; cable bills will rise; and consumers will have
fewer choices in programming,” said Josh Silver, president of
the advocacy group Free Press, in a  Web posting  July 9.  
 Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the merger as it is currently proposed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Representative Frederick "Rick" Boucher  
                       
                         
                           Jay Mallin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Representative Frederick "Rick" Boucher is a chairman of a House Energy and Commerce Committee panel. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Representative Frederick "Rick" Boucher is a chairman of a House Energy and Commerce Committee panel. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
