-- U.S. Construction Spending Unexpectedly Increases on Government Programs
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-08-02T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-increased-in-june.html

          
          
             Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly increased in June, boosted by gain in government
programs that made up for declines in private residential and
commercial projects.  
 The 0.1 percent increase in  outlays  followed a revised 1
percent drop in May that was larger than previously estimated,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington.
Spending by federal agencies rose to a record.  
 Homebuilding and sales are falling after the expiration of a
government tax credit that boosted builder sentiment and brought
starts to the highest level in more than a year in April. Demand
will now depend on the state of the labor market and
foreclosures.  
 “Support to construction spending via new homes should
continue to remain dampened in the coming months,” Maxwell
Clarke, chief U.S. economist at IDEAglobal Inc. in New York, said
in a note to clients before the report. “Ongoing difficulty of
accessing capital for speculative commercial real estate ventures
will continue to act as a deadweight in the overall construction
measure.”  
 Economists forecast construction spending would decline 0.5
percent, according to the  median  of 52 projections in a Bloomberg
News survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 2.1 percent to a 0.5
percent gain.  
 Construction spending decreased 7.9 percent in the 12 months
ended in June.  
 Private Construction  
 Private construction  spending dropped 0.6 percent following
a 1.4 percent decrease in May. Homebuilding outlays fell 0.8
percent. Private non-residential projects decreased 0.5 percent,
reflecting declines in construction of factories, commercial
dwellings and communications stations.  
 Spending on public construction increased 1.5 percent from
the prior month, led by power, sewage and waste disposal and
conservation plants. Federal building climbed 4.6 percent to
$31.7 billion, the most on record.  
 New home sales  reached a record low in May and were the
second-lowest last month, according to Commerce Department data,
reflecting diminishing demand after the government tax credit
expired. June housing starts, reported July 20, fell 5 percent,
after a 15 percent decline the prior month.  
 To qualify for the government tax credit of up to $8,000,
purchasers had to sign a contract by April 30. While the
government in July extended the deadline for closing on the
contract to Sept. 30, from the original June 30, declines in
housing starts and building permits suggest residential
construction will continue to fall in coming months.  
 Single-Family Homes  
 Spending on single-family residential structures dropped 0.7
percent in June, the fist decline in a year, today’s report
showed.  
 Employment gains are needed to boost demand and forestall
foreclosures.  Home seizures  jumped 38 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, RealtyTrac Inc. said last month,
putting lenders on pace to claim more than 1 million properties
this year.  
 NVR Inc., based in Reston, Virginia, said last month the
original June 30 closing deadline to qualify for the tax
incentive resulted in a “surge in settlement activity” in the
second quarter, with closings jumping 63 percent from the same
time a year earlier. New orders fell six percent in the period.  
 The outlook for commercial projects is less dire should
credit begin to flow as office vacancy rates ease. Office
vacancies in U.S. central business areas fell in the second
quarter from the prior three months, the first drop since 2007,
commercial property broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said July 8.  
 In another signal that commercial construction may improve
later this year, billings at U.S. architecture firms rose in
June, the American Institute of Architects said July 21.
Commercial building typically follows the building index by about
six months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        