-- Copper Rises to Three-Month High in New York as China May Ease Tightening
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-08-02T18:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/copper-gains-to-three-month-high-in-london-wiping-out-this-year-s-decline.html

          
          
             Copper prices rose to a three-month
high on speculation that China’s government may cut back on
policies aimed at slowing economic growth.  
 China’s purchasing managers’ index was the weakest in more
than a year, data showed yesterday. The Shanghai Composite Index
added as much as 1.5 percent today, after posting the biggest
monthly gain in a year in July, as the manufacturing slump
sparked speculation that the government will undo efforts to
cool the economy. China is the world’s largest copper user.  
 “The talk of China pulling back on its tightening measures
is helping to drive copper,” said  Donald Selkin , the chief
market strategist at National Securities Corp. in New York.
“There’s a huge interest in buying commodities now.”  
 Copper futures for September delivery rose 7.8 cents, or
2.4 percent, to close at $3.3895 a pound at 1:24 p.m. on the
Comex in New York. Earlier, the price touched $3.3965, the
highest for a most-active contract since April 29.  
 Today’s gain leaves the metal up 1.3 percent this year.  
 “Policy easing is likely to have a positive impact on
activity in the construction sector,”  Daniel Major , an analyst
at RBS Global Banking & Markets in London, said by telephone.
Construction accounts for a  quarter  of copper demand, according
to the Copper Development Association.  
 Prices extended gains after a U.S. Commerce Department
report showed the nation’s construction spending unexpectedly
increased 0.1 percent in June. The median expectation of 52
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.5 percent
decline.  
 Copper futures jumped 12 percent in July, the biggest
monthly gain in a year, on speculation that the global recovery
will be resilient.  
 On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months gained $213.50, or 2.9 percent, to $7,510 a metric ton
($3.41 a pound).  
 Aluminum, nickel, zinc, lead and tin prices also rose.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        