-- Cotton Surges as Dollar's Drop Spurs Export Demand; Orange Juice Gains
-- Jennifer A. Johnson
-- 2010-08-02T20:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/cotton-surges-as-dollar-s-drop-spurs-export-demand-orange-juice-gains.html

          
          
             Cotton rose to the highest price in
more than six weeks as the dollar’s decline made commodities
cheaper in other currencies. Orange-juice futures rose to a one-
month high.  
 The greenback fell to the lowest level since April against
a basket of six major currencies, enhancing the appeal of cotton
shipments from the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter. The
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rallied as much
as 1.4 percent, with gains in energy, farm products and metals.  
 “With the weakness of the dollar, and with petroleum
higher, the gains have very little to do with cotton
fundamentals,” said  Sid Love , the president of Joe Kropf & Sid
Love Consulting Services LLC in Overland Park, Kansas. “It’s a
herd mentality. When the CRB goes up, then everyone buys.”  
 Cotton for December delivery rose 0.58 cent, or 0.7
percent, to close at 79.34 cents a pound at 2:30 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price reached 79.8 cents,
the highest level for a most-active contract since June 17.  
 In another ICE market, orange-juice futures rose to the
highest-price in nearly four weeks on speculation that a
tropical wave in the Atlantic between Africa and the Caribbean
could become the third named storm of the 2010 season.  
 Tropical Storm Colin  
 The wave has a 90 percent chance to become a tropical
storm, which has sustained surface winds of 39 to 73 miles per
hour, the National Hurricane Center said. The wave could be
upgraded to a tropical storm, named Colin, later today, said
Chris Hyde, a meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather Inc. in
Rockville, Maryland.  
 “Any storm activity brings this market alive” because it
could damage Florida’s juice-orange crop, said  Jimmy Tintle , an
analyst at Transworld Futures in Tampa, Florida. “The driving
force in this market is this wave coming off the coast of
Africa.”  
 Florida is the world’s biggest grower behind Brazil.  
 Orange-juice futures for September delivery gained 1.7
cents, or 1.2 percent, to close at $1.483 a pound at 2:00 p.m.
in New York. Earlier, the price touched $1.487, the highest
price for the most-active contract since July 6.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer A. Johnson  in Chicago at 
 Jjohnson133@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        