-- CRC Wins Appeals Court Ruling It Can Access Lehman Client-Money Accounts
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-08-02T15:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/crc-credit-fund-wins-u-k-court-ruling-over-lehman-client-money-accounts.html

          
          
             CRC Credit Fund Ltd., Lehman Brothers
Inc. and Lehman Brothers Finance AG can have access to billions
of dollars deposited with  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s U.K.
unit that wasn’t protected in separate accounts, a London
appeals court ruled.  
 CRC and the Lehman affiliates appealed a December ruling
that  Lehman Brothers International Europe  clients whose money
wasn’t properly separated into “client money” accounts when
the bank collapsed in 2008 would be treated as unsecured
creditors in the U.K. insolvency case, likely giving them only a
fraction of what they are owed.  
 LBIE’s insolvency administrator,  PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP , will have to identify all client money which wasn’t
properly segregated from the bank’s other funds and pool it with
the accounts that were kept separate, according to the judgment
today. Clients whose money wasn’t kept separate will be able to
claim from the expanded pool. The case was brought by PwC, which
asked for the court’s direction on how to deal with the claims.  
 The decision is “a boost for investor protection,” said
CRC’s lawyer, Robert Turner at Simmons & Simmons in London.  
 “It means that the U.K. client-money rules in fact work
better than people thought following last year’s judgment,”
Turner said. “That judgment said if you put your money with a
prime broker who failed to do what it said it should do under
the rules, your client money protection fell away. The court of
appeal has now said that’s not right, the protection applies
even if the firm hasn’t done what it should have.”  
 Critical Judgment  
 The December judgment criticized LBIE’s failure to
segregate client money and the U.K. Financial Services Authority
for not sufficiently overseeing the accounts.  
 The affiliates of New York-based Lehman have made claims
seeking more than $3 billion from LBIE, according to the
December judgment. CRC, a fund of New York and London-based
Christofferson Robb & Co., is seeking $76 million that should
have been put in separate accounts. LBIE held $2.16 billion in
segregated accounts when it went into administration in
September 2008.  
 The ruling “not only widens the pre-administration client
money that must be pooled, but also the number of clients
entitled to claim against that pool,” PwC partner  Tony Lomas 
said, adding it will now take longer to return money to
customers.  
 CRC represented claimants whose money wasn’t properly
separated. The total amount of those claims isn’t known, Turner
said.  
 Diminishing Pool  
 Hong Leong Bank Bhd ., which acted on behalf of unsecured
creditors, won its argument that CRC shouldn’t claim money from
the general estate. Unsecured creditors’ returns can still be
cut if PwC finds client money in the general estate, said  Arun Srivastava , Hong Leong Bank’s lawyer at Baker & McKenzie.  
 “That could have the effect of diminishing the general
pool for unsecured creditors,” Srivastava said. “They’ll
inevitably find more money than they would have otherwise, now
that they’re looking for it.”  
 Clients whose money was kept in separate accounts,
represented in the case by a GLG Investments Plc fund, will have
to share the expanding pool of client money with CRC and others.  
 The judgment is disappointing, said  Jennifer Marshall ,
GLG’s lawyer at  Allen & Overy LLP  in London.  
 “As a result of the court of appeal’s decision, the
returns to segregated clients will be diluted and it could take
years to resolve what goes into the pot and who is entitled to
it,” Marshall said. “No clear guidance is given as to how the
administrators are to approach these issues and so it seems
inevitable that they will have to go back to court.”  
 The court of appeal will hear arguments in the next few
weeks on whether any of the parties can appeal today’s decision.  
 “CRC hopes that with this decision the LBIE administrators
are now able to move forward to the next phase in the
administration of the LBIE estate, getting in all client-money
assets and releasing them to segregated claimants,” said CRC
General Counsel Matthew Cavanagh.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        