-- Credit Suisse Names Myo Schollum to Japan Prime Services Role
-- Komaki Ito
-- 2010-08-02T02:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/credit-suisse-names-myo-schollum-to-head-prime-services-coverage-in-japan.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s
second-largest bank, appointed Myo Schollum as head of prime
services coverage in Japan as part of efforts to expand the
business catering to hedge funds.  
 Schollum, 35, is replacing  Yoji Koga , who retired from the
financial industry at the end of April, said  Matt Pecot , the
head of Asia-Pacific prime services at Credit Suisse in Hong
Kong. Schollum, who will relocate from Singapore, will report to
 Kevin Meehan , the head of prime coverage Asia-Pacific in Hong
Kong, and  Kyoya Okazawa , head of equities in Japan.  
 Credit Suisse has been boosting market share in the prime-
services business in the wake of the global financial crisis in
expectation that revenue will pick up as hedge funds rebound.
The appointment is part of the bank’s effort to be the leading
prime broker in Japan, where the country’s hedge funds are the
best performers globally this year, Pecot said.  
 “We’re actually shifting people and talent into Japan, as
opposed to a lot of other prime brokers who are actually pulling
people away from there,” Pecot said in a telephone interview.
“From an investor perspective within Asia-Pacific, Japan is
probably the most interesting market for global hedge funds
right now.”  
 Additional Hiring  
 As part of its efforts to strengthen coverage in Japan,
Credit Suisse plans to hire “selectively” one to two people
for its futures business, Pecot said. Among the latest additions
to the Japan business were  Warren Goward , who shifted from
London late last year;  Scott Shenk  from Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch & Co. unit in Japan in December, and  Moses Lee 
from Morgan Stanley in January, according to Credit Suisse.  
 Prime brokerages offer hedge funds services such as
clearing, custody, securities lending and financing for assets.
They also introduce fund managers to investors.  
 The Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index  has returned 1.6
percent this year through June, making it the best-performing
gauge among five global regional indexes, according to
Eurekahedge Pte. Last year, Japan-focused hedge funds returned
7.3 percent, compared with 20 percent by the  global index  and 27
percent by the gauge measuring Asia-focused hedge funds.  
 The hedge-fund industry may attract $222 billion of capital
this year, according to a Deutsche Bank AG survey of investors
in March, marking the first annual net inflow since the
financial crisis hit in 2007.  
 Boosting Market Share  
 Credit Suisse ranked No. 4 as a prime broker serving Asian
hedge funds in the first quarter this year, accounting for 10
percent of the market share, according to Eurekahedge. In 2007,
it ranked fifth, taking up a 6.6 percent market share.  
 Global hedge funds are showing interest in Japan as they
seek potential investors, Pecot said. About 37 percent of
Japanese pensions surveyed by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s asset
management unit said they expect to boost allocations to
alternative investments, including hedge funds.  
 “The most common request is, ‘Tell us what is going on with
the Japanese pensions and insurance companies regarding their
stance towards investing in hedge funds,’” said Pecot. “There
seems to be a lot more attention on what the potential appetite
from Japanese investors may be for absolute return products.”  
 Prior to taking the position in Tokyo, Schollum was the
head of prime services coverage for Credit Suisse in Singapore,
after joining the Zurich-based bank’s prime brokerage client
services group in London in 2001, according to the bank. He
formerly worked for Deutsche Bank Global Custody in Sydney,
Edinburgh and London.  
 Joseph Leckie  will assume responsibility for prime services
coverage in Singapore, with a primary focus on originating new
business, according to Credit Suisse.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the prices of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        