-- Cuban Can Defer Closing on Bankrupt Texas Rangers Pending League Approval
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-08-02T23:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/cuban-can-defer-closing-on-bankrupt-texas-rangers-pending-league-approval.html

          
          
             Mark Cuban , the Dallas Mavericks
owner, can defer closing on a potential purchase of the Texas
Rangers while he waits for approval from Major League Baseball,
a judge said.  
 If Cuban wins an Aug. 4 auction of the Rangers, he can put
off closing while the league’s approval is pending as long as
financing is in place by Oct. 11, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  in Fort Worth, Texas, said at a hearing today.  
 If the court-appointed official overseeing the team’s
bankruptcy is satisfied that the winner has fully financed the
purchase “then that will be satisfactory and closing will be
deferred,” the judge said.  
 Lynn clarified the deadlines surrounding the sale of
Rangers after Cuban today sought a court order to force Major
League Baseball to speed its process for approving him as the
buyer of the Rangers if he wins an auction scheduled in two
days.  
 Cuban and Houston businessman  Jim Crane  have said they
intend to bid for the team. A group led by team president  Nolan Ryan  and attorney  Chuck Greenberg  will also bid.  
 Cuban said in court papers that he needed expedited
approval because he “must close” by Aug. 16. Major League
Baseball, Cuban said, can speed up the process “but, for
reasons unknown, appears wholly unwilling to do so.” Major
League Baseball’s team owners must approve the auction winner,
and Cuban said approval could take as long as nine months.  
 At today’s court hearing, Sander Esserman, a lawyer for
Major League Baseball, told Lynn that baseball owners “will
move expeditiously” to consider approval of the winning bidder.  
 “We’re going to do the best we can,” he said.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        