-- Darrelle Revis Rejects Contract Offers From Jets as Training Camp Begins
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-08-02T13:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/darrelle-revis-rejects-contract-offers-from-jets-as-training-camp-begins.html

          
          
             Darrelle Revis  rejected the latest
contract offers from the New York Jets, including one that would
have made the All-Pro cornerback a “Jet for life,” general
manager  Mike Tannenbaum  said yesterday after the National
Football League team opened training camp.  
 Revis, 25, is holding out while seeking a contract with an
average value that exceeds the three-year, $45.3 million deal
the Oakland Raiders gave cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha  last year,
Newsday has reported. Revis is in the fourth year of a six-year
contract worth a total of $36 million, according to the NFL
Network. He will make $1 million in base pay this season.  
 Tannenbaum told reporters at the team’s training camp in
Cortland, New York, that the Jets have offered Revis a long-term
contract that would keep him with the franchise for the rest of
his NFL career, a short-term deal and also requested a meeting
with his agents. All were rebuffed, Tannenbaum said.  
 “The next step is the lines of communication are opened,”
Tannenbaum said, according to a transcript distributed by the
Jets. “Two things that we all agreed upon is that Darrelle
outplayed his contract and it needed to be addressed and that he
has three years to go on his contract.”  
 Total Compensation  
 Tannenbaum said the two sides are in dispute over total
compensation. Revis’s agent,  Neil Schwartz , told the Associated
Press that his client’s actions speak louder than words.  
 “Once we get over the hurdle of total compensation, based
on my history and experience, usually there is a landing spot,”
Tannenbaum said.  
 Revis in January was named the runner-up to Green Bay
Packers cornerback  Charles Woodson  in voting for the NFL’s
Defensive Player of the Year Award. Revis knocked down 37 passes
to lead the NFL and had six interceptions as the Jets advanced
to the American Football Conference championship game.  
 On June 14, Revis sat out some plays during the team’s
mini-camp practice in protest of the slow pace of his contract
negotiations.  
 “We’ve told them multiple times that we’re completely
flexible to signing bonuses, option bonuses, roster bonuses and
how guarantees are done,” Tannenbaum said. “We’ve seen around
the league that there’s a myriad of ways that things have been
solved in terms of how veterans have been extended. It’s hard,
it’s complicated, but hopefully there’s a solution that’s good
for them and good for us.”  
 The Jets begin the regular-season Sept. 13 against the
Baltimore Ravens.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        