-- David Jones, Ex-CEO McInnes, Sued by Publicist in Australia Federal Court
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-08-02T08:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/david-jones-former-chief-executive-sued-by-employee-for-sexual-harassment.html

          
          
             David Jones Ltd ., Australia’s
second-biggest department store chain, its board and former
Chief Executive Officer  Mark McInnes  were sued by an employee
who claims she was sexually harassed at work.  
 Kristy Fraser-Kirk said McInnes made unwelcome sexual
advances toward her and she seeks punitive damages of 5 percent
of the company’s  profit  and McInnes salary and benefits between
2003 and 2010 in a claim filed today in the Federal Court of
Australia in Sydney. The amount comes to at least A$37 million
($34 million), based on Bloomberg calculations.  
 “My whole life has been turned upside down,” Fraser-
Kirk, a publicist with the company, said today in comments
broadcast on Sky television. The company will “defend the
claims vigorously” and won’t comment while the matter is before
the courts,  David Jones  said in a statement today. McInnes
resigned June 18.  
 The claim, worth at least 22 percent of  estimated  2010
earnings, comes six weeks after McInnes ended his seven-year
tenure, citing his own “unbecoming” conduct. New CEO  Paul Zahra  has affirmed profit  forecasts  and the company’s
strategy of targeting affluent female customers with designer
fashions in cities and high-income suburbs.  
 ‘Back Off’  
 David Jones  fell 0.8 percent to A$4.76 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney. The  stock  has gained 5.5 percent
since McInnes left, as Zahra affirmed forecasts.  
 Fraser-Kirk said  David Jones  ignored her complaints of 
unwanted advances, with her immediate supervisor and the
company’s general manager of public relations advising her 
to tell McInnes to “back off” the next time it happened.
That contravened the company’s policy that harassment in the
workplace wouldn’t be tolerated, according to her claim.  
 Fraser-Kirk said in the complaint that McInnes put his
hand under her clothes at a May luncheon and that, after a
June party, he urged her to go to his home in Sydney’s
beachside suburb of Bondi, “with the clear implication that
such a visit would be for the purpose of sexual
intercourse.”  
 The punitive damages sought apply to the company’s
 profit  from 2003 to this year, the period when McInnes was
chief executive.  David Jones  had net income of A$726.9
million in its fiscal years from 2004 to 2009 and a loss in
2003. McInnes was paid A$23 million in salary and bonus
during that time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Charity Donation  
 Any punitive damages awarded through the lawsuit would
be donated to a charity helping those affected by sexual
misconduct in workplaces, Fraser-Kirk said during today’s 
press conference.  
 During McInnes’s seven years in charge,  David Jones ’
shares surged fourfold and the company was the best
performing retailer in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index as it
emulated the success that overseas chains such as
Bloomingdale’s had with international designer brands.  
 McInnes signed agreements with companies including  Polo
Ralph Lauren Corp . and Bottega Veneta owner  PPR SA  to lure
affluent shoppers.  
 After his resignation, the company paid him a settlement
of A$1.5 million and statutory entitlements, such as
accumulated annual leave, worth A$445,000. McInnes didn’t
receive any of his contracted incentive payments.  
 The case is Between Kristy Anne Fraser-Kirk and David
Jones Ltd. 964-2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        