-- Deutsche Hires Ex-BNP Commodity Banker Hayashida to Expand Japan Hedging
-- Yuji Okada
-- 2010-08-02T02:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/deutsche-hires-ex-bnp-commodity-banker-hayashida-to-expand-japan-hedging.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG  hired  Takashi Hayashida , the former head of commodity sales of BNP Paribas in
Tokyo, to meet rising demand from utilities and manufacturers
for hedging fuel against price swings.  
 Hayashida, 33, joined Deutsche Securities Inc. yesterday
where he will work with  Kenichiro Yamaguchi , head of the Tokyo
commodities desk,  Seiko Adachi , a spokeswoman for Deutsche
Securities, said by telephone today from the Japanese capital.  
 Germany’s largest lender is boosting sales of derivatives
to help Japanese power utilities, manufacturers and airlines
reduce risk from fluctuating fuel costs. Steelmakers may follow
Mitsui & Co. into the growing commodities swaps market after
Credit Suisse Group AG helped the company seal Japan’s first
iron ore swap trade on June 25.  
 “European and U.S. banks began a search for commodities
experts in Tokyo in April,” said  Ken Hasegawa , commodities
derivatives sales manager at brokerage Newedge in Tokyo. “The
emergence of iron ore swaps trading might be luring banks to
increase their headcounts and capture potential demand growth
for hedging.”  
 The iron ore swap market may grow 10-fold to 360 million
metric tons annually over the next two years, Credit Suisse
estimated in February.  
 Hayashida’s entry came after Deutsche Bank hired Yamaguchi,
the former president of Mitsubishi Corp.’s fuel-trading unit, in
February. Hayashida has eight years experience in commodities
risk hedging. Before BNP Paribas he worked at the Japanese
offices of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 Swaps allow utilities and other producers to pay a fixed
price for a commodity while another party, usually a bank, pays
a floating price, based on market benchmarks. If the benchmark
goes up during the term of the contract, the utility gets a
payment from the bank, and if it goes down, the utility pays.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        