-- Dry Spell at Brazil Sugar Ports Unlikely to End Delays on Record Output
-- Carlos Caminada
-- 2010-08-02T17:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/dry-spell-at-brazil-sugar-ports-unlikely-to-end-delays-on-rain-somar-says.html

          
          
             Dry weather next week at Brazil’s
sugar ports, which handle more than half of global exports, will
probably fail to end a record backlog of ships waiting to load
the sweetener as mills process a bumper crop, a forecaster said.  
 Showers that halted sugar loading since July 14 at the Port
of Santos, Brazil’s largest, will cease for at least 10 days
starting Aug. 6, meteorologist Celso Oliveira of forecaster Somar
Meteorologia said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. The
dry spell probably won’t be enough to end a jam of trucks and
ships waiting to unload and export the sugar, he said.  
 “I’m not sure the dry spell will be enough to solve it
because there are quite a lot of trucks lined up down there,”
Oliveira said today. “The bottleneck will only get worse.”  
 Sugar has jumped 16 percent in the past month, in part
because the logjam is paring global supplies. A record 122 ships
are waiting to load sugar at Santos and five other ports,
according to a July 30 report by Santos Associados Consultoria
Ltda. and shipping company Unimar Agenciamentos Maritimos Ltda.  
 Sugar loading at Santos may be delayed at least until
October as low inventories at food makers stoke demand for the
sweetener,  Plinio Nastari , president of Sao Paulo-based crop
forecaster Datagro Ltd. in Sao Paulo, said on July 23.  
 Brazil’s sugar output will climb 17 percent this year to
38.7 million metric tons as drier weather in producing areas
favors harvesting and after cane growers increased planting, the
Agriculture Ministry said April 29.  
 Record Crop  
 Mills will process a record 664.3 million tons of sugar-
cane into sweetener and ethanol this year, up from 604.5 million
tons last year, the government said.  
 Cosan SA Industria & Comercio , the world’s largest sugar-
cane processor, operates the biggest sugar terminal at Santos.
Julio Fontana Neto, chief executive officer of Cosan’s
transportation unit Rumo Logistica, didn’t return messages left
today with an outside public relations firm.  
 A spokesman at the Port of Santos, who can’t be named under
internal policies, declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Caminada  at   ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        