-- DuPont Gets Reversal of Judge's Ruling in Monsanto Seed-Patent Dispute
-- Susan Decker
-- 2010-08-02T21:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/dupont-gets-reversal-of-judge-s-ruling-in-monsanto-seeds-patent-dispute.html

          
          
             DuPont Co.  persuaded a federal judge
to reverse part of his ruling that its modified soybeans
violated a license with  Monsanto Co.  for seeds that resist
Roundup, the world’s best selling herbicide.  
 U.S. District Judge  E. Richard Webber  in St. Louis
reconsidered a Jan. 15 ruling that said DuPont’s Pioneer unit
pledged not to exceed the scope of the license, according to a
court docket. His ruling wasn’t published. Monsanto said the
decision is “procedural” and DuPont remains in breach of the
contract. DuPont called the ruling “very important.”  
 Monsanto, the world’s biggest seed producer, sued DuPont
last year to block a plan that would use Monsanto’s Roundup
Ready trait with DuPont’s GAT genetics. The DuPont technology is
an alternative way for seeds to survive applications of the
Roundup glyphosate herbicide.  
 The July 30 decision doesn’t alter the judge’s finding that
DuPont isn’t allowed to combine GAT genetics with the Roundup
Ready trait, a process known as “stacking,” under the terms of
a 2002 license,  Scott S. Partridge , Monsanto chief deputy
general counsel, said in a statement.  
 Daniel A. Turner , a DuPont spokesman, said in a statement
that Weber’s ruling “is very important because it vacated that
part of his January 15, 2010, decision which concluded that
there was an implied prohibition in our Roundup Ready license on
stacking.”  
 DuPont’s other challenges will proceed, including claims by
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont that Monsanto is using its
dominance in biotech seeds to stifle competition and that its
Roundup Ready patent is invalid.  
 The judge last week granted DuPont’s request to file
amended counterclaims that add detail to the company’s patent
fraud allegations, Turner said. Weber also is allowing discovery
on the “full scope” of DuPont’s antitrust claims, he said.  
 The case is Monsanto Co. v. E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co.,
09cv686, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St.
Louis).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        