-- Eastern Europe Growth Likely `to Disappoint,' Capital Economics Forecasts
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-08-02T15:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/eastern-europe-growth-likely-to-disappoint-capital-economics-forecasts.html

          
          
             Eastern Europe’s economic recovery
may be weakening after manufacturing confidence, the driving
force behind the rebound, fell last month in every country in
the region except Russia and Hungary, Capital Economics said.  
 The figures are “still consistent with double-digit annual
increases in industrial production,” though the pace of
expansion will be difficult to sustain in the coming months as a
global recovery is slowing and domestic demand remains sluggish,
 Neil Shearing , a senior emerging market economist at London-
based Capital wrote in an e-mailed note.  
 Growth in the region will “disappoint next year and the
pace of monetary tightening” will “be much slower than the
market currently expects,” Shearing wrote.  
 The former communist countries in Europe and Central Asia
are recovering from their deepest recessions since switching to
free-market policies two decades ago. The European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development last month lowered its forecast
for growth in eastern Europe and Central Asia, citing higher
risks from budget cuts and volatile markets in the euro region.  
 The EBRD forecasts economic growth in the 30 countries in
which it invests averaging 3.5 percent this year and 3.9 percent
in 2011.  
 ‘Bad News’  
 “The bad news is that pressures facing manufacturers in
the region are only going to increase from here,” Shearing
wrote. As the global recovery flags, “there is little chance of
domestic demand taking up the slack. Credit remains tight, a
fiscal squeeze is looming in pretty much every country and the
labor market has been slow to recover.”  
 Poland’s Purchasing Managers Index fell unexpectedly in
July to 52.1 from 53.3 in June, the highest in almost three
years, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  
 Czech manufacturing confidence eased to a four-month low of
56.8, from 57.6 in June, HSBC said. Turkey’s July PMI declined
to 52.8, from 53.2, falling for a second consecutive month, HSBC
and Markit said today.  
 “The dip in new orders in Poland and Turkey appears to
have been driven by domestic factors; in the case of the Czech
Republic it seems to have been driven by a slowdown in new
export orders,” Shearing wrote.  
 Hungary’s manufacturing index rose to 53.5 in July from
49.6 the previous month, the Hungarian Logistics, Purchasing and
Inventory Society said today. Russian  manufacturing  confidence
also expanded, VTB Capital said, rising to 52.7  from 52.6 in
June.  
 Emerging-market stocks rose, lifting the benchmark index to
a three-month high, on speculation China will reverse policies
aimed at cooling the nation’s economy.  
 A decline in China’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index  to 51.2 in
July from 52.1 led analysts to speculate the government may roll
back policies aimed at slowing the economy. The  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index  climbed 2.1 percent to 1012.19 as of 3:46 p.m. in
London and was poised for the highest close since May 3.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        