-- Emaar MGF Said to Reduce IPO Target to $356 Million
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-09-30T14:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/emaar-mgf-said-to-reduce-india-public-offing-target-to-about-433-million.html
Emaar MGF Land Ltd., the builder of
India’s Commonwealth Games Village, reduced the size of a
proposed initial public offering to 16 billion rupees ($356
million), two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The IPO may begin in the first half of December, one of the
people said, declining to be named before a public announcement.  The New Delhi-based company filed a revised share-sale
document to regulators today, the people said.  Anupama Chopra , a
spokeswoman for the company in New Delhi, confirmed the filing.  “The issue size has been lowered keeping in view the
existing fund requirements,” Chopra said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The company has been able to reduce its
debt significantly, buoyed by healthy sales from recent project
launches and the improved real estate market.”  The builder, a unit of  Emaar Properties PJSC , was forced to
abandon plans to raise as much as 70.8 billion rupees in
February 2008 even after cutting the offer price as global
equity markets slumped, the company said at the time.  The developer renewed fundraising plans in September last
year. It secured approval to raise 38.5 billion rupees,
according to a statement in March. It has since held off on an
IPO in a year when the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Realty index  has
fallen 3.34 percent, compared with a 15 percent gain in the
benchmark  Sensex .  Kotak Mahindra Capital Co., Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG,
Credit Suisse Group AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, ICICI Securities Ltd.
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc were hired to manage the
sale, according to Emaar MGF’s September 2009 prospectus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  