-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to 3-Month High on China, South Korea Outlook
-- Jason Webb
-- 2010-08-02T21:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-3-month-high-on-china-south-korea-outlook.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose, lifting
the benchmark index to a three-month high, on speculation China
will reverse policies aimed at cooling the nation’s economy and
as oil prices rose.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 2.2 percent to
1,012.94 by 5 p.m. in New York, the biggest gain in six weeks
and the highest closing level since April 30. The  Shanghai
Composite Index  rose 1.3 percent, following the best monthly
gain in a year in July. Eastern European stocks surged 4
percent, with Russia’s  Micex  Index jumping 2.3 percent as crude
oil traded above $81 a barrel. Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index
gained for an 11th day, the longest winning streak since 2003.  
 China’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index  fell to 51.2 in July
from 52.1 in June, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said on its website yesterday. It was the lowest reading since
China’s manufacturing stopped contracting in March 2009 and led
analysts to suggest the government could roll back policies
aimed at slowing the economy. A reading above 50 shows
expansion.  
 “The weak PMI data probably will trigger the government to
evaluate its current economic policy,” Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts  Vincent Chan  and  Peggy Chan  wrote in a report today.
“It could actually be good news for banks if the government
really needs to use another round of public investment to help
boost investment growth.”  
 Russian gas monopoly Gazprom OAO rose 3.7 percent, the
strongest level since April 30. OAO  Rosneft  climbed 3.1 percent
after the state-owned oil producer said net income attributable
to shareholders  rose 54 percent  in the second quarter.  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, rose to
the highest since June 23.  
 Oil, Copper  
 Oil surged above $81 a barrel for the first time since May
as a rally in global equity markets increased speculation the
economy is strengthening.  
 Polish stocks advanced 2.7 percent, with a 3.1 percent gain
for the country’s only copper producer,  KGHM Polska Miedz SA .
Copper rose to a three-month high in New York and London on
speculation that China’s government may cut back on policy
tightening after manufacturing slowed in the country.  
 South Korea’s Kospi index advanced 1.3 percent, helped by
government data showing  exports  increased 29.6 percent in July
from a year earlier.  Hyundai Motor Co.  South Korea’s largest
automaker, added 2 percent.  Hyundai Mobis Co. , the biggest auto-
parts maker, jumped 8.6 percent, the most since January 2009,
after the company reported a 60 percent increase in second-
quarter profit.  
 Emerging-market currencies gained, with Korean export data
pushing the won up 0.9 percent against the dollar. The Hungarian
forint advanced 1.1 percent against the euro and the zloty rose
0.7 percent to its highest level since May versus the common
currency. The ruble strengthened 0.8 percent against the dollar,
buoyed by oil.  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold emerging-market
government bonds instead of 10-year U.S. Treasuries fell 17
basis points, the most since May 27.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net 
 Jason Webb  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Poole, global head of macro and investment strategy at HSBC Global Asset Management U.K. Ltd., speaks about the bank's decision to increase its exposure in Russia.
     He talks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
