-- Energy Future Holdings Reduces Debt to $36.8 Billion on Bond Retirements
-- Tony Cox
-- 2010-08-02T15:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/energy-future-holdings-reduces-debt-to-36-8-billion-on-bond-retirements.html

          
          
             Energy Future Holdings Corp. , the
most indebted U.S. energy company, reduced long-term borrowings
by 11 percent in the past year on early retirements of bonds.  
 Long-term debt at the end of June dropped to $36.8 billion
from $41.4 billion a year earlier, Dallas-based  Energy Future 
said today in a public  filing . Interest costs and related
charges jumped to $1.12 billion from $431 million on a drop in
the value of rate swaps, derivative contracts used to guard
against fluctuations in borrowing costs.  
 Energy Future reported an $83 million second-quarter gain
on early retirement of borrowings and debt exchanges. The
company’s  net loss  widened to $426 million from $155 million.  
 Formerly known as TXU Corp., Energy Future was sold in 2007
to a group led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and TPG Inc. The
deal was valued at $45 billion, including $13 billion of assumed
debt, a record for a leveraged buyout. Since the sale, the cost
of protecting TXU bonds against default jumped more than 20-fold
as the buyout more than tripled the company’s debt, credit
markets collapsed and the recession eroded power demand.  
 The company has swapped bonds at a discount to reduce its
debt load. Some of Energy Future’s bonds trade at less than 60
cents on the dollar.  
 “We are continuing to look for opportunities to reduce
debt and extend maturities,”  Lisa Singleton , a spokeswoman for
Energy Future, said in phone interview.  
 Energy Future’s  debt  totals don’t include almost $5 billion
in long-term borrowings at the company’s Oncor power-line
subsidiary. Energy Future this year began excluding Oncor from
its consolidated financial statements because of regulations
that restrict its operating control of the business.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Cox  in Houston at   acox3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        