-- Metro Second-Quarter Profit Falls 15% as Company Takes Charges to Cut Jobs
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-08-02T15:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/metro-reports-second-quarter-net-income-that-misses-analyst-estimate.html

          
          
             Metro AG ’s second-quarter profit
unexpectedly fell 15 percent as Germany’s largest retailer spent
more to eliminate jobs.  
 Net income  dropped to 44 million euros ($57.6 million), or
13 cents a share, from 52 million euros, or 16 cents, a year
earlier, the Dusseldorf-based company said today in a statement.
That missed the 87 million-euro average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2.4 percent to 15.7
billion euros.  
 Metro aims to lift  profit  by 1.5 billion euros over four
years through its Shape 2012 program as it slashes jobs at its
Cash & Carry unit. The retailer generates almost half total
revenue from wholesale operations, which have lost appeal to
hotel owners and catering companies in some western European
countries. The company increased one-time spending by 21 percent
to 82 million euros in the quarter.  
 “Net income figures are disappointing as Shape seems to be
more expensive than expected at the moment,” said  Wolfgang Vasterling , an analyst at Norddeutsche Landesbank in Hanover,
Germany, who rates the stock “hold.” He said the program is
“necessary and remunerating” for the retailer.  
 Metro  shares  fell 2.4 percent to 41.595 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of Frankfurt trading. The stock has dropped 2.3
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 13.6
billion euros.  
 Job Reductions  
 Metro has said it will eliminate an additional 900 jobs, or
6 percent of its workforce, at its domestic Cash & Carry unit
after already cutting 1,000 positions. The company is trying to
turn around a business that has been in decline for more than
five years.  
 Expenses for the Shape program will be 200 million euros
this year, compared with a previous forecast of 170 million
euros, Chief Financial Officer  Olaf Koch  said at a press
conference today in Dusseldorf. The costs are still expected to
total about 650 million euros from 2009 until 2011, the company
said in today’s statement.  
 “Expenses for Shape were higher than I expected,” said
 Robert Greil , an  analyst  at Merck Finck & Co in Munich. He
recommends investors “sell” the stock.  
 Metro still predicts benefits worth 500 million euros this
year because of the cost cutting, Koch said.  
 Profit Forecast  
 Metro had “good business development” in July and may
reach earnings before interest and tax and before special items
of 2.2 billion euros this year if the economy doesn’t worsen,
Chief Executive Officer  Eckhard Cordes  said at the press
conference.  
 Previously, the company said profit on that basis will
“tangibly exceed” the 2.02 billion euros reported in 2009.
Sales will be less than the company’s medium-term 6 percent
growth target, though they will be higher than last year.  
 The retailer spent 9 million euros more than a year earlier
for interest payments as it changed short-term debt into long-
term loans. Metro will spend 2.1 billion euros this year to open
new stores, more than the previously planned 1.9 billion euros.  
 Earnings before interest, taxes and special items at the
Cash & Carry division,  Metro’s  largest with 670 stores in 31
countries, rose to 245 million euros from 225 million euros a
year earlier.  
 The Media Markt/Saturn consumer electronics division’s
operating profit fell 25 percent as the company paid to enter
the Chinese market and introduce new private-label products.
Revenue excluding currency shifts rose 7.7 percent, boosted by
this year’s soccer World Cup.  
 The operating loss narrowed at the Real hypermarket unit to
2 million euros. The loss shrank shrank to 15 million euros from
19 million euros at Kaufhof department stores, which Metro has
said it would like to sell.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        