-- Euroyen Yields Drop to Five-Year Low on Bets Bank of Japan to Weaken Yen
-- Saburo Funabiki
-- 2010-08-02T08:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/euroyen-yields-drop-to-five-year-low-on-bets-bank-of-japan-to-weaken-yen.html

          
          
             Euroyen futures rose, sending yields
to a five-year low, on speculation the Bank of Japan will ease
monetary policy to help weaken the nation’s currency.  
 Yields on three-month contracts for March delivery have
dropped nine basis points since the central bank said on May 21
that it would provide one-year loans to banks at the same level
as the key overnight rate of 0.1 percent. The yen has advanced
7.2 percent versus the dollar this year, contributing to
deflation by lowering import costs.  
 “Euroyen futures rose on speculation there’ll be more
monetary easing by the BOJ after the yen strengthened,” said
 Shinsuke Kanabu , project and research director at Central Tanshi
Co., a Tokyo-based money market dealer and broker. “If the
dollar stays at the 85 yen level or falls below 85 yen, there
will be calls for measures to deal with it.”  
 Three-month euroyen contracts for March delivery traded at
99.710 at the Tokyo Financial Exchange, with an implied yield of
0.29 percent. The yield dropped to as low as 0.285 percent today,
the least for a benchmark contract since Sept. 9, 2005. The yen
rose to 85.95 per dollar on July 30, its strongest level since
Nov. 30, after a report showed U.S. economic growth slowed.  
 The Bank of Japan will “naturally consider what it can
do” if the global economy stagnates and the yen’s gains
accelerate, former BOJ Deputy Governor Toshiro Muto said at a
forum hosted by Bloomberg News in Tokyo on July 30. Muto said he
doesn’t expect the currency to keep rising because interest-rate
differentials between Japan and U.S. won’t continue to narrow.  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.4 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after a revised 3.7 percent expansion in the
first three months of the year, the Commerce Department said on
July 30.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saburo Funabiki  in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        