-- Euro Region Should Permit Defaults, Says Greek Rescue's Top Contributor
-- Douglas Lytle
-- 2010-08-02T14:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/euro-region-should-permit-defaults-says-greek-rescue-s-top-contributor.html

          
          
             Euro members should be allowed to
default so poorer countries like Slovakia don’t have to pay for
others’ mistakes, said Slovak Finance Minister  Ivan Miklos .  
 The Slovak government, which took office July 9, opposes
contributing to the euro area’s 110 billion-euro ($144 billion)
Greek rescue fund after the country was asked to pay more than
any other nation relative to the size of its economy.  
 Miklos’s comments ally him with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  who has proposed rules for orderly default as the
European Union discusses harsher sanctions for countries that
violate financial rules. The common currency will withstand a
default as long as the bloc puts procedures in place to prepare
for it, Miklos, 50, said in a July 30 interview.  
 “Just because a country defaults shouldn’t threaten the
future of the euro zone,” he said at his office in Bratislava,
Slovakia’s capital. “On the contrary, maybe if we don’t change
the rules, if we at least indirectly support moral hazard in the
future, then I’m afraid Europe can be under serious threat.”  
 Slovak opposition hasn’t held up payments to from the Greek
rescue fund, approved after Greece agreed to implement austerity
measures to tame a deficit that reached 13.6 percent of gross
domestic product last year. Greece received 20 billion euros of
loans from the EU and International Monetary Fund in May, with
future installments to be paid after quarterly reviews of its
deficit-cutting efforts.  
 Miklos, who also served as economy minister from 1998-2006,
is credited with designing the economic policies that paved the
way for Slovakia to join the euro last year. He returned to
government last month after a four-party coalition committed to
cutting the deficit won a majority in June elections.  
 ‘We Don’t Agree’  
 While the previous government approved an 816 million-euro
contribution to the euro-region loan pool for Greece, three of
the new ruling parties oppose disbursing the funds, Miklos said.
The new cabinet has recommended lawmakers reject the payment
because former Prime Minister  Robert Fico  didn’t discuss it with
parliament and because Slovakia’s share is too big, Miklos said.  
 Slovakia, the euro region’s poorest country as measured by
per-capita GDP, is being asked to contribute an amount equal to
1.3 percent of economic production, while Luxembourg, the
richest, will pay 0.6 percent, according to Miklos.  
 “We don’t agree with the principle that people in other
countries which have nothing to do with this have to pay, but
banks which have been profiting from giving loans to the Greek
government in the past are not paying even one euro.”  
 It is also unfair for Slovakia to be asked to help bail out
Greece because Slovakia had to make deep structural changes in
its economy without any aid, Miklos said. For example, the
Slovak government bailed out its own banks in 2000 at a cost of
12 percent of gross domestic product, he said.  
 “The Slovakian people had to pay for this,” Miklos said.
“For us, it might have been much easier to take the money, to
take loans to cover old loans and so and so on. But this is not
a good endeavor.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .
 Douglas Lytle  at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        