-- Europe Manufacturing Quickens More Than Estimated as Exports Lead Recovery
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-08-02T08:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/european-manufacturing-growth-accelerates-more-than-previously-estimated.html

          
          
             Growth in Europe’s  manufacturing 
 industry  accelerated more than previously estimated in July,
indicating an export-led recovery maintained its momentum.  
 A gauge of manufacturing in the 16-nation euro region
increased to 56.7 from 55.6 in the previous month, London-based
 Markit Economics  said today. That’s a three-month high and above
an initial estimate of 56.5 released on July 22. A reading above
50 indicates expansion.  
 European manufacturers have helped support the region’s
recovery by stepping up output to meet global export demand.
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, on July 29 reported
its biggest quarterly profit in two years. Still,  Chinese
manufacturing growth  slowed in July and U.S. factory output
probably also weakened, suggesting exporters may struggle to
maintain their earnings growth.  
 “The momentum we’ve seen over the past months won’t be
maintained,” said  Ralph Solveen , an economist at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt. “Growth will weaken, but it won’t point to an end
of the recovery. It’s a normalization after an initial surge.”  
 The euro advanced against the dollar after the report,
trading at $1.3073 at 10:20 a.m. in London, up 0.2 percent on
the day. The European currency gained 1.1 percent last week,
capping the biggest monthly gain since May 2009, on signs the
region’s economy is gathering strength.  
 ‘Substantial Boost’  
 The manufacturing industry “continued to provide a
substantial boost to the euro-area recovery at the start of the
third quarter,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit,
said in a statement. “There has been no loss of momentum from
the second quarter.”  
 The gain “was almost entirely driven by a growth spurt in
Germany, which saw output and new orders surge at near record
rates,” Williamson said. “This is clearly a very uneven
recovery.”  
 A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both the services and manufacturing industries
probably rose to 56.7 in July from 56 in the previous month,
while an  index of euro-area services  increased to 56 from 55.5.
Markit is scheduled to release those two indicators on Aug. 4.  
 In the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, the Institute for
Supply Management’s factory  index  probably dropped to an eight-
month low in July, according to the median estimate of 62
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Tempe, Arizona-based
ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. New York time.  
 A Chinese purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit slid to 49.4 from 50.4 in June. A
separate, government-backed PMI fell to 51.2 from 52.1, the
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloombert.net   
          
          


  


        