-- Mexicana Talks With Investors, Studies Bankruptcy
-- Jose Enrique Arrioja
-- 2010-08-02T15:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/mexicana-holds-talks-with-investors-as-airline-considers-bankruptcy-filing.html

          
          
             Grupo Mexicana de Aviacion, Mexico’s
biggest airline by passengers, is in talks with several
international investors as it considers whether to file for
bankruptcy, Chief Executive Officer  Manuel Borja Chico  said.  
 Mexicana seeks a new labor agreement with its unions to cut
costs, and there are no discussions about a merger with
 Consorcio Aeromexico SA , the carrier’s largest Mexican rival,
Borja said today in an  interview  broadcast on Radio Formula in
Mexico City.  
 “We’ve been discussing with several international
investors who are willing to participate if we have a viable
business plan,” said Borja, who didn’t identify them. “To have
a viable business plan, we need to have a competitive new labor
agreement.”  
 Closely held Mexicana, acquired from the government by
 Grupo Posadas SAB  in 2005, faces a “critical” financial
situation and is preparing proposals to shareholders to keep the
company operating,  Adolfo Crespo , a company spokesman, said in
an interview July 30.  
 Mexicana is discussing financing options with private
lenders, Borja said. He declined to offer details during the
radio interview.  
 Union View  
 Lizette Clavel, secretary general of the flight attendants’
union, said last week that Mexicana has proposed laying off 500
attendants, reducing salaries as much as 50 percent and
eliminating most non-economic benefits. The airline gave the
union, which represents about 1,300 Mexicana attendants, an Aug.
9 deadline to reach the new agreement, Clavel said.  
 Mexicana flies to more than 65 national and international
destinations, including the U.S., Canada, Europe and Latin
America. In 2009, Mexicana transported 11.1 million passengers,
according to data published on the company’s  website .  
 The airline operates 69 planes under the Mexicana brand and
35 aircraft under MexicanaClick, which it started in 2005.
MexicanaLink, unveiled last year, has 15 planes, according to
the website. Mexicana also has 165 sales locations.  
 Mexicana is part of the Oneworld alliance, sharing
reservations and destinations with carriers led by AMR Corp.’s
American Airlines and British Airways Plc.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jose Enrique Arrioja  in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        