-- Facebook Would-Be Owner Says He Owes His Claim to Arrest
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/facebook-would-be-owner-says-he-owes-claim-to-arrest-andrew-cuomo-lawsuit.html

          
          
             Paul Ceglia, who claims in a lawsuit
that he owns 84 percent of Facebook Inc., said his case wouldn’t
have been possible if state troopers hadn’t come to his house in
October to arrest him for fraud.  
 Ceglia’s arrest and a suit by New York Attorney General
 Andrew Cuomo  two months later, both the result of complaints
related to his startup wood-pellet business, got him looking
through old files to find assets to pay back customers, he said
in an interview in his home in Wellsville, New York. One of
those files held a forgotten 2003 contract with  Mark Zuckerberg ,
now chief executive officer of Facebook, he said.  
 Ceglia, 37, a self-described environmentalist from western
New York who wants to legalize drugs and has views on the evils
of central banks, claims the contract entitles him to most of
the company. If true, the claim, which would give him control of
the world’s most-popular social networking service, would be
worth about $21 billion, given estimates of the company’s value.  
 “If this thing hadn’t happened the way it happened, no way I
would have ever started looking through these ancient folders,”
Ceglia said of his pellet problems. “That contract would just be
sitting in there gathering dust.”  
 In the weeks since Ceglia came to public attention with his
lawsuit against Palo Alto, California-based Facebook and
Zuckerberg, filed June 30 in New York state court, observers
have been asking why he took so long to make his claim. His
answer, it turns out, was he forgot about it.  
 Facebook said a photocopy of the contract, filed as an
exhibit to the lawsuit, is a phony.  
 ‘Absurd’  
 “Ceglia’s claims are absurd and his lawsuit is frivolous,
if not outright fraudulent,” Facebook said in an e-mailed
statement. “Ceglia has refused to produce the original contract
and the copy we’ve seen is a forgery, with inconsistent margin
sizes, inconsistent font sizes, and other glaring
discrepancies,” the company said.  
 Ceglia, one of whose lawyers said the original is in a safe
place, said he is eager to take on Zuckerberg, 26, and let a
jury decide whether the contract is genuine.  
 “I’m coming after him,” Ceglia said. “A deal’s a deal.”  
 Ceglia’s claim is based on a two-page “Work for Hire”
contract he claims Zuckerberg signed in April 2003, when the
Facebook CEO was an 18-year-old freshman at Harvard University.
According to the copy of the contract, Ceglia agreed to pay
Zuckerberg $1,000 to write computer code for StreetFax LLC, a
company Ceglia said he was trying to get off the ground at the
time. The alleged contract also refers to a $1,000 investment by
Ceglia in a project named in one place as “The Face Book,” and
as “The Page Book” in another.  
 Ownership Promise  
 In return, the alleged contract gives Ceglia a 50 percent 
interest in “the software, programming language and business 
interests derived from the expansion of that service to a larger
audience.” Another provision, Ceglia claims, gives him an 
additional 1 percent interest for each day after Jan. 1, 2004, 
that the launch of “The Face Book” was delayed.  
 Ceglia said he has more evidence of his claim than just the
contract.  
 “We e-mailed each other for more than a year,” he said.  
 Lisa Simpson , a lawyer for Facebook, said at a court
hearing July 20 that Zuckerberg did sign some contract with
Ceglia. Zuckerberg also worked for Ceglia on the StreetFax
matter in 2003, she said.  
 What he didn’t do is sign over an interest in Facebook to
Ceglia, she told U.S. District Judge  Richard Arcara  at the
hearing. Facebook argued in court papers that Zuckerberg
couldn’t have given Ceglia a share of a project he didn’t
conceive of until the following year.  
 2004 Beginnings  
 Most book and journalistic accounts of Facebook’s short
history say it was started in Zuckerberg’s Harvard dorm room in
2004 when he was a sophomore.  
 “Things change,” said Ceglia, standing outside the wood
pellet-making shop he said he built himself, with the help of
two local Amish men, in an enlarged two-car garage near his
house. “Here I am in my little factory, and Zuckerberg is now a
mogul. But it was a different story back in 2003.”  
 Ceglia said he found Zuckerberg by asking for bids for
StreetFax coding work on Craigslist, the classified
advertisement site. Zuckerberg was the low bidder, offering to
do the work for $1,000, according to Ceglia. The two signed the
contract at a hotel in Boston, he said. Ceglia claims that, in
addition to the StreetFax work, Zuckerberg persuaded him to
invest $1,000 in the “Face Book” idea.  
 By Aug. 6 the parties are scheduled to give Arcara a
proposed order setting deadlines for Facebook to answer the
complaint or move to dismiss it and for Ceglia to move to have
the case sent back to state court.  
 Deadlines  
 Ceglia said he remembers the 18-year-old Zuckerberg as
“probably one of the most difficult people that ever worked for
me, in the sense that he simply could not finish his work. He
just could not keep a deadline.”  
 Zuckerberg often made excuses for getting his work in late,
including that he had to wash his father’s boat and that he’d
left his laptop charger at home, Ceglia said.  
 “The work he did was really good,” Ceglia said. “He could
code. I’d hire him today as a coder.”  
 Ceglia said he looks forward to a day when he might employ
Zuckerberg again.  
 “If at some point in the future I start running Facebook, I
guess I’m going to have to hire him to keep running the
company,” Ceglia said. “I really don’t have much interest in
it.”  
 After he filed his lawsuit, Ceglia did take enough interest
in the company to sign up for a Facebook account on July 22, his
birthday.  
 ‘Great Service’  
 “I think it’s a great service,” he said.  
 Like many of the 500 million people who use Facebook,
Ceglia said he’s gotten back in touch with some old high school
friends.  
 “I like to think about myself as someone that is driven by
trying to contribute in some way to increasing the consciousness
on the planet,” Ceglia says on his Facebook page.  
 Ceglia said he’s surprised that his claim to own Facebook
has gotten so much attention.  
 “I never expected it to get so much publicity,” said
Ceglia. “It’s really gone sort of nuts.”  
 He said he mostly ignores the phone calls he’s been getting
from journalists and radio talk-shows, such as those hosted by
Howard Stern and Matthew Erich “Mancow” Muller.  
 “Once I picked it up because I thought I knew the number,
and I’m like live on the Mancow show,” he said.  
 Wellsville  
 Ceglia, his wife Iasia, 31, and two sons, 6 and 7, live in
a two-story, unpainted wood house on two acres near the top of a
hill in Wellsville. The town, with a population of 8,200, is the
biggest in rural Allegany County, about two hours drive
southeast from Buffalo, where Ceglia’s suit against Zuckerberg
and Facebook is pending in federal court after having been
transferred from the state forum by Facebook.  
 Wellsville is also the hometown of Adelphia Communications
Corp. founder John Rigas, whose Greek immigrant father started
the Texas Hot restaurant that’s still open on Main Street.
Rigas, 85, and his son Timothy Rigas were convicted in 2004 of
conspiracy and securities fraud. John Rigas is serving a 12-year
sentence in federal prison. Timothy is serving 17 years.  
 Ceglia said he and his wife started Allegany Pellets LLC in
February with the goal of making pellets from reclaimed wood
that could be used for environmentally friendly home heating.  
 “We felt like we had heard Obama’s call to help America
become energy independent,” Ceglia said.  
 The Arrests  
 Nine months later, on Oct. 30, state police arrested the
Ceglias at their home after receiving more than two dozen
complaints from customers who said they’d paid for wood pellets
but hadn’t received any. Paul and Iasia Ceglia were charged in
state court with one count of first degree scheme to defraud and
12 counts of fourth degree grand larceny.  
 According to Cuomo’s office, which won a court order to
shut the business down in December, the Ceglias took in $200,000
in prepaid orders from about 130 customers for 1,900 tons of
pellets. Lawyers in the attorney general’s office said in a
petition filed in state court that the Ceglias continued taking
money and orders when they knew they wouldn’t be able to deliver
as promised. They gave customers a series of fake excuses for
why they weren’t getting their pellets, according to the
petition. When they were arrested, Iasia Ceglia told police
they’d filled only three orders and given refunds to 10 or 20
customers.  
 No Intent  
 The Ceglias claim they never intended to defraud anyone.
They worked long hours trying to fill the orders and would have
done so, if not for numerous mechanical failures, they said.
They’re doing everything they can to pay back their customers’
money, they both said.  
 “I feel terrible,” Iasia Ceglia said. “We had many
sleepless nights.”  
 Paul Ceglia said his pellet machines are now up and
running. If Cuomo’s office would just let him start selling
pellets again, he said he’d be able to pay the money back. For
now, as he challenges Cuomo’s injunction, he’s working to
mortgage property he owns to help pay for the refunds.  
 “The state’s really put us in a heck of a bind,” he said.  
 Ceglia, born in Wellsville in 1973, moved with his family
to Ireland for six years as a child before returning to the
town. As a senior at Wellsville High, he said he opened a video
store in nearby Bath.  
 After high school, Ceglia said, he spent two years teaching
at an alternative school in Taos, New Mexico, where kids studied
whatever they chose and could vote to remove teachers. Back in
Allegany County, he opened an ice cream stand in Scio, he said.  
 Another Arrest  
 In 1997 Ceglia was arrested in Carthage, Texas and pleaded
guilty to possession of hallucinogenic mushrooms, according to
court files. He was fined $15,000 and permitted to return to New
York. He said he regretted the incident.  
 In recent years, Ceglia said he’s bought and sold real
estate and constructed and renovated homes in Wellsville and the
Bahamas. He helped start a non-profit environmentally friendly
cemetery in Ithaca, New York, and was a founding member of the
local Green Party, he said.  
 In 2001, Ceglia was contracted by a Massachusetts company,
StreetDelivery.com, to photograph street intersections in New
England, according to a civil complaint the company filed
against Cegla in 2003 over rights to the pictures.
StreetDelivery uploaded the photos from Ceglia and other
photographers into a database, then sold Internet access to
insurance companies investigating car accidents.  
 Florida Effort  
 Ceglia registered StreetFax in Nevada in 2003 and began
trying to duplicate StreetDelivery’s business in Florida. In
addition to Zuckerberg, Ceglia said he contracted with more than
20 workers, including Web designers, stenographers and
photographers.  
 “We really struggled as a company,” Ceglia said.  
 “I don’t have much good to say about Ceglia,” Andrew Logan,
StreetDelivery’s founder and CEO said in an interview. “He’s a
nice enough guy, but man, he would talk one way and then do
something completely different.”  
 Logan, who said StreetDelivery now does business in 27
states, claimed Ceglia was under contract to StreetDelivery in
2003 when he set up StreetFax and hired Zuckerberg. If Ceglia’s
contract with Zuckerberg gives Ceglia an ownership interest in
Facebook, that interest may belong to Logan, he said.  
 Logan, who called Ceglia “a real opportunist,” said his
lawyers are looking at the old contracts and settlement papers
with Ceglia.  
 “We’re going to lay claim that I own it,” said Logan. “He
was under contract to me.”  
 The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-CV-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in Wellsville, New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Facebook Would-Be Owner Paul Ceglia  
                       
                         
                           Bob van Voris/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Paul Ceglia, who claims he owns 84 percent of Facebook Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Paul Ceglia, who claims he owns 84 percent of Facebook Inc. Photographer: Bob van Voris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
