-- Wyly Brothers, Alcatel, BP, Roche, Facebook in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-08-02T18:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/facebook-wyly-brothers-bp-roche-visa-new-star-westlb-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Samuel Wyly and Charles Wyly, the
Texan brothers and entrepreneurs who funded ads helping George
W. Bush’s presidential campaigns, were sued by U.S. regulators
who accused them of misleading investors while selling hundreds
of millions of dollars in stock.  
 The Wylys used “an elaborate sham system of trusts and
subsidiary companies” in the Isle of Man and Cayman Islands
over a 13-year period to hide control of securities linked to
companies where they were board members, the Securities and
Exchange Commission said July 29 in a lawsuit filed in New York
federal court. They illegally kept investors in the dark as they
sold off holdings, and in one case made illegal insider trades,
the SEC said.  
 “The cloak of secrecy has been lifted from the complex web
of foreign structures used by the Wylys to evade the securities
laws,” the SEC’s deputy enforcement director, Lorin Reisner,
said in a statement. “They used these structures to conceal
hundreds of millions of dollars of gains in violation of the
disclosure requirements for corporate insiders.”  
 The brothers “intend to vigorously defend themselves --and
expect to be fully vindicated,” said their attorney,  William A. Brewer III  in Dallas.  
 For more, click here.  
 Barnes & Noble Files Lawsuits Against Alcatel, Xerox  
 Barnes & Noble Inc. , which makes the Nook electronic reader
and sells books from its website, sued  Xerox Corp.  and Alcatel-
 Lucent SA  over demands the bookseller pay royalties for patents.  
 The U.S. subsidiary of  Alcatel  says the Nook violates seven
of its patents, New York-based Barnes & Noble said in a lawsuit
filed July 29. Xerox says that barnesandnoble.com violates four
its patents, the book seller said in a separate court filing
July 29. Neither claim is valid, Barnes & Noble said in its
lawsuit. It asked the court to rule in its favor.  
 “We filed the declaratory judgment actions to make clear,
as outlined in the complaints, that we are not infringing any
valid Xerox and Alcatel-Lucent patents,” Barnes & Noble
spokeswoman Mary Ellen Keating said in an e-mail. “We cannot
further comment on pending litigation.”  
 Mary Ward, a spokeswoman for Alcatel-Lucent, declined to
comment in an e-mail. A Xerox spokeswoman didn’t respond to an
e-mail asking for comment.  
 The cases are barnesandnoble.com LLC v. Xerox Corp., 1:10-
cv-05758, and Barnes & Noble Inc. v. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.,
1:10-cv-05759, both in U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 U.S. Justice Staff Said to Urge Subpoenas for BP Managers  
 U.S. Justice Department attorneys conducting a criminal
probe of the  BP Plc  well explosion in the Gulf of Mexico have
recommended that a grand jury be convened and BP managers
subpoenaed to determine if any laws were broken, a person
familiar with the investigation said.  
 The subpoenas also would target employees of rig operator
 Transocean Ltd. , said the person, who was briefed by the
attorneys and asked not to be identified. London-based BP is the
majority owner of the well that exploded on April 20, killing 11
workers and triggering the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Offshore drilling regulators from the Interior Department
agency formerly known as the Minerals Management Service would
be summoned to testify about the process under which BP received
permits to drill the well about 40 miles (64 kilometers) off the
Louisiana coast, and whether any improper relationships existed
between agency employees and the company, the person said.  
 Contractors that worked for BP and Transocean aboard the
rig also might be compelled to testify, according to the person.  
 Senior Justice Department officials still have to approve a
grand jury, which would be a special panel or one that sits
regularly. The recommendations were made by department attorneys
in Washington and New Orleans, the person said. The panel would
probably meet in New Orleans, the person said.  
 Hannah August, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and Kathy
English, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Jim Letten of the
Eastern District of Louisiana, declined to comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 Fugitive Polly Peck Founder Granted Bail in London  
 Asil Nadir, the founder of  Polly Peck International Plc  who
fled to northern Cyprus in 1993, can return to the U.K. on bail
before standing trial in London for embezzling 30 million pounds
($47 million).  
 Nadir’s bid for bail was granted and he must attend court
in London on Sept. 3, Judge David Bean said at a hearing July 30
at the Old Bailey criminal court. Within eight hours of
returning to the U.K. he must be fitted with an electronic
security tag, Bean said.  
 Nadir’s lawyer, William Clegg, told Bean his client had
agreed with the U.K. Serious Fraud Office, which is prosecuting
the case, to return to London, surrender his passport, visit the
police every week and attend his criminal trial.  
 “Mr. Nadir is today anxious to return to this country and
face his trial,” Clegg said before the ruling. Nadir has
already taken an option to rent an apartment in London, his
lawyer said.  
 Nadir fled the U.K. after he was charged with theft and
false accounting. Polly Peck was a food-packaging firm that
collapsed in 1990 after it failed to pay creditors.
Administrators found more than 700 million pounds were
unrecoverable from the subsidiaries.  
 Victor Temple, a lawyer for the SFO, said during the
hearing that the agency would not oppose bail if Nadir appeared
in court to request it.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Singapore Death Penalty Book Author Won’t Apologize  
 Alan Shadrake, the British author charged for  contempt of
court  for challenging the integrity and independence of
Singapore’s judiciary, said he wouldn’t apologize for his book
on the city’s  death penalty .  
 “I want to have my day in court,” he said after his trial
was adjourned July 30 to allow his lawyer more time to prepare a
defense of fair criticism and fair comment. “I didn’t spend
three years writing the book only to run away,” Shadrake said.  
 The 75-year-old writer is also being investigated for
criminal defamation by Singapore authorities. His book “Once a
Jolly Hangman: Singapore’s Justice in the Dock,” suggests that
the government “succumbs to political and economic pressures”
in meting out the death penalty, the Attorney-General’s Chambers
said in court papers.  
 Shadrake can “tender an unreserved apology in unqualified
terms,” David Chong, chief counsel of the Attorney-General’s
civil division, said in court July 30. “Justification is no
defense” for contempt of court, Chong said.  
 Refusing to apologize would count as an“aggravating
factor,” the Attorney-General’s office said in a statement July
30. “An apology tendered to the court, if unqualified and
sincere, may mitigate the punishment,” according to the
statement.  
 The book “insinuates that the Singapore judiciary is a
tool of the People’s Action Party to muzzle political dissent”
through the award of “heavy damages in defamation actions
brought without legal basis,” the  Attorney General’s office 
said in the court papers. The book contains comments that imply
the Singapore judiciary was “guilty of impropriety” by being
“biased particularly against the weak, poor or less educated,”
according to the papers.  
 Shadrake’s lawyer M. Ravi asked Justice Quentin Loh to
order Chong “not to put unnecessary fear in the media” after
the prosecutor told journalists not to cite contentious
statements from the book or risk being in contempt as well.  
 The case is Attorney-General v. Alan Shadrake OS720/2010 in
the Singapore High Court.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 On the Docket  
 Roche Holding to Face Hollywood Stars in Accutane Trial  
 Roche Holding AG  faces a lineup of Hollywood stars in the
New Jersey trial of an actor’s lawsuit alleging he suffered the
loss of his colon after taking the company’s Accutane acne drug.  
 James Marshall, who played U.S. Marine Louden Downey in the
1992 hit movie “A Few Good Men,” claims his acting career was
derailed by his use of Accutane, which Roche no longer sells.
Marshall will ask a jury to award at least $11 million in
damages at a trial starting next week that will feature
testimony from stars such as Martin Sheen and Brian Dennehy,
according to court filings.  
 Sheen, Dennehy and Director Rob Reiner will testify that
Marshall, 43, was headed for stardom before bowel ailments
allegedly caused by Accutane forced doctors to remove his colon,
Michael Hook, the actor’s lawyer, said in an interview. Basel,
Switzerland-based  Roche  faces thousands of lawsuits claiming it
failed to warn patients that the drug could cause inflammatory
bowel disease in some users, Hook said.  
 “The jury will hear that James Marshall had the potential
to be the next James Dean-like star,” Hook said. “That dream
is gone because he took something to treat acne.”  
 Roche officials said July 30 that Accutane’s safety label
contained a warning about the risks of inflammatory bowel
disease for more than 20 years.  
 Marshall’s case has been combined with claims by two other
former Accutane users for trial before Judge Carol Higbee in
state court in Atlantic City, New Jersey.  
 The case is Greenblatt v. Hoffman-La Roche Inc., ATL-l-
1246-06, New Jersey Superior Court, Atlantic County (Atlantic
City).  
 For more, click here.  
 Court Filings  
 Facebook Lawsuit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  
 A lawsuit by a New York man who claims he owns 84 percent
of Facebook Inc., the world’s biggest social networking service,
was the most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system
last week.  
 Paul Ceglia, of Wellsville, New York, sued Facebook and its
founder and Chief Executive Officer  Mark Elliot Zuckerberg  in
state court in New York’s Allegany County on June 30. In the
suit, Ceglia claims that a contract he and Zuckerberg signed in
April 2003 entitles Ceglia to ownership of most of the privately
held company.  
 Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said on July 21
that he is “quite sure” he never signed such a contract.  
 Zuckerberg, speaking in a TV interview with ABC World  
 The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-CV-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  
 For more, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        