-- Factory Expansion Slows Less Than Forecast as `Boom' in Output Persists
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-08-02T08:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/factory-expansion-slows-less-than-forecast-as-boom-in-output-persists.html

          
          
             U.K.  manufacturing  growth slowed less
than economists forecast in July, a sign the nation’s economic
expansion is persisting in the third quarter.  
 A gauge based on a survey of companies by Markit Economics
and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply was at
57.3, compared with 57.6 in June, London-based Markit said in an
e-mailed statement today. The median estimate of 26 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of 57. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  
 U.K. gross domestic product rose at the fastest pace in
four years in the quarter through June and  factory  growth in the
euro area, the nation’s biggest trading partner, accelerated
more than previously estimated last month. That adds to the
dilemma Bank of England officials face as they mull whether to
expand emergency stimulus or withdraw it to curb inflation.  
 “Manufacturing continued to boom at the start of the third
quarter,”  Rob Dobson , an economist at Markit, said in the
statement. “This all suggests that the manufacturing sector
will remain a strong contributor to GDP” in the third quarter.  
 Growth in total new factory orders accelerated in July
while the rate of expansion in new export orders was
“relatively muted,” CIPS said.  
 Charter International Plc, Europe’s biggest maker of
welding gear, said on July 30 it will increase its first-half
dividend after demand and earnings at its ESAB welding division
“recovered strongly.”  
 A gauge of European manufacturing in the 16-nation euro
region increased to 56.7 in July from 55.6 the previous month,
Markit said in a separate statement today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        