-- Fed Finds No Good Deed Goes Unpunished as Mortgage Trades Fail
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-08-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/fed-finding-no-good-deed-goes-unpunished-with-mortgage-bond-trades-failing.html

          
          
             For all the good the  Federal
Reserve ’s $1.25 trillion of mortgage-bond purchases have done,
they’ve also left part of the market broken.  
 By acquiring about a quarter of home-loan bonds with
government-backed guarantees to bolster housing prices and the  U.S. economy , the Fed helped make some securities so hard to
find that  Wall Street  has been unable to complete an
unprecedented amount of trades. Failures to deliver or receive
mortgage debt totaled $1.34 trillion in the week ended July 21,
compared with a weekly average of $150 billion in the five years
through 2009, according to Fed data.  
 The difficulty of executing transactions may eventually
drive investors away from the $5.2 trillion mortgage-bond
market, which has historically been the most liquid behind  U.S.
Treasuries , potentially causing yields to rise, according to
Thomas Wipf, who chairs an industry group that is trying to
address the problem. The unsettled trades also stand to
exacerbate the damage caused by the collapse of a bank or fund.  
 “You’re adding systemic risk into the market,” said Wipf,
chairman of the  Treasury Market Practices Group  and the New
York-based head of institutional-securities group financing at
Morgan Stanley. “Investors are taking on counterparty risk in
trades they didn’t intend to take on.”  
 ‘Daisy Chain’  
 An incomplete agreement can lead to a “daisy chain” of
unsettled trades because a broker-dealer acting as a buyer in
one transaction may fail to deliver those bonds as a seller in
another, according to Alexander Yavorsky, a senior analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service in  New York . Investment banks are
required to hold capital against both sides of the trades, which
also makes the agency mortgage-backed market less attractive to
make markets in, according to Wipf.  
 “From a broker-dealer perspective, this uses your credit
resources, this uses your balance-sheet resources and it uses
your capital resources,” he said. “It’s a drag on the
business.”  
 The Fed was willing to accept some trading disruptions as a
byproduct of its mortgage-bond purchases because its primary aim
was to bolster the housing market by reducing financing costs
and help the economy emerge from the deepest recession since the
Great Depression, according to Yavorsky. If reduced liquidity in
the mortgage-market persists and causes investors to seek other
assets, that would run counter to the Fed’s goal of buoying
demand for the securities. The program began in January 2009 and
officially ended in March.  
 Official End  
 “The program was a major success and kept  home prices  from
really collapsing,”  Scott Simon , head of mortgage-backed
securities at Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., said the day it ended. At the same time, it’s
left mortgage-bond prices too rich for Pimco, which reduced the
world’s biggest bond fund’s holdings of the securities to 16
percent in June, down from 83 percent in January 2009, according
to its disclosures.  
 The central bank and private investors helped send yields
on  Fannie Mae ’s 4.5 percent mortgage securities down to 2.86
percent on July 30 from 5.95 percent on Nov. 24, 2008, the day
before the plan was announced, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Propping up the home-buying market “is probably a more-
compelling consideration for them than fails” in the mortgage-
backed  securities market , Yavorsky said. “The risk and reward,
if you will, are not entirely comparable in magnitude and social
implications.”  
 ‘Broadly Support’  
 The Fed’s purchases “were undertaken to broadly support
mortgage and housing markets and were conducted with an eye
towards limiting adverse effects on liquidity, given the
importance of healthy, functioning markets,” said Federal
Reserve Bank of New York spokesman Jeffrey Smith. “We are
supportive of the TMPG’s efforts to identify best practices in
these markets, including practices that limit fails.”  
 The group Wipf chairs, which the New York Fed helped form
in 2007, includes banks such as New York-based  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . and money managers like  BlackRock Inc . It advises on
transactions in U.S. securities and expanded its role in March
to include Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac  and Ginnie Mae mortgage-
backed debt.  
 The group proposed guidelines on July 15 to reduce the
number of uncompleted agreements across the Treasury, agency and
government-backed mortgage-bond markets after failed home-loan
debt trades reached a record $1.99 trillion on May 19, according
to Fed data based on the 18 broker-dealers who transact directly
with the central bank.  
 Avoid Strategies  
 The measures include a recommendation that market
participants manage large positions with “heightened
vigilance” and avoid strategies intended to profit from
settlement failures, the TMPG said. The group asked for comment
on the “best-practices” document through July 29.  
 The guidelines coincide with the most sweeping set of
financial rules since the Great Depression as Congress tries to
prevent another credit crisis. The Dodd-Frank bill, signed into
law last month by President  Barack Obama , gives the government
new authority to unwind failing financial firms that may
threaten the entire system.  
 Slower U.S. growth and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis have
led investors to become more concerned about banks’ credit risk.
The extra yield that investors demand over benchmark rates to
hold financial companies’ bonds has climbed to 2.39 percentage
points from 1.86 percentage point in April, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. That’s still down from the
record 8.81 percentage points in March 2009.  
 ‘Wrench in Things’  
 When it comes to the trade fails, “I’m concerned about
maybe a Lehman or Bear Stearns,” said William Chepolis, who
oversees about $9 billion of bonds as a fixed-income fund
manager in New York at DWS Investment, a Deutsche Bank AG unit.
“Something like that could put a wrench in things.”  
 The Fed facilitated  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co .’s purchase of Bear
Stearns Cos. in March 2008 to prevent the securities firm’s
failure. Investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy in September of that year.  
 The recommendations from Wipf’s group may not be enough to
change practices or address mortgage-bond trading failures,
based on an announcement this month by the  Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association  of New York and  Washington 
that certain dealers have been violating some of the
association’s guidelines for home-loan debt “over a number of
years.”  
 Failures also persisted in the Treasury market even after
the TMPG released guidelines in 2008, prompting the industry’s
imposition in May 2009 of a 3 percentage-point penalty on
uncompleted trades. The penalty caused unsettled transactions to
plunge. The problems arose after Lehman’s failure led to a surge
in demand for  government securities  as a refuge from market
turmoil.  
 Don’t Deliver  
 Broker-dealers have let trades go uncompleted in part
because record-low  interest rates  have reduced the economic
costs of failing to make good on those agreements. When traders
don’t deliver bonds to their counterparties, they don’t receive
cash they could be earning interest on. With the federal funds
target rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008, the amount of foregone earnings is almost nothing.  
 Failed mortgage-bond trades last approached current levels
in 2003, when the Fed’s benchmark rate was at 1 percent, showing
how the central bank’s decision to keep rates at record lows
helps fuel instability in the market.  
 The Fed’s difficulty completing its own purchases led the
central bank to say in June it would replace its outstanding
contracts to buy $9.2 billion of some debt with agreements to
acquire different securities, called a coupon swap. It has also
been entering trades to buy and sell the same amount of similar
securities, so-called dollar-roll transactions, to help wrap up
the program.  
 Alleviate Problems  
 “What they’re doing is after-the-fact saying, ‘We bought
more than existed, so we’re going to try to alleviate those
problems,’” said  Scott Buchta , head of investment strategy at
New York-based Braver Stern Securities LLC.  
 The Fed’s coupon-swap and dollar-roll transactions do
little to fix the mess in the overall market, according to
Barclays Capital analysts led by Ajay Rajadhyaksha.  
 “Although the current move is aimed at resolving the Fed’s
settlement issues, it does little to alleviate the widespread
lack of available float or the fail situation,” the New York
analysts said in a July 2 report.  
 The scarcity of some securities has allowed traders
essentially to be paid to borrow to buy mortgage debt and adopt
trading strategies designed to profit from the market
dysfunction. The difference between dealers’ failures to deliver
securities and to receive them “is a pretty good measure of
intentional fails,” said Yavorsky of Moody’s. That figure was
$44 billion in the week ended July 21, after climbing as high as
$155 billion earlier this year.  
 Implied Cost  
 As of July 30, an investor could agree to sell Fannie Mae’s
5.5 percent securities in August for 0.28 cents on the dollar
more than it would cost to strike an agreement to buy similar
securities in September. That translates into an implied
borrowing cost of negative 0.28 percent based on dealer
prepayment forecasts and short-term interest rates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The scarcity of mortgage bonds has helped send prices on
some securities to record highs, which means they may have
farther to fall when the central bank eventually starts raising
interest rates from record lows.  
 “It’s a game of hot potato in my mind, and you don’t want
to be the last guy holding the roll,” said  Paul Norris , a
senior money manager at Dwight Asset Management Co., who
oversees about $15 billion at the Burlington, Vermont-based firm
he joined last year from Fannie Mae.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, delivers his semiannual monetary policy report to the House Financial Services Committee in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, delivers his semiannual monetary policy report to the House Financial Services Committee in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Weil Gotshal’s Tarbert Discusses Dodd-Frank Act: BLAW 
     
 


 
     
         Audio Download:  Weil Gotshal’s Tarbert Discusses Dodd-Frank Act: BLAW 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
