-- For Good Economic Forecasts, Try Flipping a Coin: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-08-02T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/for-good-economic-forecasts-try-a-coin-flip-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             By the time the Bureau of Economic
Analysis releases its first estimate of the previous quarter’s
gross domestic product one month after quarter-end, economists
have honed their forecast, if you can call it that, to within a
few tenths of a percentage point of the actual number.  
 Like the statisticians at the BEA, private-sector
economists rely on monthly reports on consumer spending, housing
and business investment to compile their estimates. They have
less complete information on international trade and
inventories. In many cases, their models fill in the blanks.  
 At post-time on Friday, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News were handicapping second-quarter growth at 2.6 percent,
down from a median estimate of 3.3 percent a month ago, before
the data releases turned sour. The report showed a 2.4 percent
annualized increase in real GDP last quarter.  
 Not bad for a forecast. Not great for what is really an
“accounting exercise,” said  Michael Bryan , senior economist at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and co-author of a 2007
 study , “Mirror, Mirror, Who’s the Best Forecaster of Them
All?”  
 How do economists fare when it comes to real forecasting,
to predicting GDP growth and inflation one year out? About as
good as a coin toss, according to Bryan’s research. Less than
half the economists did better than the “naive” forecast,
which is based on no understanding of the economy and merely
assumes next year’s outcome will be the same as this year’s.
It’s what you’d expect if the results were purely random.  
 Job Justification  
 The study looked at economic forecasts from the 64-year-old
 Livingston Survey , now under the aegis of the Philly Fed, during
the period from 1983 to 2006. It was conducted by Bryan and
 Linsey Molloy  when both were at the Cleveland Fed.  
 Contrary to appearances, Bryan isn’t trying to talk himself
out of a job.  
 “My job is economic forecasting,” he said in a telephone
interview Friday. “My boss could say to me, ‘OK, you’ve
demonstrated that economic forecasts aren’t very good. Why do we
pay you money?’”  
 Good question. Bryan said it’s not just about getting the
number right. “It’s about the narrative.”  
 That’s what I’m interested in as well. In my line of work,
I talk to lots of economists. I don’t particularly care if they
missed the last three monthly reports on retail sales ex-autos
by 0.6 percentage point or got the direction of weekly jobless
claims right.  
 Fooled by Randomness  
 I’m interested in the Big Picture, in how they see the
world. I want to know their views on what drives growth and
inflation; on where they see a role for government in the
economy; on when the U.S.  public debt  will become so large that
foreigners dump the world’s reserve currency; on why we should
expect our children to be better, or worse, off than their
parents; and on how we can fulfill our promises to the elderly
without imposing unsustainable burdens on the young.  
 I want to hear a plausible scenario, based on what we know
and what we expect, for how things are going to play out in the
U.S. and on the global stage. Getting the number right is a job
for an accountant. Putting that number in the context of a
larger trend is a job for an economist.  
 So I’m not sorry, or even surprised, to learn that the
median forecast for GDP was “accurate,” which Bryan defines as
within 0.5 percentage point of the realized outcome, only 30
percent of the time. (The group did a bit better forecasting
inflation, with a 39 percent accuracy rate.)  
 Sure, some economists outperform the consensus in any given
year, but that advantage is unlikely to be sustained, “at least
no more than random chance would suggest,” Bryan said.  
 Something for Everyone  
 Which brings us to last week’s something-for-everyone GDP
report.  
 The pessimists can point to the 27.9 percent annualized
increase in  residential investment , which isn’t likely to be
repeated now that the homebuyers’ tax credit has expired and
home sales plummeted to new lows.  
 The optimists can highlight the 21.9 percent jump in
business investment in  equipment and software  and the 4.1
percent increase in  final domestic demand  as a sign the economy
is on the mend.  
 And both groups can find support in the 9.2 percent
increase in  federal government spending  last quarter: It’s
either a sign the stimulus is working (federal spending added
0.72 percentage points to growth) or a harbinger of slower
growth as the government consumes an ever-larger share of the
economy.  
 The consensus GDP forecast, gleaned from both optimists and
pessimists, was a slim 0.2 percentage points off the mark. Not
bad for rear-view mirror forecasting. If you want something more
forward-looking, it’s as easy as heads or tails.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        