-- Ford Call Trading Jumps After Credit Upgrade Spurs Bulls Before Sales Data
-- Jeff Kearns
-- 2010-08-02T20:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/ford-call-trading-jumps-after-credit-upgrade-spurs-bulls-before-sales-data.html

          
          
             Bullish  Ford Motor Co.  options were
the second- and third-most-active U.S. equity derivatives as
Standard & Poor’s raised the carmaker’s credit rating and
investors anticipated the release of auto sales data tomorrow.  
 More than 383,000 calls giving the right to buy the stock
changed hands as of the 4 p.m. close in New York, quadruple the
four-week average, as the shares rose 3.1 percent to $13.16.
About two-thirds of the volume was  concentrated  in a single
trade by an investor who sold about 150,000 of the September $12
calls and bought the same amount of September $13 calls,
according to OptionsHawk.com and Interactive Brokers Group Inc.  
 “It’s one big player in there,” said  Joe Kunkle , founder
of  OptionsHawk.com , a Boston-based provider of options market
data and analytics. “There’s still optimism on the shares ahead
of vehicle sales figures tomorrow.”  
 Auto sales  may have reached an annualized rate of 11.9
million vehicles in July, the average of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg and 5.3 percent higher than last
year’s 11.3 million pace. Ford’s U.S. market share rose to 17.5
percent in the first half of 2010, from 16.1 percent in the same
period last year. The gains are coming from redesigned models
such as the Fusion, Taurus and the new Fiesta subcompact, said
Beau Boeckmann, vice president of Galpin Ford in Los Angeles.  
 “The enormous bullish trade on Ford appears to be the work
of an investor booking profits by first selling a previously
established long call position, and next initiating a fresh
more-bullish stance on the stock,”  Caitlin Duffy , an equity
options analyst at Greenwich, Connecticut-based Interactive
Brokers, wrote in a note today.  
 Open Interest  
 Before today the September $13 calls had an open interest
of 56,000, while the September $12 calls had a total of 226,861
outstanding contracts. Almost all of the $13 contracts changed
hands at the ask price, indicating that they were purchased,
while almost all of the $12 calls traded at the bid price.  
 Ford’s   credit rating  was raised two levels today to B+, the
fourth level below investment-grade, from B-, by S&P because of
expectations the company will remain profitable and signs that
customers have a better impression of the automaker’s vehicles.  
 Ford earned $4.7 billion in the year’s first six months,
its  largest first-half profit  since 1998, and posted its fifth
straight profitable quarter. Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has overhauled Ford’s lineup, redesigning cars and
boosting quality, winning the company price gains of $1.1
billion on cars and trucks in the quarter and helping all of its
auto units worldwide to become profitable.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        