-- Geely Seals Takeover of Volvo From Ford; Jacoby Named CEO
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-08-02T11:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/geely-said-to-announce-completion-of-volvo-cars-purchase-from-ford-today.html

          
          
             Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. 
completed the purchase of Volvo Cars from  Ford Motor Co.  in the
biggest overseas acquisition by a Chinese automaker.  
 Geely paid $1.3 billion in cash today and issued a $200
million note for the acquisition, Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford
said in a statement.  Stefan Jacoby , Volkswagen AG’s former U.S.
chief, will succeed  Stephen Odell  as Volvo’s chief executive
officer, Geely said in a separate statement.  
 Booming auto sales in China made the nation the largest
auto market last year, generating profit that’s allowing its
manufacturers to reach out to Western markets and technologies.
Divesting Volvo completes Ford CEO  Alan Mulally ’s strategy of
exiting European luxury lines to focus on its namesake brand.  
 “Demand for luxury cars in China is still growing rapidly
and it’s important for Geely to build market share quickly,”
said  John Zeng , a Shanghai-based analyst at IHS Global Insight.
“The first priority for Geely would be to localize Volvo and
make them in China, otherwise it would be difficult to compete
with other luxury brands such as BMW, Mercedes and Audi.”  
 Geely Chairman  Li Shufu  will lead the board of Volvo Cars,
which will also include  Hans-Olov Olsson , the Swedish carmaker’s
former CEO. Geely said Hans Oskarsson will replace Stuart Rowley
as interim chief financial officer of Volvo Cars.  
 Geely first approached Ford about buying Volvo in mid-2008,
two people familiar with the talks have said. Ford named Geely
its “preferred bidder” in October 2009. The two companies
agreed on the details of the transaction, including a purchase
price of about $1.8 billion in March.  
 Continued Cooperation  
 The exact amount Geely pays in total will be determined
later this year when the final adjustments on Gothenburg,
Sweden-based Volvo’s value are made, Ford said today.  
 Ford will continue to supply powertrains, stampings and
some vehicle components to Volvo. It has also agreed to provide
engineering and technology support, and access to tooling for
common components.  
 Ford sold Aston Martin to a group of investors led by
former U.K. rally champion David Richards for an undisclosed sum
in 2007, followed by Jaguar and Land Rover to  Tata Motors Ltd. 
for $2.4 billion a year later.  
 Jacoby, 52, was VW’s top U.S. executive when he stepped
down in June after nearly three years in the post. He cut costs,
designed the first models for the U.S. market, added an assembly
plant in Tennessee and moved the headquarters to Virginia from
Michigan. He began at VW in 1985 and also worked for the company
in Asia for four years.  
 Chinese Production  
 Volvo builds its S40 and S80L models for the Chinese market
at a factory co-owned by  Ford  and Chongqing Changan Automobile
Co. Volvo, which has a contract to use the plant for as long as
three years still, will build its own Chinese factory “in a
couple years,” Olsson said in an interview today.  
 “The big difference from before is that now we’ll have two
home markets: the Swedish and the Chinese,” Olsson said. “We
will have more knowledge than before on how to penetrate the
Chinese market.”  
 Volvo sold 191,832 cars in the first half, a 20 percent
increase from a year earlier. In China, Volvo’s fourth-biggest
market, deliveries surged 88 percent to 15,497 cars in the
period, helped by last year’s introduction of the S80L, a longer
version of the S80 that’s sold only in that market.  
 Volvo Profit  
 The last time Volvo made an annual profit was in 2005, when
it posted a pretax profit of $377 million. It has been
profitable the first two quarters of this year, posting a pretax
profit of $53 million in the second quarter, compared with a
$237 million loss in the same period a year earlier.  
 Ford ended three years of losses with  net income  of $2.7
billion in 2009 and was the only major U.S. automaker to avoid
bankruptcy. Ford  paid  $6.5 billion for Volvo in 1999.  
 “Geely is not necessarily stepping into a clear-sailing
situation; the challenges aren’t over for Volvo,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an auto analyst for IHS Automotive based in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “The Chinese business culture is very different
than the Swedish business culture. A lot of this will depend on
how they interact.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Naughton  in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Li Shufu, chairman of Zhejiang Geely Holding  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Li Shufu, chairman of Zhejiang Geely Holding Co. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Li Shufu, chairman of Zhejiang Geely Holding Co. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
