-- Geithner Says Financial Oversight Council to Offer `Road Map' For Reform
-- Rebecca Christie
-- 2010-08-02T22:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/geithner-says-u-s-will-move-quickly-to-fulfill-financial-rules-overhaul.html

          
          
             Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. government will press ahead with its
overhaul of financial regulation under a new law intended to
strengthen supervision and prevent future crises.  
 The Treasury chief, who will lead a new committee of senior
officials charged with guarding against systemic risks, said
regulators will move swiftly to set new rules and provide
“clarity” on their effect. The goal is to avoid the “glacial
pace” of most oversight changes and cut through layers of
ineffective past efforts, he said.  
 “We have an obligation of speed,” Geithner said in a
speech at New York University today. “In September, when the
Financial Stability Oversight Council first meets, we will
establish an integrated road map for the first stages of reform
and put that in the public domain.”  
 The new financial regulations should be set up in a way
that helps the U.S. economy recover from the financial crisis
and recession, Geithner said. He said the new framework should
strike a balance that allows “freedom, competition and
innovation” while barring the laxity that enabled “predation,
abuse and excess risk” in the past.  
 The new law, signed last month by President  Barack Obama ,
gives regulators new tools to dismantle a firm whose collapse
could threaten global markets, in addition to the new council of
regulators. It also creates a consumer protection bureau at the
Federal Reserve and accelerates efforts to standardize
derivatives markets.  
 ‘Reshape’ Industry  
 “The reforms we passed will fundamentally reshape the
entire financial system,” Geithner said. “They will require
financial firms to change the way they do business, to change
the way they treat customers, to change the way they manage
risk, and to change the way they reward their executives.”  
 Geithner said the U.S. economy is “healing” and is in no
danger of confronting a deflationary threat like the challenges
that have faced the Japanese economy. The U.S. now faces the
“core challenge” of increasing its savings, he said.  
 Americans need to set aside a larger portion of their
income and consider the risks that accompany investing and
borrowing, he said. Also, future growth requires investor
confidence that the U.S. will cut its deficits over time, he
said.  
 The U.S. economy grew at a slower-than-expected 2.4 percent
pace in the second quarter as consumer spending slowed,
according to Commerce Department data released last week.  
 Budget Deficit  
 The U.S. is financing a budget deficit the Obama
administration projected will reach a record $1.47 trillion this
year, even as yields on Treasuries have reached the lowest level
during an economic expansion since the Eisenhower
administration. Bond dealers predicted a $1.35 trillion deficit
in fiscal 2010 and a $1.21 trillion deficit in 2011 in a survey
provided to the Treasury that was released today.  
 Geithner said the U.S. economy isn’t adding enough jobs and
he repeated his support for additional economic assistance to
small businesses. He said the Treasury will continue work on its
housing finance strategy, due in January, while making sure the
financial regulatory changes don’t undermine the recovery from
recession.  
 “The reforms that are now the law of the land will help us
rebuild a pro-growth, pro-investment financial system,”
Geithner said. “We will not risk killing the freedom for
innovation that is necessary for economic growth.”  
 Geithner said U.S. banks are well-positioned to adopt new
international standards on how much capital banks will be
required to hold. He said the proposals, still being developed
by the so-called Basel committee, will increase capital
standards with a transition period that allows banks to adjust
over time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A new law creates a Treasury-led council of regulators  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, speaks during a news conference. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, speaks during a news conference. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Grasso, former chief executive officer of the New York Stock Exchange, talks about the outlook for enforcement of new U.S. financial rules.
     Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said the federal government will move swiftly to carry out the mandate of legislation designed to overhaul financial regulation. Grasso speaks with Matt Miller and Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
