-- German Bonds Fall as Equities' Gains Dent Demand for the Safest Assets
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-08-02T16:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/german-bonds-fall-as-stock-market-gains-weakens-demand-for-safest-assets.html

          
          
             German 10-year bonds declined for the
first day in four as gains in stocks and a report that showed
accelerating growth for European manufacturers damped demand for
the relative safety of government securities.  
 Two-year German notes also fell and Spanish debt’s yield
difference over bunds tightened. Austria and Spain will sell
about 3.3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of government bonds later
this week. The European Central Bank will meet on Aug. 5, the
first policy meeting after stress tests published on July 23
showed only 7 of 91 European Union banks failed.  
 “It’s a risk-on day, and that’s weighing down on bonds in
the near term,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist
at Commerzbank AG in London. “I expect the market to move in a
narrow range ahead of the ECB meeting, which will be the most
important event this week. The market will be keen to hear what
the ECB will say after the bank stress tests.”  
 The yield on 10-year bunds rose three basis points to 2.70
percent at 4:47 p.m. in London. The 3 percent security maturing
in July 2020 fell 0.3, or 3 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to
102.54. The two-year note yield advanced one basis points to
0.79 percent.  
 French 10-year bonds also fell, with yields rising three
basis points to 2.97 percent, while the yield on Portuguese debt
of the same maturity fell one basis points to 5.22 percent.  
 Manufacturing Data  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  jumped 2.4 percent today,
reaching a three-month high, as better-than-estimated earnings
from BNP Paribas SA and HSBC Holdings Plc led a rally by banks.  
 The 10-year bund extended its decline after the Markit
Economics survey showed a gauge of manufacturing in the euro
region increased to 56.7 in July from 55.6 in the previous
month, more than previously estimated, indicating an export-led
recovery maintained its momentum.  
 European manufacturers have helped support the region’s
recovery by stepping up output to meet global export demand.
Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest carmaker, on July 29 reported
its biggest quarterly profit in two years.  
 The bund yield is around 20 basis points above the record
low of 2.50 percent reached on June 8. Deutsche Bank AG says
that’s still too low relative to the region’s fundamentals.  
 “We’re short European bonds at these levels simply
because we think the market has rallied a lot,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank in London.
“The whole story of sovereign risk is slowly unwinding. The
bank stress tests were not a big negative. The potential for
negative news is a bit limited going forward.”  
 Spanish Spread  
 The yield difference, or  spread , between the benchmark 10-
year German bunds and 10-year Spanish bonds narrowed to 146
basis points from 154 basis points on July 30. The yield spread
between Greek and German debt of the same maturity narrowed 12
basis points to 751 basis points. The Portuguese spread was nine
basis points tighter at 243 basis points.  
 Bonds also fell before a report tomorrow that is forecast
to show factory orders in Germany probably rose 1.4 percent in
June after unexpectedly falling 0.5 percent in May. The report
will be published tomorrow at 10 a.m. in Berlin.  
 German bonds have returned 6.3 percent this year compared
with a 6.7 percent gains from U.S. Treasuries. Austrian bonds
handed investors a 7.19 percent return year-to-date, making them
the best-performing government securities in the 16-nation euro
region, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  
 U.S.-German Spread  
 The yield spread between 10-year Treasuries and German
bunds widened by one basis points to 25 basis points as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said rising wages will probably
spur household spending in the next few quarters.  
 “We have a considerable way to go to achieve a full
recovery in our economy,” Bernanke said today in a speech to
southern U.S. state lawmakers in Charleston, South Carolina.
Still, “rising demand from households and businesses should
help sustain growth,” and consumer spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, “seems likely to pick up in
coming quarters from its recent modest pace.”  
 France’s three-year breakeven rate, a gauge of inflation
expectations as measured by the yield difference between regular
and index-linked bonds, declined two basis points to 1.28
percentage points. The U.S. breakeven rate of the same maturity
rose five basis points to 1.03 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        