-- MGM's Macau Venture With Pansy Ho Receives $950 Million of Five-Year Loans
-- Wendy Leung
-- 2010-08-02T11:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/mgm-s-macau-venture-with-pansy-ho-receives-950-million-of-five-year-loans.html

          
          
             MGM Grand Paradise SA , the Macau
venture between  Pansy Ho  and  MGM Resorts International , said it
agreed to a $950 million loan to refinance existing debt and
provide added liquidity.  
 The loans due 2015 comprise of HK$4.29 billion ($553
million) of term loans and a HK$3.12 billion revolving facility,
according to a statement distributed by PR Newswire today. The
Macau venture had planned to borrow $850 million of five-year
loans, a person familiar with the matter said July 21.  
 MGM Grand Paradise has the smallest market share of casinos
in Macau, according to estimates by Deutsche Bank AG and CLSA
Ltd. Casino gambling revenue in Macau, the world’s biggest
gambling hub, surged 67 percent in the first six months of the
year to 86 billion patacas ($10.7 billion), according to data on
the city’s  Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau  website.  
 “MGM was losing money in the beginning and has been the
worst performer among other casino players in Macau,”  Francis Lun , general manager at Fulbright Securities Ltd., said in a
telephone interview today. “As the pie is becoming larger, it’s
improving now.”  
 MGM Grand Paradise has the equivalent of $137.5 million of
loans maturing in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bank of America Corp. coordinated the new loan arrangement,
which attracted some 15 lenders, according to the statement.  
 “The new credit facility demonstrates the support of both
the local banking community and the international financial
market,” Pansy Ho, managing director of MGM Grand Paradise,
said in the statement. “This support enabled us to upsize the
credit facility and provides us with a strong long-term capital
structure.”  
 SJM Holdings Ltd. , the casino operator controlled by
billionaire  Stanley Ho , had 30 percent of Macau’s market in June,
followed by  Sands China Ltd.  with 22 percent, Deutsche Bank
analyst  Karen Tang  estimated in a note to clients last month.
 Wynn Macau Ltd.  had 17 percent,  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. 
13 percent and  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd.  10 percent,
according to Tang.  
 Pansy Ho is Stanley Ho’s daughter.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net 
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        