-- Goldman Sachs Gives U.S. Commission Examples of How It Priced AIG Trades
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-08-02T13:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/goldman-sachs-gives-examples-of-how-it-priced-aig-securities-to-u-s-panel.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  gave the
panel investigating the causes of the credit crisis examples of
how it set prices for illiquid mortgage derivatives before the
U.S. rescue of  American International Group Inc.   
 The data provided to the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission include mortgage-related trades from May 2007 through
November 2008, which the New York-based firm reported in a nine-
page  document  on its website. Those trades and other market
information showed that prices were falling, which in turn led
to demands for collateral from AIG, Goldman Sachs said.  
 During two days of hearings earlier this year,  FCIC  members
questioned whether the investment bank deliberately discounted
prices to push markets lower because it had bet on a decline in
the value of subprime mortgage-backed debt.  Gary Cohn , Goldman
Sachs’s president and chief operating officer, and Chief
Financial Officer  David Viniar  said at the hearings that the
firm’s prices reflected what it saw in the market.  
 In the document on its website, Goldman Sachs said “a
certain degree of judgment was necessary” in valuing the
transactions. “We were able to access the best available market
information to price these CDO securities and to ensure that our
pricing represented actual fair market values at the time,” the
firm said in the document.  
 The Wall Street Journal reported the details of Goldman
Sachs’s response to the FCIC late yesterday on its website.  
 Risk Management  
 The dispute is at the heart of whether Goldman Sachs had a
role in the near-bankruptcy of AIG or was a careful risk manager
whose focus on marking assets to fair value helped the
securities firm prepare for the credit contraction earlier than
rivals. Goldman Sachs, whose 2007 profit benefited from bets
against securities backed by subprime mortgages, was one of the
biggest buyers of AIG’s insurance covering such debt and
increased demands for collateral from AIG as prices fell.  
 “You guys are net short and you’re driving down prices,
are you creating a self-fulfilling prophecy?”  Philip N. Angelides , chairman of the FCIC, asked Viniar during the
hearings. “Were you in fact pushing the market down?”  
 The FCIC is investigating what caused the credit crisis,
and will report findings to Congress and President Barack Obama
by December.  
 Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Goldman Sachs was asked about discounted prices  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gary Cohn, president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., responds to a question during a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gary Cohn, president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., responds to a question during a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
