-- Google's Android Passes Apple Among New U.S. Users
-- Olga Kharif
-- 2010-08-02T20:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/google-s-android-passes-apple-s-iphone-among-new-u-s-smartphone-shoppers.html

          
          
             Google Inc. ’s Android software
outsold Apple Inc.’s mobile operating system for the first time
last quarter among new U.S. smartphone users, according to
Nielsen Co.  
 Android had 27 percent of the U.S. market in the second
quarter, compared with 23 percent for the Apple iPhone OS, known
as iOS, Nielsen said on its website today.  Research In Motion
Ltd.  clung to its leading position, with 33 percent share.  
 Manufacturers such as Motorola Inc. and  HTC Corp.  used
Android in a wider range of handsets, giving new smartphone
purchasers more options. Still, the iPhone retained a higher
share than Android among existing smartphone users, according to
Nielsen’s research.  
 “There’s a massive hunger for smartphones, and the Android
universe came out not just with one blockbuster device but with
a whole series of blockbuster devices,”  Roger Entner , head of
telecom research at Nielsen, said in an interview.  
 Motorola’s Droid is sold through Verizon Wireless, the
largest U.S. mobile-phone service provider. Sprint Nextel Corp.
introduced the Evo 4G, made by HTC, in June.  
 Android’s U.S. success may mean Google will overtake
Apple’s iOS globally earlier than previously expected, said  Will Stofega , program director at research firm IDC in Framingham,
Massachusetts. Earlier this year, IDC said it expected Android
to overtake Apple’s iOS globally in 2011.  
 “It could happen sooner,” Stofega said.  
 ‘Feasting on BlackBerry, Windows’  
 RIM’s BlackBerry operating system commanded 35 percent of
the overall U.S. smartphone market. Still, among the group of
newcomers to smartphones, BlackBerry’s market share dropped to
33 percent from 45 percent a year earlier, Nielsen said.  
 Microsoft Corp. ’s Windows Phone software also lost
popularity with new users. Its share fell to 11 percent last
quarter from 20 percent a year earlier, according to Nielsen.  
 “Android is feasting on BlackBerry and on Windows,”
Entner said.  
 Microsoft is trying to revive demand for its mobile
software with the release of Windows Phone 7 this year. RIM
tomorrow may introduce a new version of its software, BlackBerry
6,  Shaw Wu , an analyst at Kaufman Bros., wrote in a research
note.  
 Some of the decline in popularity for the Apple operating
system may have come as consumers put off purchases before the
June introduction of the iPhone 4, Entner said. Apple may regain
share in the third quarter, he said.  
 Among all U.S. smartphone subscribers, Apple’s share
increased to 28 percent last quarter from 21 percent a year
earlier, according to Nielsen. Android’s share among all U.S.
smartphone subscribers rose to 13 percent from 2 percent.  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose $5.56, or
1.2 percent, to $490.41 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market  trading . Apple gained $4.60, or 1.8 percent, to $261.85.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olga Kharif  in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        