-- Grupo Posadas, Klabin SA, Natura, Petrobras: Latin America Equity Preview
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-08-02T06:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/grupo-posadas-klabin-sa-natura-petrobras-latin-america-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  
 The  MSCI Latin America Index  gained 0.7 percent to 4,070.
In Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-traded class of
stock.  
 Brazil  
 Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA  (EMBR3 BS): The
world’s fourth-biggest planemaker is known as Embraer is
scheduled to report second-quarter results. The stock gained 4.5
percent to 11.49 reais.  
 Klabin SA  (KLBN4 BS): Latin America’s biggest paper maker
is scheduled to report second-quarter earnings. The stock rose
1.6 percent to 5.12 reais.  
 Natura Cosmeticos SA  (NATU3 BS): The cosmetics company’s
shares were cut to “underperform” from “buy” by Banco Santander
SA analysts  Joaquin Ley  and  Tobias Stingelin , who cited the
stock’s Valuation.  
 Petroleo Brasiliero SA  (PETR4 BS): The oil producer is
losing investor confidence on concern its credit rating will be
cut after a Brazilian energy plan raised the relative risk
associated with the company’s debt to the highest in 18 months.  
 Mexico  
 Grupo Posadas SAB de CV  (POSADASA MM): Grupo Mexicana de
Aviacion, Mexico’s biggest airline by passengers, said its
financial situation is “critical” and shareholders asked the
board of directors to present proposals to keep the company
operating. Executives and shareholders of Mexicana, which Mexico
City-based Grupo Posadas SAB bought from the government in 2005,
met today to review the “difficult” situation the carrier
faces because of its financial woes, company spokesman Adolfo
Crespo said.  
 Colombia  
 Almacenes Exitos SA  (EXITO CB) and  BanColombia SA  (PFBCOLO
CB): Colombia’s economy will likely grow from 4 percent to 4.5
percent this year, central bank President Jose Dario Uribe said
on July 30 in Bogota. Exitos is the country’s biggest publicly
traded retailer and BanColombia is the nation’s biggest bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        