-- BP Spill May Cost Gulf Coast Homes $56,000 Apiece in Value
-- John Gittelsohn
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/gulf-coast-homes-to-lose-up-to-56-000-in-value-as-bp-spill-spoils-beaches.html

          
          
             Gulf of Mexico coastal homes may lose
as much as $56,000 each in value as buyers shun areas marred by
the worst oil spill in U.S. history, according to  CoreLogic Inc.   
 Waterfront properties in Gulfport, Mississippi, face the
biggest average declines, followed by those in Mobile, Alabama,
and Pensacola, Florida, the real estate data company said in a
report. Losses along the coast may total $648 million in 2010
and $3 billion over five years, CoreLogic estimates.  
 The disaster threatens to wipe out the premium Gulf Coast
homebuyers paid for ocean views and water access. BP Plc’s
efforts to staunch the oil may not be enough to stem a drop in
property prices, said  Mark Fleming , chief economist of Santa
Ana, California-based CoreLogic.  
 “It’s not only about whether the oil arrives,” Fleming
said in a telephone interview from Vienna, Virginia. “There’s
evidence something as catastrophic as this scares people away.”  
 More than 600,000 properties may be affected from Alabama
to Florida’s Atlantic coast, according to CoreLogic. The long-
term impact on beaches depends on sea and wind currents, cleanup
efforts and stigma, Fleming said.  
 In counties with the greatest exposure -- Harrison,
Mississippi; Mobile, Alabama; and Escambia, Florida -- the spill
may diminish values for about 71,000 homes, CoreLogic said.  
 Reimbursement Claims  
 Property owners may recover some losses. BP booked a pre-
tax  charge  of $32.2 billion related to costs from the leak,
including $20 billion reserved to pay damages. The London-based
company will compensate for lost earnings, cleanup and property
damage, according to its  website .  
 BP is reviewing each claim individually, relying on the Oil
Pollution Act of 1990, which lays out a framework for
compensation including for property value losses,  Steve Rinehart , a spokesman for the oil company, said in a telephone
interview from Houston.  
 Florida Governor  Charlie Crist  signed an  executive order 
July 21 authorizing property appraisers in 26 Florida counties
to update assessments so owners can “substantiate claims
against BP or other responsible parties.”  
 Christine Karpinski, who owns condominiums she rents to
vacationers in Panama City and Destin, Florida, said BP paid her
for lost rent in May and June and left open the possibility of
reimbursement for any decline in value. It’s difficult to
estimate price declines because no one is willing to  buy 
properties, she said.  
 Nothing Selling  
 “Things aren’t selling now,” Karpinski said in a
telephone interview from Austin, Texas, where she works for
 Homeaway  Inc., a vacation rental company. “Anything you say
about pricing is just speculative.”  
 Kenneth Feinberg , the Washington attorney tapped by BP and
the Obama administration to decide claims, said home value
reimbursements will be made on a case-by-case basis.  
 “There’s no question that the property value has
diminished as a result of the spill,” he said during a June 30
congressional hearing. “That doesn’t mean that every property
is entitled to compensation.”  
 For its damage estimates, CoreLogic examined records of
600,000 residential properties within 1,000 meters of the coast
in 15 counties in Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. The company
had insufficient property data to analyze Louisiana’s coast,
Fleming said. Potential losses were calculated by comparing the
price differences of beachfront and inland homes, he said.  
 “Buyers of homes in these coastal communities paid
premiums when they purchased their homes for access to the
beaches,” Fleming said.  
 BP’s Remedy  
 BP plans this week to inject mud down its Macondo well in
the Gulf to begin permanently plugging the gusher.  
 CoreLogic separated the potential oil-related price
declines from those tied to economic drivers such as
unemployment or foreclosures, Fleming said. Florida has the
third-highest rate of foreclosure filings in the nation, behind
Nevada and Arizona, according to Irvine, California-based
RealtyTrac Inc.  
 The average oil-related loss is estimated at $56,469 per
home in the Gulfport-Biloxi, Mississippi area, where 21,221
properties lie within 1,000 meters of the waterfront, Fleming
said. Estimated losses average $44,662 in Mobile, where 10,520
homes may be affected. Some 39,368 homes in Pensacola may lose
an average of $39,882 in value.  
 Buyers stopped calling real estate agents in the Pensacola
area after the end of April, said David Wilhite, president of
the Pensacola Association of Realtors.  
 50% Decline  
 “Pending sales were down almost 50 percent in May and
June,” Wilhite said. “That’s a real harbinger.”  
 The median single-family home price in Pensacola was
$151,300 in June, down 14 percent from a peak of $175,600 in
July 2005, according to Florida Association of Realtors  data .  
 The oil spill may depress values of all residential and
commercial properties by 10 percent along a 600-mile stretch
from Louisiana to Florida, according to a June estimate by
 CoStar Group Inc. , a Bethesda, Maryland-based commercial
property information company. That would total about $4.3
billion in losses.  
 Properties may be spared from the worst-case scenario as
reports of tarballs on Gulf beaches dwindle. There has been
“significantly less oil” seen on the sea surface since July
15, when  BP  placed a temporary cap on the Macondo Well,
according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  
 “Our scenarios are looking more and more like an upper
bound,” Fleming said. “That being said, the concept of damage
to owners’ value of residential properties along beaches that
are at risk is still relevant.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP Spill May Cost Gulf Coast Homes $56,000 Apiece in Value  
                       
                         
                           Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A for sale sign sits outside a beachfront home along the Gulf of Mexico in Perdido Beach, Florida. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A for sale sign sits outside a beachfront home along the Gulf of Mexico in Perdido Beach, Florida.Photographer: Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Nansen Saleri, chief executive officer of Quantum Reservoir Impact, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the outlook for BP Plc and the oil industry.
     U.S. Justice Department attorneys conducting a criminal probe of the BP Plc well explosion in the Gulf of Mexico have recommended that a grand jury be convened and BP managers subpoenaed to determine if any laws were broken, a person familiar with the investigation said. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
