-- Gulf Rescuers Find Lesson, Hope in Oiled Birds, 89 Turtle Eggs
-- Mike Di Paola
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/gulf-rescuers-find-lesson-hope-in-oiled-birds-89-turtle-eggs-commentary.html

          
          
             On a recent sweltering day in
Theodore, Alabama, the Oiled Wildlife Rehabilitation Center took
in a single bird for a cleaning.  
 Since the  BP Plc  oil rig blew up on April 20, thousands of
birds -- dead and alive -- have been given individual attention
in facilities around the Gulf of Mexico.  
 “I’ve worked in this business for 30 years,” says
biologist Ken Rice, hired by BP as an independent contractor.
“It breaks my heart to see one oiled bird.”  
 It really does grip the heart to watch the terrified bird,
in this case a male laughing gull, held under running water
while being toothbrush-scrubbed by two no-nonsense handlers.
This particular fellow is lightly oiled and has an excellent
chance for survival. He can expect to be released in a couple
days.  
 More than 1,400 birds have been rescued throughout the Gulf
region after exposure to spilled oil; about a third of these
have been rehabilitated and released. About 3,900 dead birds,
most covered in oil, have been brought in and processed as well.  
 Data generated from this work will help us understand how
to best treat injured birds, and it might end up as evidence in
the criminal and civil investigations the U.S. Department of
Justice is pursuing.  
 “We are invading an area that they have,” Rice says,
referring to how oil exploration encroaches on avian territory.
“It’s their habitat.”  
 Brown Pelican  
 The biologist doesn’t think any bird species will be
seriously threatened by the disaster, not even the brown
pelican, which was taken off the endangered-species list only
last year.  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service  biologist John
Schmerfeld, also at the Theodore facility, isn’t so sanguine
about the pelican’s prospects.  
 “They are a special concern,” he says. “They are one of
the species that are going to be hit hardest, and we are seeing
tons of them.”  
 It does not take much oil to kill a bird. Oily feathers get
matted and separated, and birds lose their ability to fly, swim
and regulate body temperature. An oiled bird will incessantly
preen its feathers, ingesting toxins that can cause fatal lung,
liver and kidney damage.  
 In what might be a bit of good news, recent observations
suggest the oil slick is dissipating faster than expected (at
the surface anyway), perhaps due to storms, which can speed
up diffusion of the oil. So too can the chemical
dispersants, which break up oil into into more palatable sizes
for the bacteria that consume it naturally.  
 Biomass Mystery  
 “The bacteria convert the oil into a biomass,” says Florida
State University professor of oceanography Markus Huettel. “It
can enter the food chain, but it does not accumulate there in
the same way as manmade pollution.”  
 No one knows yet how wildlife is affected by chemical
dispersants, which have been poured over the oil in
unprecedented amounts -- nearly 2 million gallons of the stuff
so far. Nor do we know the extent of the gigantic unseen,
underwater plumes of oil, which create dead zones by sucking
oxygen out of huge swathes of habitat.  
 I accompany a small  U.S. Department of Agriculture  crew on
a search-and-rescue mission in Bon Secour Bay, Gulf Shores,
Alabama. The wildlife specialists, trained in both animal rescue
and handling hazardous materials, slowly approach birds on the
water, looking for signs of distress.  
 We don’t find any injured or oily birds, which I suppose is
good news. We do see ostensibly healthy pelicans, gulls, terns,
egrets and herons, and we’re followed by three or four dolphins,
looking hale enough as they cavort alongside the boat.  
 Minor Miracle  
 Farther east, at the  Gulf Islands National Seashore  in
Florida, a minor miracle has taken place. On June 4, a female
Kemp’s Ridley sea turtle lumbered up the beach and laid eggs in
the sand. It is unusual to see this rarest of sea turtles
nesting so far east.  
 The National Park Service determined that the imminent
hatchlings -- expected to emerge from the eggs within two or
three weeks -- should be moved far from the effects of the oil
spill.  
 So I witness a turtle nest excavation, in which two
surgically gloved biologists push away the fine sand and
delicately remove and crate 89 golf-ball sized eggs. The eggs
are transported in climate-controlled trucks to a NASA
incubation facility near Cape Canaveral.  
 The hatchlings will be released on an as-yet undetermined
beach on Florida’s east coast. If all goes swimmingly, some of
the females might return to the northern Gulf in 35 years or so
to lay eggs of their own.  
 Resources Expended  
 I am finding that a great amount of resources is being
expended, by multiple federal agencies, conservation groups and
even BP itself, to save individual creatures. At the same time,
journalists have been prevented from getting too close to the
worst of the spill, and it could be that people on the ground
are aware of the need to give their work the broadest possible
airing.  
 So the bird cleaning and the egg transport, though clearly
well-intentioned, also had all the earmarks of a staged event.
It sparks an unwelcome cynicism.  
 Still, the rescue crews, animal handlers and biologists
I’ve met show genuine compassion. The fact that they -- and we -
- care so much about a single bird or a batch of turtle eggs is
one of the few facts that gives one hope for another species:
ours.  
 ( Mike Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. National Park Service Wildlife Specialists  
                       
                         
                           Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. National Park Service wildlife specialists excavate a Kemp's Ridley turtle nest at Gulf Islands National Seashore, Florida. The eggs will be transported by Federal Express in a climate-controlled trailer. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. National Park Service wildlife specialists excavate a Kemp's Ridley turtle nest at Gulf Islands National Seashore, Florida. The eggs will be transported by Federal Express in a climate-controlled trailer. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. National Park Service Wildlife Specialists  
                       
                         
                           Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. National Park Service wildlife specialists excavate a Kemp's Ridley turtle nest at Gulf Islands National Seashore, Florida. Kemp's Ridley, on the endangered species list, is the rarest and smallest of sea turtles. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. National Park Service wildlife specialists excavate a Kemp's Ridley turtle nest at Gulf Islands National Seashore, Florida. Kemp's Ridley, on the endangered species list, is the rarest and smallest of sea turtles. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Laughing Gull  
                       
                         
                           Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A male Laughing Gull at the Oiled Wildlife Rehabilitation Center in Theodore, Alabama. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A male Laughing Gull at the Oiled Wildlife Rehabilitation Center in Theodore, Alabama. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Great White Egret  
                       
                         
                           Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A great white egret on the shore of Bon Secour Bay, Alabama. Aquatic birds are especially vulnerable to the effects of the oil spill in the Gulf. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A great white egret on the shore of Bon Secour Bay, Alabama. Aquatic birds are especially vulnerable to the effects of the oil spill in the Gulf. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Brown Pelicans  
                       
                         
                           Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A pair of brown pelicans on Bon Secour Bay, Alabama. The brown pelican was taken off the Endangered Species list last year, but the BP oil slick may present a new threat. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A pair of brown pelicans on Bon Secour Bay, Alabama. The brown pelican was taken off the Endangered Species list last year, but the BP oil slick may present a new threat. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Brown Pelicans  
                       
                         
                           Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A group of brown pelicans near Bon Secour Bay, Alabama after the BP oil spill. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A group of brown pelicans near Bon Secour Bay, Alabama after the BP oil spill. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
