-- Miami Looks at City's Parking Revenue to Fund Reserves, Make Bond Payments
-- Simone Baribeau
-- 2010-08-02T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/miami-looks-to-parking-revenue-to-meet-bond-payments-replenish-reserves.html

          
          
             Miami  lawmakers, facing a $110
million budget gap, are looking at the city’s parking system for
revenue to replenish reserves and make bond payments.  
 Commissioners of Florida’s second-largest city unanimously
authorized a Nov. 2 voter referendum to give the administration
direct control of the  Miami Parking Authority , a semi-autonomous
department run by its own board. Taking over would allow the
city to lease or sell parking assets without the board’s
approval. It may also raise about $100 million by issuing bonds
backed by parking revenue or by entering a public-private
partnership, City Manager  Carlos Migoya  said.  
 Miami isn’t alone at looking to leverage parking assets as
U.S. municipalities face  budget shortfalls  of as much as $83
billion through 2012, the National League of Cities said. Los
Angeles, Pittsburgh and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, have
considered parking leases. They would follow Chicago, which got
$1.2 billion of upfront payments from private investors in 2008
when it leased its parking system for 75 years.  
 “When everything was going great, we wouldn’t even look at
the parking authority because we were happy and satisfied with
whatever money they gave us,” Miami Mayor  Tomas Regalado , who
was elected in November, said in an interview. “It’s time now
to look at every option.”  
 The Miami Parking Authority contributed $2 million to the
city in 2009 and expects to transfer around $7 million in 2010
after it trimmed expenses and increased parking fees, said
Arthur Noriega, its chief executive officer. Revenue grew 3.4
percent to $13.4 million in the first seven months of fiscal
2010, according to the authority’s monthly financial report.  
 Partnership Offers  
 The city might sell additional bonds backed by parking
income, Regalado said. The city also has had “many offers” to
enter into public-private partnerships, he said, in which an
outside operator would lend the city money using parking assets
as collateral.  
 “We just feel that we needed to have all the options
available so we can decide what to do, if anything, with the
parking assets,” Regalado, 63, said of the city commission’s
action on July 29.  
 Miami , whose population of about 433,000 is second in the
state to Jacksonville, faces a $96.5 million operating deficit
in fiscal 2011, which begins Sept. 30, and another $14 million
shortfall from deferred capital expenditures, Migoya said at a
commission meeting July 22. It plans to close the gap by cutting
salaries greater than $40,000 by 5 percent to 12 percent,
reducing pension and health benefits and raising city fees.  
 Use of Proceeds  
 Regalado said no money from parking assets taken over by
the city would be used for operating expenses. Instead, he said,
proceeds would fund capital improvements, bond payments and be
used to replenish budget reserves.  
 Reserves are projected to fall to less than $20 million by
the end of the fiscal year, after the city fills its budget gap,
from $120 million in 2001, Regalado said. The city needs $90
million of reserves to comply with an ordinance adopted after a
1996 fiscal crisis left the state overseeing its finances.  
 The parking authority manages more than 30,000 spaces and
11 garages over the city’s 34.3 square miles (55 kilometers).
The department appoints its own board, draws up its budget and
sets parking rates, all of which must be confirmed by the city.  
 The parking board approves revenue-bonds sales, which are
then issued by the City of Miami, Noriega said. If the authority
were to be taken over, any outstanding debt would remain backed
by parking revenue, said  Larry Spring , Miami’s chief financial
officer.  
 Attractive Autonomy  
 The authority’s current autonomy makes bonds backed by its
revenue more attractive to investors, said Noriega.  
 “We’re a little less politicized than a city department
and we’re able to be more efficient,” he said in an interview.  
 Moody’s rates an October sale of Miami parking revenue
bonds A2, its sixth-highest grade. The rating was recalibrated
this year from A3 in a Moody’s review of its grading scales.  
 There are about $65 million of outstanding Miami parking-
revenue bonds, Noriega said. A 5 percent 30-year security sold
in October at 97.4 to yield 5.2 percent traded as high as 102
last week to yield 4.9 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The City of Miami’s unlimited general-obligation bond
rating was cut one level on July 1 by Moody’s to A1. The
evaluator cited its operating deficit and pension costs, which
will consume about one-fifth of the $514 million fiscal 2010
general-fund budget.      Standard & Poor’s, which doesn’t rate
the parking bonds, also cut the city’s rating on June 16 by two
levels to A-, its fourth-lowest investment grade.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating City of Miami bond sales in 2007 and 2009 for
whether officials properly disclosed budget gaps.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Baribeau in New York at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        