-- IBM Leads Surge of Issuance With Plans to Sell $1.5 Billion of Debt Today
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-08-02T17:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/ibm-plans-to-issue-three-year-notes-in-benchmark-offering-as-soon-as-today.html

          
          
             International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s biggest computer-services company, plans to
sell $1.5 billion of three-year notes, leading a surge in U.S.
corporate bond issuance.  
 IBM plans to sell the debt as soon as today, according to a
person familiar with the offering who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. New York-based  Citigroup Inc.  and
 ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest steelmaker, are among at
least five other issuers marketing debt today.  
 IBM’s offering comes after U.S. corporate bond issuance set
a record last month and yields on the debt fell to the lowest in
more than four years. Investors are snapping up the debt as 77
percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that
have reported second-quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates
and manufacturing growth in the U.S. and Britain slowed less
than expected in July, bolstering confidence in the economic
recovery.  
 “Companies are taking advantage of a window of
opportunity,” said  Scott MacDonald , head of credit and economic
research at Aladdin Capital LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “The
money is inexpensive and people are willing to buy.”  
 IBM’s notes may yield 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage
point, more than similar-maturity Treasuries, said the person.  
 Credit Suisse Group AG, Expedia Inc., Omnicom Group Inc.
and Newell Rubbermaid also plan to tap the corporate bond market
as soon as today, according to people familiar with those
offerings.  
 Record Bond Issuance  
 Continental Airlines Inc. and Arch Coal Inc. may sell debt
later this week, people with knowledge of the transactions said.  
 Companies sold $85.7 billion of U.S. corporate bonds in
July, the most in that month since at least 1999, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Average yields on the securities
fell to 5.01 percent on July 31, the lowest since April 2004,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  
 “It’s a very good time for companies to be issuing debt
and they have excellent balance sheets that they’re leveraging
as well,”  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at
Boston-based State Street Global Markets LLC, said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “We have extremely low rates
and yet at the same time investors are searching for yield over
Treasuries.”  
 Yields  on two-year Treasury notes climbed 1 basis point to
0.56 percent after dropping to a record low 0.546 percent. Ten-
year Treasury yields climbed 4 basis points to 2.95 percent.
They touched 2.85 percent, a 15-month low, on July 21.  
 Use of Proceeds  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Barclays Plc and BNP Paribas are
managing IBM’s offering, the person said. Armonk, New York-based
IBM plans to use proceeds for general corporate purposes, the
person said.  
 IBM spokesman  Mike Fay  confirmed the maturity of the notes
and the timing of the offering and declined to provide further
details.  
 The company last sold debt in November, when it issued $750
million of two-year floating-rate notes and $1.25 billion of
3.5-year fixed-rate securities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The 2.1 percent notes due in May 2013 fell 0.136 cent on
July 27 to 102.869 cents on the dollar to yield 1.045 percent,
or 4.9 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 Moody’s Investors Service assigns IBM a  grade  of A1 and
Standard & Poor’s ranks it an equivalent A+.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- John Herrmann, senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets, talks about corporate bond sales and the demand for corporate credit.
     Herrmann talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
