-- Iceland Parliament Rebels Against Bank Aid as Insolvencies Loom
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-08-02T14:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/iceland-rebels-against-bank-aid-as-insolvencies-loom-after-court-ruling.html

          
          
             Iceland’s parliament may block any
government attempt to recapitalize the island’s banks after a
court ruling threatened to leave some lenders insolvent,
opposition party leaders and coalition members said.  
 Thirty-five lawmakers in the 63-seat Reykjavik-based
assembly plan to vote against any government proposal to rescue
lenders, according to all opposition party heads and six members
of the coalition contacted by Bloomberg. The government, which
can’t bail out the banks for a second time in as many years
without parliamentary backing, may need to support the industry
after a June 16 court ruling made them liable for currency
losses on as much as $28 billion in loans.  
 Iceland’s government debt, which had Moody’s Investors
Service top Aaa grade until May 2008, will reach 150 percent of
 gross domestic product  this year, the rating company estimates.
Moody’s said last week it may cut Iceland’s credit grade to junk
if the state is forced to increase its debt burden to generate
cash for the banks. The June court ruling may cost the island’s
banks between $1.1 billion and $4.3 billion, the government and
the country’s financial regulator estimate.  
 “I wouldn’t support” a recapitalization, said  Gudfridur
Lilja Gretarsdottir , a lawmaker in the junior coalition partner
the Left Greens, in an interview. “Enough money has been pumped
into the banks; the financial system is much too large.”  
 ‘Uncertainty Requires Equity’  
 The  Financial Supervisory Authority  expects to have an
estimate on the banks’ capital needs no later than November,
Director  Gunnar Andersen  said in a July 29 interview. “After
that, we’ll know exactly what the equity needs to be, but the
uncertainty will not have been eliminated by that time and
uncertainty requires equity.”  
 The Supreme Court’s June decision was based on two private
car loans and one corporate property loan indexed to foreign-
currency rates. The ruling limited the borrowers’ liabilities to
the principal, while lenders were left to cover currency losses.  
 “The government will on the one hand look toward ensuring
stability and economic resurrection, and on the other hand to
achieving fair and necessary solutions on behalf of individuals
and families,” Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir  said in a
July 20 e-mail.  
 The island may be heading for its second financial crisis
while the legislature is on vacation. Parliament has been in
recess since June 24 and won’t reconvene until Sept. 1. The
court’s decision in June may mean some Icelandic banks will be
unable to fulfill the FSA’s 16 percent capital adequacy
requirement, Andersen said July 19.  
 ‘Tough Decisions’  
 “It sometimes feels a bit like the summer of 2008 when
there was a need for a lot of tough decisions,” said Gisli
Hauksson, an economist at Reykjavik-based researcher GAM
Management hf. “We’re now faced with a lot of tough decisions
and the bureaucratic system is off on vacation.”  
 With the legislature absent, the cabinet could pass an
emergency bill to allow a capital injection. Any law would need
to be approved by parliament no later than six weeks after it
reconvenes, according to Gisli Kr. Bjornsson, a constitutional
expert at the Lagarok law firm in Reykjavik.  
 The government’s hands may be tied by the International
Monetary Fund, which is leading Iceland’s $4.6 billion bailout.
Fiscal terms attached to the IMF loan are likely to prevent the
state from increasing its debt, Hauksson said.  
 Tax Payers  
 Margret Tryggvadottir, opposition lawmaker for the Movement
Party, said she finds it “unacceptable that the profits are
always privatized and the losses are always footed by tax
payers.”  Bjarni Benediktsson , who leads the Independence Party
of former Prime Minister  Geir Haarde , said “the government
should try to avoid” recapitalizing the banks “at all cost.”  
 Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson, chairman of the opposition
Progressive Party, and Left Green lawmakers Ogmundur Jonasson,
Asmundur Einar Dadason and Lilja Mosesdottir also said in
interviews they oppose any government efforts to recapitalize
the banks.  
 The risk of a second wave of bank failures threatens to
derail the island’s efforts to rebuild relations with investors
almost two years after its financial system collapsed. Iceland,
the fifth-richest nation per capita as recently as 2007, faces
litigation from creditors in the island’s banks, said Arni
Tomasson, the head of  Glitnir Bank hf’s  resolution committee.
Creditors sought to limit their losses last year by converting
some of their claims against the banks to equity.  
 Creditors  
 Arion Bank, the state-created successor to  Kaupthing Bank
hf , Islandsbanki, which was created out of Glitnir, and NBI, the
successor to  Landsbanki Islands hf , said in June the impact of
the court’s decision on their assets is unclear. Any losses at
the new banks would deplete assets earmarked for compensating
creditors.  
 Kaupthing’s creditors, including Deutsche Bank AG and
Commerzbank AG, are owed $57 billion by the bank, its resolution
committee said April 30. Glitnir’s resolution committee said Dec.
10 claims from its creditors stood at $28 billion. Only
depositors in Landsbanki will have their claims covered, while
bondholders will probably lose their investments, the bank’s
resolution committee said Oct. 14.  
 Thuridur Backman of the Left Greens and Anna Margret
Gudjonsdottir of the Social Democrats said in interviews they
want to merge Arion and Islandsbanki instead of giving them cash
support. They said they’d back an NBI rescue.  
 Iceland faces “significant and persistent uncertainties”
that have “the potential to undermine” the island’s recovery,
according to New York-based Moody’s.  
 Without any capital injection from the government, Iceland
may have no choice but to force a consolidation of its financial
industry and merge Arion and Islandsbanki, Hauksson said.  
 “The IMF has said that the banking sector in Iceland is
too large, so perhaps this will be a stepping stone towards
streamlining the system,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Iceland Parliament Poised to Reject Bank Rescue Plan  
                       
                         
                           Petur Geir Kristjansson via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gunnar Andersen, chief executive officer of FINL Supervisory Authority. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gunnar Andersen, chief executive officer of FINL Supervisory Authority. Photographer: Petur Geir Kristjansson via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Local properties are reflected in windows at the Kaupthing Bank in Reykjavik, Iceland, on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian enters the Landsbanki Islands hf headquarters in Reykjavik, Iceland on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
