-- Time to Buy Dollars as Europe Reaches Austerity Limit
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-08-02T11:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/time-to-buy-dollars-again-as-euro-economies-hit-limits-of-fiscal-austerity.html

          
          
             FX Concepts LLC, the hedge fund that
bought the euro in June just as it began a 9.7 percent surge
against the dollar, now says it’s almost time to get out of the
currency.  
 The firm, which manages $8 billion in assets, expects the
euro’s advance from a four-year low on June 7 to come undone by
September, partly because European austerity programs will start
to weigh on growth. Reports last week that showed Spanish
consumer confidence falling to the lowest level this year and
banks tightening credit standards in the region suggest the
budget measures may already be undermining the recovery.  
 The same fiscal measures that helped restore confidence in
the euro may soon weaken the region’s economies and torpedo the
rally. A July 30 survey of 21 money managers overseeing $1.29
trillion by  Jersey City , New Jersey-based research firm Ried
Thunberg ICAP Inc. found 75 percent don’t expect Europe’s common
currency to strengthen over the next three months.  
 “Austerity is really bad for growth,” said Jonathan Clark, vice chairman at New York-based FX Concepts, the world’s
biggest  currency hedge fund . “In the U.S., austerity is mainly
on the state level, but in Europe they are whole-hog into
cutting spending to reduce deficits. Under a pessimistic
scenario, the European currencies are in a lot of trouble.”  
 Spending Cuts  
   Spain , Portugal and  Greece  will reduce spending by an
average 4.3 percent of gross domestic product from 2009 to 2011,
said  Gilles Moec , an economist in London at Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s largest lender. The euro area will expand 1.5 percent
this year, less than a previous estimate of 2 percent, UBS AG,
the biggest Swiss bank by assets, said in a July 16 report.  
 The cuts contrast with the U.S., where President  Barack Obama  signed into law a $34 billion extension of  unemployment
benefits  last month. The  Congressional Budget Office  projects a
record $1.47 trillion deficit this fiscal year ending Sept. 30,
and $1.42 trillion in 2011.  
 While U.S. growth is slowing, it beats the European Union,
where a 750 billion-euro ($981 billion) backstop for the
region’s most indebted nations stabilized the currency after it
slid from $1.5144 on Nov. 25 to the June 7 low.  
 U.S. GDP grew at a 2.4 percent pace in the second quarter,
compared with 3.7 percent in the prior period, the Commerce
Department in  Washington  said July 30. Corporate spending on
equipment and software jumped at a 22 percent annual rate, the
biggest increase since 1997.  
 The median second-quarter estimate for the euro region is
1.30 percent, and 1.10 percent for the year, based on a survey
of 20 economists by Bloomberg.  
 Budgetary ‘Zeal’  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 22 more
fiscal stimulus is needed to support the U.S. recovery. European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  is taking the
opposite tack, writing in the Financial Times that industrial
countries should begin addressing deficits now. The ECB meets
Aug. 5, and will likely keep its key interest rate at 1 percent,
according to all 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “We continue to question the sustainability of the euro’s
recent rebound given the zeal with which European officials have
embraced fiscal consolidation,” said Mansoor Mohi-uddin, global
head of currency strategy in  Singapore  at UBS. The world’s
second-biggest currency trader, after Deutsche Bank, predicts
the euro will end this year at $1.15. “We expect the euro to
face renewed downward pressure.”  
 Raising Estimates  
 The euro strengthened 1.1 percent to $1.3052 last week,
capping the biggest monthly gain since May 2009. While it
rallied against the greenback in the five trading days ended
July 30, it was little changed based on Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, rising 0.1 percent. It gained 0.2
percent to $1.3080 today.  
 Rising confidence in  Europe ’s economy and a slowdown in the
U.S. helped quell speculation the 16-nation currency union would
splinter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Wells Fargo &amp; Co . and at
least 12 other firms raised their estimates for the euro in June
or July, Bloomberg data show. The 15 percent slide in the first
half also proved a boon for German exports.  
 The number of unemployed Germans fell in July to the lowest
level since November 2008, the Federal Labor Agency in Nuremberg
said July 29. The same day, an index of executive and consumer
confidence in the region compiled by the  European Commission  in
Brussels rose to the highest level since March 2008 in July.  
 ‘Great Deal’  
 “Governments have done a great deal bringing stability
back to the region, and that will manifest itself in a stronger
euro in the longer term,” said Fabrizio Fiorini, head of fixed
income at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan.  
 The bears say Germany will be unable to prop up the euro
much longer as the Frankfurt-based ECB’s quarterly Bank Lending
Survey released July 28 showed banks tightening credit. Consumer
confidence in Spain fell to minus 26 last month from minus 25 in
June, while sentiment in Portugal and  France  matched their lows
for the year, the commission said July 29.  
 The euro may reach $1.33 before falling along with stocks,
according to Clark at FX Concepts. The median estimate of 39
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg is for it to weaken to $1.21
by year-end.  
 The euro “will correlate strongly with equities,” Clark
said. “We are expecting equities to turn around and go down
into the second quarter of next year or longer.”  
 The MSCI World Index advanced 8.9 percent since the euro
rally began eight weeks ago.  
 Bond Signals  
 Record gains this year by longer-maturity German bonds show
investors are concerned growth across Europe may wane.
Securities due in 2020 and later returned 13.8 percent, the most
since the euro’s introduction in 1999 and compared with 13.1
percent for similar-dated Treasuries, indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies show.  
 “There’s still a lot of stress in the euro-zone economy,”
said Shahid Ikram, deputy chief investment officer at Aviva
Investors. The market is “probably viewing the debt burden as
being deflationary. Any reduction in debt is likely to impinge
on the potential rate of growth,” he said.  
 The fund management division of Britain’s second-largest
insurer, which oversees $403 billion in assets, is looking for
opportunities to bet the euro will weaken against the dollar,
Ikram said.  
 Currency Options  
 Demand for options granting investors the right to sell the
euro versus those giving the right to buy suggests eight weeks
of appreciation may peter out.  
 The euro’s three-month option risk-reversal rate was minus
2.14 percent on July 26, approaching the most since June 29.
When negative, the measure means demand for options giving the
right to sell the currency is greater than demand for those that
allow purchases. The rate was minus 1.71 percent today.  
 “The fiscal challenges facing the euro zone remain
immense,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at TD
Securities Inc. in Toronto and the most accurate foreign-
exchange forecaster from the end of 2008 through the first half
of this year based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Osborne
forecasts the currency will depreciate to $1.08 by year-end.  
 “The euro needs to go lower to try and help some of the
fiscal bite that is going to start to have an impact on some of
the more peripheral economies,” he said.  
 A weaker euro may help companies in the region as it boosts
competitiveness and makes revenue earned overseas worth more
when it’s brought home.  Eni SpA ,  Italy ’s largest oil and gas
company, said July 28 second-quarter profit jumped 81 percent as
crude prices climbed and the euro declined.  
 Gary Shilling, president of the economic research firm A.
Gary Shilling & Co. in Springfield,  New Jersey , has predicted
the euro may drop to parity with the dollar since January. He
was correct in all 13 of his investment guidelines for 2008.  
 “This has really just been a lull between storms in
Europe,” Shilling said. “We still have a situation where the
likelihood of defaults and restructuring in Greece, and probably
Portugal and Spain, are still very high. That doesn’t mean they
won’t be bailed out, but the turmoil that is likely to result
should drive the euro lower.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the ECB  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank (ECB), gestures while speaking during a news conference at the bank's headquarters in Frankfurt. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank (ECB), gestures while speaking during a news conference at the bank's headquarters in Frankfurt. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Ray Attrill, global research director at Forecast Ltd. in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the European Union's bank stress tests and his forecast for the euro.
     The euro headed for a weekly decline against the dollar on speculation stress-test results today will reveal loan losses at European banks, reducing demand for the region’s assets. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- FX Concepts LLC, the hedge fund that bought the euro in June just as it began a 9.7 percent surge against the dollar, now says it’s almost time to get out of the currency. Bloomberg's Sara Eisen and Julie Hyman report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
