-- IMF Forecasts `Moderate' Russian Recovery With Growth of 4.3% This Year
-- Vivien Lou Chen
-- 2010-08-02T19:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/imf-forecasts-moderate-russian-recovery-with-growth-of-4-3-this-year.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund’s
executive board said Russian authorities took a “forceful
response” to the recession last year and forecast a “moderate
recovery” of 4.3 percent economic growth for this year.  
 “Directors agreed that the main challenges will be to
implement medium-term fiscal consolidation, mitigate pressures
for real appreciation and inflation, restore the health of the
banking system, and improve the investment climate through
ambitious structural reforms,” the fund said today in a
statement.  
 The IMF’s assessment comes close to the forecast released
in June by the World Bank, which said Russia’s economy may
expand 4.5 percent in 2010. The gross domestic product of
Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, fell by 7.9 percent
last year after a plunge in oil prices and reversal of capital
flows that brought an end to a credit boom.  
 “The banking system is still under strain and credit is
likely to recover only gradually,” the Washington-based fund
said. “There are signs, however, that the accumulation of
overdue loans is now decelerating and that banks are scaling
back efforts to boost provisions and capital.”  
 Russia’s central bank left its main interest rates
unchanged for a second month in July, after inflation slowed and
the country’s recovery gathered speed. Bank Rossii kept the
refinancing rate at a record low 7.75 percent, as expected by
all 21 economists in a Bloomberg survey. It also left the
repurchase rate charged on one- and seven-day loans unchanged at
6.75 percent.  
 ‘Step Up Process’  
 Most IMF’s directors concluded that “authorities should
begin now to gradually withdraw the stimulus and step up the
process in 2011-2012,” the statement said. They also “stressed
that monetary policy should focus on controlling inflation, and
advised the authorities that the next move should begin a
tightening cycle.”  
 IMF directors “commended the authorities’ forceful
response to the recession,” and concluded that “the near-term
economic outlook is for a moderate recovery,” the statement
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        