-- Indian Government Seeks Harsher Punishment for Accused in Bhopal Gas Leak
-- P.S. Patnaik
-- 2010-08-02T13:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/indian-government-seeks-harsher-punishment-for-accused-in-bhopal-gas-leak.html

          
          
             The Indian government filed a
petition before the country’s Supreme Court today seeking
harsher punishment against officials of Union Carbide Corp. and
its local unit accused of negligence in a 1984 toxic gas leak.  
 Attorney General of India  G.E. Vahanvati  in a petition
filed on behalf of the Central Bureau of Investigation, the
prosecuting agency, sought to quash a Sept. 1996 court order
that diluted the charges from culpable homicide not amounting to
murder, which carries a punishment of 10 years imprisonment, to
death caused by a rash and negligent act not amounting to
culpable homicide. The lighter charge has a punishment of 2
years in prison.  
 An accident at the Union Carbide pesticide plant on Dec. 3,
1984, released methyl isocyanate gas into the streets of Bhopal,
the capital of Madhya Pradesh state in central India. Union
Carbide estimated that 3,800 people were killed by the leak.
 Amnesty International , a human rights group, commissioned a
study that showed 7,000 perished within days and another 15,000
died later from exposure to the gas.  
 Midland, Michigan-based  Dow Chemical Co. , the world’s
second-largest chemical maker, acquired Union Carbide in 1999.
Dow says all liabilities were settled in a $470 million out-of-
court settlement Union Carbide agreed with the Indian government
in 1989.  
 The Indian government will pursue a “liability case”
against Dow Chemical as part of a new push to give justice to
victims, Information and Broadcasting Minister  Ambika Soni  said
on June 24.  
 Tomm F. Sprick, a spokesman for Union Carbide, said that
month the company and its officials are not subject to
jurisdiction of Indian courts since they did not have any
involvement in the operation of the Bhopal plant, which was
owned and operated by Union Carbide India Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 P.S. Patnaik  in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        