-- Rainfall Beats Forecast in July, the Wettest Monsoon Month, Aids Planting
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-08-02T08:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/india-gets-more-rain-than-previously-forecast-in-july-weather-office-says.html

          
          
             India received more  rainfall  last
month than forecast by the weather office, aiding sowing of
sugar cane, rice and lentils and likely helping the country
reduce the need to import vegetable oils and pulses.  
 Rains in July, the wettest month of the June-September
monsoon season, were 102.5 percent of the 50-year average of
292.4 millimeters, D. Sivananda Pai, a director at the  India
Meteorological Department , said today from Pune. Precipitation
would be 98 percent of the average, the bureau said June 25.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , under attack from opposition
parties for failing to check food costs, is relying on a rebound
in agriculture after drought last year forced record imports of
sugar, pulses and palm oil. Plantings are ahead of year-earlier
levels because of rain, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said today.  
 “With July rains being good, we have started seeing food
prices fall,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Mumbai. “We will see prices falling further if the
rainfall remains good.”  
 The country received 451.8 millimeters of rainfall in the
June 1-Aug. 1 period, compared with the long-period average of
465.4 millimeters.  Showers were 1 percent above normal  in the
northwest region, the main grower of wheat, rice and cane, and
in line with the average in the central provinces, the top
producer of soybeans, according to the weather office.  
 Most parts of the country’s cane, rice, cotton and oilseed
areas will get widespread rain in three to four days, Pai said.  
 Sugar prices at Vashi, the biggest wholesale market for the
commodity, have dropped 9 percent in the past five days to 2,560
rupees ($55.3) per 100 kilograms, the lowest level in more than
a month. Corn futures declined as much as 0.9 percent to 1,080
rupees per 100 kilograms on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange, extending last week’s 5 percent loss.  
 Grain Output  
 Increased precipitation may help the world’s second-biggest
producer of rice, wheat and sugar lift grain output 6 percent to
230 million metric tons in the year to March 31, Nomura Holdings
Inc. said last month. Sugar output may jump to 27 million to 28
million tons in the year beginning Oct. 1 from about 19 million
tons this year,  Kushagra Bajaj , joint managing director at  Bajaj
Hindusthan Ltd. , the nation’s biggest producer, said last week.  
 “Sowing of soybeans has been good and the crop is in good
condition,” said  Rajesh Agrawal , spokesman for the Soybean
Processors Association of India, an oilseed processors’ group.  
 Rainfall rain may be 107 percent of the 50-year average in
August and September because of La Nina, the weather bureau said
last week. The weather phenomenon may lead to flooding in some
parts of the country, IMD’s Pai said today.  
 Flash Floods  
 Floods in Yamunagar district of Haryana, one of India’s
biggest producers of grain, killed 35 people, the Press Trust of
India reported yesterday. The water has begun to recede, the
report said. It is “too early” to assess the damage to crops
in the northern state, Minister Pawar said today.  
 La Nina causes wetter-than-normal conditions in Asia and
drier weather in the Americas.  
 As many as 3,000 people may have died in flash floods that
devastated northwestern Pakistan and affected almost 1 million
people, according to the Edhi rescue service. The death toll
from floods in northeast China’s Jilin province reached 50, with
46 others missing, the People’s Daily reported.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        