-- Indonesia Inflation Accelerated in July, Adding to Interest-Rate Pressure
-- Novrida Manurung
-- 2010-08-02T04:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/indonesia-inflation-accelerated-in-july-adding-to-interest-rate-pressure.html

          
          
             Indonesia’s inflation rate climbed to
the highest level in 15 months in July, adding pressure on the
central bank to join regional policy makers in raising borrowing
costs to tame prices.  
 Consumer prices rose 6.22 percent last month from a year
earlier, the Central Bureau of Statistics said in Jakarta today.
That compares with a 5.05 percent gain in June reported earlier.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists
was for a 5.73 percent increase.  
 Bank Indonesia, which releases its monthly policy decision
this week, has chosen to strengthen growth rather than respond
to faster inflation, holding out as counterparts including South
Korea, India and Malaysia raised borrowing costs. It may have
less room to keep interest rates at a record low as electricity
tariffs rise and the world’s largest Muslim population observes
the fasting month of Ramadan.  
 “The risk for inflation is really to the upside” with the
upcoming fasting month and subsequent Eid-ul-Fitr festival as
well higher electricity prices,  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore, said before the
report. “Sooner or later, given the clear upward trend in
inflation, a rate hike has to be implemented.”  
 Indonesia isn’t yet considering raising its benchmark
interest rate and June’s higher-than-expected jump in inflation
was temporary, Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor  Budi Mulya  said
July 9.  
 Rate Decision  
 The central bank will keep its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 6.5 percent for a 12th month on Aug. 4, according
to all 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The measure is
at the lowest level since it was introduced in July 2005.  
 Indonesia’s parliament in June approved a government
proposal to increase electricity tariffs for the first time in
seven years starting July, a move aimed at reducing subsidies.  
 Consumer prices in Southeast Asia’s largest economy rose
1.57 percent in July from the previous month after rising 0.97
percent in June. The central bank expects inflation to remain
within a target of 4 percent to 6 percent this year.  
 A strengthening rupiah may also help limit inflationary
pressures. The currency has gained 11.2 percent against the
dollar in the past year, making it Asia’s second-best performer.  
 Indonesia’s exports rose 31 percent in June from a year
earlier after gaining 36 percent in May, the statistics office
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        