-- Infineon Said to Seek 1.5 Billion Euros for Its Wireless Unit
-- Jacqueline Simmons
-- 2010-08-02T18:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/infineon-technologies-sees-significant-progress-in-wireless-sale-talks.html

          
          
             Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s
second-largest chipmaker, is seeking about 1.5 billion euros
($1.98 billion) for its wireless business, two people with
direct knowledge of the discussions said.  
 The German company today said it has made “significant
progress” in talks with parties interested in the unit. An
agreement may be reached within the next 10 days, one of the
people said, declining to be identified because the talks are
private. Infineon may also seek to form a joint venture rather
than sell it, one person said.  
 The unit, which makes chips for  Apple Inc.’s  iPhone and
 Samsung Electronics Co.’s  Galaxy S phone, had sales of 917
million euros in the year ended September 2009. Infineon
didn’t name the companies with whom it is in talks.  
 “The wireless business has shown spectacular growth and
for this reason I’m a bit skeptical that they’re simply going to
sell it,” said Malik Kamal-Saadi, an analyst at Informa Telecoms
& Media in London. “Instead of an exit, they could find a strong
partner, like Intel. I think that would be the wiser move.”  
 Intel Corp.  is in talks to buy the unit, two people
familiar with the discussions said on July 29. Citigroup analyst
 Glen Young  last week said Samsung Electronics Co. would be a
better fit for the wireless unit. On July 30, the Wall Street
Journal reported that  Broadcom Corp . has seen confidential
financial data on the wireless unit.  
 The “objective of a potential transaction is the
strategic development” of the unit, Infineon said today.  
 Shares Rise  
 Infineon spokesman  Christian Hoenicke  declined to name the
potential buyers. He also wouldn’t say if Infineon has narrowed
down the list of buyers.  
 Intel spokesman  Chuck Mulloy  declined to comment as did
 Chris Goodhart , a California-based spokeswoman for South Korea’s
Samsung. Broadcom spokesman  Bill Blanning  didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  
 Infineon rose 1.9 percent to 5.28 euros at the close of
trading at 5:35 p.m. in Frankfurt.  
 Infineon, based in Neubiberg, Germany, makes the baseband
processors that control radio functions of phones. Intel
processors run the software that powers the handsets.  
 In the first nine months of fiscal 2010, wireless business
sales were at 883 million euros, up 35 percent from the same
period last year. Growth in the third quarter was mainly due to
a “ramp-up of new smart phone and entry-level phone platforms at
several major customers,” Infineon said. A stronger U.S. dollar
against the euro also lifted revenue.  
 To contact the reporter on this story: 
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        