-- Iraq Sets Natural-Gas Field Bidding for Oct. 1, Scraps Signature Bonus
-- Nayla Razzouk
-- 2010-08-02T15:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/iraq-delays-bidding-round-for-three-natural-gas-fields-oil-ministry-says.html

          
          
             Iraq, holder of the world’s third-
largest oil reserves, delayed until Oct. 1 a third bidding round
for gas fields and promised incentives for investors, an Oil
Ministry official said.  
 The  bidding round , initially planned for Sept. 1, will go
ahead with or without a government in Iraq, which has been in
political limbo since the March 7 elections, Abdul Mahdy al-
Ameedi, deputy director general at Iraq’s Petroleum Contracts
and Licensing Directorate, said today.  
 “We will get comments from companies on terms by Aug. 15,
then by Sept. 10 we will reach final contracts and on Oct. 1 we
will collect bids,” the ministry official said at a press
conference in Istanbul, following a two-day technical workshop.  
 Iraq, reliant on oil for most of its income, is seeking
foreign investors in all parts of its economy after years of
conflict and sanctions. It held two licensing rounds last year
for oil and gas investments, and the third is specifically for
gas fields Akkas, Mansouriya and Siba, which Iraq is eager to
develop for domestic power generation as well as export revenue.  
 Among new incentives for investors, Iraq plans to scrap so-
called signature bonuses, which amounted to costs of between
$100 million and $500 million for each of the winning bidders in
the previous two licensing rounds, al-Ameedi said.  
 Out of the 45 companies that previously participated in the
two rounds in 2009, Iraq expects “a lot of companies bidding”
in the third round, he said. The ministry prefers to deal with
companies it had already pre-qualified for earlier rounds, and
its “doors are not widely open for new companies,” al-Ameedi
said. The workshop in Istanbul was attended by 11 companies.  
 Gas for Export  
 Iraq intends to export 50 percent of the gas produced in
the three gas fields, the amount in excess of its domestic
needs, he said. The three undeveloped fields have combined
reserves of more than 11 trillion cubic feet. The Mansuriya gas
field will be used first for domestic use, then later for
exports or for supplying the proposed Nabucco pipeline, which is
intended to reduce Europe’s dependence on Russian fuel, he said.  
 “Building an export pipeline will be the contractor’s
responsibility for gas in excess of domestic demand,” he said.  
 Companies winning the contracts will be paid on the basis
of barrels of oil equivalent and will not be involved in setting
the prices of gas exports, al-Ameedi said. The two-day workshop
in Istanbul gave companies the opportunity to ask technical
questions about the gas deposits on offer.  
 Previous Interest  
 Akkas and Mansouriya were among the fields offered in
bidding last year. No investors bid for Mansouriya then, and the
ministry rejected the sole offer for Akkas made by a group of
five companies led by Italy’s Edison SpA. The ministry initially
included Siba in the second round then withdrew it.  
 Akkas, discovered in western Anbar province near the Syrian
border in 1998, holds 5.6 trillion cubic feet of gas and has six
wells, according to ministry information. Iraq is interested
mainly in exporting associated gas produced there along with
oil, Deputy Oil Minister Ahmed al-Shamma said in April.  
 Mansouriya, discovered in the eastern Diyala district in
1979, north of Baghdad, holds a potential 4.5 trillion cubic
feet of gas and has four wells. Siba, found in 1968 in Basra,
southeast Iraq, has 1.1 trillion cubic feet of gas and three
wells.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net 
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        