-- Israel to Participate in UN Probe of Gaza Flotilla Raid
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-08-02T21:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/israel-to-participate-in-un-probe-of-flotilla-raid-that-killed-nine-turksi.html

          
          
             Israel agreed to cooperate with a
United Nations-authorized investigation into its May 31 raid on
a Turkish aid flotilla headed to the Gaza Strip.  
 “Israel has nothing to hide,” Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in announcing the agreement after talking to UN
Secretary-General  Ban Ki-Moon  yesterday. “It is in the national
interest of the state of Israel to ensure that the factual truth
of the overall flotilla events comes to light throughout the
world,” Netanyahu said in a statement.  
 The probe will be led by former New Zealand Prime Minister
 Geoffrey Palmer , and the commission will include Colombian
President  Alvaro Uribe , a member from Israel, and one from
Turkey. The panel will begin its work on Aug. 10 and submit its
first progress report by mid-September, the UN said.  
 Israel’s willingness to take part in the probe reverses its
previous refusal to cooperate with any external inquiry into the
incident. “Israel has the ability and the right to investigate
itself, not to be investigated by any international board,”
 Michael Oren , the Israeli ambassador to the U.S., told Fox News
on June 7.  
 U.S. Ambassador to the UN  Susan Rice  said in a statement
she welcomed the new developments and that the U.S. hopes it can
lead to eased tensions between Turkey and Israel that can
“repair their strong historic ties.”  
 Turkey’s Reaction  
 Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  called the UN
probe “a very important step,” saying in an interview with
state news agency Anatolia that the investigation “demonstrates
that every UN member is accountable for its actions.”  
 Ban’s statement thanked the leaders of Israel and Turkey
“for their spirit of compromise and forward-looking
cooperation.”  
 He said the panel will “also give me recommendations for
the prevention of similar incidents in the future.” Ban said he
hopes the agreement will “impact positively on the relationship
between Turkey and Israel as well as the overall situation in
the Middle East.”  
 Ban was told by Netanyahu that Israel would take part in
the UN panel “in the wake of diplomatic contacts that have been
held in recent weeks in order to ensure that this was indeed a
panel with a balanced and fair written mandate,” the Israeli
government statement said.  
 The UN panel will receive reports from the Israeli probe
headed by retired Supreme Court justice Jacob Turkel.  
 Numerous Warnings  
 Israel said it issued numerous warnings in the May incident
to the Gaza-bound flotilla to change course for the port of
Ashdod and unload there. It said its soldiers were attacked with
knives and clubs and seven were wounded, including by gunfire,
after people aboard one of the ships managed to grab Israeli
firearms.  
 Nine pro-Palestinian Turkish activists were killed in the
incident. Activists said they threw the firearms into the sea
and that the Israelis instigated the violence.  
 Israel and Egypt imposed a blockade of Gaza after the
Islamic Hamas movement ousted forces loyal to Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and seized full
control of the territory in 2007. Hamas, which won Palestinian
parliamentary elections the previous year, is considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S., the European Union and
Israel.  
 Israel’s Offensive  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 This year’s raid and Israel’s initial refusal of an
international probe strained diplomatic and military relations
with Turkey, once its closest ally in the region.  
 Also today, Israel increased the number of trucks allowed
to bring goods into Gaza by two thirds, further relaxing
restrictions on access to the territory that it started to
loosen in June.  
 Israeli officials will allow 250 trucks a day to unload
goods at the Kerem Shalom crossing to Gaza, up from 150 in July
and about 80 before that, Raed Fattouh, a liaison officer for
the Palestinian Authority, said in a phone interview. Guy Inbar,
a spokesman for the Israeli Defense Ministry’s Gaza coordination
office, said the information was accurate.  
 Israel didn’t participate in a UN panel led by former UN
prosecutor and South African judge  Richard Goldstone  that
investigated the 2008 Gaza war. Goldstone’s panel accused Israel
and Hamas of war crimes and called on them to investigate the
charges.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Calev Ben-David  in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Netanyahu says Israel has nothing to hide  
                       
                         
                           Mark Wilson/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Benjamin Netanyahu, prime minister of Israel, listens during a meeting with U.S. President Barack Obama during a meeting in the Oval Office of the White House. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Benjamin Netanyahu, prime minister of Israel, listens during a meeting with U.S. President Barack Obama during a meeting in the Oval Office of the White House. Photographer: Mark Wilson/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
