-- Mitch Miller, Baton-Wielding Host of `Sing Along With Mitch,' Dies at 99
-- Kathryn Harris
-- 2010-08-02T16:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/mitch-miller-baton-wielding-host-of-sing-along-with-mitch-dies-at-99.html

          
          
             Mitch Miller , the baton-wielding host
of the “Sing Along With Mitch” television show who promoted
performers such as  Tony Bennett  and  Rosemary Clooney , has died.
He was 99.  
 He died July 31 in Manhattan after a short illness, the New
York Times reported, citing his daughter, Margaret Miller
Reuther.  
 Miller was honored with a  Lifetime Achievement Award  at the
Grammys in 2000, when he still worked actively as a guest
conductor. Throughout his life, he was noted for the
considerable energy and self-confidence that accompanied his
musical ability. Even during the Great Depression, he never
lacked for work.  
 After receiving classical training on the oboe, he played
in the orchestra for  George Gershwin ’s road tour of “Porgy and
Bess” in 1935, then joined the CBS Orchestra for more than a
decade before he became a music record executive to develop
popular artists.  
 Miller selected and produced songs recorded by  Patti Page ,
 Vic Damone  and  Frankie Laine  at Mercury Records, then moved to
CBS in 1950. There, he steered Bennett, Clooney and Johnny
Mathis to their first hits. Within two years, Miller took CBS
from fourth to first place in pop-music sales. In addition to
his fulltime job at CBS, he simultaneously worked part-time as
director of popular recordings for Simon & Schuster’s Little
Golden Records.  
 Fought Rock  
 Miller resisted the rise of rock ‘n’ roll in a fierce and
outspoken way. He accused disc jockeys in 1958 of “abandoning
adults” in their rush to embrace the new genre.  
 That same year, he released his first “Sing Along With
Mitch” album, on the shrewd bet that many Americans still
hankered for enduring melodies such as “Down by the Old Mill
Stream” and “You Are My Sunshine.”  
 The album sold more than 8 million copies and stayed on
the record charts for 204 weeks. Miller released almost two
dozen more “Sing Along” albums for CBS over the next few
years.  
 He  moved to television  in early 1961, hosting “Sing
Along With Mitch” as a musical variety show on NBC. The program
was a huge ratings success and turned Miller into a nationally
recognized figure, with his trademark goatee and baton in hand.
The host encouraged viewers to sing along as the song’s lyrics
scrolled across the bottom of the TV screen. Four years later,
NBC canceled the show due to youthful viewers’ scorn.  
 Immigrants’ Son  
 Mitchell William Miller was born on July 4, 1911, in a
Rochester, New York, neighborhood of Jewish and Italian
immigrants. His father was a wrought-iron worker, and his mother
was a seamstress who once worked in the Russian czar’s summer
palace outside Warsaw, according to “Current Biography.”  
 Although Miller took piano lessons as a child, he didn’t
discover the oboe until junior high school, when he decided to
sign up for orchestra and found just one instrument left. By the
time he was 14, he was taking oboe lessons at the University of
Rochester’s Eastman School of Music, and at 15, he made his
professional debut with the  Syracuse Symphony Orchestra . Miller
also played the English horn, a woodwind instrument similar to
the oboe but larger and lower-pitched.  
 After high school, Miller enrolled in the Eastman school on
a full scholarship. There he displayed a touch of flamboyance as
he drove a Model T Ford, cut classes and voiced his criticism of
school administrators. Caught in a police raid of a craps game,
the quick-witted Miller offered a professor’s name when asked to
identify himself, the New Yorker magazine recounted in a 1953
profile.  
 Long-Distance Wooing  
 He courted his future wife, Frances Josephine Alexander,
with similar aplomb. The two met at Eastman, where Alexander was
a student of piano; following his 1932 graduation, Miller wooed
her long distance by air mail, special delivery and 1,000-mile
auto trips from New York City to her hometown of Quincy,
Illinois. The two were wed on Sept. 10, 1935. The marriage
produced three children: Andrea, Margaret and Mitchell.  
 Miller, who played under such esteemed conductors as Sir
Thomas Beecham and  Leopold Stokowski , surprised many when he
made the switch to pop music. Miller thought the move was
unremarkable.  
 “The same rules apply. You know, taste, musicianship,
balance, get the best out of the artist,” he told Audio
magazine in an interview published in 1985. “The term classical
just means something that lasts. So I saw no difference,”  
 Miller was innovative and tried things that seemed
outlandish. One of his first hits at CBS was “I Saw Mommy
Kissing Santa Claus,” sung by a 12-year-old Jimmy Boyd. Miller
insisted that Clooney record “Come On-a My House,” written in
part by playwright  William Saroyan  and backed by a harpsichord.
Her first hit, it sold over a million copies.  
 ‘Could Not Miss’  
 “There was a time in the early 50s when this man could not
miss. His powerful personality got singers to record songs that
didn’t seem right, and constantly proved his judgment was near
perfect,” longtime record executive Joe Smith wrote in his 1988
 book , “Off the Record.”  
 Miller was said to be the man who put the sound of the
cracking whip in “Rawhide,” sung by Frankie Laine, the Mercury
artist who soon followed Miller to CBS.  Frank Sinatra , however,
left CBS in a huff over Miller’s suggestions.  
 In the 1985 interview, Miller told Audio magazine that he
had attacked rock ‘n’ roll “for its utter lack of
literacy,” adding that “the thing that bothered me most was
the ripping off of the blacks.”  
 He cited the cases of  Pat Boone  singing white versions of
 Little Richard  songs and British singers using black singers’
material to score with American audiences. Miller said he also
foresaw the rise of payola as record promoters paid stations to
promote songs.  
 By 1985, Miller said, he had come full circle to symphony
work. “I conduct all the major orchestras in America, Italy,
Canada, some in Mexico,” he said. “It’s live. You strip all
the crapola away. No editing, no re-takes. People have to pay to
hear you.”  
 For Related News and Information:
More obituaries: NI OBIT <GO>
Arts and culture news: MUSE <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mitch Miller, host of the “Sing Along With Mitch” television show. Photo by: NBCU Photo Bank via AP Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
