-- Inflation Target Won't Work, Former Bank of Japan Deputy Chief Muto Says
-- Mayumi Otsuma
-- 2010-08-02T01:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/japan-inflation-target-idea-won-t-work-former-boj-deputy-chief-muto-says.html

          
          
             Former Bank of Japan Deputy Governor
 Toshiro Muto  said inflation targeting by the central bank would
do little to end deflation in the world’s second-largest economy,
dismissing an effort by politicians to impose such a measure.  
 “There have recently been specific proposals to the
central bank that it should adopt an inflation target to beat
deflation,” Muto, 67, said at a forum hosted by Bloomberg News
in Tokyo on July 30. “I don’t think introducing an inflation
target would stamp out deflation at all.”  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is facing pressure from within his
party as well as rival lawmakers to make the central bank target
specific inflation levels.  Consumer prices  have fallen for 16
straight months, and a rising yen threatens to contribute to
deflation by lowering import costs.  
 Kan said today that the central bank and the government
have been cooperating closely. Defeating deflation is crucial
for reviving the economy and restoring fiscal health, the prime
minister said in parliament.  
 Muto also said that with the economy recovering moderately,
the BOJ is unlikely to ease policy further any time soon. It
will “naturally consider what it can do” if the global economy
stagnates and the yen’s gains accelerate, he said.  
 Even so, there are few monetary policy measures that “can
have an impact,” said Muto, who now heads the Daiwa Institute
of Research in Tokyo. There is “little point” in guiding the
benchmark  interest rate  to zero from the current 0.1 percent
because Japan’s short-term rates are already low, he said.  
 Rising Yen  
 The yen today traded near its highest level against the
dollar since November on signs that the U.S. recovery is losing
momentum. Muto said he doesn’t expect the currency to continue
strengthening because interest-rate gaps between Japan and U.S.
won’t continue to narrow.  
 Japan’s currency was at 86.70 per dollar at 10 a.m. in
Tokyo after reaching 85.95 on July 30, the highest this year.
The benchmark 10-year government bond yielded 1.055 percent,
close to a seven-year low of 1.045 percent set July 22.  
 Muto said Japan’s yields have been declining because major
banks “have no other choice” but to put their money into the
debt market, rather than because of an improving outlook for
curtailing the world’s largest  public debt .  
 “It’s pretty difficult to explain why Japan’s government
bond prices are rallying and yields are falling, with the
country’s fiscal debt this bad,” said Muto, who worked at the
Finance Ministry for 37 years before serving on the central
bank’s policy board for five years until March 2008.  
 Rejected by DPJ  
 Muto was the Liberal Democratic Party-led government’s
first choice to succeed  Toshihiko Fukui  as governor in 2008,
only to be rejected by the opposition Democratic Party of Japan,
which said his career at the Finance Ministry may hamper the
bank’s independence.  
 The DPJ became the government last September, and a group
of its legislators led by  Jin Matsubara  last week urged Prime
Minister Kan to push the Bank of Japan to buy more government
bonds and target inflation of 2 percent to 3 percent. Your Party,
an opposition group that may work with the government after it
lost an upper-house election, wants the bank to set an inflation
target of around 2 percent.  
 Because neither of the two largest parties, the DPJ and the
Liberal Democratic Party, has endorsed the Your Party proposal,
there’s “little chance of this legislation passing,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. economists wrote in note today.  
 BOJ Options  
 The Bank of Japan’s policy options include operations to
guide so-called term yields lower, like the credit program it
adopted last December, Muto said. The lending facility, which
the bank doubled to 20 trillion yen ($230 billion) in March,
provides commercial banks with three-month loans at 0.1 percent.  
 The BOJ could flood the banking system with cash if
liquidity becomes scarce, and using communication to plot the
path of interest rates is also an option, Muto said.  
 He said consumer prices excluding fresh food and volatile
items such as energy and telecommunication fees will probably
stop falling in mid-2011 at the earliest. “That means it’s hard
to anticipate that Japan’s monetary policy will head toward exit
within a year.”  
 Prices  excluding fresh food slid 1 percent in June from a
year earlier, the 16th consecutive decline, the government said
last week. The BOJ policy board considers prices to be stable if
they’re rising at a pace of up to 2 percent; the estimate isn’t
a binding target.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        