-- Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Climb on Earnings, U.S. Manufacturing
-- Kana Nishizawa
-- 2010-08-02T23:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/japanese-australian-stock-futures-climb-on-earnings-u-s-manufacturing.html

          
          
             Japanese and Australian  stock   futures 
climbed after U.S. manufacturing data topped forecasts and
European banks reported better-than-estimated earnings,
increasing confidence in the strength of global economic growth.  
 American depositary receipts of  Canon Inc. , a Japanese
camera maker that receives about 82 percent of its revenue
overseas, rose 1.3 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo.
Those of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s biggest
lender by market value, increased 1.7 percent. Those of
Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s largest commodities trader, advanced
2.4 percent after oil and metal prices rose. ADRs of BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, jumped 2.2
percent from the closing price in Sydney.  
 “The manufacturing data is giving investors a sense of
security to buy,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at
Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “Excessive worries about
a global slowdown will ease, and there will be more risk
tolerance in the market.”  
 Yen-denominated futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
expiring in September closed at 9,720 in Chicago yesterday,
compared with 9,560 in Osaka, Japan. They were  bid  in the pre-
market at 9,720 as of 8:05 a.m. in Osaka. The Nikkei 225 closed
at 9,570.31 yesterday.  
 Futures on Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  gained 1.4 percent
today, and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index increased 0.8 percent in
Wellington.  
 Global Market Rally  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index rose 2.2 percent yesterday in New York to its
highest close in 11 weeks, buoyed by company earnings and a
gauge of manufacturing from the Institute for Supply Management
that were higher than estimated by analysts and economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 1.3 percent yesterday as
companies from Honda Motor Co. to Hyundai Mobis Co. reported
higher earnings or forecasts. Companies in the index trade at
14.4 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.6 times for
those in the S&P 500.  
 In London, the benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  soared 2.6
percent yesterday as HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank,
and  BNP Paribas SA  the largest lender in France, reported
earnings that topped estimates.  
 Crude oil for September delivery jumped 3 percent yesterday
as the global stock-market rally increased speculation the
economy is strengthening. Copper futures for September delivery
rose 2.4 percent, and the  London Metal Exchange Index  of six
metals surged 3 percent.  
 Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s largest gold producer, said
its partners agreed to extend the effective period for an
agreement to purchase Platmin Congo Ltd. to Aug. 31 or later.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        