-- Japan's Nikkei 225 Average Climbs on Earnings, Led by Honda; Banks Decline
-- Satoshi Kawano
-- 2010-08-02T07:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/japanese-stocks-gain-as-company-earnings-boost-confidence-honda-advances.html

          
          
             Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose
for the first time in three days as company earnings boosted
confidence in the strength of the economy. Banks declined.  
 Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s second-largest automaker, gained 4
percent, while  Hitachi Ltd. , Japan’s third-biggest company by
sales, advanced 4.3 percent after raising profit targets.
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. jumped 6.5 percent after it
returned to profit in the first quarter. Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. lost 0.7 percent as the bank and its biggest rivals
reported profit that failed to bolster confidence about earnings
growth in the industry.  
 “Individual company earnings were taken positively, but
it’s hard for buy orders to spread,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a
senior strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $104 billion. “People still can’t see the impact
of a slowing U.S. economy and strengthening yen on company
earnings from the second-half.”  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.4 percent to 9,570.21
at the close of trading in Tokyo. The broader  Topix  gained 0.1
percent to 850.69 after climbing as much as 1.1 percent. About
four stocks declined for every three that advanced.  
 The yen, which has strengthened from the start of the
fiscal year, and tepid U.S. economic data weighed on stocks
gains in early trading.  
 The Topix rose 1 percent last month, its biggest monthly
gain since March. Companies in the index trade at 16.4 times
 estimated earnings , compared with 13.3 times for those in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. U.S. stocks were little changed on
July 30 as the nation’s economy grew slower than expected, while
consumer confidence beat estimates.  
 Honda climbs  
 Honda , which gets about 45 percent of its sales from North
America, jumped 4 percent to 2,818 yen and was the biggest
contributor to the Topix index’s advance. The automaker raised
its full-year net income forecast to 455 billion yen ($5.3
billion) from 340 billion yen as greater-than-expected sales
gains in Asia countered a stronger yen.  
 The yen has appreciated about 7.3 percent against the U.S.
dollar since the start of the fiscal year on April 1. A higher
yen reduces the value of overseas income at Japanese companies
when converted into their home currency.  
 “The fact that Honda raised its outlook, despite a
stronger yen, gave investors a sense of relief,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , a fund manager in Tokyo who helps oversee about $5.8
billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. “While uncertainties
linger, investors don’t have to be fearful of current
conditions.”  
 Hitachi Advances  
 Hitachi  advanced 4.3 percent to 367 yen after raising its
first-half profit forecast 82 percent to 100 billion yen and
reporting a return to profit in the first quarter.  Fujifilm
Holdings Corp.  climbed 1.8 percent to 2,748 yen after saying
first-quarter net income totaled 17.8 billion yen, compared with
a net loss of 695 million yen a year earlier.  Kawasaki Heavy 
jumped 6.5 percent to 230 yen after turning to a profit of 5.88
billion yen.  
 “Some investors think there’s a mismatch between share
prices and earnings after the good earnings news, others are
pessimistic about the strength of the macro economy,” said  Koji Toda , Tokyo-based chief fund manager at Resona Bank Ltd., which
oversees about $55 billion in assets.  
 Among stocks that fell, Mizuho lost 0.7 percent to 140 yen,
while  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s biggest
lender, slipped 0.5 percent to 427 yen. Both declined even as
they reported first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.
A measure of banks was the biggest drag on the Topix index among
its 33 industry groups.  
 “The quality of bank earnings was pretty bad,” said
 Ismael Pili , a Tokyo-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. “The
gains were in trading type stuff and not much of the bread and
butter of banks, which is lending and fees.”  
 Elpida Memory Inc. , the world’s third-biggest maker of
computer-memory chips, tumbled 7.8 percent to 1,199 yen, its
lowest close since December 2009, after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
lowered its rating on the stock on concern semiconductor prices
will fall next year.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Satoshi Kawano  in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        