-- Jordan to Sign Nuclear-Cooperation Deals With Three More Countries in 2010
-- Nayla Razzouk
-- 2010-08-02T14:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/jordan-to-sign-nuclear-cooperation-deals-with-three-more-countries-in-2010.html

          
          
             Jordan will sign nuclear cooperation
agreements with three countries this year and hopes to reach one
with the U.S. soon after, the head of the kingdom’s atomic
commission said.  
 “Jordan is due to sign three agreements on nuclear
cooperation with Japan, Romania and the Czech Republic by the
end of 2010,”  Khalid Touqan , chairman of the Jordan Atomic
Energy Commission, said today in an interview in Amman.  
 The kingdom, which is mostly covered by desert and relies
almost entirely on imports for its energy needs, is turning to
nuclear power to meet increasing electricity demand. The country
plans to build reactors by 2019 and has signed agreements with
eight countries including Russia, China, France and the U.K.  
 Jordan initialed in 2008 a memorandum of understanding with
the U.S. and is currently negotiating a full cooperation
agreement “which we hope will be signed in the near future,”
Touqan said.  
 The commission and Worley Parsons, Australia’s biggest
engineering company, will hold talks until then with the pre-
selected groups of Canadian, French, Japanese and Russian
bidders, he said.  
 The commission preselected three reactor technologies on
May 12: Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd.’s Enhanced CANDU 6 (EC6),
Russia’s ZAO Atomstroyexport’s AES-92 VVER-1000 and “ATMEA1,”
proposed by Paris-based Atmea, a 50-50 joint venture between
France’s Areva SA and Japan’s Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.  
 Areva , the world’s largest maker of reactors, signed
agreements with Jordan this year for the protection of the
planned nuclear installations and the exploration and mining of
uranium in the kingdom.  
 Jordan estimates it has 65,000 tons of uranium deposits and
expects annual production of 2,000 tons.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        