-- Kenya Constitution's Passage May Draw in Biden-Promised Foreign Investment
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-08-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/kenya-constitution-s-passage-may-draw-in-biden-promised-foreign-investment.html

          
          
             Kenya probably will approve a new
constitution tomorrow in a test of whether East Africa’s biggest
economy can avoid the bloodshed that marred previous votes and
restore its reputation as a stable investment haven.  
 The referendum will usher in changes that include devolving
presidential powers and making land distribution more equitable.
Those issues were at the root of post-election clashes in 2008
that left 1,500 people dead and forced 300,000 to flee their
homes. The violence cost the economy an estimated $1 billion.  
 U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  said in June the U.S.
administration backs the new constitution and predicted that
approval would draw record foreign investment.  Centum Investment
Co. , Kenya’s only publicly traded investment company, agrees.  
 “If it’s a yes, I think it will have an immediate impact
on reducing the perception of political risk in Kenya,” Centum
Chief Executive Officer  James Mworia  said in an interview in
Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. Centum has stakes in the Kenyan
unit of Detroit-based General Motors Co. and  Kenya Commercial
Bank Ltd. , according to its website.  
 Ethnic fighting pitting the Kalenjin and Luo communities
against the Kikuyu people broke out in the aftermath of
presidential elections in December 2007 that were disputed by
supporters of President  Mwai Kibaki  and his main opponent,  Raila Odinga . Kibaki and Odinga signed a power-sharing peace accord
two months later that promised changes to the constitution. Both
leaders publicly support the new draft.  
 Slower Growth  
 Kenya’s  economic growth  rate dropped to 1.7 percent in 2008
from 7.1 percent a year earlier as a result of the violence.
Revenue from the tourism industry, Kenya’s third-biggest source
of foreign currency after horticulture and tea, and which
accounts for about 13 percent of gross domestic product, was
slashed by over a third in the same year.  
 More than 15,000 security forces will be deployed across
the country to safeguard the referendum, the Daily Nation
newspaper reported on July 23. There have been isolated
incidents of violence before the poll, including a June 13
grenade attack at a prayer rally opposing the constitution in
which five people were killed.  
 “This is the most significant vote ahead of 2012, and
given the outcome of the last time Kenyans went to the polls,
everyone is looking for the smooth passage,”  Razia Khan , Africa
analyst at London-based Standard Chartered Plc, said in a phone
interview. Kenya holds its next general election in 2012.  
 Majority Support  
 At least 68 percent of Kenyans back the proposed changes to
the constitution, according to a poll last week by market-
research company TNS Research International. About 25 percent
said they will reject the document, according to the poll, which
had a margin of error of 2.45 percentage points.  
 Approval of the changes may prevent violence at subsequent
elections because the new constitution tackles issues at the
core of conflict in Kenya, said Omweri Angima, program officer
at the Nairobi-based Center for Multiparty Democracy.  
 “Power will be shared broadly, empowering people and doing
away with tribal kingpins who create mischief,” Angima said.
“Land, devolution, dispute-resolution mechanisms: These are
affirmative clauses that will give people hope and make them
feel it’s not necessary to engage in violence.”  
 The new constitution may also curb corruption, the 600-
member Kenya Association of Manufacturers said in an
advertisement in the  Daily Nation  on July 28.  
 ‘Bribes’  
 “Many businesses have suffered in the hands of public
servants who use their offices to extract bribes,” the industry
group said. “The proposed constitution largely reflects the
design of a more accountable government.”  
 Proposed changes include handing powers to Kenya’s 47
counties, such as responsibility for basic health services,
agriculture, county roads and water. Public finances and
authority over land would be audited by independent bodies to
boost accountability. Lawmakers would have to vote to approve
the president’s choice of  Cabinet  ministers and judges.  
 Maximum leases on land would be reduced, retroactively, to
99 years from 999 years, making ownership accessible to more
Kenyans, and property handed out by politicians to their
supporters will become public land. The majority of Kenyans are
subsistence farmers.  
 Election violence often erupts in areas such as the Rift
Valley, the tea-growing region where ethnic groups disagree over
ancestral land rights, said Odenda Lumumba, coordinator of the
 Kenya Land Alliance . Reconciling differences over property
distribution may help to resolve these decades-old disputes.  
 Hot Spots  
 “Central Kenya, Rift Valley; these have always been
perpetual hot spots and will remain volatile until changes to
the land laws,” Lumumba said.  
 Some Kenyans don’t believe that, once approved, the new
constitution will be implemented, International Centre for
Policy and Conflict Executive Director Ndung’u Wainaina said by
phone from Nairobi.  
 Obstacles to implementation may include a lack of
government manpower and financial resources, he said. “There
must be drafting of roadmaps to enact a huge amount of laws. Our
parliament is known to be slow at that.”  
 This week’s referendum comes against a backdrop of
increasing tension between Kenya’s Muslims and Christians,
adding to the mix of regional and ethnic divisions that stoked
the violence in 2007,  Bethuel Kiplagat , chairman of the Truth,
Justice and Reconciliation Commission, said on July 15.  
 Christian religious groups oppose a proposal in the new
constitution that permits women whose lives are endangered to
end a pregnancy, already written in the penal code, and another
clause, in the existing charter, that recognizes Islamic laws on
inheritance, marriage and divorce.  
 Kenyan political leaders have promised a new charter for
almost 20 years to replace one dating back to independence from
Britain in 1963.  
 About 150 international observers will join 4,612 local
monitors in observing the vote by 12.7 million registered
voters, Independent Interim Electoral Commission Chairman Ahmed
Issack Hassan said on July 28. The expectation is that Kenyans
will keep the peace, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kenya Constitution May Draw Biden-Promised Investment  
                       
                         
                           Marc Hofer/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         The President of Kenya Mwai Kibaki, leaves a meeting in Kampala, Uganda. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The President of Kenya Mwai Kibaki, leaves a meeting in Kampala, Uganda. Photographer: Marc Hofer/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
