-- New York City Appoints Nagaswami to New Post of Chief Investment Adviser
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-08-02T20:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/new-york-city-appoints-nagaswami-to-new-post-of-chief-investment-adviser.html

          
          
             New York City named  Ranji H. Nagaswami , a former fund manager with AllianceBernstein, to the
newly created post of chief investment adviser for the mayor’s
trustees on the city’s five pension funds, which hold more than
$100 billion.  
 The city’s annual pension costs have risen to $7.6 billion
this year from $1.1 billion in 2001 as investment gains trailed
benefit packages for public employees, which have been increased
by state lawmakers. One of five tax dollars collected by the
city goes to  pensions  covering more than 581,000 current and
former police officers, firefighters, teachers, civilian
employees and school administrators.  
 “We will continue to pursue the reforms desperately needed
in Albany to reduce the unmanageable costs of pension benefits,
while at the same time working to ensure that we are getting
best possible returns on pension fund investments,” Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said in a  press release.   
 Nagaswami, 46, lives in Greenwich, Connecticut, and has
worked in asset management for 23 years, most recently as chief
investment officer of AllianceBernstein’s Blend Strategies
Group, overseeing the firm’s multi-asset and blend equity
portfolios. Before that she was co-head of U.S. fixed income at
UBS Asset Management.  
 Expertise Cited  
 “Money management in this day and age is very complex, and
I want to make sure we have the expertise to ensure, to the
extent that we have a say in this, that these monies are run as
well as they can,” Bloomberg said today during a news
conference in Queens.  
 Nagaswami will be paid $175,000 a year to provide the
administration’s trustees with investment reviews, recommend
asset allocation and investment strategy and meet consultants
and potential money managers. She will work with the office of
New York City Comptroller  John Liu , which serves as investment
adviser to the city’s pension funds.  
 Liu’s investment adviser,  Larry Schloss , will be in charge
of asset allocation, Bloomberg said.  
 “If there’s a disagreement between what John Liu thinks
and what we think, you work it out,” Bloomberg said. “There
are always disagreements. Why should we not have somebody really
professional, just because there are disagreements?”  
 ‘Talented Person’  
 Michael Loughran , a Liu spokesman, said the comptroller
welcomed Nagaswami.  
 “This is a talented person joining the pension boards and
her appointment will help build on the reforms and success we
have had this year,” Loughran said.  
 In the 12 months ended March 31, the pensions returned 35
percent, according to the comptroller’s office. That is about 9
percentage points less than the  S&P 500  index gained in the same
period. The five funds lagged behind their benchmarks by a range
of 1.3 percentage points to as much as 6.8 percentage points.  
 In the five years through March, the New York City pension
funds have returned 4.53 percent. The assumed actuarial rate of
return is 8 percent.  
 The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        