-- New York Times Starts `Press Engine' Business to Help Publishers on IPads
-- Brett Pulley
-- 2010-08-02T16:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/new-york-times-starts-press-engine-business-to-help-publishers-on-ipads.html

          
          
             New York Times Co ., owner of the
namesake newspaper, started Press Engine, a business designed to
help other publishers deliver content to digital platforms such
as  Apple Inc. ’s iPad and iPhone devices.  
 Times Co. will collect license fees and maintenance fees
from publishers and media organizations that use the technology
and design solutions for digital distribution. Individual
publishers will continue to control and own their advertising
and subscriptions, the New York-based company said today in a
statement.  
 The Telegraph Media Group, publisher of the U.K.’s Daily
Telegraph, and  A.H. Belo Corp ., the Dallas-based owner of the
Dallas Morning News, will be among Press Engine’s customers when
the product is introduced in the fourth quarter, Times Co. said.  
 “This is part of the multi-faceted move into new
technology” at Times Co., said  Ed Atorino , an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in New York. “They’ve got the content, they’ve
got the brainpower. We’ll see if people will pay for this
stuff.”  
 Publishers are seeking ways to replace a drop in newspaper
print advertising sales, which fell 11 percent in the U.S. in
the first quarter, according to Newspaper Association of America
data.  
 The New York Times newspaper is preparing to unveil in
January a new online subscription model, which will make much of
its Web content available only to visitors who pay fees for
access. The company is also planning to sell an enhanced
application for Apple’s iPad, which will be offered in addition
to the free app currently available on the device.  
 Times Co.  rose 58 cents, or 6.6 percent, to $9.32, at 12
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock had
declined 29 percent this year before today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        