-- New Zealand's Economic Growth Buoyed by Exports to China, Treasury Says
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-08-02T03:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/new-zealand-s-economic-growth-buoyed-by-exports-to-china-treasury-says.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s economy is being buoyed
by exports to China and Australia that are offsetting weak
consumer spending and housing demand, according to a Treasury
Department report.  
 Rising commodity prices are boosting returns from sales of
cheese, butter and lumber, the department said on its  website 
today. At the same time, households continue to exercise
spending restraint and the overall outlook for growth is
unchanged from the forecasts in the May budget, it said.  
 Exports , which make up 30 percent of the economy, surged 10
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to
a government report last week. China and Australia purchase
about 35 percent of all New Zealand exports, which are
cushioning the economy from slowing demand elsewhere.  
 “Massive demand for New Zealand exports from China helped
New Zealand weather the global financial crisis,” the
department said. “While there are risks surrounding the
expansion of China, we do not expect any of them on their own to
derail the economy in the near term.”  
 China’s manufacturing contracted for the first time in 16
months in July, a purchasing managers’ index released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed. The gauge fell to
49.4 from 50.4 in June.  
 Signs of slower economic growth elsewhere in the world
“indicate a potential risk for New Zealand’s export-led
recovery,” the Treasury said. Last week, central bank Governor
 Alan Bollard  also noted that future prospects for growth among
New Zealand’s trading partners have deteriorated.  
 Commodity Prices  
 Bollard on July 29 raised the  cash rate  a quarter point to
3 percent, while saying the pace of future increases may be
slower than previously indicated as foreign and domestic demand
ease.  
 Prices for New Zealand commodity exports fell for a second
month in July, declining 0.8 percent from June, according to an
 index  published today by ANZ National Bank Ltd.  
 The cost of  dairy  products slumped 5.7 percent, led by milk
powder and butter. Beef and lumber prices also dropped, the
Wellington-based bank said in an e-mailed report.  
 New Zealand’s dollar strengthened in July, meaning that
commodity prices converted into the local currency fell 2.8
percent from June, ANZ National said.  
 Even so, commodity-export prices remain 47 percent higher
than a year ago and the index reached a record high in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        