-- New Zealand's Wages Accelerate for First Time in Two Years as Exports Gain
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-08-02T22:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/new-zealand-s-wages-accelerate-for-first-time-in-two-years-as-exports-gain.html

          
          
             New Zealand wage growth accelerated
for the first time in almost two years as stronger demand for
exports underpinned economic growth and increased the amount
companies needed to pay to attract and retain workers.  
 Wages  for non-governmental workers, excluding overtime,
advanced 1.4 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
according to Statistics New Zealand’s labor cost index released
in Wellington today. Annual growth improved from 1.3 percent,
the first acceleration since the third quarter of 2008.  
 New Zealand’s central bank forecasts the economy will
expand in 2010 at the fastest pace in five years, boosted by
rising exports and manufacturing. Wage growth normally lags
behind the economic recovery and is being further constrained by
a weak housing market and consumer spending.  
 Wages rose 0.4 percent from the first quarter when they
increased 0.3 percent, today’s report showed. The quarterly
increase matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of nine economists.  
 Including overtime, wages for non-governmental workers
gained 0.5 percent from the first quarter and 1.5 percent from a
year earlier, today’s report showed.  
 A separate series based on reported salary and ordinary-
time wage rates of non-governmental workers advanced 1 percent,
the biggest gain in six quarters.  
 Average ordinary-time hourly earnings  for non-governmental
workers rose 0.6 percent in the quarter, the statistics agency
said in its quarterly employment survey also published today.  
 Interest Rates  
 Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  last week raised the
 official cash rate  a quarter percentage point to 3 percent, and
said the pace and extent of future increases may be more
moderate than previously indicated. Domestic demand is subdued
and business investment remains very low, he said in a statement
at the time.  
 New Zealand companies probably added workers at a slower
pace in the second quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of 11 economists ahead of an Aug. 5 government employment report.
The jobless rate rose to 6.2 percent, the survey showed.  
 Demand for labor improved in the quarter, today’s report
showed. Total weekly paid hours rose 1.2 percent, seasonally
adjusted, from the first quarter.  
 The number of full-time equivalent employees increased 1
percent from the first quarter when they declined 0.1 percent.
From a year earlier, full-time equivalents rose for the first
time in seven quarters.  
 Filled jobs rose 1.4 percent from the first quarter, buoyed
by a seasonal increase in the education sector, the agency said.
Filled jobs gained 1 percent from a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        