-- Newmont's Indonesia Venture Workers Start Strike; Batu Hijau `Operational'
-- Yoga Rusmana
-- 2010-08-02T09:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/newmont-s-indonesia-venture-workers-start-strike-batu-hijau-operational-.html

          
          
             Workers at the Indonesian unit of
 Newmont Mining Corp. , the largest U.S. gold producer, began a
strike today at the Batu Hijau gold and copper mine.  
 Production at the mine, Indonesia’s second-largest copper
producer, hasn’t been affected by the strike which began at
midnight when about 200 to 300 workers downed tools,  Kasan Mulyono , a spokesman at  PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara , said by phone.
The company is responsible for the direct employment of more
than 7,000 people, according to its website.  
 Workers planned to stop work for nine days from today,
Investor Daily Indonesia reported July 30, citing Zaenuddin
Wanden, deputy head of the workers union. The strike came after
Newmont Nusa Tenggara said it would take legal action against a
ruling by the manpower office of West Nusa Tenggara province
ordering the company to pay 126 billion rupiah ($14.1 million)
of overtime covering the period from June 2008 to June 2010, the
Investor Daily said.  
 “We believe negotiations have not been given enough time
to work and should be allowed to resume in good faith,” Darren
Hall, general manager of operations for Newmont Nusa Tenggara,
said in an e-mailed statement today. The company is willing to
continue negotiations and is urging the workers to suspend the
strike at the mine on Indonesia’s Sumbawa island, Hall said.  
 No Agreement  
 Newmont and the workers failed to reach agreement at a
meeting on the weekend, Mulyono said earlier. Newmont Nusa
Tenggara is partly owned by a venture belonging to  PT Bumi
Resources  and three local administrations in West Nusa Tenggara.  
 Newmont Nusa Tenggara received a letter from the
provincial labor inspector on June 24 regarding possible
overtime payments and the company is seeking “legal certainty”
about the proposal, it said in the statement today.  
 “The company’s ability to seek legal certainty was
recently confirmed in a July 16 letter from the Head of the
Provincial Manpower Office,” the statement said. Newmont Nusa
Tenggara “is committed to complying with all applicable laws
and regulations.”  
 Newmont is in talks to resolve the strike,  Philip Stephenson , director of Australian operations, said today in
Western Australia, declining to say how long the strike may last.  
 The Greenwood Village, Colorado-based company expects its
share of gold and copper production at Batu Hijau to reach
365,000 to 400,000 ounces and 265 million to 290 million pounds
respectively this year, it said in its  earnings statement  last
month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bambang Djanuarto  in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        