-- Nigerian Central Bank Dollar Sales Retreat to a Seven-Month Low in July
-- Sam Olukoya
-- 2010-08-02T09:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/nigerian-central-bank-dollar-sales-retreat-to-a-seven-month-low-in-july.html

          
          
             Nigeria’s sale of dollars was the
lowest far this year in July, signaling a slowdown in the
economy, Partnership Investment Company Ltd. said.  
 The Central Bank of Nigeria sold $1.61 billion to lenders
this month, the lowest monthly volume sold by the central bank
since December, when it sold $837.1 million to lenders, data
from its  website  show. Demand by lenders in July also dropped to
$1.8 billion, the lowest since March, when it sold $1.09
billion.  
 “Foreign-exchange demand and sales are a function of
economic activities,” Victor Ogiemwonyi, managing director of
Partnership Investment, a Lagos-investment research company,
said in an interview today. “What has happened this month might
be the result of a slowdown in economic activities in the
country. Companies are complaining that they are not being given
loans, and if banks are not giving loans the chances of buying
foreign currency are lower.”  
 Lenders in the West African nation have restricted credit
since last year, when a debt crisis almost crippled the banking
industry, data published by the central bank show. The central
bank bailed out troubled lenders with 620 billion naira ($4.1
billion) and fired the chief executive officers of eight of the
24 commercial banks for their handling of the problem.  
 The Nigerian currency, the naira, also came under pressure
as the price of crude oil plunged following the global financial
crisis. Oil, the source of more than 95 percent of foreign-
exchange income according to the Finance Ministry, traded at
$77.77 per barrel as of 4:27 p.m. in London, 47 percent below an
intraday high of $147.27 reached in July 2008.  
 Foreign-exchange supply by the central bank has kept pace
with demand since the naira depreciated to the weakest level in
six months against the dollar on May 18. The naira slumped less
than 0.1 percent to 150.15 versus the dollar as of 4:25 p.m. in
Lagos.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sam Olukoya  in Lagos via Johannesburg on   solukoya2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        