-- China Stocks to Outperform World Markets on Cheap Valuations, Nomura Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-02T03:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/nomura-sees-china-a-share-rallying-on-very-cheap-valuations-liquidity.html

          
          
             China’s  yuan-denominated stocks  may
outperform global markets in the next three months as valuations
are “very cheap,” liquidity improves and the threat of further
policy tightening recedes, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 10 percent in
July, the biggest monthly gain in a year, on speculation the
government will increase investment and domestic spending to
bolster the economy as growth slows.  Manufacturing  contracted in
July, an index of purchasing executives released today showed,
as the government clamped down on property speculation and
investment in energy-intensive and polluting factories.  
 “The economy is rebalancing,”  Sean Darby , chief Asian
equity strategist at Nomura, ranked first in China research by
Institutional Investor magazine, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “The urgency for more tightening measures to
cool part of the economy down will recede, so for asset markets
just generally, this is the period for them to perform.”  
 Nomura joins brokerages including Macquarie Group Ltd. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in growing more positive on China stocks,
citing the prospect of loosening property and lending curbs and
attractive valuations. China International Capital Corp.’s
global equity strategist  Hao Hong  said today a gauge of
investment sentiment compiled by the brokerage turned bullish
last month, signaling long-term buying opportunities.  
 China has increased banks’ reserve requirements three times
this year and set a lending target of 7.5 trillion yuan for
lenders in order to curb asset bubbles in the nation’s economy.  
 Lower Valuations  
 This year’s 19 percent tumble for the Shanghai Composite
has driven down  reported earnings  to 19.6 times, compared with
49.5 times at the market’s peak in October 2007, according to
weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit at China’s publicly
traded companies rose 50 percent in the first half, the Shanghai
Securities News reported today, citing 264 companies that have
released results as of July 31.  
 “The A share market comes out very, very cheap,” said
Nomura’s Darby, who turned bullish on China stocks in June.
“For the next quarter or so, this may turn out to be one of the
better performers globally.”  
 Essence Securities Co., ranked second for strategy research
by New Fortune magazine last year, is more cautious, advising
its clients to sell so-called cyclical stocks as rising food
prices may stoke inflation.  
 Inflation Pressure  
 “Inflation pressure continues to restrain policy
changes,” said  Zhang Zhi , strategist at Essence Securities, in
a report today. “Agricultural and pork prices have been picking
up after July and the trend may last for a long period.”  
 China’s pork prices jumped 7.1 percent on average in July
compared with the previous month, the National Development and
Reform Commission said today. Wheat prices gained 1.2 percent
and corn prices advanced 2 percent, the commission said in a
separate statement on its website.  
 Inflation, after easing to 2.9 percent in June, may climb
above 3 percent in the next few months before falling at the end
of this year, UBS AG economist Wang Tao wrote in a report last
week. The government aims to limit full-year inflation to 3
percent.  
 The Shanghai Composite rose 1.2 percent to 2,668 at the
11:30 a.m. break on speculation the government may reverse
measures aimed at slowing the economy after a purchasing
managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics fell to 49.4 from 50.4 in June. The data is seasonally
adjusted and a number above 50 indicates an expansion.  
 Separately, a government-backed index released yesterday
showed Chinese manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in 17
months in July.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai,  Rishaad Salamat  in Hong Kong. With
assistance from  Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 Kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Darby, chief Asian equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, speaks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's stock market and economy.
     China’s manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in 17 months in July as the government clamped down on property speculation and investment in energy-intensive and polluting factories. Darby also discusses China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
