-- Norilsk Appoints Interros Man Amid Battle for Control
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-08-02T14:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/norilsk-nickel-appoints-interros-man-as-president-amid-battle-for-control.html

          
          
             OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, subject of a
battle for control between Russian billionaires  Vladimir Potanin 
and  Oleg Deripaska , appointed a president who has worked at
Potanin’s Interros Holding Co. for more than a decade.  
 In the new role, Andrey Klishas will oversee strategy and
acquisitions, and report to Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Strzhalkovsky, Norilsk said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 The appointment went ahead without discussion by the board
or alternative candidates, Deripaska’s United Co. Rusal, which
owns a quarter of Norilsk, said in another e-mailed statement.
Norilsk’s CEO is  allowed  to appoint officials who aren’t members
of the management board without approval of the directors, Maria Uvarova, a spokeswoman for the nickel producer, said in Moscow.  
 The appointment of a president “reflects the strengthening
position of Interros in Norilsk Nickel,” Troika Dialog analyst  Mikhail Stiskin  in Moscow said by phone.  
 Deripaska said on July 30 Norilsk could “significantly”
raise its market value in six months with more efficient
management and by selling underperforming assets, such as U.S.
precious-metals producer Stillwater Mining Co., utility OAO OGK-
3 and the company’s treasury stock.  
 “This may be a step in more clearly defining strategy to
increase Norilsk’s value, with the support of Interros and the
company’s management,” Barry Ehrlich, an analyst at  Alfa Bank 
in Moscow, said by phone.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        