-- Obama Remake of Courts Bogged Down by Republicans
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-08-02T11:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/obama-s-remake-of-u-s-courts-bogged-down-by-republican-delays-in-senate.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama , on the verge
of winning confirmation of his second U.S.  Supreme Court 
appointment in two years, is having limited success shaping the
lower federal courts that handle thousands more cases.  
 Obama got off to a slow start picking judges for the
federal trial and appeals courts, and Republican delaying
tactics have stalled some confirmations. Filling judicial
vacancies will get tougher after November with the likelihood
that Democrats’ 59-41 control of the Senate will be eroded.  
 The president’s allies question his choice of nominees and
complain that he has been too cautious in confronting Republican
opposition.  
 “A lot of groups are still waiting for this president to
nominate someone who will really reshape the bench,” said
 Barbara Arnwine , executive director of the  Lawyers’ Committee on
Civil Rights  in Washington. The group supports expanding legal
protection for blacks and other minorities.  
 The 13 appeals courts throughout the U.S. are particularly
influential. They have the final say in thousands of cases,
while the Supreme Court decides about 80 cases a year. Appellate
courts ruled on or dismissed 59,600 cases in the year ending
March 31, 2009, according to the  Administrative Office of the
U.S. Courts  in Washington.  
 Obama has submitted to the Senate 63 trial court
nominations and 22 for the appeals courts. At the same point in
his first term,  George W. Bush  had nominated 83 trial judges and
32 for the appeals courts, according to Russell Wheeler, a
scholar at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.  
 Appeals Courts  
 The Senate has confirmed nine Obama appellate nominees,
three fewer than for Bush at a comparable point for the former
Republican president. The Senate has confirmed 27 of Obama’s
nominees to be trial judges compared with 51 for Bush.  
 Many of Obama’s choices have generated little controversy.
Wheeler suggested that Obama hasn’t taken full advantage of the
Democrats’ lopsided control of the Senate to push his nominees.  
 “Obama obviously has a lot on his plate. But then what
president doesn’t?” said Wheeler. “Bush had 9/11 to worry
about.”  
 Obama last week urged the Senate to move more quickly to
confirm his nominees. “If we want to deliver justice in our
courts, then we need judges on our benches,” he said.  
 High Court Appointments  
 The lower court nominations have been overshadowed by
Obama’s Supreme Court appointments. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  was
confirmed by the Senate last year and U.S. Solicitor General
 Elena Kagan  is on track to win confirmation this week, meaning
three women would serve on the high court for the first time in
history.  
 In the last half-century, only Presidents  Bill Clinton  and
 Richard Nixon  filled two Supreme Court vacancies in their first
two years in office.  
 When Bush was president, Democrats blocked 10 appellate
nominations they said were too conservative, sparking a
confrontation that threatened to shut down Senate work before a
compromise was reached to seat three appointees in 2005.  
 There have been few publicized battles since Obama took
office.  David Hamilton , Obama’s first appellate nominee, was
stalled by Republicans over his views on abortion and other
issues before he won confirmation in November, 59-39.  
 Liu in Limbo  
 Obama’s most controversial choice, Professor  Goodwin Liu  of
the University of California at Berkeley, has been in limbo
since he won approval in the Senate Judiciary Committee on a
party-line 12-7 vote in May. Liu, who opposed Bush’s high court
nominations of Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justice  Samuel Alito , is co-author of a book that says judges should interpret
some portions of the Constitution using modern-day views.  
 Twenty other nominees, including 12 cleared unanimously by
the Judiciary Committee, await further Senate action. Delays
sometimes are followed by undisputed confirmations. Appeals
court nominee  Sharon Coleman  was confirmed 86-0 by the Senate on
July 12, three months after the Judiciary Committee approved
her.  
 Each senator has the power to block a nominee by putting a
hold on the appointment without giving a reason, a tactic that
has stalled some of Obama’s choices.  
 Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, the ranking Republican on
the judiciary panel, said Republicans aren’t entirely to blame
for delays. He said appointees are “moving along” without the
clashes that scuttled some of Bush’s nominees.  
 Long Delays  
 Obama’s appeals court nominees who were named before
February waited an average of 208 days to be confirmed, Wheeler
said, compared with 180 days for Bush’s choices for a comparable
period.  
 Nan Aron , president of  Alliance for Justice , an association
of environmental, consumer, civil and women’s rights, and other
groups, said Obama generally has picked “easily confirmable”
nominees, similar to Clinton.  
 “For the most part, he’s been fairly cautious,” agreed
 Curt Levey , executive director of the Committee for Justice in
Washington, which advocates “constitutionalism.” “He’s picked
people who have mostly been judges, which makes them easier to
confirm, and people who don’t scream ideology.”  
 Obama has made the bench more diverse, said  Sheldon Goldman , a political science professor at the University of
Massachusetts in Amherst.  
 About half of Obama’s lower-court nominees are women,
compared with 22 percent under Bush and 29 percent under
Clinton, according to the Alliance for Justice. The group said
23 percent of his nominees are black and 11 percent are Asian
American.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        