-- Obama Says U.S. Shifting Out of Combat Role in Iraq
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-08-02T18:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/obama-says-in-speech-as-u-s-combat-role-ends-in-iraq-sacrifices-won-t.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  told an
organization of disabled veterans today that he’s ending the
U.S. combat mission in Iraq “as promised and on schedule.”  
 The U.S. is shifting its primary role to training Iraqi
forces, protecting American interests and conducting
counterterrorism operations, he said. Still, he warned that
won’t fully stop U.S. casualties or the fighting.  
 “There are still those with bombs and bullets who will try
to stop Iraq’s progress,” he said to the national convention of
the  Disabled American Veterans  in Atlanta. “The hard truth is
we have not seen the end of American sacrifice in Iraq.”  
 The diminishing U.S. role in Iraq fulfills a pledge Obama
made as he launched his presidential campaign. Obama was an
early critic of the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 that toppled the
regime of  Saddam Hussein .  
 By Aug. 31, there will be about 50,000 military personnel
in Iraq, down from 144,000 in February of 2009, when Obama
announced his plans to conclude combat operations. Under an
agreement with the Iraqi government, all U.S. forces will be out
of the country by the end of next year.  
 The Iraqi politicians have yet to resolve an impasse on
forming a coalition government following the March 7
parliamentary elections that failed to produce a clear winner.
Violence targeting civilians has increased amid the unsettled
political situation.  
 Focus on Afghanistan  
 As the U.S. operation in Iraq is winding down, Obama has
deployed more troops to Afghanistan. The costs of the conflict
will top those in Iraq this year for the first time since the
U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. On July 29, Obama signed a
$60 billion war-funding bill that will pay for his plan,
announced last year, to send 30,000 additional troops to
Afghanistan.  
 Obama ordered the additional troops into Afghanistan to
quell a Taliban-led insurgency. He has pledged to start bringing
home U.S. forces in July 2011, depending on conditions in the
country, while not specifying a date when the withdrawal would
be complete.  
 Defense Department figures show 4,417 Americans killed and
31,897 wounded since the war in Iraq began in March 2003, as of
July 30. In Afghanistan, 1,199 have been killed and 3,256
wounded.  
 July was the deadliest month for U.S. forces in
Afghanistan, with 66 troops killed. That war began in 2001
following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  
 Opposition  
 Obama is facing increased opposition within his own party
to the war in Afghanistan, as 102 House Democrats opposed the
war-funding measure last month, up from 32 the year before.
Additional troops are needed in Afghanistan to quell a Taliban-
led insurgency, he said.  
 “We will continue to face huge challenges in
Afghanistan,” Obama said. “But it’s important that the
American people know that we are making progress and we’re
focused on goals that are clear and achievable.”  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said the U.S. would start
bringing soldiers home from Afghanistan in July 2011, though the
pace will depend on conditions.  
 War Review  
 The administration plans a review of war progress in
December, gauging whether the strategy is meeting goals of
enhancing U.S. national security, reducing Taliban insurgents,
boost Afghan security forces and ending corruption in its
government.  
 “If, by December, we’re not showing some progress, we’re
in trouble,” said Senator  Lindsey Graham , Republican of South
Carolina, said yesterday on CNN’s “State of the Union”
program. “We may need more troops to keep them on the run.”  
 Obama spoke to a convention of more than 3,000 disabled
veterans, including those who have served and sacrificed in
Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere.  
 “Every American who has ever worn the uniform must also
know this: your country is going to take care of you when you
come home,” Obama told the group. “Our nation’s commitment to
our veterans, to you and your families, is a sacred trust.”  
 After his speech to the veterans group, Obama spoke at a
Democratic Party fundraiser in the same hotel, where he told
supporters that voters in the November congressional elections
will have a clear choice of “whether we want to go forward or
we want to go backwards to the same policies that got us into
this mess in the first place.”  
 Republicans, he said, want to return to the policies
pursued under former President  George W. Bush  and are “betting
on amnesia” on the part of voters.  
 Tickets to the event ranged from $1,000 to $10,000 and the
Democratic National Committee was aiming to raise $500,000,
according to a party official who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Atlanta at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Soldier Iraq  
                       
                         
                           Mark Burrell/U.S. Army via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A U.S. soldier provides security while visiting a local school in the Rusafa District of eastern Baghdad, Iraq. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A U.S. soldier provides security while visiting a local school in the Rusafa District of eastern Baghdad, Iraq. Photographer: Mark Burrell/U.S. Army via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
