-- Obamacare Only Looks Worse Upon Further Review: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-08-02T01:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/obamacare-only-looks-worse-upon-further-review-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             One of the more illuminating remarks
during the health-care debate in Congress came when House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  told an audience  that  Democrats would
“pass the bill so you can find out what’s in it, away from the
fog of controversy.”  
 That remark captured the truth that, while many Americans
have a vague sense that something bad is happening to their
health care, few if any understand exactly what the law does.  
 To fill this vacuum, Representative  Kevin Brady  of Texas,
the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, asked
his staff to prepare a study of the law, including a flow chart
that illustrates how the major provisions will work.  
 The  result , made public July 28, provides citizens with a
preview of the impact the health-care overhaul will have on
their lives. It’s a terrifying road map that shows Democrats
have launched America on the most reckless policy experiment in
its history, the economic equivalent of the  Bay of Pigs 
invasion.  
 Before discussing what the law means for you, we have to
look at what it does to government. That’s where the chart comes
in handy. It includes the new fees, bureaucracies and programs
and connects them into an organizational chart that accounts for
the existing structure. It’s so carefully documented that a line
connecting two structures cites the legislative language that
created the link.  
 Ornate System  
 This clearly is a candidate for most disorganized
organizational chart ever. It shows that the health system is
complex, yes, but also ornate. The new law creates 68 grant
programs, 47 bureaucratic entities, 29 demonstration or pilot
programs, six regulatory systems, six compliance standards and
two entitlements.  
 Getting that massive enterprise up and running will be next
to impossible. So Democrats streamlined the process by granting
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  the
authority to make judgments that can’t be challenged either
administratively or through the courts.  
 This monarchical protection from challenges is extended as
well to the development of new patient-care models under Obama’s
controversial recess appointment,  Donald Berwick , whom
Republicans are calling the rationer-in-chief. Berwick will run
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, where he can
experiment with ways to use administrative fiat to move our
system toward the socialized medicine of Europe, which he has at
times embraced.  
 Closer to Home  
 A sprawling, complex bureaucracy has been set up that will
have almost absolute power to dictate terms for participating in
the health-care system. That’s what the law does to government.
What it does to you is worse.  
 Based on the administration’s own numbers, as many as 117
million people might  have to change  their health plans by 2013
as their employer-provided coverage loses its grandfathered
status and becomes subject to the new Obamacare mandates.  
 Those mandates also might make your health care more
expensive. The Congressional Budget Office  predicts  that
premiums for a small number of families who buy their insurance
privately will rise by as much as $2,100.  
 The central Obamacare mechanism for increasing insurance
coverage is an expansion of the Medicaid program. Of the 30
million new people covered, 16 million will be enrolled in
Medicaid. And you could end up in the program whether you want
it or not. The bill states that people who apply for coverage
through the new exchanges or who apply for premium-subsidy
credits will automatically be enrolled in Medicaid if they
qualify.  
 Hurting the Elderly  
 To pay for this expansion, the bill takes $529 billion from
Medicare, with roughly 39 percent of the cut coming from the
Medicare Advantage program. This represents a large transfer of
resources, sacrificing the care of the elderly in order to
increase the Medicaid rolls.  
 For all this supposed reform, you, the American taxpayer,
can expect a bill to the tune of $569 billion.  
 Front and center among the new taxes is the 40 percent
excise tax on those lucky people with so-called Cadillac health
plans. The higher insurance costs that are driven by the
government mandates will push many more ordinary plans into
Cadillac territory.  
 If the idea of taxing people with coverage deemed too good
doesn’t bother you, maybe the new 3.8 percent tax on investment
income will. That will apply even to a small number of home
sales, those that generate $250,000 in profit for an individual
or $500,000 for a married couple.  
 In vivid color and detail, Congressman Brady’s chart
captures the huge expansion of government coming under
Obamacare. Harder to show on paper is the pain it will cause.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        