-- Lockheed F-35's Parts to Get More Scrutiny Amid Test Delays, Pentagon Says
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-08-02T18:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/lockheed-f-35-s-parts-to-get-more-scrutiny-amid-test-delays-pentagon-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. Defense Department may
require more rigorous inspection of parts for the F-35 fighter
jet, its most expensive weapons program, add maintenance staff
and buy more replacement components as the agency works to
prevent major flight delays because of failing parts.  
 Other responses to a “higher than expected” failure rate
on some components for the Marine Corps and Air Force versions
of  Lockheed Martin Corp.’s  $382.4 billion fighter-jet program
include revised flight days and parts redesigns, if necessary,
Pentagon spokeswoman  Cheryl Irwin  said in an e-mailed statement
prepared by the program manager.  
 Development and combat testing of the Joint Strike Fighter,
also intended for use by the Navy, is behind schedule, prompting
the U.S. government to warn that it may withhold millions of
dollars in fees. Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed has
encountered equipment shortages and late deliveries from some of
its more than 3,000 suppliers during the past several years, the
Defense Contract Management Agency has said.  
 The failures of parts from valves to batteries and
electrical switches are “part of the normal course of
development testing,” Irwin said. Lockheed Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Stevens  said on a July 27 conference call with
analysts that the malfunctions involve smaller components.  
 Major systems, such as the engine and the lift-fan that
enables the Marine Corps’ short-takeoff jet to hover on a
landing deck are performing well, Stevens said.  
 Lockheed rose 42 cents to $75.57 at 2:19 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed less
than 1 percent this year.  
 $614 Million  
 The U.S. may withhold from Lockheed as much as $614 million
in fees because of delays on the warplane, pending improvements
in flight tests, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has said.
Lockheed said in June it expects to still have the opportunity
to earn all of those withheld payments.  
 Lockheed has flown a total of 136 test flights for the F-35
this year compared with a plan for 118 tests, Stevens said on
the July call. The conventional jet and the aircraft-carrier
variant are both ahead of schedule, with 62 flights compared
with a planned 23, he said.  
 The short-takeoff version has made only 74 flights out of a
targeted 95 because “we are seeing failure rates that are
higher than predicted” on selected components, Stevens said.  
 Correcting the malfunctions often takes “longer than you
think given the less-significant nature of the parts involved,”
he said. “In some cases, we’ve had to remove the engine to get
access to the component.”  
 Both Lockheed and military experts “believe this
component-reliability condition can be corrected and the
inherent reliability can and will be improved,” Stevens said on
the July 27 call. “We’re also looking at ways to improve the
overall flight-test efficiency, with the goal of improving
tempo.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Arlington, Virginia, at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
 Gopal Ratnam  in Arlington, Virginia, at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        