-- Orascom Telecom's Algeria Unit Said to Be Prevented From Buying SIM Cards
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-08-02T10:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/orascom-telecom-s-algeria-unit-said-to-be-prevented-from-buying-sim-cards.html

          
          
             Orascom Telecom Holding SAE’s  unit in
Algeria is being prevented from buying SIM cards after the
country’s central bank froze its money transfers and bank
accounts, a person familiar with the matter said.  
 The restrictions on Orascom, the  biggest  mobile-phone
company by number of subscribers in the Middle East, include
blocking the release of some of its equipment from customs, said
the person, who declined to be identified because of the
sensitivity of the issue.  
 The Algerian government ordered the unit, known as Djezzy, 
to pay $596 million in back taxes last year. Orascom said in
April that it paid the disputed amount, pending an appeal.  
 “If you don’t have enough SIM cards to sell, this will
limit the growth” in subscribers,  Amr Elalfy , director at
Cairo-based CI Capital Research, said in a telephone interview.
“This is fallout of the tax issue.”  
 The North African country’s government has thwarted
Orascom’s efforts to sell Djezzy to MTN Group Ltd., the
continent’s largest mobile-phone phone operator, and said that
it was willing to buy the unit.  
 Djezzy was the biggest contributor to Orascom’s revenue in
2009, according to the company’s  website . Orascom Chairman
 Naguib Sawiris  said in April that the Algerian central bank had
halted Djezzy’s transfer of profits out of the country.  
 Orascom Chief Executive Officer  Khaled Bichara  and the
company’s spokeswoman,  Manal Abdel Hamid , didn’t return
telephone calls seeking comment today. Officials at the Algerian
central bank were not immediately available to comment.  
 Algiers-based newspaper El Khabar reported earlier today
that Djezzy wasn’t able to buy SIM cards because of a freezing 
of Orascom’s bank accounts. SIM cards store a subscriber’s 
account information in a mobile phone.  
 Orascom Telecom shares  gained  0.2 percent to 5.25 Egyptian
pounds at 1:44 p.m. in Cairo, valuing the company at 27.5
billion pounds ($4.84 billion).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mahmoud Kassem  in Cairo at 
 Mkassem1@bloomberg.net 
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        