-- Mosaic to Close Florida Phosphate Mine After Ruling on Plan for Expansion
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-08-02T22:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/mosaic-to-close-florida-phosphate-mine-after-ruling-on-plan-for-expansion.html

          
          
             Mosaic Co. , the world’s largest maker
of phosphate fertilizer, said it will close its phosphate mine
in South Fort Meade, Florida, in September after a court ruling
that would prevent expansion of the strip mine.  
 “We have no reasonable alternative than to shut down South
Fort Meade on an indefinite basis” following the expiration of
a 60-day notice to the mine’s 221 workers, Chief Executive
Officer  James Prokopanko  said today on a conference call with
investors and analysts.  
 The U.S. District Court in Jacksonville, Florida, granted
an injunction on July 30 that prevents Mosaic from expanding the
phosphate-rock mine into wetlands in neighboring Hardee County.  
 Mosaic executives said they filed a notice of appeal today
with the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta. Mosaic said
the mine is uneconomic without access to the land for expansion.  
 The Sierra Club and other non-governmental groups had sued
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in the Jacksonville court,
contending that a permit issued by the corps to Mosaic in June
doesn’t fully account for potential environmental damage from
the expansion.  
 Under a worst-case scenario that includes the mine’s
closure, Mosaic said its  operating profit  would decline by $250
million to $300 million in the second half of the fiscal year
and output of manufactured phosphate fertilizer would be about 1
million metric tons less than originally projected.  
 The South Fort Meade mine represents about a third of
Mosaic’s capacity to mine phosphate rock, a key ingredient in
diammonium phosphate and other fertilizers.  
 In its July 30 ruling, the court in Jacksonville ordered
the Army engineers to take another look at the proposed
expansion with a focus on reducing potential damage to wetlands.  
 Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic rose $1.74, or 3.7
percent, to $49.39 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The shares  have fallen 17 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        