-- Tottenham Considers Selling Peter Crouch, Mirror Reports: Soccer Roundup
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-08-02T10:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/tottenham-considers-selling-peter-crouch-mirror-reports-soccer-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 Crouch Exit  
 England striker  Peter Crouch  may be sold by Tottenham
manager  Harry Redknapp  to make way for new signings,  the Mirror
reported .  
 Redknapp would consider offers of about 7 million pounds
($11.1 million) for Crouch if he can find a replacement, the
newspaper said.  
 Fulham was considering a move for the former Liverpool
player before its manager  Roy Hodgson  quit for Anfield on July
1, the Mirror added.  
 Anderson Crash  
 Manchester United midfielder Anderson was pulled
unconscious from his burning car following a crash in Portugal
two days ago, the  Guardian reported.   
 The 22-year-old and two passengers were treated in hospital
for minor injuries before being discharged, the newspaper added.  
 Campbell Denial  
 Newcastle manager  Chris Hughton  has dismissed suggestions
new signing  Sol Campbell  is overweight,  the Sun reported .  
 Several U.K. newspapers said Campbell was not in shape to
start the new season following his free transfer from Arsenal
last month.  
 Vieira Ban Risk  
 Manchester City midfielder  Patrick Vieira  could be
suspended from his team’s opening Premier League match after
being shown a red card in an exhibition match,  the Daily Mail
said .  
 Vieira was dismissed in the first half of City’s 3-0 loss
to Inter Milan in the U.S. on July 31 and may face a ban if the
referee’s report is sent to the Football Association, the
newspaper said.  
 Ozil Staying Put  
 Germany’s World Cup midfielder Mesut Ozil is likely to see
out the remaining year of his contract with Werder Bremen before
seeking a transfer as a free agent,  the Daily Mail reported .  
 The 21-year-old has been linked with a move to Real Madrid
to link up with international teammate  Sami Khedira , who joined
the nine-time European champion last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        