-- House Ethics Panel Announces Charge Against Waters
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-08-02T20:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/house-panel-charges-democratic-representative-waters-with-ethics-violation.html

          
          
             The U.S. House ethics committee
 announced  a charge against Democratic Representative  Maxine Waters  of California, who is alleged to have intervened to help
a bank in which her husband held stock.  
 The allegations mark the second time in two weeks that an
ethics subcommittee announced charges against a House Democrat.
Last week the panel outlined 13 charges against Representative
 Charles Rangel  of New York. Both likely will face trials this
fall as the November elections approach.  
 The ethics panel didn’t detail the charge. It released an
August 2009  report  by the independent Office of Congressional
Ethics that said investigators had “substantial reason” to
believe Waters, 71, helped executives at Boston-based OneUnited
Bank get a personal meeting with then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  on Sept. 9, 2008. The bank was trying to get special
assistance from Treasury after suffering losses in  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  investments.  
 The independent ethics office said Waters told another
lawmaker about the request by OneUnited officials to set up the
meeting, and that she said she was in a predicament because her
husband was involved with the bank.  
 “According to Representative A, she knew she should say
no, but it bothered her,” the report said. The unidentified
lawmaker said he warned Waters twice against getting involved,
the independent ethics offices said.  
 Waters’s husband, Sidney Williams, owned stock in the bank
and was a member of the OneUnited board of directors for several
years until he resigned in April 2008.  
 Panel to Decide  
 The subcommittee of the Committee on Standards of Official
Conduct said a group of lawmakers will be empaneled to decide
whether Waters improperly used her office to benefit the
bankers.  
 In a statement, Waters said she didn’t violate House rules
and wants a public hearing about the charges so the allegations
can be fully examined. She said she didn’t receive any personal
benefit from her actions and was trying to aid minority-owned
banks by asking for the meeting.  
 “Although I am not convinced that the process for
investigating and examining House ethics cases is fair, I
welcome the opportunity to show my constituents and the American
public that the accusations against me are frivolous and
unfounded,” Waters said.  
 While Waters and Rangel represent heavily Democratic
districts and were re-elected by broad margins in 2008, their
cases pose risks to other Democrats by keeping ethics questions
at the fore while Republicans seek to retake control of the
chamber in November.  
 Leadership Team  
 Waters, as chief deputy majority whip, is part of the House
Democratic leadership team and is also a senior member of the
judiciary and financial services committees.  
 Water was first elected to the House in 1990 and won her
last election with 83 percent of the vote. Rangel was re-elected
in 2008 with 89 percent of the vote.  
 Rangel is accused, among other things, of getting donations
from companies and private foundations with business before
Congress to help finance an academic center built in his name.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        