-- House Ethics Panel Announces Charge Against Waters
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-08-02T21:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/house-ethics-panel-announces-charge-against-waters.html

          
          
             The U.S. House ethics committee
 announced  a charge against Democratic Representative  Maxine Waters  of California, who is alleged to have intervened to help
a bank in which her husband held stock.  
 The allegation marks the second time in two weeks that the
ethics panel announced charges against a House Democrat. Last
week the panel outlined 13 charges against Representative
 Charles Rangel  of New York. Both likely will face trials this
fall as the November elections approach.  
 The ethics panel didn’t detail the charge against Waters.
It released an August 2009  report  by the independent Office of
Congressional Ethics that said investigators had “substantial
reason” to believe Waters, 71, helped executives at Boston-
based OneUnited Bank get a personal meeting with then-Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  on Sept. 9, 2008. The bank was trying to
get special assistance from Treasury after suffering losses in
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  investments.  
 The independent ethics office said Waters told another
lawmaker about the request by OneUnited officials to set up the
meeting, and that she said she was in a predicament because her
husband was involved with the bank.  
 “According to Representative A, she knew she should say
no, but it bothered her,” the report said. The unidentified
lawmaker said he warned Waters twice against getting involved,
the independent ethics offices said.  
 Board of Directors  
 Waters’s husband, Sidney Williams, owned stock in the bank
and was a member of the OneUnited board of directors for several
years until he resigned in April 2008.  
 The subcommittee of the Committee on Standards of Official
Conduct said a group of lawmakers will be empaneled to decide
whether Waters improperly used her office to benefit the
bankers.  
 In a statement, Waters said she didn’t violate House rules
and wants a public hearing about the charges so the allegations
can be fully examined. She said she didn’t receive any personal
benefit from her actions and was trying to aid minority-owned
banks by asking for the meeting.  
 “Although I am not convinced that the process for
investigating and examining House ethics cases is fair, I
welcome the opportunity to show my constituents and the American
public that the accusations against me are frivolous and
unfounded,” Waters said.  
 OneUnited CEO  
 The OCE document said Waters told investigators she set up
the meeting with Paulson after her involvement was requested by
Kevin Cohee, chairman and chief executive officer of OneUnited,
and  Robert Cooper , the bank’s senior counsel.  
 Cooper identified himself as chairman-elect of the National
Bankers Association as well as a bank executive, she said.
Cooper prepared a document on the bank’s letterhead for Waters
explaining the effect of the decline of Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac stock prices on minority-depositor banks.  
 Paulson told investigators that when Waters requested the
meeting, he granted it although it was a busy time due to the
financial crisis. Waters didn’t mention her personal ties to
OneUnited and said the meeting was to be with the banking
association, Paulson said, according to the report.  
 OneUnited was the only bank belonging to the trade group
that was represented at the meeting, which lasted less than an
hour and involved 20 congressional aides and other people, the
report said. Paulson later phoned Waters, she told
investigators, and said he had expected more banks belonging to
the group to attend.  
 Federal Aid  
 OneUnited months later received $12 million in federal
bailout assistance, though Treasury officials have said it was
not as a result of Waters’s efforts, the New York Times
reported.  
 While Waters and Rangel represent heavily Democratic
districts and were re-elected by broad margins in 2008, their
cases pose risks to other Democrats by keeping ethics questions
at the fore while Republicans seek to retake control of the
chamber in November.  
 Waters, as chief deputy majority whip, is part of the House
Democratic leadership team and is also a senior member of the
judiciary and financial services committees.  
 Waters was first elected to the House in 1990 and won her
last election with 83 percent of the vote. Rangel was re-elected
in 2008 with 89 percent of the vote.  
 Rangel is accused, among other things, of getting donations
from companies and private foundations with business before
Congress to help finance an academic center built in his name.  
 Nadeam Elshami , press secretary to House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California said:  “As we have said in the past about
the process, ethics proceedings are a result of a bipartisan,
confidential and independent ethics process in the House.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       House Ethics Panel Announces Charge Against Waters  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Representative Maxine Waters, a Democrat from California, listens to testimony during a hearing of the House Judiciary Committee in Los Angeles. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Representative Maxine Waters, a Democrat from California, listens to testimony during a hearing of the House Judiciary Committee in Los Angeles. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
