-- Movie Futures May Be Revived as Promoter Eyes Foreign Markets
-- Michael White
-- 2010-08-02T19:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/movie-futures-barred-by-u-s-finance-reforms-attracting-overseas-interest.html

          
          
             Media Derivatives Inc., blocked by
Congress from selling futures contracts based on movie-ticket
sales, is in talks that may lead to a market for the securities
outside the U.S.  
 The company has been contacted by interested parties in
several countries about selling film futures contracts, Chief
Executive Officer  Rob Swagger  said in an interview. He declined
to identify potential partners or the countries where his
company, a unit of Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Veriana Ventures
LLC , might do business.  
 Media Derivatives is considering new markets after U.S.
trading was prohibited last month as part of broader financial
reform legislation. The Motion Picture Association of America
argued movie futures would harm a film’s prospects and be
vulnerable to insider trading.  The National Association of
Theatre Owners  also opposed the contracts.  
 “We’ve been approached by a number of groups from
abroad,” Swagger said. “They’ve asked to have dealings with
us, whether it’s movie futures or other products.”  
 Howard Gantman , a spokesman for the MPAA, said the
association would oppose overseas trading. Patrick Corcoran, a
spokesman for the theater owners, said the group had no comment.  
 Prior to the Congressional ban, Media Derivatives and
Cantor Fitzgerald LP had gained approval from the  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  to establish film futures markets on
films such as  Sylvester Stallone ’s “The Expendables.”  
 ‘Receptive Markets’  
 Media Derivatives “understands the concerns expressed by
the MPAA and while we disagree with those concerns, we will
focus our energy on markets that are receptive,” Swagger said
in an e-mail.  
 Cantor has abandoned its plans, the Los Angeles Times
reported on June 29, citing  Richard Jaycobs , the executive
heading the effort.  
 Media Derivatives had planned futures based on the U.S.
box-office sales of a film’s opening weekend, according to
documents filed with the commission in April. Contracts wouldn’t
be listed more than 30 days before a release and trading would
end the day before the opening.  
 “Every other segment of our economy has had a means to
offset risk,” Swagger said in an April interview on Bloomberg
Television.  
 Media Derivatives also is considering non-entertainment
products for U.S. markets using the  Minneapolis Grain Exchange 
to clear trades, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 Mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        