-- How RAND Program, Fire Chief, New York Elites Burned Down Bronx
-- Joe Mysak
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/how-rand-program-fire-chief-new-york-elites-burned-down-bronx-joe-mysak.html

          
          
             Back in the 1970s, celebrities of all
stripes, from President Jimmy Carter to  Mother Teresa , would
visit the South Bronx to shake their heads over how the greatest
city in the U.S., or a significant part of it, all of a sudden
looked like Berlin in 1945.  
 Fires and demolition took such a toll, as  Joe Flood 
recounts in his book “ The Fires ,” that the police station once
known as Fort Apache was dubbed “Little House on the Prairie.”
It was as if some unseen lumberjack had clear-cut entire
neighborhoods.  
 “The Fires” is the latest book to explain how New York
City got that way.  Ken Auletta ’s “The Streets Were Paved With
Gold” (1979) is another one. The grand-daddy of them all is
 Robert Caro ’s “ The Power Broker”  (1974).  
 The focus of Flood’s book is how fire chief John O’Hagan
used computer technology to determine which firehouses to close
during the administrations of  John V. Lindsay  and  Abraham Beame .
Curiously enough, they were almost all in poor neighborhoods.  
 This is promising new ground -- I’m not sure I ever read
about the  RAND Corp.’s  foray into urban planning before. Yet it
is a small story, almost a footnote, compared with Flood’s main
theme, which is the destruction of a city by its elites, dating
as far back as the days of police commissioner  Theodore Roosevelt  and muckraking journalist Jacob Riis.  
 Flood, 28, grew up in the Boston suburbs, but he has as
keen a sense of outrage over what happened as any New Yorker who
was alive back then.  
 Postindustrial Future  
 Cities are hot, crowded, smelly, dirty, loud, chaotic,
messy. They also are, or at least were, economic engines, none
more so than New York.  
 “New York had the largest, most competitive, most diverse
industrial economy in the world,” Flood writes. “It held more
manufacturing jobs than the next two largest American cities
combined, and spread them out in dozens of industries that were
constantly growing, adapting and attracting bright new
entrepreneurial minds.”  
 You read these words and think, what have we lost? What
happened? As Flood observes: “Slum clearance affected cities
across the country, but industrial clearance was unique to New
York. No other city in the country had the audacity to plow
under its own economy,” so committed were its civic leaders to
a “vision of a postindustrial future.”  
 That decidedly utopian vision was calm, rational, clean,
efficient and filled with highways, high-rises and office
towers.  
 Fire Tourism  
 And so hundreds of thousands of people were displaced and
neighborhoods bulldozed to make room for expressways. Businesses
were zoned out of existence, and the white middle class was
chased or ran out to the suburbs. By the time Mayor Lindsay and
fire chief O’Hagan turned to RAND and its computer programs to
cut the budget, the city was already at the point of collapse.  
 Fire protection was reduced in the neighborhoods that
needed it most, with predictable results, and the accompanying
celebrity fire tourism.  
 “The Fires” is a sad story, and a very compact,
compelling read. Those who remember how great New York City was
in the 1970s don’t remember a whole lot.  
 “The Fires: How a Computer Formula, Big Ideas and the Best
of Intentions Burned Down New York City -- And Determined the
Future of Cities” is from  Riverhead  (325 pages, $26.95). To buy
this book in North America click  here .  
 ( Joe Mysak  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       'The Fires'  
                       
                         
                           Riverhead Books via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "The Fires: How A Computer Formula, Big Ideas, and the Best of Intentions Burned Down New York City -- And Determined the Future of Cities." The book was written by Joe Flood. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "The Fires: How A Computer Formula, Big Ideas, and the Best of Intentions Burned Down New York City -- And Determined the Future of Cities." The book was written by Joe Flood. Source: Riverhead Books via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Joe Flood  
                       
                         
                           Winthrop Rum/Riverhead Books via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Author Joe Flood. Flood has recently published "The Fires: How A Computer Formula, Big Ideas, and the Best of Intentions Burned Down New York City -- And Determined the Future of Cities." 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Author Joe Flood. Flood has recently published "The Fires: How A Computer Formula, Big Ideas, and the Best of Intentions Burned Down New York City -- And Determined the Future of Cities." Photographer: Winthrop Rum/Riverhead Books via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
