-- Toyota Knew in 2003 of Sudden Acceleration Risk, Lawyers Say in New Filing
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-08-02T23:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/toyota-knew-in-2003-of-sudden-acceleration-risk-lawyers-say-in-new-filing.html

          
          
             A  Toyota Motor Corp.  technician
called sudden acceleration an “extremely dangerous problem” in
2003, six years before the first of several recalls of the
company’s vehicles, a lawsuit claimed.  
 The unidentified Toyota employee “requested immediate
action,” after investigating an allegation of unintended
acceleration, lawyers for consumers suing the company said in a
filing today. “We are also much afraid of frequency of this
problem in near future,” the technician wrote in a May 2003
field report cited in the suit.  
 The report was among multiple documents quoted in a
consolidated complaint filed today by consumers claiming
economic losses related to sudden acceleration by Toyota
vehicles. The  lawsuits , which have been combined for pretrial
filings and rulings in federal court in Santa Ana, California,
claim that Toyota drove down the value of vehicles by failing to
fix or disclose defects leading to unintended acceleration.  
 “Toyota has consistently marketed its vehicles as safe and
proclaimed that safety is one of its highest corporate
priorities,” consumer lawyers said in an amended complaint,
citing documents provided to U.S. regulators and Congress. “The
defects causing unintended acceleration have caused defective
vehicles’ values to plummet.”  
 Rejects Claims  
 Toyota rejects claims the plaintiffs suffered economic
damages because of the recent recalls, spokeswoman  Celeste Migliore  said in an e-mail.  
 “Reliable scientific evidence will demonstrate the safety
of our vehicles in the investigations currently under way and,
ultimately, to the court,” she said.  
 Also today, a Maryland public employee pension fund was
named lead plaintiff in a consolidated shareholder lawsuit
against Toyota that alleges the carmaker didn’t disclose sudden-
acceleration related defects. U.S. District Judge  Dale Fischer ,
at a hearing in Los Angeles named the fund’s law firm, Bernstein
Litowitz Berger & Grossman LLP, lead counsel.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest  automaker , faces more than 300
federal and state lawsuits including proposed class actions over
economic losses and claims of personal injuries or deaths caused
by sudden-acceleration incidents. Today’s complaint consolidates
and expands on the claims of consumers who’ve filed lawsuits
over lost vehicle value.  
 Recalled Vehicles  
 The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, has recalled more
than 8 million vehicles for repairs related to sudden,
unintended acceleration. In September the automaker announced a
recall of 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus vehicles because of a
defect that may cause floor mats to jam accelerator pedals. The
company later recalled vehicles over defects involving the
pedals themselves.  
 All the class actions and most of the individual lawsuits
were filed after September.  
 The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana). The shareholder case
is Stackhouse v. Toyota Motor Corp., 10-00922, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        