-- Pakistan Summons U.K. Envoy After Cameron's Exporting Terrorism Comments
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-08-02T12:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/pakistan-summons-u-k-envoy-after-cameron-s-exporting-terrorism-comments.html

          
          
             Pakistan summoned the U.K.’s top
envoy to the nation after Prime Minister  David Cameron  accused
elements of the South Asian country of exporting terrorism.  
 High Commissioner Adam Thomson met today with Foreign
Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi , a spokesman for the U.K. Foreign
Office said in a statement read out over the telephone.  
 Cameron provoked fury in Pakistan after he said during a
visit to India last week that Pakistan must not be allowed to
“look both ways” in the fight against terrorism or to
“promote the export of terror whether to India, whether to
Afghanistan or to anywhere else in the world.” Television
pictures showed an effigy of Cameron being burned.  
 Military documents published on the  Wikileaks website  last
week suggested Pakistan’s main intelligence agency, the
Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, secretly aided the
Taliban and other militant groups that NATO forces are trying to
defeat in Afghanistan.  
 Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  has attacked
Cameron’s remarks, while Information Minister Qamar Zaman Kaira 
told BBC Radio 4 today that his country was a victim of
terrorism. President  Asif Ali Zardari  will address Cameron’s
“misperception” when the two hold talks in Britain on Aug. 6,
he said.  
 At the meeting earlier today, the high commissioner and the
foreign minister “discussed a range of bilateral issues,”
Cameron’s spokeswoman  Vickie Sheriff  told reporters in London.
The prime minister “stands by the comments he made,” she said.  
 When they meet at Chequers, the prime minister’s country
retreat northwest of London, the two men will discuss Pakistan’s
action on terrorism, Sheriff said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        