-- Pakistan's Stocks Fall Most in Seven Weeks After Unexpected Rate Increase
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-08-02T05:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/pakistan-s-stocks-fall-most-in-seven-weeks-after-unexpected-rate-increase.html

          
          
             Pakistan stocks fell the most in
seven weeks after the central bank unexpectedly increased its
benchmark interest rate for the first time in four meetings as
power and food costs add to inflationary pressures.  
 The benchmark  Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index  fell 1.9
percent to 10,316.30 as of 10:43 a.m. at Karachi stock exchange,
set for the biggest retreat since June 14.  
 The State Bank of Pakistan increased its discount rate to
13 percent from 12.5 percent,  Yaseen Anwar , acting Governor of
the State Bank of Pakistan, said at a news conference in Karachi
on July 30. All 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey were for
the rate to be kept unchanged.  
 “The decision is affecting the market and the interest
rate increase may make stocks less attractive,” said  Khurram Schehzad , head of research at Invest Capital & Securities Ltd.
in Karachi. “The higher borrowing costs will hurt many
companies with an increase in their interest expenses.”  
 Pakistan, which has one of the world’s highest benchmark
interest rates, joins Asian economies from India to Malaysia in
raising borrowing costs as the region leads the global economic
recovery. The move comes even as Pakistan Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government stresses the need for low
borrowing costs to support economic growth.  
 Oil & Gas Development Co. , the country’s biggest fuel
explorer, dropped 2.5 percent to 148.15 rupees.  
 ‘Less Attractive’  
 Higher borrowing costs may hurt companies including Engro
Corp. and  D.G. Khan Cement Co. , which have taken more loans to
expand their businesses, Khurrum Schehzad said. D.G. Khan
Cement, the country’s second-largest maker of the building
material, dropped 3.2 percent to 27.08 rupees, while  Engro , a
fertilizer maker, lost 2.4 to 186.5 rupees.  
 “When there are higher rates, the equities become less
attractive,” said Habib-ur-Rehman, who helps manages 5 billion
rupees ($58 million) of stocks and bonds at Atlas Asset
Management Ltd. in Karachi. “The decline was expected after the
rate increase, but it seems the investors over reacted.”  
 Pakistan’s stocks trade at 7.7 times estimated earnings,
the lowest in Asia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Inflation in June stood at 12.69 percent in Pakistan. The
average pace of price increases in the year starting July 1 may
be as high as 12 percent, Anwar said. The World Bank said last
month South Asian economies including Pakistan need to raise
borrowing costs to contain rising prices.  
 The government expects the South Asian economy to grow 4.5
percent in the year that started July 1, the fastest pace in
three years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Yaseen Anwar, acting governor of the State Bank of Pakistan  
                       
                         
                           Asim Hafeez/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The State Bank of Pakistan increased its discount rate to 13 percent from 12.5 percent, Yaseen Anwar, acting Governor of the State Bank of Pakistan, said at a news conference in Karachi on July 30. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The State Bank of Pakistan increased its discount rate to 13 percent from 12.5 percent, Yaseen Anwar, acting Governor of the State Bank of Pakistan, said at a news conference in Karachi on July 30. Photographer: Asim Hafeez/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
