-- Peru Consumer Prices Rise Most in Almost a Year as Domestic Demand Surges
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-08-02T17:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/peru-consumer-prices-rise-most-in-almost-a-year-as-domestic-demand-surges.html

          
          
             Peru’s  consumer  prices rose in July
at the fastest pace in almost a year as a recovery in domestic
demand gathers pace.  
 Annual inflation quickened to 1.82 percent last month, the
fastest since August 2009, National Statistics Institute
director  Renan Quispe  said in Lima today. The increase was in
line with economists’ estimates for a 1.81 percent increase, the
median forecast of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Rebounding internal demand could push the annual inflation
rate beyond 2 percent in the second half of this year, said
 Alejandro Cuadrado , a Latin America economist at Societe
Generale SA in New York. Central bank policy makers are likely
to raise the reference rate by a quarter-point for a fourth
month on Aug. 5 as prices rise, he said. Peru targets an annual
inflation rate of 1 percent to 3 percent.  
 “Inflation is getting stronger, but it’s still not a
concern at this stage,” Cuadrado said in a phone interview from
New York. “The bank can raise rates at a steady pace, unless it
starts to receive stronger inflation readings toward the end of
the year.”  
 Consumer prices rose 0.36 percent in July from June, led by
food, fuel and transportation costs, the agency said yesterday.
Quispe today said that inflation may end 2010 at 3 percent.  
 Private investment spurred a 16 percent increase in
domestic demand for goods and services in May, the fastest pace
in 20 months, according to the central bank.  
 South America’s sixth-largest  economy expanded  9.2 percent
in May from a year earlier, and may post growth of close to 10
percent in June, central bank President  Julio Velarde  said July
22. The statistics agency is scheduled to publish is June gross
domestic product report on Aug. 16.  
 Although prices remain under control, rapid economic
expansion risks fuelling inflation, Velarde said.  
 “As long as internal demand is projected to see vigorous
growth, the monetary stimulus will continue to be withdrawn,”
Velarde said.  
 Central bank policy makers raised the  benchmark lending
rate  to 2 percent on July 8, the third straight monthly
increase.  
 The sol gained 0.1 percent to 2.8165 per dollar at 1:39
p.m. New York time from 2.8200 on July 30. The sol has gained
2.5 percent in 2010, the eighth-best performance against the
dollar among 26 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        