-- Philippine Air May Miss Profit Goal After Pilots Quit, Disrupting Services
-- Clarissa Batino
-- 2010-08-02T06:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/philippines-to-meet-carriers-after-25-pilots-poached-by-overseas-airlines.html

          
          
             Philippine Airlines Inc., the
nation’s largest carrier, said it may miss its goal of returning
to profit this fiscal year after the resignation of pilots
forced the cancellation of at least 22 flights.  
 “We may have to revise this year’s targets,” President
 Jaime Bautista  said today by phone. Parent  PAL Holdings Inc. 
fell the most in two weeks in Manila trading.  
 The government also called a meeting with airline
executives and said it may consider easing air-traffic
restrictions after 25 Philippine Air pilots quit for higher
paying jobs overseas. Carriers in the Middle East and other
regions are luring pilots with offers to triple their pay,
according to Philippine Air.  
 “The pilot resignations are a poaching issue,” Bautista
said. The carrier canceled four flights today and 18 over the
weekend.  
 Cebu Air Inc., which flies as  Cebu Pacific , may also be
losing pilots, Transport Undersecretary Dante Velasco said by
phone today from Manila. Cebu Air President  Lance Gokongwei 
declined to comment on departures. He did say he would be
attending the government meeting.  
 President  Benigno Aquino ’s top aide, Executive Secretary
 Paquito Ochoa , Transport Secretary  Jose de Jesus  and other
officials will attend the meeting, said Velasco. He said he
didn’t know when officials will meet with pilots.  
 PAL Holdings , controlled by billionaire  Lucio Tan , fell 8.1
percent to 4.00 pesos in Manila trading at the close after
dropping as much as 15 percent.  
 Philippine Air Loss  
 Philippine Air last month reported a net loss of $14.3
million for the year ending in March. Revenue fell to $1.4
billion from $1.6 billion. A 1998 pilots strike led the airline
to suspend debt payments until Tan added $200 million to his
investment.  
 Dubai-based  Emirates Airline  offers captains 34,410 dirham
($9,400) and first officers 24,410 dirham a month, according to
its website. Last month, the largest Arab airline, announced an
order for 30 Boeing Co. 777-300ER aircraft valued at $9.1
billion. The carrier is also building up a fleet of 90 Airbus
SAS A380s, the world’s largest passenger plane.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . in Manila at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net ;
 Clarissa Batino  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        