-- Purchasing Managers Index; GAIL, Hindalco, NMDC Earnings: India Week Ahead
-- Madelene Pearson
-- 2010-08-02T04:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/purchasing-managers-index-gail-hindalco-nmdc-earnings-india-week-ahead.html

          
          
             India’s factory output accelerated in
July, while merchandise exports from the nation probably
increased for an eighth straight month, data may show today.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics will report their
Purchasing Managers’ Index at about 10:30 a.m. local time. The
gauge slipped to 57.3 in June from 59 the previous month. A
reading above 50 indicates an expansion. The Commerce Ministry’s
trade report for June is due at about noon in New Delhi.
 Shipments  rose an average 40 percent in the four months through
May from a year earlier, according to government data.  
 The central bank last week raised the  reverse-repurchase
rate  by half a percentage point to 4.5 percent, and the
 repurchase rate  to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent. It was the
first time officials boosted one of the main rates by more than
a quarter point since the last series of increases in 2008. The
median forecasts in Bloomberg News surveys were for quarter-
point moves.  
 GAIL India Ltd. , the nation’s monopoly gas distributor and
NMDC Ltd., Asia’s third-biggest iron ore producer, are among
companies that report earnings today for the quarter ended June
30.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. , India’s largest producer of
aluminum, is scheduled to report tomorrow, while Infrastructure
Development Finance Co., an Indian state-run lender to power and
road projects, will release earnings on Aug. 4.  
 Stocks, Bonds  
 Indian stocks had their first weekly slide in four weeks as
companies including Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. and  Hero Honda
Motors Ltd.  reported quarterly earnings that fell short of
analysts’ estimates. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index,
or  Sensex , lost 1.5 percent last week, trimming its advance in
July to 1 percent.  
 The rupee completed its best week in more than a month
after the central bank raised interest rates for a fourth time
this year, boosting the yield on local assets. The currency
appreciated 1.1 percent last week to 46.41 per dollar on July 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Benchmark 10-year  bonds  completed a second monthly loss,
pushing yields higher. The yield on the 7.80 percent bond due in
May 2020 climbed 25 basis points last month to 7.8 percent. The
price fell 1.7 rupees per 100-rupee face amount to 99.97.  

 
Earnings                                            Date

GAIL India, NMDC                                   Aug. 2
Hindalco Industries                                Aug. 3
Infrastructure Development Finance Co.             Aug. 4
National Aluminium Co., Power Grid Corp. of India  Aug. 6
 
 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        