-- Texas Rangers, Tribune, Visteon, Almatis: Bankruptcy (Update1)
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-08-02T11:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/rangers-almatis-abitibi-circuit-city-arrow-air-newark-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             An increased offer for the  Texas
Rangers  baseball club failed to persuade the bankruptcy judge to
cancel the auction scheduled for Aug. 4.  
 The team filed an emergency motion and told U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Michael Lynn at a July 30 hearing that the so-called
stalking horse would increase its offer a second time if the
judge awarded to the club to the group, including current
President Nolan Ryan and sports lawyer Chuck Greenberg. The
judge refused to cancel the auction. The amount of the increased
offer wasn’t disclosed.  
 A lawyer for Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks
professional basketball team, said in court that his client is
prepared to participate in the auction. Lynn was also told that
some of Cuban’s financing will come from the Rangers’ secured
lenders who are owed $525 million, not including unpaid
interest.  
 Cancelling the auction was supported by the chief
restructuring officer that Lynn appointed for the two
partnerships that own the team. The secured lenders opposed
cancellation of the auction.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage of the July 30 hearing, click
here and here.  
 Initial offers for the team are due Aug. 3. Since the
auction was canceled, the Ryan group’s first bid reverts to its
prior offer, $306.7 million cash plus debt assumption. The Aug.
4 auction will be followed immediately by a hearing to approve
the sale or a confirmation hearing on the team’s Chapter 11
plan.  
 The Rangers filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 with a sale
contract and a plan that claims to be paying all creditors in
full. Secured lenders would recover $256 million, according to
the team’s disclosure statement based on the original contract
for $304 million.  
 The Rangers moved from Washington to Texas in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael “Buzz” Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg News reporter
 Bill Rochelle , is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The
partnership that owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Updates  
 Tribune Loan Agent Seeks Delay of Publisher’s Confirmation  
 Tribune Co.  is facing the first request to delay the Aug.
30 confirmation hearing where the newspaper publisher is
scheduled to seek approval of the reorganization plan.  
 The agent for the $1.6 billion so-call bridge loan lenders
says there isn’t enough time to examine witnesses and experts
under oath before the current Aug. 13 deadline for filing
written objections to plan confirmation. The bridge agent says
more time is required because of unexpected conclusions in the
1,000-page examiner’s report finding a possibility that some
aspects of the 2007 leverage buyout could be attacked
successfully as fraudulent transfers.  
 The bridge agent wants the confirmation hearing set back no
more than 90 days. The motion is on the bankruptcy court
calendar for Aug. 9.  
 The bankruptcy judge said at a hearing last week that he
wasn’t inclined to delay the plan confirmation hearing that’s
scheduled to begin Aug. 30.  
 The bridge agent also wants the bankruptcy judges to defer
a hearing until confirmation on Tribune’s motion for approval of
a 2010 management bonus program. The agent says bonuses should
be part of the confirmation hearing because some executives were
found by the examiner to have engaged in misconduct with regard
to the leveraged buyout.  
 The Internal Revenue Service filed an objection to the
treatment of tax claims in the plan. To read Bloomberg coverage,
click here.  
 The examiner’s report found some likelihood a court would
conclude that debt issued in the final phase of the leveraged
buyout in December 2007 could be attacked successfully as a
constructively fraudulent transfer. He found less likelihood
that the first part of the transaction, in May 2007, could be
unraveled as a fraudulent transfer. For a summary of some of the
examiner’s conclusions, click here for the July 27 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Tribune’s Chapter 11 plan would settle claims that the
$13.7 billion leveraged buyout led by  Sam Zell  contained
fraudulent transfers. The plan is opposed by holders of $3.6
billion in debt who announced their opposition even before the
settlement was formally disclosed.  
 For details of the plan, the proposed settlement, and the
parties’ arguments, click here for the April 13 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. The company owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles
Times, six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Visteon Seeks Rehearing on Retiree Benefit Appeal  
 Auto-parts maker  Visteon Corp . filed a motion last week
asking all active judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Philadelphia to review a July 13 opinion by three circuit judges
holding that it didn’t have the unilateral right to terminate
health and life insurance benefits for retirees.  
 Even though the pre-bankruptcy benefit policy allowed
Visteon to end the programs on its own, three judges on the
circuit court ruled that the benefits couldn’t be terminated
absent compliance with complex and drawn-out procedures
specified in bankruptcy law.  
 Visteon contends that the panel decision from the 3rd
Circuit in Philadelphia is in conflict with a 1991 decision by
the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan.  
 The motion for rehearing didn’t stop the Communications
Workers of America union from filing a motion last week asking
the bankruptcy judge to give it a $100 million claim to vote on
Visteon’s reorganization plan. The auto-parts maker says the
claim on behalf of retirees’ health benefits should be $1 for
voting purposes.  
 The union points to the July appeals court decision holding
that termination of the benefits was improper. To read Bloomberg
coverage about estimating the union claim for voting, click
here. For details about the ruling on retiree benefits, click
here for the July 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Visteon improved the reorganization plan for lenders owed
$1.5 billion and in return gained their support. The
confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is scheduled to
begin Sept. 28 and to continue for nine more days if necessary.  
 In addition to shareholders and some creditors who are
opposed, a group of trade suppliers said they have enough “no”
votes to block approval by the unsecured creditor class. For
details of the plan, click here for the June 15 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. For a summary of the positions by various
parties before the judge approved the disclosure statement,
click here for the May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co . Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Oaktree Says New Almatis Plan Leaves Too Much Debt  
 Oaktree Capital Management LLC , a first-lien lender whose
purchase offer was spurned by Almatis BV, will be in bankruptcy
court tomorrow arguing that the producer of specialty alumina
products will be saddled with too much debt if a revised
reorganization plan goes through.  
 Oaktree’s bid fell by the wayside when Almatis’ owner,
Dubai International Capital LLC, produced a substitute plan
giving more to second-lien lenders.  
 Almatis entered Chapter 11 in late April with agreement on
a plan where the first-lien lenders would assume ownership in
exchange for debt, almost wiping out second-lien lenders in the
process. The original plan would have given the junior lenders
warrants for three percent of the equity value above an equity
value of $325 million.  
 Almatis disclosed terms of a new plan on July 23 where the
first-lien creditors would be paid in full on the $676 million
they’re owed. Oaktree says it owns 46 percent of the senior
secured debt.  
 Second-lien lenders in the new plan would receive 52
million euros ($67.86 million) in new senior unsecured notes
plus warrants if the notes aren’t fully paid in five years. For
details on the new plan, click here for the July 26 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Oaktree said in papers filed July 29 that the new plan is
based on “an inflated valuation” and will leave the company
with “too much debt.” Dubai International, which is to provide
some of the new financing, “has proven to be unreliable,”
Oaktree said. Oaktree also has “grave concern” about whether
the new plan can be confirmed.  
 There will be a hearing in bankruptcy court tomorrow for
approval of an agreement where the second-lien creditors bind
themselves to supporting the new plan. The bankruptcy judge is
also being called upon to give approval for continuing use of
cash that’s collateral for the first-lien debt.  
 Oaktree opposes continued use of cash unless it’s paid
interest and given periodic financial reports.  
 Second-lien lenders include affiliates of Babson Capital
Management LLC, Alcentra Group Ltd. and Permira Advisers LLP.  
 Almatis filed under Chapter 11 on April 30 with the
original plan already negotiated with holders of first-lien
debt. Dubai International bought the Almatis business in 2007
for $1.2 billion. For details on the original plan, click here
for the April 30 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Almatis’s revenue in 2009 was $400 million. For 2010,
projected revenue is $534 million. Almatis began defaulting on
senior debt in June 2009.  
 Rotterdam-based Almatis listed total debt of $1.3 billion,
including $681 million on first-lien obligations, $77.7 million
on second-lien debt, and $200.6 million on mezzanine debt. There
is junior mezzanine debt of $80.6 million, plus trade debt of
$20 million. Assets were listed for $1.53 billion.  
 The case is In re Almatis BV, 10-12308, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Aurelius, Contrarian Still Don’t Like Rights Offer  
 Aurelius Capital Management LP and Contrarian Capital
Management LLC aren’t satisfied with changes that  AbitibiBowater
Inc.  made in the reorganization plan allowing them tentative
participation in the backstopped rights offering enabling
specified creditor classes to buy $500 million in convertible
notes.  
 The revised offering allows creditors of a Bowater
financing subsidiary to buy the securities when and if their
claims are eventually approved. Aurelius and Contrarian object
to how the revised proposal requires them to put the purchase
price into escrow although they might not receive the securities
until years later when the disputed claim is determined.  
 Aurelius and Contrarian in papers filed July 30 want the
bankruptcy judge to allow them to pay for the securities only
when their claims are approved.  
 Abitibi is in bankruptcy court today pursuing approval of
the disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan. For
details on Abitibi’s revised plan and disclosure statement,
click here to read the July 29 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Aurelius Capital and Contrarian previously claimed to have
a blocking position from ownership of notes representing more
than one-third of unsecured claims against Bowater.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper, and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint along with papers, bleached kraft pulp and
lumber.  
 The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24 pulp
and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in 2008 was
$6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April 2009, the
combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of $9.9 billion
and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of Sept. 2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Circuit City and Committee Agree on Revised Plan  
 Circuit City Stores Inc.  and the official creditors’
committee resolved their impasse through mediation and agreed on
revisions in the liquidating Chapter 11 plan originally filed in
August 2009.  
 The company and the committee said in papers filed with the
bankruptcy court on July 29 that the changes don’t adversely
affect any creditors. Consequently, they don’t see need for a
new vote on the plan.  
 There will be an Aug. 4 hearing where the judge will be
asked to dispense with giving notice of the new plan to the more
than 407,000 parties who were sent mailings about the original
plan. Disclosure about the revised plan will appear on a
website, assuming the bankruptcy judge dispenses with other
notice. The disclosure will include an updated analysis of what
creditors can expect from the plan.  
 The changes in the plan deal with governance of the
liquidating trust, reserves for claims under dispute, and
modifications to minimized taxes in Canada. Affiliates InterTAN
Inc. and Ventoux International Inc. will be treated separately
under the new plan.  
 The creditors’ committee had filed a plan of its own in
June. At the company request, the bankruptcy judge sent them to
mediation in July. Mediation produced agreement on a modified
plan.  
 The company and the committee expect the revised plan will
be filed by Aug. 9. The original plan was initially scheduled
for a confirmation hearing in November. The hearing had been
adjourned periodically in light of the disagreement.  
 Once a 721-store electronics retailer, Circuit City paid
off all except approximately $5 million to $20 million in
secured claims through proceeds from store liquidations.
Unsecured creditors with claims ranging from $1.8 billion to $2
billion were estimated under the original to have a recovery
ranging between nothing and 13.5 percent, according to the
explanatory disclosure statement.  
 Circuit City filed under Chapter 11 in November, 2008, in
its Richmond, Virginia, hometown, listing assets of $3.4 billion
and debt totaling $2.3 billion as of Aug. 31, 2008. Papers
originally listed $898 million owing to the secured revolving
credit lenders. Unsecured trade suppliers were owed another $650
million at the outset, the company said in a court filing.  
 The case is In re Circuit City Stores Inc., 08-35653, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond).  
 U.S. Trustee Wants Examiner for Point Blank Solutions  
 The U.S. Trustee appointed an official shareholders’
committee for  Point Blank Solutions Inc.  and three days later
filed a motion seeking appointment of an examiner for the
manufacturer of soft body armor for the military and law
enforcement.  
 The motion for an examiner, filed on July 30, said there is
need to learn whether the lender Steele Partners LLC is
operating in good faith. Steele is providing a $20 million loan
for the Chapter 11 case on terms requiring a sale or
reorganization plan by September.  
 The U.S. Trustee says an examiner should look into
“multiple pending litigation matters,” including a securities
class-action settlement that is on appeal. The U.S. Trustee says
it is unclear whether the company or shareholders should have
the proceeds if the settlement is overturned.  
 The motion for an examiner is on the bankruptcy court
calendar for Aug. 18. The creditors’ committee has a pre-trial
conference in bankruptcy court tomorrow on the committee’s
motion for appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee.  
 Tomorrow’s hearing will also consider approving a
modification to the loan agreement requiring a letter of intent
by Sept. 15 and a motion by Sept. 30 to approve an asset-
purchase agreement. Alternatively, Point Bank could file a
Chapter 11 plan and disclosure statement by Sept. 30.  
 Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 was more than $153 million. The petition listed assets of
$64 million against debt totaling $68.5 million.  
 Debt included a $10.5 million secured loan to be paid off
by financing for the Chapter 11 case. Point Blank said it also
owes $28.2 million to trade suppliers. Three former officers
were indicted on charges of securities fraud.  
 The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Arrow Air Seeking August 25 Auction for Business  
 Arrow Air Inc., once the largest cargo airline in Miami,
will sell the business at auction on Aug. 25, if the bankruptcy
judge goes along with the proposed schedule at a hearing
tentatively set for Aug. 4.  
 Arrow was negotiating purchase agreements with two
prospective buyers before discussions broke down before
bankruptcy. Arrow shut operations just before filing under
Chapter 11 on June 30. The new filing represented Arrow’s third
venture into bankruptcy reorganization.  
 Arrow wants bids submitted by Aug. 23. The hearing for
approval of the sale would be soon after the auction.  
 Arrow is selling all the assets including the operating
certificate allowing the company to be an airline. Bids won’t be
accepted for the operating certificate alone. Arrow says it
would prefer a so-called stock sale where the buyer acquires the
stock of the airline.  
 Also known as Arrow Cargo, the company operated 60 flights
a week with four leased DC-10-30 and three leased B757-200
aircraft.  
 Arrow was acquired in June 2008 by a fund affiliated with
MatlinPatterson Global Advisors. Arrow owes MatlinPatterson
funds $72 million on term loans. The principal amount of the
secured term loan is $58.5 million, and the unsecured loan is
$7.8 million.  
 The case is In re Arrow Air Inc., 10-28831, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District Florida (Miami).  
 South Carolina Moves to Dismiss Toll Road Chapter 9 Case  
 Connector 2000 Association Inc. , the not-for-profit owner
of a 16-mile toll road in South Carolina, is not a
“municipality” and its Chapter 9 reorganization petition must
be dismissed, the South Carolina Department of Transportation
said in a July 30 bankruptcy court filing.  
 Connector filed for municipal reorganization under Chapter
9 on June 24. The bankruptcy judge required that anyone
objecting to the petition must file papers last week. A hearing
will be set later.  
 Bankruptcy law provides that only a “municipality” may be
in Chapter 9. In turn, a municipality is defined in the
Bankruptcy Code as a “political subdivision or public agency or
instrumentality of a State.”  
 The state devoted much of its papers to discussing the
Chapter 9 reorganization of  Las Vegas Monorail Co. , where U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Bruce A. Markell  wrote a 42-page opinion in
April explaining why a privately owned monorail didn’t fall
within the definition of municipality. Markell upheld the
monorail’s filing in Chapter 11.  
 Markell said that the decision turns on several questions,
including whether the company “engages in traditional
governmental functions.” Markell also examined “the extent to
which the State controls the entity’s functions.” For a
discussion of Markell’s opinion, click here for the April 27
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 If it loses on the argument that the toll road isn’t a
municipality, the state contends that only a “political
subdivision” is allowed by South Carolina law to file in
Chapter 9.  
 Connector 2000 is a public benefit corporation under South
Carolina law. A court filing said toll revenue from the outset
trailed projections and weren’t sufficient to service some $316
million in tax-exempt bonds.  
 The case is In re Connector 2000 Association Inc., 10-
04467, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of South Carolina
(Spartanburg).  
 Dillard’s Seeks Dismissal of Highland Mall Chapter 11  
 Department store operator  Dillard’s Inc.  filed a motion
last week to dismiss the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in May
by the owner of the  Highland Mall  in Austin, Texas.  
 Dillard’s said that the shopping-center owner has few
creditors and that Chapter 11 is being used impermissibly as a
litigation tactic.  
 The mall is using Chapter 11 in part to stop Little Rock,
Arkansas-based Dillard’s from terminating the lease. The mall
moved the suit brought by Dillard’s before bankruptcy from state
court to bankruptcy court. Dillard’s contends it is entitled to
terminate the lease because the mall is half vacant and in
disrepair. The mall lost its other anchor tenant, J.C. Penney
Co.  
 American General Life & Accident Insurance Co., the owner
of the underlying land, sued last year, seeking to terminate the
ground lease. The subsidiary of  American International Group
Inc.  also contends the mall is in disrepair. The AIG suit
likewise had been transferred to the bankruptcy court.  
 Highland Mall, opened in 1971, was the first enclosed, air-
conditioned mall in Austin. It is owned by a pass-through trust
for which Wells Fargo Bank NA serves as trustee. The owner is an
affiliate of a lender that made a $71 million loan for the
property in 2001.  
 The case is In re JPMCC 2002-CIBC4 Highland Retail LLC, 10-
11331, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  
 Newark Group Confirms Prepack Inside Eight Weeks  
 Newark Group Inc., a Cranford, New Jersey-based
manufacturer of paper and paper products, filed a prepackaged
Chapter 11 petition on June 9 and won the signature of the
bankruptcy judge on a July 30 confirmation order approving the
reorganization plan.  
 Spending less than eight weeks in Chapter 11, the company
will be able to convert the $175 million in 9.75 percent
unsecured subordinated notes into 96.5 percent of the new
equity. The predicted recovery on the notes is 75.4 percent,
according to the disclosure statement that the judge found
acceptable when she confirmed the plan.  
 All affected classes of creditors and shareholders voted in
favor of the plan in advance of the Chapter 11 filing. Trade
suppliers and unsecured creditors owed $57 million will be paid
in full and didn’t vote.  
 Existing stockholders, who own 84 percent of the equity,
are to keep 1.5 percent of the new stock plus warrants for
another 15 percent. The company’s employee stock ownership plan
trust, which currently owns 16 percent of the equity, will
survive Chapter 11 owning 2 percent of the new common stock.  
 The disclosure statement estimated the recovery for
existing stockholders at $2.4 million while the ESOP will have
stock worth $3.1 million.  
 After emerging from Chapter 11, the revolving credit will
rise to $70 million. In addition, Orix Finance Corp. will
provide a $110 million term loan to pay off an existing term
loan and pay down the revolving credit.  
 Newark Group has 40 plants in the U.S.  
 The case is In re The Newark Group Inc., 10-27694, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 New Filings  
 Jesup & Lamont Brokerage Parent Files in Chapter 11  
 Jesup & Lamont Inc. , the parent of failed brokers Jesup &
Lamont Securities Corp. and Empire Financial Group Inc., filed a
Chapter 11 petition on July 30 in New York after both
subsidiaries were shut down by regulators.  
 The Jesup & Lamont brokerage was forced to exit the
securities business in June on account of a capital deficiency.
Empire went out of business in November and is filing to
liquidate in Chapter 7, the parent’s court papers said.  
 The petition listed assets of $41.2 million against debt
totaling $24.6 million. A court filing says that the assets
primarily consist of security deposits held by landlords and
loans made to former employees.  
 Liabilities consist of $600,000 owing to secured lender
Fifth Third Bank and $20 million in unsecured debt. There are $4
million taxes that are entitled to priority in payment ahead of
unsecured claims, the filing says.  
 Brokers are prohibited from filing in either Chapter 7 or
Chapter 11. Empire could file in Chapter 7 if it no longer has
customers, as that term is defined in bankruptcy law.  
 The case is In re Jesup & Lamont Inc., 10-14133, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Custom Cable Files in Tampa for Sale to ComVest  
 Custom Cable Industries Inc. , a manufacturer and installer
of audio, video and fiber-optic cables, filed a Chapter 11
petition on July 30 in its Tampa, Florida, hometown with the
objective of selling the business to ComVest Capital LLC, the
primary secured lender, a court filing says.  
 CCI said in a statement that it’s a “good company with a
poor balance sheet and improving operations.” It needs a new
owner and a capital infusion, according to the statement.  
 Assets are less than $10 million while liabilities exceed
$10 million, according to a bankruptcy court filing.  
 Problems that led to bankruptcy include significant debt
and litigation claims by former executives and senior lenders,
Custom Cable said in the statement.  
 The case is In re Custom Cable Industries Inc., 10-18478,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District Florida (Tampa).  
 Exchange Offer News  
 Bankruptcy Management Solutions Swaps Debt for Equity  
 Bankruptcy Management Solutions Inc., a provider of
 bankruptcy consulting services , reached an agreement in
principle with a majority of its first- and second-lien bank
lenders on a debt-for-equity swap, the company said in a
statement on July 30.  
 There was a similar agreement with holders of 90 percent of
the floating-rate pay-in-kind notes due 2012.  
 The statement said the agreement will reduce debt from $536
million to $233 million while raising $15 million in new
capital. Details weren’t provided.  
 BMS, based in Irvine, California, provides paralegals,
technical support, software and experts for insolvency cases.
The services include products for case administration for
individual and corporate bankruptcies and reorganizations.  
 BMS was acquired for $384 million in 2006 by  Ocwen
Financial Corp .  
 Briefly Noted  
 Boyd Gaming Withdraws from Station Casinos Auction  
 Casino operator  Boyd Gaming Corp.  said on July 30 that it
won’t participate in the Aug. 6 auction for  Station Casinos Inc .
Station said bidding procedures made it difficult for an
outsider to complete against insiders “on a level playing
field.” For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The creditors’ committee is now supporting Station’s
reorganization plan. The bankruptcy judge tentatively approved
the disclosure statement on July 15. For details of the revised
plan, click here for the July 29 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.
The confirmation hearing is currently set for Aug. 27. For
details on the auction and the Station Casinos reorganization
plan, click here for the June 11 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Station Casinos filed under Chapter 11 in July 2009. It has
13 properties in Las Vegas plus five joint ventures. It also
operates casinos for American Indian tribes. Station’s debt was
the result of a leveraged buyout in November 2007 by Feritta
Colony Partners LLC.  
 The case is In Re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  
 Neenah Foundry Consummates Chapter 11 Plan, Again  
 Neenah Foundry Co., a producer of cast-iron man-hole covers
and sewer grates, implemented a Chapter 11 reorganization plan
for a second time inside seven years. The plan, confirmed on
July 6, was consummated last week. For details on the plan that
exchanged $237.5 million in 9.5 percent senior secured notes for
97 percent of the new stock plus a new $50 million secured loan,
click here to read the July 8 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.
Unsecured creditors with $12.3 million in claims were paid in
full as was the $54.2 million secured working capital loan.  
 Neenah’s plan was negotiated before the Chapter 11 filing
in February. The prior plan in September 2003 swapped senior
subordinated notes for $100 million in new subordinated debt,
$30 million cash, and half of the stock. Trade creditors were
paid in full the first time around. Neenah is located in a
Wisconsin town of the same name.  
 The case is In re Neenah Enterprises Inc., 10-10360, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Bank Failures  
 Five Bank Failures Bring Year’s to Total to 108  
 Five banks in four states were closed by regulators on July
30, bringing total bank failures for the year to 108.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 There were 140 bank failures in 2009, five times more than
2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers, Lehman, Tribune, Golf Course: Audio  
 Developments surrounding the auction for the  Texas Rangers ;
$24 million being paid by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  to
offload burdensome securities; repercussions from the  Tribune
Co.  examiner’s report; and a golf course near New York City are
covered in the bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        