-- Treasuries Fall as Stocks Advance, Investors Seek Higher-Yielding Assets
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-08-02T11:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/treasuries-drop-as-credit-markets-showing-investor-demand-for-higher-yield.html

          
          
             Treasuries fell for the first time in
four days as a rally in stocks and improving bank earnings gave
investors the confidence to seek higher yields than those
available from government debt.  
 Two-year  yields  rose from a record low as economists said
the Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing  index  today
will show factories expanded for a 12th month in July. BNP
Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank, reported second-quarter
profit that rose 31 percent and said short-term liquidity
“again became very abundant.” HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s
biggest bank, said first-half net income doubled.  
 “It’s a risk appetite move, with equities doing better,”
said  Orlando Green , an interest-rate strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “The banks have
given sentiment a lift.”  
 Benchmark 10-year  yields  climbed three basis points to 2.93
percent as of 7:17 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 3.5 percent note maturing in May 2020 declined
7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 104 25/32.  
 The 10-year yield will advance to 3.29 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  
 Two-year rates reached a new record low of 0.5460 percent
in early Asian trading before rising to 0.57 percent.  
 MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index of  shares  advanced 1.1 percent,
building on a four-week gain and helping curb demand for the
relative safety of government debt. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
rose 2 percent, ending three days of losses.  
 TED Spread  
 The TED spread, the difference between what banks and the
U.S. pay to borrow for three months, narrowed to 30 basis
points, the least since May. The three-month London interbank
 offered rate  for dollars, known as Libor, fell to 0.445 percent,
the least since May 13.  
 “Sentiment has definitely improved,” said  Mohit Kumar , a
fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The
earnings season has been good, both in Europe and the U.S.”  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing  index 
fell to 54 last month from 56.2 in June, based on a Bloomberg
News survey before the report today. A reading higher than 50
indicates expansion. The Labor Department’s monthly employment
report on Aug. 6 will show joblessness increased last month,
according to a separate survey.  
 Growth Slowed  
 Treasuries rallied last week as the U.S. said July 30 that
economic growth slowed to 2.4 percent in the second quarter from
a revised 3.7 percent in the first.  
 Kazuhito Miyabe , who helps oversee $12 billion as head of
foreign fixed income in Tokyo at Toyota Asset Management Co., a
unit of the world’s largest automaker, said he’s favoring 10-
year notes because their yields are higher.  
 The  difference  between two- and 10-year yields was 2.37
percentage points, versus the five-year average of 1.18
percentage points.  
 “The U.S. has disinflation,” which makes longer-maturity
bonds more attractive, Miyabe said. Disinflation, a slowing of
inflation that often occurs during a recession, helps protect
the value of the fixed payments on bonds.  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, has narrowed to 1.78 percentage points from
this year’s high of 2.49 percentage points in January.  
 ‘Quasi-Recession’  
 Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said a
slowing economic recovery in the U.S. feels like a “quasi-
recession” and the economy may contract if home  prices  decline.  
 “We’re in a pause in a recovery, a modest recovery, but a
pause in the modest recovery feels like a quasi-recession,”
Greenspan said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  
 Investors became less bearish on U.S. debt in a weekly
survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a unit of ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  
 The company’s index on the outlook for Treasuries through
September rose three points to 48 as of July 30. A figure less
than 50 shows investors expect prices to fall.  
 For all the concern about a recession, investors are
accepting the lowest yield since 2004 to lend companies money.  
 Yields over Treasuries on corporate debt have shrunk as
much as 0.38 percentage point on average to 2.9 percentage
points from the high this year in June, according to the Bank of
America index data. Debt sales totaled $90.1 billion last month,
the busiest July on record, Bloomberg data show.  
 Prudential Investment Management Inc., Loomis Sayles & Co.
and Invesco Ltd., which oversee $1.42 trillion, say they see
strength in the economy.  
 “The market seems to feel that the probability of a double
dip has declined significantly,” said  Michael Collins , senior
investment officer at Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential, which
has about $693 billion of assets.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        