-- Treasuries Decline as Stocks Gain, Investors Seek Higher-Yielding Assets
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-08-02T18:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/treasuries-decline-as-stocks-gain-investors-seek-higher-yielding-assets.html

          
          
             Treasuries fell for the first time in
four days as reports showed growth in manufacturing and
construction spending.  
 Two-year note  yields  rose from a record low as  U.S. stocks 
gained on better-than-estimated earnings reports. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said rising wages will probably
spur household spending in the next few quarters even as
“slow” job gains restrain consumer confidence.  
 “It’s a risk-on day,” said  David Rolley , who helps
oversee $106 billion as co-head of global fixed income at Loomis
Sayles & Co. in Boston. “We’ve had such a bull market in
Treasuries. My guess is we’re due for a correction.”  
 The yield on the 10-year note climbed five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 2.95 percent at 2:41 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The yield on the 10-year note
reached a 15-month low of 2.85 percent on July 21.
The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in May 2020
decreased 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 104 19/32.  
 Two-year note  yields  rose two basis points to 0.57 percent
after dropping to a record low 0.5460 percent. A reduction of
more than one point in the price of the 30-year bond today
pushed the yield up seven basis points to 4.06 percent.  
 Slower U.S. Growth  
 An Institute for Supply Management report showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded for a 12th straight month, reducing
demand for the relative safety of government debt. The  index 
dropped less than expected to 55.5 in July from 56.2 in the
previous month. The median forecast of 74 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a reduction to 54.5.  
 The gauge has been above 50 since July 2009, indicating
expansion. Construction spending unexpectedly rose in June,
gaining 0.1 percent, a Commerce Department report showed.  
 Treasury  notes  climbed in July for a fourth month as
investors became convinced that the recovery was slowing. The
Commerce Department said last week that economic growth eased to
2.4 percent in the second quarter from a revised 3.7 percent in
the first three months of the year.  
 U.S. employers eliminated 63,000 jobs in July, according to
the median forecast of 76 economists in a separate Bloomberg
News survey before the Labor Department’s report on Aug. 6. The
unemployment rate increased to 9.6 percent last month from 9.5
percent in June, according to a survey.  
 Bernanke said in prepared remarks to the Southern
Legislative Conference, a group of lawmakers from 15 states
including Georgia, Texas and Virginia, that the economy “is now
expanding at a moderate pace.”  
 Stocks Gain  
 Bernanke’s comments were “anxiously awaited” in the wake
of St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard ’s paper last week
saying the central bank should resume purchases of Treasuries if
the economy slows and prices fall, according to  Marc Chandler ,
global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York.  
 “They do not seem as worrisome as many had expected,”
Chandler wrote in a note to clients. “There is nothing in the
ISM or in Bernanke’s comments that suggests the Fed is or needs
to be in a hurry to decide about additional credit-easing
measures.”  
 Fed policy makers are scheduled to discuss interest rates
and the economy at their Aug. 10 meeting.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 1.8 percent.  
 The TED spread, the difference between what banks and the
U.S. pay to borrow for three months, dropped to 30 basis points,
the narrowest since May. The three-month London interbank
 offered rate  for dollars, known as Libor, fell to 0.445 percent.  
 Yield Outlook  
 “Everyone’s looking for the glass to be half full,” said
 Sean Simko , who oversees about $8 billion at SEI Investments Co.
in Oaks, Pennsylvania. “Leading that is the corporate market
and the expectation the economy’s going to continue to grow,
albeit at a slower pace than everybody would like.”  
 The 10-year yield will advance to 3.25 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of banks
and securities companies, with the most recent forecasts given
the heaviest weightings.  
 The outlook for America’s economy is looking brighter in
the corporate bond market, where investors are accepting the
lowest yields since 2004 to lend companies money.  
 Lenders typically require higher interest rates when the
economy cools and default risks rise. Instead, yields over
Treasuries on corporate debt have shrunk as much as 0.38
percentage point on average to 2.9 percentage points from the
high this year in June, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Debt sales totaled $90.1 billion last month, the
busiest July on record, Bloomberg data show.  
 The  difference  between 2- and 10-year yields was 2.37
percentage points, compared with the 5-year average of 1.18.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        