-- Reliance Power's IPO Money Half Spent With Little to Show, Macquarie Says
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-08-02T06:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/reliance-power-s-record-india-ipo-money-half-spent-macquarie-s-evans-says.html

          
          
             Reliance Power Ltd. , which raised an
Indian record $2.5 billion in less than a minute in its initial
share sale, has spent 52 percent of the cash with little
progress on its ventures, Macquarie Equities Research Ltd. said.  
 “Half of IPO proceeds have been spent, yet we’re still
some way from execution of Reliance Power’s major power
projects,” Mumbai-based analyst  Jeff Evans  said in a note to
clients today.  
 The bulk of money spent in the last two quarters hasn’t
been on the five electricity-generation projects highlighted in
the company’s prospectus, the note said. Reliance Power
spokesman Nagraj Rao declined to comment when contacted by phone.  
 The utility, owned by billionaire  Anil Ambani , completed
its IPO in January 2008 after attracting orders for 72.4 times
the stock on offer worth as much as $189 billion, equivalent to
the combined market value of the Portuguese and Czech markets at
the time. It retains the No. 1 spot as the biggest IPO on record
in India, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Macquarie cited risks to the growth prospects and coal
assets underpinning Reliance Power’s value, saying it may face
hurdles securing natural gas supplies and developing its 2
billion metric tons of coal reserves with no experience in
mining.  
 “Similar to the initial euphoria of its power portfolio,
we prefer to wait for some proof of execution before paying for
all of the upside,” of its coal resource, the note said. “We
can’t justify the current market value of the stock considering
the ongoing risk around execution.” Macquarie retained its
rating for Reliance Power as “underperform.”  
 Reliance Power plans to eventually have 35,000 megawatts of
capacity, according to its website. Last December, it started
its first power station, the 1,200-megawatt Rosa plant, which is
half complete, according to a statement to the Bombay Stock
Exchange on June 17.  
 The company’s  shares  have risen 5.2 percent this year
compared with a 3.2 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange. It fell 0.4 percent to
163.15 rupees at 11:46 a.m. today, compared with a 1 percent
gain in the Sensex.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        