-- Buy First Solar Options, Not Stock, JPMorgan Says (Update1)
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-08-02T20:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/replace-first-solar-shares-with-bullish-options-to-cut-risk-jpmorgan-says.html

          
          
             Investors should sell  First Solar
Inc.  shares and buy bullish  options  to profit from a rally by
the world’s biggest maker of solar power modules while limiting
their risk on alternative energy, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  
 Equity derivatives strategists  Amyn Bharwani  and  Marko Kolanovic  recommended selling First Solar shares and buying
December $125 calls to profit from further gains in the stock.
First Solar has risen 22 percent since June 9 to $126.14.  
 The strategists cited JPMorgan alternative energy analyst
 Christopher Blansett , who said on July 14 that First Solar has
limited potential because the risk of a double-dip recession
will keep energy prices low and because of “legislative
uncertainty” in Europe and the U.S. The analyst wrote on July
30 after First Solar’s second-quarter earnings report that the
“company continues to execute well, however we remain cautious
due to the declining subsidy outlook in Europe.”  
 Blansett has an “underweight” rating on the stock with a
December 2010 price estimate of $99.  
 “Investors who agree with the J.P. Morgan analyst and are
long the stock may want to consider replacing their stock with
First Solar call options,” Bharwani and Kolanovic wrote in a
report today. It is an “opportune time to realize the gains”
in the stock “but continue to have upside exposure through call
options.”  
 First Solar, based in Tempe, Arizona, reported July 29 that
second-quarter net income fell 13 percent as panels were held
for use on its own projects, reducing sales to customers, and as
the euro declined against the dollar. The stock has fallen 6.9
percent since then.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        