-- Richter Second-Quarter Net Soars on U.S. Sales, Milestone, Forint Decline
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-08-02T22:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/richter-second-quarter-net-soars-on-u-s-sales-milestone-forint-decline.html

          
          
              Net income at  Gedeon Richter Nyrt. ,
Hungary’s biggest drugmaker, more than quadrupled in the second
quarter on rising U.S. sales, a milestone payment and as a
decline in the forint boosted profit from financial operations.  
 Net income jumped to 26.5 billion forint ($124 million), or
1,422 forint a share, from 6.2 billion forint, or 335 forint, a
year earlier, the company said today in a statement on the  Web
site  of the Budapest Stock Exchange. That exceeds the average
 estimate  of 19 billion forint of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 0.9 percent to 73.7 billion forint.  
 Richter, which gets more than 80 percent of revenue from
exports, saw its U.S. sales boosted by Yaz, a generic
contraceptive distributed by Richter’s partner, Israeli
drugmaker  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  Richter supplies
the active ingredients for the drug. Sales of Yaz showed “an
excellent performance” in the period, the company said in its
statement. Richter didn’t provide a breakdown of second-quarter
sales per region.  
 In Russia, first-half sales rose 14.5 percent in euro terms
and exports to other former Soviet states also rose in the
period as economies in the region expanded. The economy in
Russia grew 2.9 percent in the first quarter after plunging 7.9
percent in 2009, the most on record.  
 Richter rose 705 forint, or 1.6 percent, to close at 45,205
forint yesterday in Budapest. The  shares  have gained 5.4 percent
this year, compared with a 9.1 percent increase in Hungary’s
benchmark  BUX index .  
 Currency Change  
 The company reported a financial gain of 9 billion forint
compared with a financial loss of 7.5 billion forint a year
earlier, mainly as a result of the drop in the forint’s exchange
rate. The forint declined 20 percent against the dollar from the
end of the second quarter last year through the end of the
quarter this year.  
 The company also received a milestone payment from its U.S.
partner  Forest Laboratories Inc . related to the successful trial
of an antidepressant. Richter and Forest started late-stage
clinical trials in the U.S. for cariprazine this year.  
 “Richter remains one of the most attractive central and
eastern European pharma titles for 2010,”  Erste Bank AG  said in
a note prior to the earnings release. “Richter’s long-term
story retains its appeal thanks to its unique proposition in the
region, as Richter is the only central and eastern European
generics player with a chance to bring an original drug to the
market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 Ebalazs1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        