-- Risk Is the New Black in World Turned Upside Down: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-08-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/risk-is-new-black-in-world-turned-upside-down-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             What is risky and what is safe? That
has always been a crucial question for anyone working in the
financial markets. Bankers provide their clients with an asset
mix, tailored to suit the aging widow or the young entrepreneur.  
 But what if everything you know about risk was suddenly
turned upside down? In the last two years, all the stuff we
thought was really safe and dull turned out to be dangerous. And
the things we thought were risky ended up being quite reliable.  
 In reality, investors need to reverse everything they
thought they knew about risk. Assets such as property, the
dollar and developed-country bonds are only for those who don’t
mind losing their shirts. Small-time investors who depend on
getting their money back should be buying into small companies,
emerging markets and private-equity or hedge funds.  
 Risk has always been important in markets. Think of those
 know-your-client  forms that banks get you to fill in. Describe
yourself as risk-averse, and they will offer you a mix of
government bonds, maybe some blue-chip equities and a lot of
real estate in developed countries. Describe yourself as risk-
friendly, and they will get out the brochure on that hedge fund
that specializes in high-velocity Kazakh yak-hide trading.  
 Our ideas about risk determine how money flows around the
world, and the price paid for it. The higher the risk, the
greater the return you expect, and vice versa.  
 Everything We Knew  
 The global financial crisis of 2008 changed everything that
we knew to be safe.  
 Were bank deposits a good option? Not if they were with an
Icelandic bank, even if it was regulated in the U.K. or the
Netherlands. Anyone with money in a major European or U.S.
lender was only a bailout package away from losing the lot. That
doesn’t sound very secure.  
 How about property? We might be used to the phrase “safe
as houses,” but it doesn’t apply to homes as an asset class
anymore. Take the British market. According to a  recent report 
by accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, after adjusting
for inflation there is a 70 percent chance house prices will be
lower in 2015 than they were in 2007. It could be 2020 before
they get back to their peak in real terms. In most major
markets, property is overpriced and dependent on bank financing
that has dried up. There is nothing safe about that.  
 Bond Jitters  
 Government bonds, anyone? If you held Greek debt, your
portfolio wouldn’t have looked too healthy over the past year.
If you bought U.K. or U.S. bonds, it might be looking a bit
better. But you should probably be feeling nervous. The markets
picked on Greece, and made an example of it, but its budget
deficit wasn’t much bigger than that of the U.S. or Britain. At
any moment, they might get mauled as badly as Greek bonds did
earlier this year. Even if you stick with financially
responsible countries such as Germany, they are still getting
stuck with the bills of their neighbors in the euro area.  
 Likewise the dollar. The budget and trade shortfalls might
create a crisis at any time. The Swiss franc? If Credit Suisse
Group AG went bust, the whole country would be brought down,
much like Iceland. No traditionally “safe” asset looks very
solid right now.  
 The risky stuff looks safer. Not convinced?  
 Most emerging markets have much higher growth rates,
healthier demographics and more buoyant tax revenue than their
peers in the developed world. Their currencies, bonds and equity
markets look more reliable than any in the U.S. or Europe.  
 Better Bet  
 Corporate bonds are a better bet than most government
bonds. Would you rather have your money in Vodafone Group Plc,
with millions of customers paying their mobile-phone bills every
month? Or in U.K. government bonds, with a weak economy, a
massive welfare bill and a budget deficit equal to more than 10
percent of gross domestic product?  
 Small companies are safer than blue chips. Just think of
the problems that BP Plc has run into in the past few months.
Giant enterprises can run into giant trouble. The smaller
businesses can flourish under the radar.  
 Private-equity and hedge funds beat bank deposits. It was
the banks that ran into trouble in the credit crunch, not the
alternative-investment industry.  
 We don’t know precisely what will emerge as “safe” once
the dust has settled on both the credit crunch and the
sovereign-debt crisis. But emerging markets are safer than
developed ones, equities beat property, and corporate bonds are
preferable to government notes.  
 Sometime around 2015, don’t be surprised if bankers are
advising widows and trust funds, which need to preserve capital
above all else. They will be offered Turkish bonds, a hedge fund
or two, and a portfolio of small emerging-market stocks. Real
estate, Treasury bills, and dollar or euro blue-chips will only
be for people who fancy a flutter -- and have already been
warned they may lose everything.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        