-- Rubber Gains to Five-Week High as Japan Stockpiles Fall to Nine-Year Low
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-08-02T08:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/rubber-climbs-to-three-week-high-as-japan-stockpiles-fall-to-nine-year-low.html

          
          
             Rubber advanced to a five-week high
as stockpiles in Japan declined to the lowest level in at least
nine years and stronger car sales in China and Japan raised
optimism that demand for the commodity may increase.  
 Futures in Tokyo climbed as much as 2.7 percent to the
highest level since June 29. The price extended last month’s 1.3
percent gain, the first increase in four months.  
 Rubber  stockpiles  monitored by the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
fell 22 percent to 1,042 metric tons as of July 20, data from
the bourse showed. It was the lowest level since at least 2001,
exchange spokesman Norikazu Takei said today by phone.  
 “Tight supplies spurred a short-covering rally,”  Kazuhiko Saito , analyst at Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co., said today by
phone. Speculators with short, or sell, positions in the nearby
contract must buy them back by its expiry, unless they can
deliver the raw material.  
 January-delivery rubber rose as much as 7.3 yen to 280 yen
per kilogram ($3,231 a ton) on the Tokyo exchange before
settling at 279.5 yen. August-delivery rubber gained as much as
2.3 percent to settle at 310.8 yen. Last month, the July
contract expired at 400 yen with physical delivery of 8 lots, or
40 tons, Takei said.  
 “Robust car sales in Japan and China provided optimism
demand for rubber will continue to grow, boosting rubber prices
today,” said  Chaiwat Muenmee , an analyst at Bangkok-based
commodity broker DS Futures Co.  
 Car Sales  
 Sales  of cars, trucks and buses, excluding minicars, rose
15 percent to 333,403 vehicles in July from a year earlier, the
 Japan Automobile Dealers Association  said in a statement today.  
 China’s passenger-car sales in July rose 15.4 percent from
a year earlier to 822,300 units, the China Automotive Technology
& Research Center said today. The nation’s automobile sales rose
17 percent to 1.06 million units, according to the center.  
 Rubber futures also advanced as a rally in Asian stocks
boosted investor confidence in the economic recovery, Saito at
Fujitomi said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 1.2 percent
to 120.61 as companies from Honda Motor Co. to Hyundai Mobis Co.
reported higher earnings or forecasts.  
 The yen weakened versus all of its 16 major counterparts
after Australia’s  manufacturing  growth accelerated in July and
South Korea’s exports increased for a ninth month, raising the
appeal of yen-denominated contracts.  
 “Growth in Asian economies looks solid,” said  Yuji Saito ,
director of the foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank in Tokyo. “This is supportive of
equities and risk-taking appetite.”  
 January-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
surged 2.1 percent to 24,460 yuan ($3,611) a ton.  
 Prices in Thailand’s cash market advanced due to Chinese
and Japanese automaker demand for tires, the  Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand  said today on its website. Supplies remain
limited due to rainfall in the country’s southern provinces, a
key rubber plantation area. The benchmark Thai price gained 0.2
percent to 104.15 baht ($3.23) a kilogram, the institute said.
Thailand is the largest rubber producer and exporter.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        