-- Russian Wildfires Kill 34 as Drought, Heat Drive Wheat Prices 19% Higher
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-08-02T14:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/russia-s-record-heat-wave-may-damage-industries-putin-s-party-vtb-says.html

          
          
             Wildfires raging across central
Russia claimed 34 lives and blanketed cities in a smoky haze as
drought and record heat cut crop yields, driving wheat prices as
much as 19 percent higher last week.  
 About 156,000 firefighters are battling 693 blazes on more
than 120,000 hectares (463 square miles), according to the
Emergency Situations Ministry. Since the start of the fire
season, 565,737 hectares have been consumed by flames, the
ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 In many regions, including Moscow, July was the hottest
month since records began 130 years ago, and the heat wave will
last at least through the end of this week, the state
Hydrometeorological Center said on its  website .  
 The sweltering summer has hit Russian agriculture, which
accounts for 3-4 percent of gross domestic product, according to
 Aleksandra Evtifyeva , a Moscow-based economist at VTB Capital.
Heat and drought have forced the government to declare states of
emergency in 27 crop-producing regions.  
 The drought may reduce Russia’s grain harvest by 23 percent
to 75 million metric tons this year, according to the Grain
Union. Russian wheat prices increased as much as 19 percent last
week, research group SovEcon said.  
 Wheat Futures  
 Kirill Podolsky , chief executive officer of Valars Group,
Russia’s third-biggest trader, said some farmers are revoking
even pre-paid grain contracts, speculating that prices will rise
further.  
 Russian wheat prices are rising faster than at the peak of
global food crisis in 2008, the Grain Union said.  
 Wheat futures surged to a 22-month high in Chicago on
speculation that dry, hot weather may force Russia to curb
exports, squeezing global supplies.  
 Russia’s grain exports may fall to 14 million metric tons
in the marketing year that began July 1 from 21.5 million tons
in the previous period because of the record drought, said Anton
Shaparin, a spokesman for the Grain Union.  
 The impact of the drought on output, food prices and
inflation remains unclear,  Evgeny Gavrilenkov  and  Anton Stroutchenevski , economists at Troika Dialog in Moscow, wrote in
a research report.  
 “Unsurprisingly, inflation expectations are high, opinion
polls suggesting that more than 70 percent of Russians expect
prices to rise,” they wrote.  
 ‘Summer Breaks’  
 Not all agricultural products will be negatively affected
by the heat wave, the Troika economists said, citing corn and
rice as crops that may benefit.  
 Industrial output may also suffer in July and August from
extreme weather, VTB Capital’s Evtifyeva and  Dmitry Fedotkin 
said in an e-mailed note today. “In particular, major
automakers have announced summer breaks due to the extreme
weather conditions.”  
 Last week, state-run automaker OAO AvtoVAZ suspended
production because of the heat.  
 President  Dmitry Medvedev  today declared states of
emergency in seven regions in a bid to prevent new fires. In a
decree, Medvedev ordered the army and volunteers to be brought
in to help in the fire-fighting effort, the Kremlin said on its
 website .  
 The government may spend more than the 5 billion rubles
($166 million) already earmarked to help the country rebuild
from the fires, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said.  
 The government estimates that destroyed homes will cost an
average of 2 million rubles each to replace, with another 1
million rubles to repair utilities and infrastructure, Putin
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Olivia Sterns reports on forest fires in Russia which are raising concerns over higher food prices and an increase in the rate of inflation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
