-- Russian Wheat May Climb to $300 a Ton on Drought, Grain Trader Valars Says
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-08-02T14:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/russian-wheat-may-climb-to-300-a-ton-on-drought-grain-trader-valars-says.html

          
          
             Milling wheat in Russia may rise to
$300 a metric ton as a drought sears fields and farmers delay
sales, according to Valars Group, the country’s third-biggest
grain trader.  
 Prices have climbed as much as 15 rubles (50 cents) daily,
 Kirill Podolsky , chief executive officer of Taganrog, Russia-
based Valars, said by phone today.  
 “Wheat shouldn’t cost less than $300 a ton this season,”
he said, referring to selling prices for farms in southern
Russia, the main gateway for national exports of the grain. “I
believe this level will be reached shortly.”  
 Russian farmers are holding up sales to traders and
sometimes revoking contracts, even for prepaid accords, on
expectations prices will rise further, Podolsky said. Growers
across the country are stockpiling grain and awaiting price
gains, according to the Russian Grain Union, representing the
country’s biggest producers and traders, and International Grain
Co., Glencore International AG’s Russian unit.  
 Prices surged 19 percent last week, and milling wheat was
offered at 5,775 rubles a ton in European parts of Russia,
researcher SovEcon said on its website.  
 Domestic wheat prices will rise further, according to
Podolsky. Russia’s government is unlikely to consider
restricting exports before it starts selling grain from
stockpiles or until prices reach critical levels, he said,
without being more specific.  
 Export Forecast  
 International Grain expects no “serious problems” with
Russian exports even as farmers delay sales, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer  Nikolai Demyanov  said by phone today. Russia
will export 13 million tons of wheat and as much as 1 million
tons of barley in the current marketing year that started July
1, according to the Glencore unit.  
 Outbound grain shipments from Russia came to 1.35 million
tons in July, according to the Grain Union.  
 Wildfires raging across central Russia have claimed 34
lives and blanketed cities in a smoky haze as drought and record
heat cut crop yields. The government has declared states of
emergency in 27 crop-producing regions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        