-- Russian Manufacturing Grows at Fastest Pace Since April 2008, VTB Says
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-08-02T06:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/russian-manufacturing-grows-at-fastest-pace-since-april-2008-vtb-says.html

          
          
             Russian  manufacturing  expanded in
July at the fastest pace since April 2008 as new orders grew and
companies added more jobs, VTB Capital said.  
 The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 52.7 last month, for
a seventh successive expansion, from 52.6 in June, the bank said
in an e-mailed statement today. The index, based on a survey of
300 purchasing executives, indicates contraction with a figure
below 50 and growth with a figure above 50.  
 The pace of expansion was sustained in the manufacturing
sector,’’  Dmitry Fedotkin , VTB Capital’s economist in Moscow,
said in the statement. “Underpinning the overall improvement in
business conditions in July was a further strong rise in new
work received.”  
 New orders supported output and employment growth among
manufacturers resumed in July, according to VTB Capital. The
overall  jobless rate  fell in June to 6.8 percent, the lowest
level in 20 months, according to the Federal Statistics Service.  
 “ Economic growth  continues but it hasn’t become
investment-oriented to the necessary extent,” Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  said last week. “The sub-components of
growth remain fairly fragile with the exception of consumer
demand.”  
 Even so, the Economy Ministry will raise its forecast for
growth this year from 4 percent, according to Klepach. The
economy expanded an annual 5.4 percent in the three months
through June, he said on July 27, compared with 2.9 percent in
the first quarter, according to the Federal Statistics Service.  
 Positive Trends  
 Bank Rossii, the  central bank , kept its main interest rates
unchanged for a second month in July after “positive trends
were seen in macroeconomic indicators,” it said on July 30.  
 Bank lending expanded in June by the most this year, with
corporate loans expanding 2.1 percent in the month and retail
lending gaining 1.6 percent, according to central bank data.
Annual inflation slowed to 5.8 percent in June from 6 percent
the month before, the statistics office said.  
 Input-cost  inflation  in the manufacturing sector rose for
the 13th month in a row, while output price inflation was
“limited by competitive pressures,” according to VTB Capital.  
 “Industrial production might suffer in July-August from
the recent abnormal heat in Russia,” VTB Capital’s analysts
including Fedotkin said in an e-mailed note today. “In
particular, major automakers have announced summer breaks due to
the extreme weather conditions.”  
 Russia is experiencing a heat wave with high temperatures
of at least 36 degrees Celsius (96.8 degrees Fahrenheit)
forecast this week for Moscow, which has already broken several
heat records this season, according to Gidromettsentr, the state
weather service.  
 OAO AvtoVAZ, the nation’s largest automaker, suspended
production from today through Aug. 8 because of record heat in
Togliatti, southern Russia, where temperatures are expected to
exceed 45 degrees Celsius.  
 The PMI is derived from indexes that measure changes in
output, orders, employment, suppliers’ delivery times and
stocks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Poole, global head of macro and investment strategy at HSBC Global Asset Management U.K. Ltd., speaks about the bank's decision to increase its exposure in Russia.
     He talks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
