-- Rwanda President Kagame Says Critics of Country's Democracy Can `Go Hang'
-- David Malingha Doya
-- 2010-08-02T16:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/rwanda-president-kagame-says-critics-of-country-s-democracy-can-go-hang-.html

          
          
             Rwandan  President  Paul Kagame 
defended the country’s political system and criticized foreign
media for saying there is no democracy in the East African
nation.  
 Kagame, who has ruled for the past 10 years, also accused
opposition leaders including Victoire Ingabire of promoting
division among voters ahead of elections on Aug. 9. He spoke at
a gathering in Gichumba, northern Rwanda, attended by 150,000
people, according to Ignatius Kabagambe, a director in the
Information Ministry.  
 “When people choose what they want, that is democracy. When
they reject negative forces and divisionism, that is democracy.
When they choose the leadership they want that is democracy,”
Kagame said. “Whoever does not like the Rwanda way of democracy
should go and hang.”  
 Kagame led the rebel forces that in 1994 ended the genocide
of 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus. He came to power in
2000 after President Pasteur Bizimungu was deposed, and then won
a seven-year term in September 2003 after Rwanda’s first
democratically contested multiparty elections.  
 In the run-up to next week’s vote, at least two prominent
opponents of Kagame have been killed. A third survived a
shooting in South Africa in June. The Rwandan government denies
any involvement in the incidents.  
 Ingabire, leader of the opposition United Democratic
Forces, says she has been unable to register as a candidate for
the elections because she has been under house arrest. She has
called for the election to be postponed.  
 Kagame praised the attendance at today’s rally as a sign of
support for the ruling Rwandan Patriotic Front’s policies.  
 “I am so happy you came in large numbers, which means you
love your country and its prospects for democracy,” Kagame said.
“Foreigners who write that there is no democracy in Rwanda
should come and see.”  
 Kagame has overseen a period of economic growth, with the
World Bank’s Doing Business 2010 report ranking Rwanda as the
world’s top “business reformer.” The coffee-based economy is
projected to grow 5.4 percent this year, the International
Monetary Fund said on July 9.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Malingha Doya  in Kigali via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        