-- S&P 500 May Drop This Year on Head-and-Shoulders Top: Technical Analysis
-- Francesca Angelini
-- 2010-08-02T13:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/s-p-500-may-drop-this-year-on-head-and-shoulders-top-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  may
be heading for a decline later this year after tracing a bearish
head-and-shoulders pattern, according to technical analysts at
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.  
 “The S&P 500 may be forming a head-and-shoulders top with
a left shoulder at the January high, the head at the April high,
and the right shoulder developing over the summer/fall,” New
York-based  Mary Ann Bartels  and  Stephen Suttmeier  wrote in a
report today. Their analysis diverges from the view of  Laszlo Birinyi  of Birinyi Associates Inc. and Federated Investors
Inc.’s  Philip Orlando , who say the fastest annual earnings
growth since 1988 will push U.S. stocks higher.  
 A head-and-shoulders top is produced when price movements
in a security form three peaks, the middle of which is the
highest. The line that unites the troughs between the peaks is
known as the neckline. The  S&P 500  may have started to trace a
left-hand shoulder in October 2009 followed by a head from
February to May, while the right-hand shoulder may be formed
over the coming months, Bartels wrote.  
 The S&P 500 surged 6.9 percent to 1,101.6 in July, the
biggest monthly gain in a year, as companies from  Intel Corp.  to
Caterpillar Inc. reported earnings that topped analyst
estimates. Patterns of buying and selling, measured by volume
intensity, suggest that last month’s rally stemmed more from an
absence of sellers of stocks than from the conviction of buyers,
according to Bartels. The level of “key support” is at 1,040
to 1,010, she wrote.  
 ‘Acting as Resistances’  
 “Last summer the 150-day and 200-day moving  averages  acted
as support on the S&P 500 ahead of a strong rally into the
fall,” Bartels wrote. “This summer these moving averages are
acting as resistances.”  
 Birinyi and Orlando stayed bullish as the S&P 500 lost 13
percent in May and June. They’ve been rewarded as the index
posted its biggest monthly gain in a year in July on signs the
American economy will avoid falling into a recession. Of 316 S&P
500 companies that have  reported results  since July 12, 77
percent exceeded profit forecasts, while government reports on
building permits and industrial production showed unanticipated
growth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. Support levels act as floors
limiting further declines, while resistances limit gains.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Angelini  in London 
 fangelini1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        