-- Sappi's Profit, Cash to Rise in Fourth Quarter, Helped by Price Increases
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-08-02T09:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/sappi-s-profit-cash-to-rise-in-fourth-quarter-helped-by-price-increases.html

          
          
             Sappi Ltd. , the world’s largest
maker of glossy paper, predicted profit and cash generation
will continue to improve in its fiscal fourth quarter after
increasing prices in Europe and North America.  
 “In Europe, prices for coated woodfree paper have risen
twice since April 2010 and we have announced further increases
of at least 7 percent from September,” Sappi said in a
statement today. North American coated paper prices are
“increasing gradually.”  
 Paper producers including Sappi, Mondi Ltd., Stora Enso
Oyj and UPM Kymmene Oyj were all forced to close mills after
profits plunged in response to a glut of supply, and falling
demand because of recessions in all major economies.  
 “The most important thing for me is that Sappi is back in
the black,” Chief Executive Officer  Ralph Boettger  said in an
interview from Johannesburg today. “We have substantially
improved our business, debt is down to $2.3 billion; we still
have a way to go,” he said.  
 Sappi rose  0.3 percent to 35.15 rand at 11:53 a.m. in
Johannesburg trading.  
 Conditions in Sappi’s major markets, “particularly North
America and Southern Africa,” will continue to improve
steadily during the second half of this calendar year, James
Maposa, an analyst with consultant  Frost & Sullivan , said in an
e-mailed note today.  
 Pulp Prices  
 “To offset the increase in global pulp prices, the
European business is expected to raise prices of its paper
grades during Sappi’s fourth operating quarter,” Maposa said.  
 Sappi’s operating  profit , excluding special items, was $75
million in the three months ended June, compared with a loss of
$13 million a year earlier. Revenue increased 22 percent to
$1.6 billion. Average prices were up 4 percent.  
 Finance costs fell $5 million from the previous quarter to
$57 million, after the company paid down debt. Cash generation
rose to $188 million from $77 million a year earlier, “largely
due to improved profitability.”  
 Pulp prices rose to an average of $976 a ton at the end
of June, up $87 a ton since March as a result of increased
global demand, particularly from China, Boettger said.  
 The M-real mills bought in 2008 are now “fully
integrated,” Boettger said. Targeted savings of 120 million
euros have been reached a year early and more benefits are
expected in improved profitability, he said.  
 “We expect a lot of those benefits to come through” in
the next two to three quarters, Boettger said.  
 “We are running our mills fairly close to capacity; what
we haven’t seen is the margins we are looking for,” he said.
“Margins in Europe will improve, it’s starting to happen.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        