-- Saudi Aramco to Cut Prices of Crude Oil to Asia as Refiners' Profits Slump
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-08-02T23:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/saudi-aramco-to-cut-prices-of-crude-oil-to-asia-as-refiners-profits-slump.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
biggest crude exporter, may cut the official selling price of
all of its September-loading crudes to Asia as processing
profits for refiners have declined.  
 Arab Light , Saudi Arabian Oil’s largest export type, may be
reduced by 50 cents from August, according to the median of
responses to a Bloomberg News survey of six refiners in South
Korea, Taiwan, India, and Singapore. That would put the price at
a discount of 65 cents a barrel to the average of Persian Gulf
benchmark’s Oman and Dubai, the lowest since January 2009.  Arab
Extra Light  may be lowered by 80 cents, said the officials, who
asked to remain unidentified, citing company policy.  
 Refining profits for producing  naphtha  last month slumped
to their lowest level since August. The price difference between
fuel oil and gasoil has narrowed limiting the margins processors
can make on converting crude residue into fuels. Aramco faces
pressure on prices because later-dated supplies of Dubai are at
a premium to prompt cargoes, a market situation called contango.  
 “The deeper contango should be applied across all the
barrels,” said Osama Fujisawa, a Tokyo-based independent oil
economist. “I suspect that Aramco will cut the price of Extra
Light because the spread of fuel oil and gasoil has narrowed.
The value of Arab Medium has come up, but that will be offset by
the deeper contango.”  
 Arab Heavy , the country’s densest grade, may drop by 30
cents from August, according to the survey.  Arab Medium  may be
reduced by 40 cents, the respondents said.  
 September loading Dubai’s  discount  to October cargoes
widened to 90 cents a barrel on July 30 from 73 cents on June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It widened to as much
as $1.25 on July 26.  
 Gasoil Premium  
 Gasoil  in Singapore with 0.5 percent sulfur traded on July
30 at a premium of $16.27 a barrel to 180-centistoke viscosity
fuel oil, down from $18.15 a month ago, based on Bloomberg
calculations of prices. The spread narrowed to $15.21 on July 19.  
 Aramco’s Extra Light crude yields a greater volume of
naphtha after basic processing greater than the company’s other
three export grades. Naphtha’s discount to Dubai widened last
month, reaching $6.22 a barrel on July 26, the lowest since
August 2009.  
 Last month, Saudi Aramco raised the price of Arab Light and
Extra Light grades for August loading for buyers in Asia.  
 Arab Light climbed 5 cents to a discount of 15 cents a
barrel to the Oman and Dubai average. Extra Light increased 15
cents to a premium of 80 cents and Super Light declined 15 cents
to a premium of $1.10.  
 Arab Medium was left unchanged at a discount of $1.75 a
barrel to the benchmark’s average. Arab Heavy dropped 5 cents to
a discount of $3.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        