-- Saudi Sukuk Double on Spending as New Islamic Issues Drop: Islamic Finance
-- Haris Anwar
-- 2010-08-02T10:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/saudi-sukuk-double-on-spending-in-2010-as-new-issues-drop-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabian real estate and energy
companies are leading Islamic bond sales from the Persian Gulf
as the kingdom’s $400 billion stimulus plan, the biggest among
the Group of 20 nations, boosts spending.  
 Sukuk from borrowers in the largest Arab economy may more
than double to $4.5 billion this year from $2.1 billion in 2009,
as a “scarcity” of local notes that comply with the religion’s
ban on interest bolsters demand from local banks, according to
Riyadh-based  HSBC Saudi Arabia Ltd .  
 Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil supplier, announced
the five-year plan in 2008 to spur economic growth and finance
construction projects. Saudi Finance Minister  Ibrahim al-Assaf 
said on Feb. 11 that gross domestic product may increase more
than 4 percent in 2010, compared with 0.6 percent last year.  
 “There’s going to be a reasonable amount of sukuk supply
this year,” Rajiv Shukla, managing director and head of global
capital finance at HSBC Saudi Arabia in Riyadh, a unit of HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in an interview yesterday. “Saudi Arabia has
been a steady supplier.”  
 Saudi Electricity Co., the Arab world’s largest utility,
and  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co ., the biggest Saudi
developer by market value, led sales of the bonds so far in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi Arabia is
rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and AA- by Standard &
Poor’s, the fourth-highest rankings.  
 The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf Cooperation Council
issuers fell 17 basis points to 6.77 percent on July 30,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index .
It’s still up from the year’s low of 6.6 percent on April 15.  
 New Issues  
 State-controlled  Saudi Electricity  sold 7 billion riyals
($1.9 billion) of 20-year Islamic bonds in May at 95 basis
points more than the three-month  Saudi riyal interbank offered
rate . That compares with a spread of 160 basis points on 7
billion riyals of similar-maturity debt in June 2009. The
company may issue sukuk overseas in 2011, Executive Director of
Treasury Fahad Alsudairy said on May 18.  
 “The new sales will entirely or almost entirely be riyal-
denominated,” said Shukla at the unit of Europe’s largest
lender. “Local Saudi banks are very flush with riyals and there
has been scarcity of riyal-denominated paper.”  
 Banks tightened rules for lending after Saad Group, the
business owned by Saudi billionaire  Maan al-Sanea , and Ahmad
Hamad Al-Gosaibi & Brothers Co. defaulted on loans last year
after borrowing at least $15.7 billion from about 80 banks.
Dubai World said in November it was seeking to renegotiate
liabilities.  
 U.A.E. Lags  
 Sales of Islamic notes from companies in the Gulf have
dropped 24 percent to $2.5 billion so far in 2010, the lowest
level since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Twenty-six
companies from Malaysia raised 9.6 billion ringgit ($3 billion)
from sukuk sales in the period, according to the data. Islamic
debt is typically backed by assets or cash flows because of
Shariah law’s ban on interest.  
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’
second-largest lender by assets, sold 500 million ringgit in the
only Islamic debt offering from the emirate this year.  
 “It may not be easy for Gulf countries to lead sukuk
issuance because real estate, the most trusted underlying asset
for sukuk, is in crisis in the region,”  Pervez Said , chief
executive officer of Dawood Islamic Bank Ltd., said in an
interview in Karachi on July 30. “The underlying asset for a
sukuk must have credibility and when the real estate has lost
its value, investors will be reluctant to buy the bond.”  
 Debt Negotiations  
 Dubai World, which is renegotiating terms on $23.5 billion
of liabilities, said on July 22 it expects to complete the
agreement in “coming months.” Property unit Nakheel PJSC,
which held a separate meeting with its lenders July 14, said a
group of creditors representing banks “unanimously supported”
a proposal on terms of $10.5 billion of loans and unpaid bills.  
 The yield on the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396
percent sukuk due in November 2014 rose two basis points to 7.12
percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
difference over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries has widened to
582 basis points from 406 when the debt was sold in October.  
 The difference in yield between the Dubai bonds and the
Malaysian government’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015
has widened 42 basis points since June 2 to 417 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Place Cash  
 Saudi Binladin Group issued a 700 million riyal sukuk last
month through a private placement to Saudi investors as the
Jeddah-based company expands, lead manager HSBC Saudi Arabia
said on July 17.  
 “There is liquidity in the system both from the
institutional side to large companies that want to place their
cash in Islamic paper,”  John Sfakianakis , chief economist at
Banque Saudi Fransi in Riyadh, said yesterday. “The supply is
coming from capital investments the kingdom is undertaking.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        