-- Saudi Arabia Shares Rise to 1-Month High on Global Stocks Rally; Oil Gains
-- Zahraa Alkhalisi
-- 2010-08-02T13:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/saudi-arabia-shares-lead-gulf-markets-higher-on-global-rally-oil-advances.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabia’s  shares  rose to the
highest in more than a month, helping lead an advance in Gulf
markets, as global equities rallied and earnings in Europe
boosted investor confidence. Oil gained to a three-month high.  
 Saudi Basic Industries Corp ., the world’s biggest
petrochemical maker, closed at the highest in almost three
weeks.  Saudi Arabian Mining Co. , the state-controlled metals
producer known as Ma’aden, climbed for a fifth day. The  Tadawul
All Share Index  advanced 0.3 percent to 6,332.45 at the 3:30
p.m. close in Riyadh. Qatar’s  QE Index  gained 0.4 percent and
the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  rose 0.3 percent.  
 “Bullish bias from international markets triggered
additional buying flows,” said  Amro Halwani , a trader at Shuaa
Capital PSC in Saudi Arabia. “Flows on Sabic and petrochemicals
are building up as oil ticks higher.”  
 European stocks  surged to a three-month high as BNP Paribas
SA and HSBC Holdings Plc led a rally in banks and basic-resource
producers climbed with base metals. Asian shares and U.S. index
futures advanced. Crude oil increased as China’s economic
outlook and the rally in equities reassured investors the global
recovery is on track.  
 Crude for September delivery gained as much as 1.9 percent
to $80.43 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
highest price since May 5. Saudi Arabia holds about one-fifth of
the world’s proven oil reserves.  
 Sabic rose 1.7 percent to 89 riyals.  Power and Water
Utility Company for Jubail and Yanbu , a company partly owned by
Sabic, signed an agreement with six Saudi banks for a 2.5
billion-riyal ($667 million) Islamic loan, Al Watan reported,
citing Chief Executive Officer Thamer Al-Sharhan.  
 Maaden gained 4.1 percent to 20.20 riyals, the highest
close since May 10.  
 The  Dubai Financial Market General Index  retreated 0.1
percent and the  Kuwait SE Price Index  dropped 0.5 percent.
Bahrain’s  measure  advanced 0.2 percent and Abu Dhabi’s  gauge 
increased 0.1 percent. Oman’s  MSM 30 Index  was little changed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        