-- HSBC, BNP Earnings Spur Decline in Bank Default Swaps to Three-Month Low
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-08-02T11:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/hsbc-bnp-earnings-spur-decline-in-bank-default-swaps-to-three-month-low.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc and BNP Paribas SA
led a decline in the cost of insuring bank bonds to the lowest
level in three months after posting profits that beat analysts’
estimates, easing concern of a global economic slowdown.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 25 banks and insurers fell 3 basis points to 112.5,
near the lowest since April 21, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. at 12:30 p.m. in London.  
 HSBC , Europe’s biggest bank, and  BNP Paribas  are the latest
companies to exceed profit forecasts in what Deutsche Bank AG
strategist  Jim Reid  called a “blockbuster earnings season.”
The reports offset former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan ’s comments that slowing growth and a decline in
housing activity could lead to a so-called double-dip recession.  
 “Earnings season is once again providing better-than-
expected numbers in both the U.S. and Europe,” London-based
Reid wrote in a note to investors.  
 Credit-default swaps on London-based HSBC fell 1 basis
point to 81 and contracts on BNP Paribas, France’s largest
lender, declined 3 to 84, according to data provider CMA. A
basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting 10
million euros ($13 million) of debt from default for five years
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Almost 60 percent of companies in the Stoxx 600 to have
reported earnings since July 12 have topped forecasts for net
income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 HSBC Income Doubles  
 HSBC said first-half net income doubled, helped by lower
bad debt provisions as its North American unit returned to
profit. Pretax profit in the U.S. was $492 million, compared
with a loss of $3.7 billion a year ago, as loan charges declined
to $4.6 billion from $8.5 billion.  
 BNP Paribas reported a 31 percent increase in second-
quarter net income to 2.11 billion euros as bad-loan provisions
dropped to the lowest level since before Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy. Earnings topped the 1.61
billion-euro median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 Higher bank profits also helped fuel a rally in corporate
credit, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings down 3 basis points at 102, the
lowest since May 13. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
credit-default swaps on 50 companies with mostly high-yield
credit ratings declined 12.5 basis points to 466.5.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        