-- HSBC's Profit Doubles as American Loan-Losses Are Stanched
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-08-02T11:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/hsbc-s-profit-doubles-as-american-loan-losses-are-stanched.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest
bank, said first-half net income doubled as the North American
unit returned to profit for the first time in three years and as
bad-debt provisions fell by 46 percent.  
 Profit rose to $6.76 billion in the six months to the end
of June from $3.35 billion in the year-earlier period. Pretax
profit of $11.1 billion beat the $8.8 billion median estimate of
10  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. The  shares  gained in London
trading.  
 “HSBC has opened the bank earnings season in some style,”
said  Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown
Stockbrokers in London. “The big positive from today’s results
is the loan provision figures, which have dropped very
significantly.”  
 HSBC  last year closed its U.S. consumer finance division to
new customers and sold assets to curtail bad loans which have
made the unit unprofitable since the first half of 2007. The
bank set aside more than $61 billion of provisions in North
America following its acquisition of subprime lender Household
International in 2003.  
 Pretax profit in North America was $492 million, compared
with a loss of $3.7 billion a year ago, as bad-loan charges
declined to $4.6 billion from $8.5 billion.  
 “As we focus on building a high quality asset base for the
future, it is encouraging that loan impairment charges now stand
at their lowest levels since the start of the financial
crisis,” said Chief Executive Officer  Michael Geoghegan  in the
statement.  
 Asia Profit  
 HSBC is the first of the U.K. banks to report earnings for
the period.  BNP Paribas SA , France’s biggest bank, today said
second quarter profit rose 31 percent as bad loans declined.  
 The 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
 Index  gained 3.1 percent at 12:01 p.m. London time, its highest
in more than three months.  HSBC  gained 4.8 percent to 678 pence,
the highest since April 29.  
 Pretax profit in Hong Kong and Asia Pacific rose 30 percent
to $5.86 billion, while in Europe it rose 18 percent to $3.5
billion. The bank made a profit of $1.17 billion at its consumer
banking division from a loss of $1.25 billion. Total bad debt
provisions declined to $7.5 billion from $13.9 billion. The bank
made a $1.1 billion profit on changes to the fair value of its
debt, compared with a loss of $2.3 billion.  
 Investment Banking  
 Investment banking pretax profit declined 11 percent to
$5.63 billion, as revenue fell 12 percent to $10.8 billion.  
 HSBC ’s results are “poor quality,” with lower loan
losses masking revenue that missed estimates, said  Andrew Lim , a
London-based analyst at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP with a
“sell” rating on the bank. “To merely bring forward a
normalization in provisioning, which we already anticipate
(albeit later), will only have a small impact on valuation,” he
wrote.  
 Revenue from HSBC’s investment bank was the second-best
ever after the “exceptional performance” in the first half of
last year, HSBC Chief Financial Officer  Douglas Flint  said on a
conference call with reporters. Profit from foreign exchange and
rates were down, while there was a better performance in
equities, asset structured finance and some of the transactional
business and in principal investments, Flint said.  
 Unlike British rivals  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
Lloyds Banking Group Plc,  HSBC  didn’t need to be bailed out with
taxpayer funds during the financial crisis. It takes more in
customer deposits than it lends, which assists its liquidity.  
 ‘Anaemic Growth’  
 Geoghegan moved to Hong Kong in February, leaving Chairman
 Stephen Green  in London, as the bank focuses on emerging markets
and plans an initial public offering in Shanghai next year.
Global growth is likely to remain constrained because of
“anaemic growth” in western nations, Geoghegan said today in
the statement, while he is “bullish” on emerging economies.  
 HSBC said the U.K.’s one-off 50 percent bonus tax cost
about $91 million. The government imposed the levy on bonuses of
more than 25,000 pounds ($38,000) on payouts awarded between
Dec. 9, 2009, and April 5.  
 HSBC has failed to resolve some structural problems, with
an inability to increase lending as the run-off of the U.S.
subprime unit outstrips accelerated loan growth in Asia, wrote
 Ian Gordon , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas SA, in a note to
clients. This will limit future profitability, he said  
 HSBC has a loan-to-deposit ratio of below 80 percent, the
bank said today. Total assets increased by 2.3 percent to $2.4
trillion since the end of 2009.  
 Lloyds, Northern Rock Plc,  Standard Chartered Plc , Barclays
and RBS report results later this week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        