-- Schumacher Accepts Penalty After Barrichello Slams `Dangerous' Race Move
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-08-02T10:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/schumacher-accepts-penalty-after-barrichello-slams-dangerous-race-move.html

          
          
             Seven-time Formula One champion
 Michael Schumacher  said he accepts the punishment imposed by
race officials after a maneuver that rival driver  Rubens Barrichello  said could have killed him.  
 Barrichello was almost forced into a concrete wall at
yesterday’s Hungarian Grand Prix near Budapest before getting
past his former teammate to claim 10th place. Schumacher was
subsequently given a 10-place grid penalty for the next race by
stewards of the FIA ruling body for impeding Barrichello.  
 “I am lucky to be here,” Barrichello, who drives for the
Williams team, told RTL television after the race. “If he wants
to go to heaven before me, he can. I don’t want to go to heaven.
It was the most dangerous thing I’ve ever been through.”  
 Schumacher, formerly a teammate of Barrichello at Ferrari,
defended his actions.  
 “Regarding the overtaking maneuver with Rubens, I
indicated pretty early that I would move towards the inside and
not simply give up the line, and there was just enough space for
him to pass me without touching each other,” he told  his
website . “It was a hard fight, and this is what we are here
for, but I accept that the FIA stewards saw it as too hard.”  
 Schumacher, 41, returned to drive in Formula One for
Mercedes GP this season after retiring in 2006.  
 “Today’s race was probably was one of the toughest that I
have had so far,” he said. “It was pretty edgy to drive the
car on the limit so I had to fight my way through the race, and
at the end it was like walking on ice.”  
 Red Bull’s Mark Webber won the race and took the lead in
the drivers’ standings from McLaren’s Lewis Hamilton. Red Bull
also went top of the constructors’ table, ahead of McLaren.  
 After a mid-season break, the next Formula One race is the
Belgian Grand Prix at Spa-Francorchamps on Aug. 29.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        