-- Serbian Central Bank Sells Euros After Statement Fails to Stem Dinar Drop
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-08-02T15:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/serbian-central-bank-sells-euros-after-statement-fails-to-stem-dinar-drop.html

          
          
             Serbia’s central bank sold 40 million
euros ($52.7 million) today to stem declines in the dinar,
shortly after Vice Governor  Bojan Markovic  sought to bolster the
currency by saying it was “underestimated.”  
 The National Bank of Serbia sold euros on the interbank
market to “prevent excessive daily oscillations in the dinar,”
the bank said in a statement from Belgrade. The dinar fell more
than 0.5 percent to 107 per euro, the weakest level since the
central bank linked the currency to the euro.  
 The renewed focus on the dinar comes three days before
central bank policy makers, who have kept the two-week
repurchase rate at 8 percent since May 11, hold a rate-setting
meeting. The bank has sold more than 1.5 billion euros this year
to prop up the dinar, which has lost more than 12 percent
against the euro.  
 The dinar’s decline is “psychologically driven” and its
depreciation is “not helpful” for economic stability, Markovic
said in a statement before the bank sold euros. The dinar
exchange rate already “ensures a sufficiently strong stimulus
for export growth and for balance of payments adjustment.”  
 The dinar’s decline has prompted concern about price
increases that may jeopardize the central bank’s inflation
target of 4 percent to 8 percent this year.  
 Serbia needs to resist demands for higher wages and
pensions to meet the budget deficit target of 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product set by the  International Monetary Fund .  
 “Moderate dinar depreciation has become an accepted tool
in order to restrain the growing budget deficit,” while policy
makers search for the best ways to promote growth led by exports
and investment rather than consumption, Raiffeisen Research said
in its July note on Serbia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        