-- Serbian Central Bank Chief Says Liquidity on Debt Market Can Aid Policy
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-08-02T08:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/serbian-central-bank-chief-says-liquidity-on-debt-market-can-aid-policy.html

          
          
             Serbian central bank Governor  Dejan Soskic , who took office last week, said boosting domestic debt
market liquidity will make monetary policy more effective.  
 The National Bank of Serbia will also continue to target
inflation and manage the dinar to ensure policy makers meet
price-stability goals, Soskic said in written answers to
Bloomberg questions.  
 “For a more efficient monetary policy, it is important to
develop a more liquid secondary debt market of longer, dinar-
denominated maturities,” Soskic wrote, without offering
specifics.  
 Soskic, who replaced  Radovan Jelasic  as head of the
nation’s monetary policy, has said he wants to reassure
investors and citizens the central bank will focus on reviving
growth in Serbia, which fell into a recession in 2009 as demand
and exports declined.  
 The secondary debt market started earlier this year, but
banks have kept dinar-denominated Treasury bills in their
portfolios as new, longer-dated debt issues remain undersold and
yields have risen. The dinar has lost 12 percent so far this
year, even as central bank sold more than 1.5 billion euros
($1.96 billion) in reserves to slow its decline.  
 The economy remains reliant on euros as Serbians keep
foreign currency after bouts of hyper-inflation and dinar
devaluations in the 1990s devastated savings. The government
wants to boost the role of the dinar as more than 70 percent of
all bank transactions are in foreign currencies.  
 Weakening Dinar  
 The falling dinar is a concern for the central bank because
it may threaten its inflation target, set in a band for 2010
between 4 percent to 8 percent. The stability of the banking
system is also seen at risk as a weaker dinar triggers defaults
among borrowers.  
 The central bank will continue buying and selling dinars on
the market to smooth daily swings rather than go against its
trend, Soskic, 43, said. The bank will also calculate the risk
that may result from any tighter monetary policy as it could
lead to “growing illiquidity and GDP growth below the economy’s
potential,” he said.  
 “Intervening from foreign-exchange reserves comes often at
a high cost, with a need for the country to additionally
borrow,” Soskic said.  
 Serbia has a 3 billion-euro loan program with the
International Monetary Fund, running through April 2011,
approved in early 2009 to support its balance of payments at a
time when foreign investors fled most emerging-market economies
fearing the impact of the global financial and economic crisis.  
 IMF Mission  
 An IMF mission will be in Belgrade in September to review
Serbia’s progress toward agreed policy targets, including
tighter fiscal policy and a budget deficit within 4.8 percent of
GDP.  
 “The key issue will be the level of fiscal restrictiveness
and savings in budget spending,” Soskic said. The outcome of
talks will shape Serbia’s risk premiums and investor sentiment.  
 Investor sentiment will also play a role in 2011, when
Serbian banks need to adjust to the Basel II set of standards
and rules as some banks may need additional capital. The
majority of banks in Serbia have capital adequacy ratios close
to 20 percent, more than double what Basel II sets as a minimum.  
 Soskic, a former lecturer at the University of California
at Berkley and University of Rhode Island, was backed by the
Democratic Party led by President  Boris Tadic . As part of his
non-academic career, Soskic used to be head of a Belgrade-based
brokerage. He also chaired the central bank’s supervisory board
and worked as an adviser to a former central bank governor in
early 2000.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        