-- Shanghai Composite Is Set for Another `Wave' of Gains: Technical Analysis
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-08-02T02:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/shanghai-composite-is-set-for-another-wave-of-gains-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  may
be set for another “wave” of gains after completing a so-
called correction that lasted for almost a year, according to
Elliott Wave International Inc.  
 The Shanghai index capped a three-wave decline in early
July and has turned higher near the 61.8 percent  retracement  of
its 2008 to 2009 rally according to the Fibonacci sequence, the
research company said. That also coincided with the lower line
of the  trend channel  that had contained the decline from its
August 2009 high.  
 “This confluence of pattern, price and channel support
also argues that Chinese stocks have put in a significant low,”
the Gainesville, Georgia-based  research company  said in its
August Asian-Pacific Financial Forecast report.  
 The  Shanghai Composite  has gained 12 percent from this
year’s low on July 5 amid speculation that the government will
ease property curbs and allow more lending to offset a slowdown
in economic growth. Even after the rebound, the measure is down
20 percent for the year, the worst performer in Asia. A
correction is defined as a 10 percent decline from a recent high.  
 A  gauge  tracking small- and medium-sized companies on the
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and a measure of automobile stocks have
led the rebound in China, signaling that “the next impulse wave
up has begun,” according to the report.  
 The China Shenzhen Small Medium Enterprise Composite Index
has jumped 17 percent from the July 5 low, while the FTSE Xinhua
600 Index’s  Automobile & Parts Index  has gained 23 percent,
outpacing the Shanghai Composite’s advance.  
 “When stocks and sectors that led a previous rally display
relative strength in a correction and then appear to take off
again, it often signals that the general market’s uptrend has
resumed,” the researcher said.  
 Elliott Wave  
 Elliott Wave Theory, created by U.S. market analyst Ralph
Elliott in 1938, attempts to predict future price moves by
dividing past trends into sections, or waves, and calculating
changes in value.  
 Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low. The
ratios are based on the sequence pioneered by 13th century
mathematician Leonardo Pisano Fibonacci and used in technical
analysis to determine highs and lows for prices and predict
direction.  
 Elsewhere in Asia, the Taiex Communications & Internet
Industry Index is leading a recovery in Taiwan’s  Taiex index ,
which may rise to a minimum of 17,500, Elliott Wave
International said, without giving a timeframe for its target.
The Taiex gained 1.7 percent to 7,890 today, paring a yearly
loss to 3.6 percent. The sub-index has climbed 15 percent in
2010.  
 A measure tracking  metals shares  on the Bombay Stock
Exchange is also leading gains in India since the market’s 2008
low and may form at least one more wave higher to complete its
pattern, the research company also said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Darby, chief Asian equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, speaks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's stock market and economy.
     China’s manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in 17 months in July as the government clamped down on property speculation and investment in energy-intensive and polluting factories. Darby also discusses China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Kurtz, head of China research at Macquarie Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for China stocks. 
     Kurtz, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy, central bank monetary policy and real estate market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
