-- Singapore Interbank Lending Rate Falls Most in 11 Months on Growth Outlook
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-08-02T07:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/singapore-interbank-lending-rate-falls-most-in-11-months-on-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             Singapore’s three-month interbank
loan rate fell the most in 11 months as record economic growth
on the island and signs of expansion globally bolstered
confidence in the nation’s lenders.  
 So-called Sibor, which banks charge each other to borrow in
U.S. dollars, fell 1.4 basis points to 0.466 percent when the
rate was fixed at 11 a.m. local time. The decline, the largest
since Aug. 31, brought the figure to the lowest level since May.  
 Yields worldwide indicate investors are becoming more
willing to lend as economies expand. Singapore’s economy is
vying to be the world’s fastest-expanding in 2010 as rising
demand for goods and services prompted the government to raise
growth forecasts three times this year.  
 “Bank risk has diminished,” said  Andy Cossor , Hong Kong-
based chief market strategist for Asia at DZ Bank AG, Germany’s
fifth-largest lender. “Asian banks in general are in better
health than banks in other parts of the world.”  
 The global financial crisis that started with the collapse
of the U.S. property market in 2007 has triggered $42.6 billion
of writedowns and credit losses  at banks and other financial
institutions in Asia, according to Bloomberg data. Losses
totaled $1.19 trillion in the U.S. and $569.5 billion in Europe.  
 Falling rates have a downside for Singapore’s banks. The
three-month local-currency interbank lending  rate  has averaged
0.6 percent in 2010, versus 1.93 percent over the past five
years. The decline shrinks lending profit at local banks
including DBS Group Holdings Ltd., United Overseas Bank Ltd. and
Oversea-Chinese banking Corp.  
 Job Gains  
 Singapore employers added jobs for a fourth consecutive
quarter in the April-through-June period, the Ministry of
Manpower said July 30. Economic growth accelerated to 18.1
percent in the first half, the fastest pace since government
records began in 1975, vying with Qatar for the quickest
expansion this year.  
 The three-month London interbank  offered rate  for dollars,
known as Libor, fell for a 13th day on July 30 to 0.454 percent.
The TED spread, the difference between what banks and the U.S.
pay to borrow for three months, narrowed to 31 basis points,
also the least since May.  
 The U.S. reported July 30 that growth in the world’s
largest economy slowed to 2.4 percent in the second quarter from
3.7 percent in the first, quelling concerns the nation is headed
for a recession.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        