-- Smashed Car Windows Lead Dubious Insurance Claims, Group Says
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-08-02T19:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/smashed-car-windows-lead-increase-in-dubious-insurance-claims-group-says.html

          
          
             Questionable insurance claims rose 14
percent in the first half of 2010, led by a fivefold increase
for car windows that owners may have smashed, the National
Insurance Crime Bureau reported today.  
 Almost half the 7,993 cases of suspected fraud were related
to vehicles, the industry group said. Some policyholders
deliberately damaged car windows or staged phony accidents, it
said. The number of dubious claims for hailstorm damage to roofs
of houses doubled.  
 While the first-half increase was less than the 20 percent
in possible fraud during the first six months of 2009, the
persistence of dubious claims “raises concerns,” said  Joe Wehrle , president of the industry group.  
 Criminals “try to take advantage of the insurance
company’s desire to pay claims as quickly and efficiently as
possible,” he said.  
 The increase in phony claims comes as U.S. payrolls
declined in June and are expected to fall again in July. The
 jobless rate  reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October
and has averaged 8.6 percent in the past two years.  
 “There is a link between the downturn in the economy and
the increase in all types of insurance fraud,” said Ron
Poindexter, director of operations for the NICB in the
southeastern U.S., in a June interview.  
 More than five times as many people appear to have smashed
their car windows on purpose to generate insurance payouts --
1,498 claims compared with 239 in the year-prior period.
Suspected bogus vehicle accidents were up 27 percent, the
industry group said.  
 Hailstorm, Medical Claims  
 Insurers faced twice as many possible fraudulent claims of
hail damage in the first half of this year compared with last
year’s first six months, the group said.  
 The 506 instances of purported hail-damage fraud added to
costs for insurers such as Travelers Cos. and Chubb Corp, which
reported spikes in costs related to storms in the Midwest.  
 Claims for seemingly excessive medical treatments rose 28
percent. Auto insurance fraud for coverage of bodily injury cost
the industry $4.8 billion to $6.8 billion in 2007, and the
expense has been climbing since at least 2002, David Corum,
 Insurance Research Council  vice president, said in June.  
 U.S. car insurers led by State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance
Co., Allstate Corp. and  Berkshire Hathaway  Inc.’s Geico, are
seeking to identify doctors who handle the greatest number of
claims suspected of fraud.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        