-- Snooki Tanning-Bed Protest Splits Sin From Taxes: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-08-03T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/snooki-tanning-bed-protest-splits-sin-from-taxes-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             Snookered by  Snooki . That’s what
President  Barack Obama  probably felt after the reality TV
celebrity introduced race into the discussion of a new tax on
tanning.  
 “McCain would never put a 10 percent tax on tanning,” the
“ Jersey Shore ” star, whose real name is Nicole Polizzi, said
of the man who lost the election to Obama. “Because he’s pale
and would probably want to be tan.”  
 Once again, Obama found himself on the defensive about a
racial matter.  
 Snooki managed to put her browned finger on an important
weakness plaguing all of Washington. Call it tax sanctimony.
Presidents and lawmakers demonstrate this condition when they
link a tax to a social purpose. This pairing is disingenuous,
wastes political energy and, in the long run, actually deprives
federal coffers of needed revenue.  
 The tanning-bed tax is a fine example. The administration
and lawmakers no doubt told themselves they’d get away with this
tax since most voters would approve of penalizing those who seek
an indoor tan. After all, research suggests tanning beds triple
the risk of melanoma.  
 The first problem with this is that imposing a tax to
improve public health doesn’t always succeed as policy. That’s
partly because tax laws can’t keep up with scientific research,
says  J.D. Foster  of the Heritage Foundation.  
 More Wine, Please  
 Recent research suggests there are health benefits to
consuming a moderate amount of wine. “So what do we do now”
asks Foster, “subsidize the first two glasses and place
penalties on the third and fourth?”  
 Another trouble is that people don’t like government
moralizing. If there’s one thing people dislike even more than
taxes, it’s being told what to do.  
 In the tanning-tax case, politicians will have to waste
what is to them more than the equivalent of the $2.7 billion in
revenue their silly levy will bring in.  
 It is time our lawmakers adopted a cheerful, cynical
attitude toward all sin taxes, those on tanning, cigarettes or
other products upon which Americans generally frown. Then the
lawmakers can rake in multiples of $2.7 billion with ease.  
 The best example of such opportunistic generosity was
demonstrated by President  Franklin Roosevelt  in 1932 and 1933.
Roosevelt and the Democratic Party saw that the nation was weary
of Prohibition. So they ignored the moral question altogether,
colluding to amend the Constitution and repeal the  Volstead Act .
The New Dealers then proceeded to tax the heck out of liquor,
ignoring those who pointed out that liquor taxes were
regressive.  
 Honest Deal  
 In other words, the New Deal made an honest deal with the
people: the public gets to drink, and the government gets a new
tax. That agreement would have failed if liquor were already
legal. But it wasn’t. Roosevelt knew that Americans would view
the shift from no beer to taxed beer as a net improvement and
stand, or wobble, behind him.  
 The revenue rolled in. In 1940, liquor taxes represented 11
percent of all tax revenue. Taken together, tax revenue from
liquor and tobacco sales accounted for more federal revenue than
the income tax.  
 As luck would have it, a similarly intoxicating opportunity
now exists for Obama. People feel about marijuana today the way
they felt about liquor when FDR became president. Americans are
increasingly supporting legalization of the drug. For the first
time in memory, it seems conceivable that a president might be
able to push legalization through Congress.  
 Grateful Heads  
 If the administration backed the legalization of marijuana,
consumers would be so grateful that the government could tax the
heck out of the herb. The revenue Washington would draw would be
several multiples more than those from a tanning tax.  
 Or our leaders could suppress all scruples and just jump
into the marijuana business outright. As  Stephen Easton , an
economist at the free-market Fraser Institute in Vancouver has
written, Canada’s experience with legal marijuana suggests that
the U.S. federal government can raise as much as $100 billion in
revenue.  
 But such a tax policy would mean decoupling moral questions
from revenue needs. Neither party is ready to make that move.
Republicans love to provide incentives while Democrats prefer
disincentives.  
 Americans generally seem to prefer that marijuana
legalization happen for medical reasons, and gradually, state by
state. That means that the forthcoming marijuana debates will be
narrowed to tedious entitlement debates about whether and how
Medicare and Medicaid will cover marijuana use. Pot may well
turn out to be a tax burden, not a tax break.  
 The greater economic reality is that a simpler tax code
with fewer distorting incentives and disincentives tends to
increase economic efficiency. Such efficiency yields the growth
that in turn also gives the government dollars to spend on pet
social causes. As it manages Snookigate, Washington might want
to start repeating the following mantra: Taxes are for revenue,
and there’s nothing sinful about that.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        