-- Somali Insurgent Groups Say They Plan to Join Forces to Fight Government
-- Hamsa Omar
-- 2010-08-02T12:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/somali-insurgent-groups-say-they-plan-to-join-forces-to-fight-government.html

          
          
             Somalia’s two main insurgent groups
said they intend to join forces to oppose the country’s Western-
backed government and a rejected a report by a domestic radio
station that talks on the proposed merger were in jeopardy.  
 Al-Shabaab, which the U.S. accuses of having links with al-
Qaeda, and Hisbul Islam, said they began talks last month aimed
at amalgamating their operations. Spokesmen for both groups
denied a report yesterday by  Radio Shabelle , a Mogadishu-based
broadcaster, that the negotiations had failed.  
 “There have been meetings for the past eight days to
amalgamate the two sides’ holy mujahedeen brothers into one
gigantic powerful unit,” Sheikh Hassan Mahdi, an official from
Hisbul Islam, told reporters today in Mogadishu.  
 Somalia’s government has been battling insurgents opposed
to the rule of President  Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed  for the past
three years. Most of southern and central Somalia has been
seized by the militants, while Sharif’s administration controls
only portions of Mogadishu, with support from African Union
peacekeepers. The country hasn’t had a functioning central
administration since the ouster of former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.  
 Shabelle reported yesterday that a “great dispute” had
derailed talks between al-Shabaab and Hisbul had failed.  
 The report is “null and void,” Sheikh Muktar Robow Ali Abu
Mansor, a spokesman for al-Shabaab, told reporters at the media
briefing today.  
 Last week, African leaders meeting in Uganda agreed to a
recommendation by the Intergovernmental Authority on
Development, an East African body grouping six countries, that
2,000 peacekeepers be sent to bolster the existing 6,100 African
Union force already in Somalia.  
 The decision came after a bomb attack in Kampala, the
Ugandan capital, a week earlier that killed 76 people and which
al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hamsa Omar  in Mogadishu via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        