-- Somali Pirate Attacks Sink Premiums as Insurers Leap Aboard
-- Kevin Crowley
-- 2010-08-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/somali-piracy-attacks-surge-premiums-sink-as-more-insurers-leap-aboard.html

          
          
             Kidnap and ransom premiums paid to
insure against Somali piracy have slumped since the BBC Trinidad
was hijacked in the Gulf of Aden in August 2008 as escalating
attacks spurred more companies to offer coverage.  
 Buying $5 million of coverage now costs as little as
$15,000 per voyage, half the peak rate in 2008, said William
Miller, divisional director of  Willis Group Holding Plc ’s Kidnap
and Ransom, or K&R, unit in London.  
 “Piracy is a peak risk with a relatively low probability
of happening, but with an immensely high damage potential,”
said Niels Stolberg, head of Bremen, Germany-based Beluga
Shipping GmbH, the Trinidad’s owner. The company now buys kidnap
and ransom coverage for every ship crossing “this dangerous
passage,” after paying a $1.1 million ransom to release the
vessel and its 13 crew from the pirate haven of Eyl, he said.  
 Kidnap and ransom premiums climbed to $100 million last
year as pirate attacks on the 25,000 ships passing through the
Gulf of Aden rose 70 percent. That prompted more insurers,
including Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd.,  Ascot Underwriting Ltd. 
and  Chubb Corp. , to offer marine K&R coverage, a policy first
developed to address kidnapping in South America.  
 The insurance covers the ransom of the ship and its crew,
including negotiations with pirates and hiring ex-special forces
teams to deliver the money. With Somali pirates usually
returning hijacked vessels undamaged, kidnap and ransom plugs a
gap in war-risk insurance that only covers damage to a ship and
its cargo, said Stolberg.  
 Ransoms Increase  
 The average ransom has almost doubled to between $3.5
million and $4 million since Chubb entered the market 22 months
ago, said K&R Manager Greg Bangs, adding that the company
expects to expand its piracy business further.  
 “At first the rates were a little higher than they should
have been and then over time insurers realized they could reduce
their rates and still make money,” said Bangs.  
 The decline in rates has deterred Ascot from writing any
policies since being authorized to offer kidnap and ransom
coverage last November, said Andrew Moulton, a marine
underwriter at the Lloyd’s of London arm of American
International Group Inc.  
 “Traditional carriers have been cutting each other so much
to get the premium in that the price has fallen off the end of a
cliff,” said Moulton, adding that in the current economic
climate, most ship owners won’t buy kidnap and ransom insurance
as they view it as “icing on the cake” rather than core
coverage.  
 ‘Big Problem’  
 Pirates are currently holding 18 ships and 379 hostages, up
from 11 ships and 261 hostages at the beginning of the year,
according to the  International Maritime Bureau . When the summer
monsoon in the Indian Ocean ends this month, attacks may rise as
pirates venture from lairs such as Garacad, Hobyo and Harardhere
on the Somali coast, said bureau Director  Pottengal Mukundan .  
 “It’s a big problem,” said  Per Gullestrup , chief
executive officer of Clipper Ferries. He arranged for a $1.7
million cash ransom to be parachuted to pirates that used AK-47s
and rocket-propelled grenades to hijack the CEC Future in
November 2008. “The Somali pirates have shown they are quite
good at adapting to the situation.”  
 Pirates are being encouraged by the ransoms and the ease
with which they capture ships, said Sven Gerhard, global product
leader of marine hull & liabilities at  Allianz SE ’s corporate
and specialty unit. Ship owners must also pay as much as $2.5
million to negotiators and security firms that fly the ransom to
a drop-off point, he said.  
 ‘Taking More Risks’  
 While the presence of the  Combined Maritime Forces  in the
Gulf of Aden cut attacks by 18 percent to 196 in the first half
of this year, incidents in the surrounding Somali basin and
Indian Ocean rose 14 percent to 51 as the pirates used larger
mother ships to widen their range toward the Maldives and as far
south as the Mozambique Channel, according to the maritime
bureau.  
 Attacks have been reported as far as 1,000 miles from
shore.  
 “They’re going further and they’re taking more risks than
before,” said Guillaume Bonnissent at  Hiscox Ltd.  in London,
the world’s largest underwriter for piracy coverage.  
 Premiums depend on the ship’s speed, height of its deck
above sea level and measures taken to protect the vessel, said
Sean Woollerson, a partner at  Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s biggest publicly traded insurance broker.  
 While most insurers advise ship owners to deploy razor wire
and train sailors how to legally fend off attacks, Woollerson
also aims to raise funds for a fleet of escort ships to shepherd
vessels through the Gulf of Aden. That may push rates down
further, he said.  
 ‘Private Navy’  
 “We are working on a unique concept to create a legitimate
private navy for the shipping industry to complement the
existing naval forces to stop this kind of piracy escalating,”
said Woollerson, who estimates start-up costs of $15 million.
“This is the only way we’re ever going to stem these attacks.”  
 For the moment, Beluga Shipping deploys high-pressure hoses
and cardboard dummies called “soldiers” to deter boarders,
after the Trinidad was captured by nine pirates using two
speedboats, said Stolberg.  
 “Sending armed teams aboard is a last resort,” said Mark
Hankey, a spokesman for  Maritime & Underwater Security
Consultants , which gives shipping lines transit advice from its
basement control center opposite London’s Royal Courts of
Justice. Using arms involves the risk of “massive escalation,”
he said.  
 When the company does employ guards on cargo vessels it
stations three to four former British Royal Marines or Royal
Navy personnel to escort ships through pirate waters, said
Hankey.  
 No Guarantees  
 The naval task force is no longer effective after the
pirates expanded the scope of their operations, said Jan-Thiess
Heitmann, head of the legal department at the German Ship
Owners’ Association. While the association is against arming
crew members or hiring armed security guards, it’s in talks with
the German government on installing soldiers on merchant ships.  
 “The number of forces is never going to be enough to
guarantee protection,” a spokesman for the 24-nation Combined
Maritime Forces said in an e-mailed statement. “Pirates are
opportunists who will seek the easiest target available.”  
 The naval force deploys as many as 25 vessels in counter-
piracy operations along a recommended transit corridor that runs
from close to the Bab-el-Mandeb at the southern end of the Red
Sea through the Gulf of Aden to a point north of the Yemeni
island of Socotra. The corridor carries about a fifth of the
world’s  trade .  
 Gullestrup says a set of best practices, introduced by the
naval task force, have helped keep the rest of Clipper’s fleet
safe. Still, he says the only long-term solution to piracy is to
help Somalia, a country that has lacked a central government
since the overthrow of former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in
1991, develop its own security and coastguard infrastructure.  
 “All the money would be much better spent in assisting the
Somalis in capacity building,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;  Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
4104 or  cbandel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Kidnap and ransom premiums paid to insure against Somali piracy have slumped since the BBC Trinidad was hijacked in the Gulf of Aden in August 2008 as escalating attacks spurred more companies to offer coverage. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
