-- South African Bonds Rally, Rand Gains to Highest Since April on Recovery
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-08-02T13:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/south-african-bonds-rally-rand-gains-to-highest-since-april-on-recovery.html

          
          
             South African bonds and the rand
rallied to the strongest levels in more than three months on
speculation the global recovery is intact, bolstering the
appetite for riskier, higher-yielding developing-nation assets.  
 The currency of Africa’s biggest economy appreciated as
much as 0.7 percent to 7.2476 per dollar, the strongest level
since April, before trading 0.6 percent up at 7.2555 by 3:07
p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of 7.2972. The
benchmark 13.5 percent government bond due September 2015 gained
7 cents to 124.70 rand, the highest since April 26, reducing the
yield by 2 basis points to 7.57 percent.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks rose to a three-
month high on speculation China will reverse policies aimed at
cooling its economy and after South Korea’s exports increased
more than forecast. Analysts expect a report will show U.S.
manufacturing slowed, raising the likelihood the Federal Reserve
will keep its main interest rate near zero to help the economy.  
 “A lot of money is flowing into emerging markets at the
moment as the risk-on trade comes back,” said  Ian Scott , a bond
and currency trader at Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg.
“There are still a lot of guys out there looking for yield,
which makes emerging markets the flavor of the month because the
developed world is still in a bit of trouble.”  
 ‘In Demand’  
 Foreign investors have been net buyers of more than 80
billion rand ($11.03 billion) of South African stocks and bonds
this year, according to data from the  JSE Ltd. , which operates
the nation’s exchanges. Such inflows have helped the rand surge
30 percent against the dollar since the start of 2009.  
 “South African assets remain in demand,” said  Marc Copeland , a currency trader in Cape Town at  Investec Asset
Management , which oversees about $70 billion in assets. Foreign
investors are “still strong buyers of bonds and equities and
this is translating into a stronger rand.”  
 A report today showed country’s  purchasing managers’ index 
stayed below 50 for a second consecutive month, indicating a
contraction in output and putting pressure on the central bank
to lower its 6.5 percent  benchmark rate  next month. The
seasonally adjusted index rose to 49.5 from 48.4 in June,
Johannesburg-based  Kagiso Securities Ltd.  said in an e-mail.  
 Money-market investors increased bets that South Africa’s
central bank will reduce its main interest rate at its next
meeting on Sept. 9, forward-rate agreements show. The cost of
 three-month contracts for cash in three months  fell 2 basis
points from the previous close to 6.23 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        