-- South African PMI Stays Below 50 in July, Indicating Drop in Manufacturing
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-08-02T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/south-african-pmi-stays-below-50-in-july-indicating-drop-in-manufacturing.html

          
          
             South Africa’s  purchasing managers’
index  stayed below 50 for a second consecutive month in July,
indicating a sustained contraction in manufacturing,  Kagiso
Securities Ltd.  said.  
 The seasonally adjusted index rose to 49.5 from 48.4 in
June, Johannesburg-based Kagiso said in an e-mailed statement
today. The drop below 50 in the past two months is the first
since October 2009.  
 The decline in  manufacturing  output, which accounts for 15
percent of the economy, may undermine economic growth in the
third quarter, raising doubts about the strength of the recovery
from last year’s recession. The rand has gained 3.1 percent
against the dollar in the past six months, while slower growth
in Europe, which buys a third of South African goods, has cut
export demand.  
 “While the July PMI points to some consolidation following
a fairly steep decline from the high reached in February, the
level of the index suggests that the manufacturing sector
slowdown continued at the start of the first quarter,” Kagiso’s
Theo Vorster said in the statement.  
 The index measuring new sales orders index dropped to 48.5
last month from 50.4 in June, while the business activity index
increased to 50.9 from 45.2, Kagiso said.  
 “The sustainability of the move back above 50 in the
business activity index is questionable as the new sales orders
index slipped below the key 50 mark,” according to the
statement.  
 Job losses probably eased in July, with the employment sub-
index increasing to 47.6 from 45.9, Kagiso said. South Africa’s
 jobless rate  of 25.3 percent is the highest of 62 countries
tracked by Bloomberg.  
 The  Bureau for Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near Cape Town, and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        