-- Stericycle Plans Debt as 6 Year-Low in Yields Spurs Sales: New Bond Alert
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-08-02T08:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/stericycle-plans-debt-as-6-year-low-in-yields-spurs-sales-new-bond-alert.html

          
          
             Stericycle Inc. , the Illinois-based
provider of regulated medical waste management services, plans
to sell $400 million of debt after July issuance jumped to the
highest since March.  
 Stericycle may sell $175 million of 3.89 percent, seven-
year notes and $225 million of 4.47 percent, 10-year debt, the
Lake Forest, Illinois-based company said last week in a
statement distributed by Business Wire.  
 Companies sold $90.4 billion of bonds in July, the most
since March, when volume totaled $139.8 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuers are offering bonds as
borrowing costs tumble, said  Didi Weinblatt , vice president of
mutual fund portfolios at San Antonio-based USAA Investment
Management.  
 “Any corporate treasurer must be in heaven today,” said
Weinblatt, who helps oversee more than $44 billion in assets.
“There’s a lot of cash on balance sheets right now, but
wouldn’t you be projecting out for the next many years and
raising money at these low rates? I think I would.”  
 Absolute yields on investment-grade corporate debt fell 16
basis points last week to 4 percent on July 30, the lowest
since March 17, 2004, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Corporate Master index. The extra yield investors demand
to own investment-grade corporate bonds rather than government
debt fell 5 basis points in the week to 188 basis points, the
index data show.  
 Investor Qualms  
 As borrowing costs drop, returns may not be appealing for
investors, Weinblatt said.  
 “I don’t know if there’s value for us,” she said. “The
spreads aren’t that bad but when you look at the absolute yield
levels, it’s a little hard.”  
 Volume on July 30 was $1.45 billion, Bloomberg data show.
 Noble Group Ltd ., the commodities supplier backed by China’s
sovereign wealth fund, led issuance, selling $750 million of
notes in a two-part offering.  
 Last week’s sales totaled $22.1 billion, the third
consecutive five-day period in which issuance exceeded $20
billion, the data show.  Westpac Banking Corp ., Australia’s
second-biggest lender, sold the most debt in the five days ended
July 30 in a $3 billion dollar-denominated issue. Commonwealth
Bank of Australia is the nation’s biggest bank.  
 AT&T Inc . led nonfinancial issuance in the week with a
$2.25 billion offering of 2.5 percent, five-year notes, the data
show.  
 Sales of high-yield, high-risk debt jumped to $6.45 billion
for the week, the busiest since the five days ended April 30,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  
 ‘Appetite for New Paper’  
 “The appetite for new paper is astonishing and indicative
of continued bond fund inflows,”  Byron Douglass , a senior
analyst with Credit Derivatives Research LLC, based in Walnut
Creek, California, wrote in a research note last week. “For
relative value players, we advise revisiting the secondary
market as the aggressive bidding for new issues leaves little
value on the table.”  
 Spreads on junk debt narrowed 2 basis points to 657 basis
points for the week, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index. Yields on the debt fell
14 basis points to 8.507 percent, the least since May 5, the
index data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Stericycle plans to sell debt after receiving informal
commitments from 22 institutional investors to buy the
securities, it said its statement.  
 August Issuance  
 The company plans to issue the securities in October,
Stericycle Chief Financial Officer  Frank ten Brink  said in an
earnings call on July 28. Proceeds will be used to repay term
debt and a portion of a revolving credit line, he said. The
company is  unrated  by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s, Bloomberg data show.  
 Issuance may be active in August “if we continue to have
reasonably low Treasury yields,” said  Jason Brady , a managing
director at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, New
Mexico.  
 “There’s a lot of demand from the investor side for
sure,” said Brady, who helps oversee about $57 billion.  
 Following is a description of at least $7.7 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG, Switzerland’s second-largest bank,
is selling $1.5 billion of Tier 1 bonds, according to two people
with knowledge of the sale. The notes, callable after five
years, will carry a coupon of 7.875 percent, said the people,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Credit
Suisse is managing the sale of the bonds, which will be issued
through Claudius Ltd, the people said.  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank will sell the bonds by the end of
this year in both dollars and the local riyal currency, the CEO
said in a July 25 interview. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 NATIONAL BANK OF EGYPT is marketing $600 million of five-
year bonds at a yield of 5.25 percent, according to two people
with knowledge of the sale. The notes are being issued through
Nile Finance Ltd. Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley are managing the sale.  
 OAO GAZPROMBANK , the lending unit of Russia’s gas export
monopoly, is selling $500 million of bonds due December 2014
that may be priced to yield 6.25 percent to 6.375 percent,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. Barclays
Capital, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG are
managing the sale, which will be issued through GPB Eurobond
Finance Plc.  
 STERICYCLE INC.  plans to issue $175 million of 7-year, 3.89
percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent debt
after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said. The province hired Citigroup Inc. and UBS
AG to arrange an overseas dollar bond sale, said a person
familiar with the transaction who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  
 High Yield  
 STATS CHIPPAC LTD., the provider of semiconductor test and
assembly services, plans to sell $600 million of 5-year senior
notes, according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds
will help fund a tender offer, Stats Chippac said in a statement
distributed by Marketwire.  
 ENERGYSOLUTIONS INC. , the Salt Lake City-based nuclear
services company, plans to sell $300 million of senior unsecured
notes due 2018, the company said a July 28 statement distributed
by Marketwire. The company has amended its credit facilities and
plans to refinance them with borrowings under new loans and the
offering of senior notes, the company said in a July 13
statement. Standard & Poor’s assigned the proposed debt a rating
of BB- on July 15.  
 MULTIPLAN INC. may sell $650 million to $675 million of
bonds to help pay for its acquisition by BC Partners Ltd. and
Silver Lake, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The health-care cost management company also seeks
a $1.3 billion term loan and a $75 million revolving line of
credit, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  
 FERRO CORP. plans to sell $250 million of senior notes as
it seeks to repurchase outstanding convertible debt due in 2013.
The company also is negotiating with lenders to enter into a new
credit facility, according to a statement distributed by
Business Wire.  
 KCA DEUTAG DRILLING GROUP LTD., a unit of private-equity
investor First Reserve Corp., is planning to sell $500 million
of eight-year bonds through Turbo Beta Plc, according to Alex
Christou, an Aberdeen, Scotland-based spokesman for the oil-
services company. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is managing the sale
with HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds TSB Banking Group Plc, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Natixis, a person with knowledge of
the transaction said. The notes may be rated CCC by S&P and Caa2
by Moody’s, according to a statement on the company’s website.  
 MARINA DISTRICT FINANCE COMPANY INC., owner of the Borgata
Hotel Casino & Spa in Atlantic City, plans to sell $725 million
of senior secured debt in two parts, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The notes will be due in 2015 and
2018, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Marina District Finance is Boyd Gaming Corp.’s
joint venture with MGM Resorts International. Proceeds will be
used to repay bank debt and fund a dividend, the person said.  
 TRILOGY INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS LLC, the wireless
communications provider, plans to sell $370 million of senior
secured notes, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s
rated the notes Caa1, it said in a report. Proceeds will be used
to refinance debt and finance growth in New Zealand, Moody’s
said. S&P rated the debt an equivalent CCC+. The notes will have
a maturity of six years, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  
 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities that’s buying Psychiatric Solutions
Inc., cut its offering of senior unsecured notes to $250
million, according to a person familiar with the transaction. It
increased the size of the term loans it’s seeking by $100
million, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. The King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based
company previously planned to issue $400 million of senior
unsecured debt to help finance the acquisition, according to a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The company plans to begin meeting with
investors in Asia, Europe and the U.S. on July 19, said the
person who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Moody’s Investors Service assigned the proposed notes a Ba2,
citing growing personal consumption in China, E-Land Fashion’s
moderate scale and significant business volatility. Proceeds
will be used for mainly for capital expenditures and general
corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the report.  
 GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC. , the U.S. home-nursing
company that is buying Odyssey HealthCare Inc., plans to sell
$305 million of eight-year notes, the Atlanta-based company said
in a May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying the timing of
the transaction. Proceeds will be used to help fund the
takeover, according to the filing. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the unsecured notes a B- credit rating on June 29. Moody’s
Investors Service rated the notes a grade of B2 and ranked $925
million of loans three steps higher at Ba2, it said in a report.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 EMPRESA NACIONAL DEL PETROLEO, Chile’s state-owned oil
refiner, hired Bank of America Corp., Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, BNP Paribas SA and Scotia Capital to arrange
meetings with bond investors, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The Santiago-based company plans to meet with
investors Aug. 2 to Aug. 4, said the person, who declined to be
identified because he wasn’t authorized to comment.  
 UKRAINE may sell bonds in the international capital
markets, according to Dragon Capital, the former Soviet
republic’s biggest brokerage. The government may sell $1.5
billion to $2 billion of 10-year, dollar-denominated debt with a
yield of 7 percent to 7.5 percent after getting approval for a
new International Monetary Fund loan and having its credit
rating raised by Standard & Poor’s, said Olena Bilan, Dragon’s
chief economist, at a press briefing in Kiev on July 30.  
 IDBI BANK LTD., an Indian state-owned lender, is marketing
5.5-year bonds denominated in dollars that will be priced to
yield 310 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to a banker involved with the transaction. IDBI hired
Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas SA, HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Standard Chartered Plc to manage the
sale. Executive Director Melwyn Rego said the bank was
considering a sale of bonds to raise about $500 million in an
interview on July 21.  
 CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  
 POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  
 INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell
approximately $650 million of Islamic bonds in October, Dahlan
Siamat, director for Islamic financing at the finance ministry,
said in a telephone interview in Jakarta. The government sold
its first international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  
 CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESAROLLO SA Peru’s state
development bank known as Cofide, plans to sell as much as $250
million of dollar-denominated bonds, according to Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Linares. Linares said in an interview
in Lima, that the lender is selling long-term debt as it boosts
lending to local infrastructure projects. “Peru’s need for
infrastructure is huge,” Linares said. “The government is
trying to promote foreign investment in a long list of
projects.”  
 SRI LANKA plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds, according
to its central bank. The South Asian country’s third-ever
overseas offering is likely after August, Central Bank of Sri
Lanka Assistant Governor C.J.P. Siriwardena said in a telephone
interview on June 30.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia
is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering a “no-
deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The company manages the
finances of state utility National Power Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. as it pursues new markets to
help refinance debt and pay for a new runway. The company is
considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private placement and a five-
to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale in late 2010 or early
2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell  said in a phone
interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas to fund mining and energy
projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars,
the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its Web site.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 to 10
years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The securities may
yield 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 kevans28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        