-- Stocks, Oil Gain as Earnings Top Estimates
-- David Merritt
-- 2010-08-02T20:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/stocks-u-s-futures-climb-on-improved-earnings-franc-weakens-bonds-drop.html

          
          
             Stocks rallied, sending the  MSCI
World Index  to an 11-week high, oil surged above $81 a barrel
and Treasuries fell following better-than-estimated earnings and
growth in U.S. manufacturing and construction spending.  
 The MSCI gauge of 24 developed nations jumped 2.4 percent
to its highest level since May 13 and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 2.2 percent to 1,125.83 at 4 p.m. in New York, adding
to gains from its best month in a year. Copper rose to the
highest price since April. The dollar weakened against all of 16
major counterparts, with the pound climbing above $1.58 for the
first time in six months. The 10-year Treasury note fell,
sending its yield up 6 basis points to 2.96 percent.  
 Humana Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and BNP Paribas SA today
joined about 65 percent of  MSCI World  companies that have topped
earnings estimates so far in the reporting season, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Stocks also gained as U.S. manufacturing grew
faster than estimated and construction spending increased, while
weakening economic data in China triggered speculation the
government will ease efforts to cool the nation’s expansion.  
 “The earnings -- all I’ve seen is good news, continued
strength,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at
Solaris Asset Management in Bedford Hills, New York, which
manages $2 billion. “The markets believe the Chinese central
bank has their economy under control and it has been a
purposeful slowdown.”  
 July Rally Extended  
 The  S&P 500  added to July’s 6.9 percent rally, climbing to
its highest close since May 17 and above its 200-day average
near 1,115, a bullish sign to investors whose trading decisions
are influenced by chart patterns. Alcoa Inc., Exxon Mobil Corp.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. climbed at least 3.4 percent to lead
gains in all 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average,
which surged 208.44 points, or 2 percent, 10,674.38.  
 The S&P 500 today erased its 2010 loss, leaving it up 1
percent on the year. The Dow is up 2.4 percent year-to-date.  
 Earnings per share have topped estimates at about three-
quarters of the more than  300 companies  in the S&P 500 that have
reported second-quarter earnings since July 12, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings have grown 56 on average
and sales are up 11 percent for the group, the data show.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing gauge
fell to 55.5 in July from 56.2 a month earlier. A reading
greater than 50 points to expansion and economists had forecast
the measure would drop to 54.5, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey. The group’s bookings gauge, considered a
leading indicator, fell to a one-year low.  
 Economic Rebound  
 Construction spending unexpectedly grew 0.1 percent in
June, Commerce Department data showed. Economists on average had
forecast a 0.5 percent decrease.  
 Today’s data eased concern that the economic rebound is
weakening after the government reported on July 30 that U.S.
growth slowed to 2.4 percent in the second quarter from 2.6
percent in the first three months of the year.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that
rising wages would probably spur household spending in the next
nine months, even as a lack of new jobs weighs on consumer
confidence.  
 While the U.S. has “a considerable way to go” for a full
recovery, “rising demand from households and businesses should
help sustain growth,” Bernanke said today in a speech in
Charleston, South Carolina.  
 The cost to protect against defaults on U.S. corporate
bonds fell to the lowest since May 12, trading in a benchmark
credit-derivatives index shows. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index Series 14 declined 5.3 basis points to a
mid-price of 99.06 basis points, according to Markit Group Ltd.  
 Dollar Slumps  
 The dollar fell the most against the Norwegian, Swedish and
British currencies, declining at least 1.3 percent versus each.
The euro strengthened 0.9 percent to $1.3173, the highest since
May 4.  
 Basic-resources companies and banks led gains in all 19
industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, jumped 4.3 percent in
London.  
 HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, said pretax profit more than
doubled to $11.1 billion in the first half, while BNP Paribas
posted a 31 percent increase in net income as provisions for bad
loans dropped. HSBC surged 5.3 percent, as did  BNP Paribas ,
France’s biggest lender.  
 Companies are having a “blockbuster earnings season,”  Jim Reid , head of fundamental strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in
London, wrote in a note to investors.  
 Asian Markets  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 1.3 percent, extending
four consecutive weekly gains. Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-
largest automaker, and Hitachi Ltd. climbed at least 4 percent
after boosting forecasts. Hyundai Mobis, South Korea’s largest
auto-parts maker, jumped 8.6 percent after profit rose.  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 1.3 percent to its
highest level since May 24 on the prospect the government will
reverse policies aimed at slowing the world’s third-biggest
economy after manufacturing expanded by the least in 17 months.  
 “We’ll probably get a continuing soft patch for another
month or so,”  Sean Darby , chief Asian equity strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “The urgency for more threatening
measures to cool part of the economy down will recede.”  
 European Growth  
 China’s economy is also still powering Europe, reports
today showed. Euro-region manufacturing expanded faster than
initially estimated in July, Swiss manufacturing grew the most
on record and U.K. activity slowed less than economists had
forecast.  
 The German 10-year bund yield climbed 3 basis points to
2.69 percent, and the yield on the equivalent-maturity U.K. gilt
advanced 2 basis points to 3.34 percent. The pound climbed to as
much as $1.5907.  
 Russia’s Micex Index of stocks surged 2.3 percent to the
highest level since April 30. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index 
rallied the most since June 21, climbing 2.1 percent to a three-
month high. Hungary’s BUX Index jumped 4 percent, while Poland’s
WIG20 advanced 2.7 percent.  
 Copper for delivery in September climbed 2.4 percent to
$3.3895 a pound in New York and touched $3.3965, the highest
since April. Zinc and lead were the biggest gainers on the
London Metal Exchange, rising at least 4.8 percent.  
 Crude oil for September delivery advanced 3.2 percent to
$81.46 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, topping $81
a barrel for the first time since May as the rally in stocks
stoked speculation the economy is strengthening.  
 Wheat jumped to a 22-month high, surging 4.8 percent, to
close at $6.9325 a bushel in Chicago, after the hottest July in
Russia in 130 years withered crops and boosted demand for
shipments from the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter. Rice and
oats also climbed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 David Merritt  in London on 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stocks Climb as Earnings Top Estimates  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Stocks also gained as U.S. manufacturing grew faster than estimated and construction spending increased. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Stocks also gained as U.S. manufacturing grew faster than estimated and construction spending increased. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Grasso, former chief executive officer of the New York Stock Exchange, talks about the outlook for enforcement of new U.S. financial rules.
     Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said the federal government will move swiftly to carry out the mandate of legislation designed to overhaul financial regulation. Grasso speaks with Matt Miller and Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEx Group LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the outlook for the U.S. stock market.
     Colas also discusses the U.S. labor market and his investment strategy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
