-- Sugar Rallying as Ships Clog Brazil Ports, India Rains Diminish
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2010-08-02T04:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/sugar-rallying-as-ships-clog-brazil-ports-while-india-monsoon-disappoints.html

          
          
             The record 122 ships awaiting sugar
exports at Brazil’s ports and the 3 percent drop in India’s
monsoon rainfall show why  Colin P. Fenton  expects this year’s
worst-performing commodity to rise more than gold.  
 Vessels outside the six main ports in Brazil waiting to
load 3.62 million metric tons are being delayed by wet weather,
according to Santos Associados Consultoria Ltda. and shipping
company Unimar Agenciamentos Maritimos Ltda. Low inventories in
 India  mean any crop short of forecasts will send prices
“markedly” higher, said  Hussein Allidina , the head of
commodities research at Morgan Stanley in New York.  
 The 1.7 percent rise in demand this year means the ratio of
stockpiles to consumption will drop to a two-decade low of 32
percent, International Sugar Organization data show. While a 22
percent gain in July brought prices close to the year-end
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News last week,
bulls say shortages will push sugar higher. The  Philippines ,
India, Pakistan and Indonesia are “virtually out” of reserves,
said F.O. Licht, a researcher operating for more than 130 years.  
 “A bull market has emerged in sugar,” said Fenton, the
chief executive officer of Curium Capital Advisors LLC, a
Boston-based researcher on global raw materials, and a former
commodity analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. He owns exchange-
traded notes linked to sugar futures in New York and expects a
28 percent rally by year end to 25 cents a pound.  
 Sugar traded on ICE Futures U.S. in New York jumped to a
four-month high of 19.67 cents on July 29, compared with the
average estimate of 19.75 cents by year end. Gold, which reached
a record $1,266.50 an ounce in June, will average $1,200 in the
fourth quarter, 1.4 percent more than now, according to the
median of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Rising Sweetener Costs  
 Another sugar rally may increase costs for  Krispy Kreme
Doughnuts Inc.  and candy makers Hershey Co. and Tootsie Roll
Industries Inc. already hurt by prices that doubled last year.  
 In 2009, sugar rose the most in 35 years as rain damaged
crops in Brazil, the biggest producer, and dry weather curbed
output in India, the second-largest. The commodity led gains in
the United Nations’ Food Price Index, which rose 20 percent.
This year, sugar fell 27 percent, the most among 24 commodities
in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index, as buyers balked at costs
and forecasters predicted a surplus after two years of deficits.  
 All that changed in the last two months.  
 Marcos Lutz , the chief executive officer at  Cosan SA
Industria & Comercio , the world’s top cane processor, said on
June 17 that output next year in Brazil’s Center South, the
largest growing region, may be lower than this year’s 28 million
tons.  
 Export Logjam  
 Datagro Ltd., the Sao Paulo-based consultant and researcher,
cut its forecast on July 23 for total Brazilian production,
estimating 37.5 million tons for the year that began April 1
from 38 million. Unica, an industry group, said July 13 it may
lower its forecast.  
 Trucks carrying sugar in Brazil are waiting as long as 40
hours to unload their cargoes at ports, according to C.
Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd., which has been publishing market
reviews since 1873.  
 The backlog of ships is more than twice last year’s 46
vessels. Ports stop sugar loading to avoid water damage. Latin
America’s largest economy ships 54 percent of the world’s sugar
exports, up from 20 percent a decade ago, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture.  
 Global demand will be 8.5 million tons greater than output
of 158.2 million tons this year, according to ISO’s most recent
estimates on May 13. The shortage will be made up from inventory
forecast to be at 52.8 million tons on Sept. 30, the group says.
Next year, production will rise 9 percent to a record 172.5
million tons, creating a 2.5 million-ton surplus, the ISO says.  
 Brazilian Ports  
 Toby Cohen , the head of analysis at London-based Czarnikow,
said in a report today that the logjam at Brazil’s ports means
that the market’s “ return to surplus  in the 2010-2011 season
may be illusory.”  
 Buying accelerated as prices slipped from a 29-year high of
30.4 cents on Feb. 1 to a 13-month low of 13 cents on May 7,
Morgan Stanley’s Allidina said.  
 Thailand, the second-largest  exporter , bought 74,350 tons
of domestic supply on July 13, the first such purchase in more
than 30 years. Pakistan is allowing traders to import 500,000
tons without duties until Nov. 30. Indonesia will boost buying
before the Islamic holy month of Ramadan starts this month, when
consumption peaks, said  Stefan Uhlenbrock , a senior analyst at
F.O. Licht in Ratzeburg, Germany.  
 Unexpected Supply Limits  
 “We’ve got some countries where their crops could also be
negatively affected by weather, particularly countries like
Thailand and China,” said  Leonardo Bichara Rocha , the ISO’s
senior economist. “Therefore, the surplus may not be as high as
people are anticipating.”  
 India’s monsoon season, the main source of irrigation that
runs from June to September, produced 3 percent less rain than
average as of Aug. 1, the Indian Meteorological Department said
today. The monsoon was 16 percent below normal in June.  
 “Output will be higher this year, but not the bumper year
people think,” said Kyle Tapley, a meteorologist at Rockville,
Maryland-based MDA EarthSat.  
 The Indian Sugar Mills Association said the  crop  will rise
to 25 million tons next year from 18.7 million tons in the
season ending Sept. 30. Maryland-based MDA Earthsat forecasts 20
million tons, while  Michael Ferrari  at Weather Trends
International Inc. in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, said output will
be at least 7 percent less than most estimates.  
 Crops May Recover  
 There’s time for supplies to recover because the monsoon
doesn’t end for another two months. Prices will drop to 13 cents
to 14 cents by the end of the year, said  Judith Ganes-Chase , a
former Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst who runs a consulting firm in
Katonah, New York.  
 “Bumper crops are expected both from Brazil and India, and
if they are translated into reality, there will be a global
surplus of about 3-5 million tons,” said  Claudio Oliveira , a
trader at New York-based Castlestone Management LLC., which
oversees $500 million, including sugar futures.  
 Even after last month’s gains, prices would have to more
than triple to get to the 66 cents reached in November 1974.  
 Futures contracts show traders expect little flexibility in
supplies. October sugar traded at a 5.2 percent premium to March
futures on July 30. In the week ended July 27, speculators
increased bets on rising prices to the highest level since April,
 data  from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  
 European Dry Spell  
 The European Union may produce less sugar because of dry
weather, according to  Lars Hoelgaard , the deputy director
general of agriculture and rural development at the Brussels-
based European Commission.  
 Rainfall in northern France, Belgium, the Netherlands and
western Germany was 60 percent to 80 percent of normal amounts
in the 180 days through July 5, according to forecaster Martell
Crop Projections. That includes the main EU sugar-beet regions.  
 In the  U.S. , where the government limits imports to protect
domestic growers, deliveries are up 3.4 percent in the six
months ended March 31, compared with a year earlier, according
to The Sugar Association, a Washington-based industry group
whose members including Imperial Sugar Co.  
 Even though the USDA raised its raw-sugar import quota
twice this year, the industry needs at least another 300,000
tons of imports to meet demand, said  Tom Earley , an economist
and vice president at food and agriculture consultant Promar
International.  
 Krispy Kreme, the second-largest U.S. doughnut chain after
Dunkin’ Brands Inc.’s Dunkin’ Donuts, increased prices for some
products after a jump in sugar and shortening costs.  
 Chocolate Costs  
 “The biggest price increase has been sugar,”  Douglas R. Muir , chief financial officer of the Winston-Salem, North
Carolina-based company, said in a June 3 conference call. “We
have substantially higher sugar costs in the system.”  
  Hershey , based in Hershey, Pennsylvania, incurred a second-
quarter pretax charge of $86.2 million that included rising
sugar costs. Tootsie Roll, the Chicago-based maker of Charms
lollipops, said in a  statement  that second-quarter profits fell
18 percent and were “significantly impacted by higher
ingredient costs, primarily sugar.”  
 “Sugar is at a critical state in which marginal shifts in
supply and/or demand can create parabolic price movement,” said
 James Dailey , who manages $145 million at TEAM Financial Asset
Management LLC in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. “Sugar appears to
be excellently positioned to make a run at the mid 1970’s high
in the next year or two if there are major supply constraints.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Farmer Birbal Singh works in a sugar cane field in Asmoli, India, Aug. 6, 2009. Photographer: Keith Bedford/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sugar unloaded in Mumbai  
                       
                         
                           Sima Dubey/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A shopkeeper removes sugar from a sack in Mumbai, India on July 9, 2007. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A shopkeeper removes sugar from a sack in Mumbai, India on July 9, 2007. Photographer: Sima Dubey/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
