-- Swiss Manufacturing Growth Unexpectedly Accelerates to Record
-- Klaus Wille
-- 2010-08-02T10:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/swiss-manufacturing-growth-unexpectedly-accelerated-to-record-last-month.html

          
          
             Swiss  manufacturing growth 
unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest pace on record in July
and a measure of employment rose, indicating the country’s
export-led recovery is gathering strength.  
 The SVME purchasing managers’ index increased to 66.9 from
65.7 the previous month, Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG 
said today. Economists forecast a drop to 65, according to the
median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The KOF
institute’s employment indicator rose to 11.2 from 3.8 in April,
it said in a separate report.  
 Switzerland’s economy is gaining momentum as companies ramp
up production to meet rising global demand. The  government  last
month raised its 2010 growth forecast and  ABB Ltd. , the world’s
largest builder of electricity networks, on July 22 forecast a
recovery in demand in the power business after reporting an
increase in orders. In the neighboring euro area,  manufacturing 
also strengthened last month, while it weakened in China.  
 The “exceptionally elevated level underlines the extent to
which Switzerland has participated in the global manufacturing
rebound,” said  Eoin O’Callaghan , an economist at BNP Paribas in
London. Still, it is a “matter of time before this survey
begins to respect the fall in manufacturing leading indicators
outside of Europe.”  
 While three of the Swiss index’s five sub-components
advanced in July, the measure of orders declined for a fourth
month. Credit Suisse said.  
 The franc weakened against the euro today and was at 1.3654
per euro as of 12:42 p.m. in Zurich from 1.3588 on July 30.  
 China Eases  
 In the euro area, an index of manufacturing rose to 56.7 in
July from 55.6, Markit Economics said. That’s a three-month high
and above an initial estimate of 56.5 released on July 22.  
 Chinese  manufacturing  grew the slowest in more than a year.
In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index 
probably dropped to an eight-month low, according to the median
estimate of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The Swiss government last month forecast 2010 economic
growth of 1.8 percent, up from a previous projection of 1.4
percent. The central bank raised its forecast to 2 percent.  
 Swiss  retail sales  rose 0.9 percent in June from a year
earlier, a seventh consecutive increase, the Swiss Federal
Statistics Office said today.  
 Economists at ING Group said the manufacturing index points
to economic growth of 1.9 percent this year.  
 “This also supports the view that the Swiss National Bank
should continue to unwind its exceptional monetary measures and
begin to think about rising interest rates before at the end of
this year,” they said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 The SNB has held its  benchmark interest rate  at 0.25
percent since March 2009. It also bought foreign currencies to
curb the franc’s appreciation, a policy it ended last month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        