-- U.S. Treasury Lowers July-September Borrowing Need by 7% to $350 Billion
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-08-02T19:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/u-s-treasury-lowers-july-september-borrowing-need-by-7-to-350-billion.html

          
          
             The U.S. Treasury Department lowered
its estimate for government borrowing from July through
September, reflecting a reduction in federal spending.  
 Borrowing  will total a net $350 billion in the current
quarter, compared with an estimate three months ago of $376
billion, the department said in a statement today in Washington.
The Treasury also projected borrowing of $380 billion in the
three months to Dec. 31.  
 The U.S. is financing a budget deficit the Obama
administration projected will reach a record $1.47 trillion this
year, even as yields on Treasuries have reached the lowest level
during an economic expansion since the Eisenhower
administration. Bond dealers predicted a $1.35 trillion deficit
in fiscal 2010 and a $1.21 trillion deficit in 2011 in a survey
provided to the Treasury before this week’s announcements.  
 “Significant progress has been made since the recovery
began in mid-2009,”  Alan Krueger , the Treasury’s chief
economist, said in a separate statement today. “The economy is
now growing solidly, with business investment on the rise, and
firms once again adding to their payrolls.”  
 In the quarter that ended June 30, the Treasury borrowed
$344 billion, compared with the previous estimate of $340
billion. The department said its forecasts assume a cash balance
of $270 billion for Sept. 30 and for the end of December.  
 Fed Program  
 Today’s estimates include $200 billion for a special
program for helping the Fed finance its operations. The program
was scaled back while Congress debated how to raise the debt
ceiling.  
 “If the economy emerges from the recent soft patch with
only a minor shortfall in growth and no major new fiscal
stimulus initiatives, the October-December period is likely to
be the last quarter in which Treasury borrowing will record a
significant year-over-year increase,”  Lou Crandall , chief
economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City, New Jersey, said
in a note to clients today.  
 “We think borrowing is likely to start falling on a year-
over-year basis by the first quarter of next year,” Crandall
said.  
 When the Treasury sells bills at the Fed’s behest through
the Supplementary Financing Program, it drains reserves from the
banking system and makes the central bank’s job of controlling
interest rates easier.  
 Fiscal Year  
 The outlook Treasury released today, combined with
borrowing so far in the fiscal year that started Oct. 1, means
net borrowing for this year will be $1.44 trillion, compared
with a previous forecast of $1.46 trillion in May. That’s less
than the record $1.79 trillion last year.  
 The Treasury’s quarterly debt sales announcement is
scheduled for Aug 4.  
 Auctions of long-term debt are projected to be smaller than
the total of $78 billion sold in May, when the Treasury sold $38
billion in three-year notes, $24 billion in 10-year notes and
$16 billion in 30-year bonds. The median forecast of six
analysts surveyed predicted a $4 billion cut in the three-year
note, with the other two auction sizes unchanged.  
 The Treasury asked bond dealers last month for their
economic and budget forecasts for fiscal years 2010 and 2011, as
part of an effort to trim auction sizes as the government’s
financing needs  decline .  
 The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.4 percent annual rate in
the second quarter as consumer spending slowed, figures from the
Commerce Department showed last week. Companies probably added
about 90,000 jobs in July, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of the Labor Department’s employment
report on Aug. 6. The jobless rate is forecast to rise to 9.6
percent from 9.5 percent.  
 The economy “is expected to grow at a moderate pace going
forward, producing gains in private payrolls, although the
unemployment rate -- which is typically slow to decline -- will
likely remain elevated in the near term” Krueger said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        