-- U.S. Stocks Advance as Corporate Earnings Surpass Estimates
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-08-02T20:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-bank-of-america-gains-in-germany-rim-falls.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rallied, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 to the highest close in 10 weeks, after
better-than-estimated earnings at companies from Humana Inc. to
Allergan Inc. and manufacturing data that topped forecasts.  
 Alcoa Inc. rose 4.8 percent, the most in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , to help lead gains in commodity shares. Oil
climbed above $81 for the first time since May, giving a boost
to energy companies. Humana, the biggest provider of U.S.-backed
health benefits, and Allergan, the maker of the Botox wrinkle
smoother, rallied at least 3.6 percent. Intel Corp. gained 2.7
percent as a trade group said global chip sales were “robust.”  
 The  S&P 500  gained 2.2 percent to 1,125.86 as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The Dow climbed 208.44 points, or 2 percent, to
10,674.38 as all 30 of its components advanced. Nearly four
stocks rose for each that fell on U.S. exchanges.  
 “We continue to get pretty decent earnings,” said  Mark Bronzo , an Irvington, New York-based fund manager at Security
Global Investors, which oversees $23 billion. “There’s a
disconnect between earnings being good and the mindset the
economy is slowing. Most managers going into July started to
believe the economy is slowing, so earnings have surprised.”  
 U.S. stocks extended a global rally after the U.K.’s HSBC
Holdings Plc and France’s BNP Paribas SA topped analysts’
earnings estimates and Honda Motor Co.’s improved full-year
forecast helped trigger a rally in Japanese shares. The S&P
500’s rise took it above its 200-day  average level  of around
1,115. That indicator is considered significant by analysts who
use charts and patterns to predict movements in stock prices.  
 China Growth  
 In China, a purchasing managers’ index released today by
HSBC and Markit Economics slid to 49.4 from 50.4 in June. A
government-backed PMI fell to 51.2 from 52.1, the Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing reported yesterday. Fifty is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction and the data
bolstered speculation that the Chinese government will ease
measures taken to cool its economy.  
 “The glass-half-full view, though, is that Chinese
officials will back off from tightening policy and the softness
is as they have planned in terms of cooling the overheated part
of their economy,” said  Peter Boockvar , equity strategist at
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  
 July Rally  
 The S&P 500 rallied 6.9 percent in July, its best monthly
gain in a year, as net income beat analyst estimates at
companies from FedEx Corp. to Motorola Inc. and applications for
unemployment benefits declined.  Michael Shaoul  at Marketfield
Asset Management,  Laszlo Birinyi  of Birinyi Associates Inc. and
Federated Investors Inc.’s Philip Orlando see more gains for
U.S. stocks.  
 Earnings  have topped estimates at 77 percent of the 316
companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results since July
12, while government reports on building permits and industrial
production showed unanticipated growth, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Stocks extended gains after economic data were better than
predicted. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing
gauge fell to 55.5 in July from 56.2 a month earlier. A reading
greater than 50 points to expansion. Economists had forecast the
measure would drop to 54.5, according to the median of 74
projections in a Bloomberg News survey. Construction spending in
the U.S. unexpectedly increased 0.1 percent in June, boosted by
a gain in government programs that made up for declines in
private residential and commercial projects.  
 Manufacturing Expansion  
 “There are parts of the report that are consistent with
the view that the manufacturing sector of the economy continues
to expand,” said  Hugh Johnson , who oversees $1.85 billion as
chairman of Albany, New York-based Johnson Illington. “It’s
good news for the manufacturing sector of the economy and for
the manufacturing employment sector of the economy.”  
 Commodity shares advanced after the manufacturing and
construction reports and oil rose 3 percent to $81.34 a barrel
in New York. Alcoa climbed 4.8 percent to $11.71.  Cliffs Natural
Resources Inc.  rallied 7.1 percent to $60.60. National Oilwell
Varco Inc. added 5 percent to $41.13.  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. increased 8.4 percent to $53.27,
helping energy shares gain 3.6 percent, the most of 10 groups in
the S&P 500. The Texas oil company that owns a stake in BP Plc’s
damaged Gulf of Mexico well agreed to sell Colorado pipeline
assets to Western Gas Partners LP for $498 million. The deal
also includes contracts held by Anadarko to process gas for
producers.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp. , the largest U.S. oil company, rose 3.8
percent to $61.94. Schlumberger Ltd., the world’s largest
oilfield-services contractor, jumped 5.2 percent to $62.74.  
 Humana, Allergan  
 Humana  gained 3.6 percent to $48.73 after it forecast
third-quarter profit excluding some items of at least $1.65 a
share. On average, the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
earnings of $1.42.  
 Allergan Inc.  rose 6 percent to $64.72. The company said
U.S. regulators extended by three months a review of its top
product, the wrinkle-smoother Botox, for a new use as a migraine
treatment. Allergan also reported second-quarter earnings
excluding certain items of 85 cents a share, beating by 4 cents
the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Intel  climbed 2.7 percent to $21.15. The world’s biggest
chipmaker gained after the Semiconductor Industry Association
said global sales in the second quarter increased 7.1 percent to
$74.8 billion from the first three months. Sales were
“exceptionally robust” in the first half, rising more than 50
percent from a year earlier to $144.6 billion, driven by
“strong demand” from end-markets, the association said.  
 Office Depot Jumps  
 Office Depot Inc.  rose 10 percent, the most in the S&P 500,
to $4.77. Thomas J. Colligan, a board director at the second-
largest U.S. office-supply chain, bought 8,000 shares on July
30, according to a regulatory filing.  
 Coca-Cola Co.  advanced 2.4 percent to $56.41. The world’s
largest soft-drink maker was raised to “overweight” from
“neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Research In Motion  Ltd., maker of the BlackBerry
smartphone, lost 1 percent to $56.98 after the United Arab
Emirates said yesterday it will suspend BlackBerry e-mail
services from October because the company encrypts its messages.
Saudi Arabia’s telecoms regulator has ordered phone companies to
ban BlackBerry services, Reuters reported yesterday.  
 AT&T Inc. and Verizon Wireless, the biggest U.S. mobile
carriers, are planning a venture to displace credit and debit
cards with smartphones, posing a new threat to  Visa Inc.  and
MasterCard Inc., three people with direct knowledge of the plan
said. Visa and MasterCard were among the biggest decliners in
the S&P 500, losing at least 1.5 percent each.  
 Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc.  dropped 9.8 percent to $7.17 for
the third-biggest decline in the Russell 2000 Index. The San
Diego-based biotechnology company was downgraded to “neutral”
from “overweight” at JPMorgan Chase.  
 Dynavax Technologies Corp.  lost 8.1 percent to $2.03. The
biotechnology company developing products for infectious disease
said it had a loss of 34 cents a share in the second quarter,
compared with profit of 10 cents a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Oshkosh rallied over 3 percent.  
                       
                         
                           Oshkosh Corp. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A handout company photograph shows an Oshkosh Corp. armored vehicle. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A handout company photograph shows an Oshkosh Corp. armored vehicle. Source: Oshkosh Corp. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Grasso, former chief executive officer of the New York Stock Exchange, talks about the outlook for enforcement of new U.S. financial rules.
     Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said the federal government will move swiftly to carry out the mandate of legislation designed to overhaul financial regulation. Grasso speaks with Matt Miller and Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEx Group LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the outlook for the U.S. stock market.
     Colas also discusses the U.S. labor market and his investment strategy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at the Trust Company of the West, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Sri-Kumar, speaking from Los Angeles, also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy and Federal Reserve monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
