-- Auto Sales May Rise to Highest of Year on U.S. Closeout Deals
-- Theo Keith
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/u-s-auto-sales-may-reach-2010-high-in-july-as-closeout-deals-lure-buyers.html

          
          
             U.S. auto sales  probably rose to the
highest level of 2010 last month as model-year closeout deals
drew consumers back to showrooms.  
 Industrywide deliveries, which are released tomorrow, may
reach an annualized rate of 11.9 million vehicles in July, the
average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
would be 5.3 percent higher than last year’s 11.3 million pace
and the best month since August 2009, when the U.S. government’s
“Cash for Clunkers” incentive program inflated sales.  
 Automakers are offering discounts that are 3.8 percent
higher than a year earlier to clear out 2010 vehicles and make
room for new models, according to industry researcher
TrueCar.com. The gains would indicate that sales, while still
below historical levels, are steadily improving, analysts said.  
 “This is fueled by consumers who had postponed their
purchases and are now getting back into the market,”  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry trends at TrueCar, said in an
interview. “They’re not coming back in a flood -- they’re just
trickling in.”  
 Ford Motor Co.  and General Motors Co. may outpace the
overall industry’s gain in July, with sales rising 10 percent
for each, the average of five analysts’ estimates. Chrysler,
aided by deliveries to large buyers such as rental-car
companies, will have sales increase 2.2 percent, the average of
five estimates.  
 Sales Incentives  
 The sales gains would come after industrywide deliveries
dropped to an 11.1 million pace in June, feeding concerns that
the auto recovery was stalling. Discounts and incentives, while
higher than last year, were reduced 1.3 percent from June to an
average of $2,831 per vehicle, according to TrueCar, which is
based in Santa Monica, California.  
 The promotion of the clearance sales may have driven demand
more than the actual terms of the deals, said  Jessica Caldwell ,
director of pricing and industry analysis for Edmunds.com, also
in Santa Monica.  
 “The deals have been pretty flat since April, but it’s the
advertising and that people know summer is a good time to buy
because of the closeout sales,” Caldwell said.  
 The sales decrease in June may represent an “aberration”
rather than indicate a slowing market, Ford Chief Financial
Officer  Lewis Booth  said last month. Still, consumers remain
“jittery,” Booth said.  
 The New York-based Conference Board said last week that
 consumer sentiment  fell to the lowest level in five months, and
the Federal Reserve said economic growth slowed in some areas of
the U.S. in the past two months.  
 ‘Lethargic Pace’  
 “Demand for autos is recovering, but it’s at a lethargic
pace,” said  Joseph Barker , senior manager of North American
vehicle sales forecasts at IHS Automotive in Northville,
Michigan. “Consumers are still not confident in their finances
and therefore are still holding back on big-ticket purchases.”  
 Japanese automakers increased incentives more than their
U.S. counterparts, according to TrueCar.  Honda Motor Co.  boosted
discounts by 60 percent, while  Toyota Motor Corp.  raised
incentives 36 percent and  Nissan Motor Co.  lifted them by 18
percent. Ford’s 17 percent boost was the only increase among
U.S. automakers.  
 Nissan may have fared best among the Japanese automakers
with a 6.8 percent July sales gain, the average of four
analysts’ estimates. Credit Suisse analyst  Chris Ceraso  wrote
that “Nissan could be a winner” because it offered deals such
as zero-percent financing on Maxima and Sentra sedans.  
 Toyota Decline  
 Toyota’s sales may have fallen 7.4 percent, the average of
four analysts’ estimates. The world’s largest automaker is
slowing after it offered expanded incentives earlier this year
to blunt the effect of its recall of more than 8 million
vehicles for defects linked to unintended acceleration, Barclays
Capital analyst  Brian Johnson  wrote in a July 23 note.  
 Honda’s sales may have risen 0.8 percent, according to the
average of four analysts’ estimates.  
 GM is gaining sales from discounts of as much as $5,000 off
Impala sedans, Caldwell said. GM also is benefiting from a
comparison to last July, when deliveries suffered as it emerged
from a government-sponsored bankruptcy.  
 “There was more activity in our showroom than I’ve seen
all year,”  John McEleney , who owns GM and Toyota dealerships in
Clinton, Iowa. “People are starting to feel that the incentives
are not going to get any better.”  
 Ford Redesigns  
 Ford’s gains are coming from redesigned models such as the
Fusion, Taurus and the new Fiesta subcompact, said Beau
Boeckmann, vice president of Galpin Ford in Los Angeles. Ford’s
U.S. market share rose to 17.5 percent in the first half of the
year, from 16.1 percent in the same period last year.  
 “Thank God Ford is having the increases they are because
the economic conditions are still really tough,” said
Boeckmann, whose dealership is Ford’s top seller in the U.S.
“If you don’t watch the news, you could almost get
optimistic.”  
 Industrywide sales this year may be 11.6 million vehicles,
still among the slowest since 1950, TrueCar estimates. Last
year, U.S. deliveries of cars and light trucks fell to 10.4
million, the lowest since 1982. Annual U.S. auto sales averaged
16.8 million vehicles from 2000 through 2007. The rate through
the first half of 2010 was 11.1 million, according to Edmunds.  
 “We’re all happy to see it perk up a little bit, but one
month doesn’t make a trend,” said  George Pipas , Ford’s sales
analyst. “It would be a fool’s errand to try to call it a
turning point.”  
 The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from July 2009. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annual rate, or SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  
 The estimates are based on daily selling rates. July had 27
selling days, one more than last year.  

 

                             GM      Ford   Chrysler  SAAR

Rod Lache                    5%      8%      -3%      11.8
(Deutsche Bank)
Jesse Toprak                 23%     8%      1%       11.8
(TrueCar.com)
Joseph Barker                NA      NA      NA       11.8
(IHS Automotive)
Jessica Caldwell             6%      9%      0%       11.8
(Edmunds.com)
Jeff Schuster                NA      NA      NA       12.0
(J.D. Power)
Himanshu Patel               NA      NA      NA       11.7
(JPMorgan)
Brian Johnson                2%      8%      3%       12.1
(Barclays Capital)
Christopher Ceraso           13%     18%     10%      12.1
(Credit Suisse)

Average                      10%     10%     2.2%     11.9
 
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Higgins  at   thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
 Theo Keith  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 tkeith6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Auto Sales May Rise to Highest of Year  
                       
                         
                           Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg 
                         
                         GM is gaining sales from discounts and benefiting from a comparison to last July, when it emerged from a government-sponsored bankruptcy. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     GM is gaining sales from discounts and benefiting from a comparison to last July, when it emerged from a government-sponsored bankruptcy. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Schuster, executive director of global forecasting at J.D. Power & Associates, discusses the outlook for the U.S. auto industry and the prospects of an initial public offering by General Motors Co.
     President Barack Obama travels to the Detroit area today to visit a Chrysler plant and a GM facility that are adding production. Schuster speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
