-- UBS Names BofA's Kessler to Expand Lending to Affluent Clients in Americas
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-08-02T16:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/ubs-names-bofa-s-kessler-to-expand-lending-to-affluent-clients-in-americas.html

          
          
             UBS AG , seeking to boost profits from
wealth management in the Americas, hired  Jonathan Kessler  from
 Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch to oversee a push to sell
affluent customers more loans and banking products.  
 Kessler will lead a reorganized Banking and Lending
Solutions unit starting in October, according to an internal
memo obtained by Bloomberg News. The unit, previously called
Banking Products, also hired  Frank Destra  to oversee mortgage
sales. Destra, who ran the residential-lending business in
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s banking unit, starts this month.  
 “Clients are telling us that they would like their
advisers to help them with their refinancing and credit needs,”
 Rosemary Berkery , vice chairman of UBS Wealth Management
Americas and chairman of UBS Bank USA, said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .” “A number of our clients we feel have debt at too
many locations now, so we are looking to help them consolidate
their debt, particularly in today’s favorable interest-rate
environment.”  
 The Zurich-based bank, Switzerland’s biggest, joins firms
such as  Morgan Stanley  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in trying to
squeeze more revenue out of wealthy individuals as a weak
economy and new regulations make it harder to earn money from
loans and investment banking. Bankers have pushed so-called
cross-selling for decades, often with little to show for it, to
expand their business without having to recruit new customers.  
 Profit Target  
 Robert McCann , 52, the former Merrill Lynch & Co. executive
appointed in October to head UBS Wealth Management Americas, is
reorganizing the division to produce annual pretax profits of
more than 1 billion Swiss francs ($962 million) in the next
three to five years. It earned 32 million francs before taxes
last year and had a loss of 67 million francs in the second
quarter because of restructuring charges.  
 Berkery, 57, joined UBS earlier this year, becoming at
least the fifth former Merrill Lynch colleague McCann has
brought in to help run his division. She had worked at Merrill
Lynch for more than 25 years, serving as general counsel before
it was bought by Bank of America Corp. last year.  
 Kessler was chief operating officer of Merrill Lynch’s
banking and direct investment divisions, the UBS memo said,
which was confirmed by spokesman  Kris Kagel .  
 The firm is building a banking platform to encourage
brokerage clients to move some of the more than $300 billion of
deposits they hold elsewhere. The banking unit, which serves
wealth-management clients, has about $26 billion in client
deposits, according to Kagel. That compares with $186 billion in
average deposits at Merrill Lynch and $110 billion in wealth-
management bank deposits at Morgan Stanley.  
 Adding Mortgages  
 The UBS banking division wants to originate $3 billion to
$5 billion in client mortgages per year within the next three to
five years, Kagel said. UBS estimates that clients of the U.S.
brokerage have about $140 billion in  mortgages  with other
financial firms, Berkery said. The mortgage business hopes to
contribute about 10 percent of McCann’s target pretax profits,
according to Kagel.  
 UBS Bank USA has been in existence for about six years and
had previously focused on securities-based lending, Berkery
said. The bank will also build out its credit-card business, led
by Donna Batavia-White, head of the client accounts and cards
group, and Fred Jubitz as head of cards, according to the memo.  
 Withdrawals from UBS’s wealth management Americas unit
slowed to 2.6 billion francs in the second quarter from 7.2
billion francs in the first. Rich clients pulled a net 243.5
billion francs from the bank’s wealth management and Swiss bank
division and the wealth management Americas division in the two
years through March following UBS’s credit-crisis losses,
pressure on Swiss banking secrecy and departing client advisers.  
 The Wall Street Journal reported the hirings yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Brennan  in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        