-- Ukraine to Revisit Eurobond Plans as Rates Continue to Fall, Tigipko Says
-- Kateryna Choursina
-- 2010-08-02T12:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/ukraine-plans-returning-to-eurobond-market-once-rates-ease-tigipko-says.html

          
          
             Ukraine said it will re-enter the
Eurobond market once borrowing costs ease after the government
last month shelved its first planned sale of dollar bonds in
three years.  
 “Our strategy will be to monitor the situation and
markets,” Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  told reporters
in Kiev today. “Once the interest rate declines further, we
will have to enter the Eurobond market.”  
 Ukraine on July 15 abandoned the planned sale of about $2
billion in dollar bonds after investors demanded yields higher
than 9 percent, Tigipko said at the time. The government’s
agreement with the International Monetary Fund on a new $15.2
billion facility and a $2 billion loan from Russia’s VTB Bank
covered its financing needs, reducing the need for extra funds,
the finance ministry said last month.  
 The yield on Ukraine’s outstanding dollar bonds due
November 2016 slipped 11 basis points to 6.437 percent as the
note reached its highest since April 2008, according to
Bloomberg prices.  
 “It is quite possible that the government may act on the
current situation and issue Eurobonds worth $2 billion soon,”
ING Bank Ukraine JSC Head of Research  Alexander Pecherytsyn  said
in a note to clients. “The current reduction in country risk
levels provides an opportunity for the government to place new
Eurobonds at a rate quite close to 7 percent.”  
 Rating Raised  
 Ukraine’s credit rating was raised one level last week by
Standard & Poor’s after the IMF approved the new loan. Ukraine
has to keep its deficit within 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product this year and 3.5 percent in 2011 under the fund’s
program.  
 “There is no rush,” Tigipko said today. The government
last week received a first $1.9 billion tranche of its IMF loan,
allowing the country’s budget financing to return to “normal,”
he said. The IMF tranche “gives us confidence, and we are not
going to enter expensive markets,” he said.  
 Tigipko said today Ukraine’s government expects to receive
its second IMF tranche in the winter, without elaborating.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        