-- Lula Pushes Petrobras Debt Risk to 18-Month High on State Control Concerns
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-08-02T21:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/lula-pushes-petrobras-debt-risk-to-18-month-high-on-state-control-concerns.html

          
          
             Petroleo Brasileiro SA  is losing
investor confidence on concern its credit rating will be cut
after a Brazilian plan raised the relative risk associated with
the state-run oil producer’s debt to the highest in 18 months.  
 Five-year credit default swaps on Petrobras, as the company
is known, cost 177 basis points, or 1.77 percentage points,
compared with 113 for contracts on Brazil debt, according to
prices compiled by CMA DataVision. The spread is at 64 basis
points, the widest since January 2009. Petrobras is graded two
levels higher than the government by Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Investors are growing more convinced Petrobras’s debt
ratings will be cut as a planned share-for-oil swap with the
government and energy policy changes undermine the company’s
autonomy, said  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-markets strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada. The exchange, part of a strategy to
finance a $224 billion investment plan for developing the
largest oil discovery in three decades, may lead the government
to take a bigger stake in the Rio de Janeiro-based producer.  
 “The two bonds should be rated the same especially since
over time their dependence of each other increases with the
government’s control increasing in Petrobras,” Suarez said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “There’s a risk that their
rating will be downgraded.”  
 ‘Upper Limits’  
 Petrobras Chief Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli ,
60, said in an April 30 interview in Sao Paulo the company
doesn’t plan to sell bonds this year because it’s reaching the
“upper limits” of debt ratios before putting credit ratings at
risk.  
 Credit default swaps for Petrobras shouldn’t be viewed in
isolation because oil companies with deep water exposure have
seen these contracts rise following the BP Plc spill in April,
according to an e-mailed statement from the press department at
Petrobras.  
 “The business plan announced in June is consistent with
the goal of creating  value  in the long term, while the
capitalization aims at allowing the company to maintain a sound
financial position and its investment grade status,” Petrobras
said in the statement.  
 Standard & Poor’s cut Petrobras one level to BBB-, the
lowest investment grade and the same rating as Brazil’s
government, a year ago on concern the investment program was too
big. Fitch Ratings Ltd. grades Petrobras one level higher than
the government at BBB while Moody’s rates the company two levels
higher at Baa1.  
 Growth Prospects  
 Moody’s said its rating on Petrobras reflects the company’s
future prospects.  
 “There aren’t that many companies that have the growth
potential,”  Thomas Coleman , a Moody’s analyst, said in a
telephone interview from New York. “Corporates can pledge
export revenues to service their debt and Brazil wouldn’t allow
the company to be compromised by a debt moratorium.”  
 Oil regulations introduced by President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , 64, late last year include plans to exchange as much as 5
billion barrels of deepwater reserves for stock in Petrobras,
where the state currently holds a 32 percent stake.  
 The value of the oil will determine the size of a planned
equity offering to minority holders, which was delayed in June
until September pending a valuation of the reserves by a
government agency.  
 Yield Widens  
 The size of the stock sale will determine to what extent
Petrobras needs to issue more debt, “and that could impact its
credit metrics,”  Jose Luis Villanueva , a director at Fitch,
said in a phone interview from New York on June 25. Villanueva
has since left the company. Fitch spokesman Brian Bertsch and
S&P spokesman Marcos Viesi said analysts weren’t immediately
available to comment.  
 The extra  yield  investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 11
basis points to 202. The spread has increased from 196 at the
end of April.  
 The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.7520 per dollar by 5:23 p.m.
in New York after a gain in July of 2.8 percent. The yield on
Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in January, the most
active in Sao Paulo trading, rose four basis points to 10.80
percent, after dropping 60 basis points last month.  
 Petrobras’s 5.75 percent bonds due in 2020 have rallied
this year, sending yields down 64 basis points to 4.91 percent.
Yields on Brazil’s 12.75 percent bonds due in 2020 declined 96
basis points in the same period to 4.20 percent.  
 Higher Expense  
 The yield on Petrobras’s 2020 bonds hit a record 110 basis
points over similar-maturity Brazil government notes on May 6.  
 At 177 basis points, it now costs $177,000 to insure
Petrobras debt against default for five years, an increase of 55
basis points since Dec. 31. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  
 The cost of protecting Petrobras debt against non-payment
has surged on concern that deep-water drilling costs will jump
after BP’s rig exploded in the Gulf of Mexico. The contracts on
Petrobras, the largest oil producer in waters below 1,000 feet,
climbed 47 basis points since April 20, when the explosion
occurred. Contracts for Brazil’s debt rose six basis points
during the same period.  
 Lula’s administration will have the “final word” on the
price of the reserves to be exchanged in the Petrobras offering,
Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  said in a telephone interview
from Guarulhos, outside of Sao Paulo, on July 16. The government
may set a different price on the deepwater reserves than what
was recommended in an audit by the National Petroleum Agency, he
said.  
 Rule Changes  
 If the swap “changes the rules, from oil companies paying
royalties, to where the oil belongs to the state, and Petrobras
is the operator, that means Petrobras will increasingly become
asset light and then the default rate will be more tied in with
Brazil’s,” said  Esther Chan , who helps manage $5 billion of
emerging-market assets at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in
London.  
 The Mines and Energy Ministry declined to comment in an e-
mailed statement. The press office at the Presidential Palace
forwarded Bloomberg’s request to the Finance Ministry, which
didn’t respond.  
 Tupi Field  
 Petrobras  plans  to double output to 5.38 million barrels a
day by 2020, mainly from deepwater oil fields in Brazil
including Tupi, the largest discovery in the Americas since
Pemex found Cantarell in 1976.  
 The  stock  tumbled 27 percent in the first half of 2010, its
worst start to a year since 1995, compared with a 47 percent
drop for London-based  BP , which faces billions of dollars in
damages from the explosion that led to the biggest oil spill in
U.S. history. BP said last week that it booked a pretax charge
of $32.2 billion related to the oil spill. The company’s default
swaps have surged to 317 basis points from 43 on April 20.  
 “What’s happening is a reflection in the capital markets
that Petrobras has uncertainties and bondholders are looking for
some protection,”  Christopher Palmer , who oversees $5 billion
as head of global emerging-market stocks at Gartmore Investment
Management Ltd., said in a phone interview from London.
“Investors are worried that the government is looking to
strengthen its hand vis-a-vis Petrobras and may be taking some
of their revenues.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jose Sergio Gabrelli, CEO of Petroleo Brasileiro SA  
                       
                         
                           Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jose Sergio Gabrelli, chief executive officer of Petroleo Brasileiro SA, speaks during an interview in Sao Paulo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jose Sergio Gabrelli, chief executive officer of Petroleo Brasileiro SA, speaks during an interview in Sao Paulo. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
