-- Top Party School Is University of Georgia, MIT Best for Studies
-- Oliver Staley
-- 2010-08-02T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/university-of-georgia-parties-as-mit-hits-books-in-best-colleges-survey.html

          
          
             The University of Georgia is the top
party school, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
undergraduates study the most and students at Brown University
are the happiest, according to a survey by  Princeton Review Inc .  
 The poll of 122,000 U.S. college students was conducted by
the Framingham, Massachusetts, provider of test preparation
services for its book, “The Best 373 Colleges.” The 2011
edition goes on sale tomorrow.  
 The survey tallied student  responses  in 62 categories,
including best teachers (Reed College in Portland, Oregon), the
best library (Harvard University, in Cambridge, Massachusetts)
and the best food (Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine). While
students are considering the quality of life when they look at
colleges, they’re also concerned about the cost of higher
education, said  Robert Franek , senior vice president of the
Princeton Review and the book’s lead author.  
 “Students have become very savvy,” Franek said. “They
want to know what the campus will be like but they also want to
know what is the value of their education.”  
 Franek said he added a category for best career services
office three years ago. This year, the top office was at
Northeastern University in Boston, followed by Pennsylvania
State University, in State College, and Yale University, in New
Haven, Connecticut.  
 Career Services  
 At those institutions, “students are very aware of career
services while at school,” Franek said. “It influences the
culture of campus and it resonates with the college bound
student and their family.”  
 The survey also asked students how satisfied they were with
their financial aid packages. Franklin W. Olin College of
Engineering, in Needham, Massachusetts, was rated the best,
followed by the University of Virginia, in Charlottesville, and
Princeton University, in Princeton, New Jersey. Students at
Sonoma State University, in Rohnert Park, California, were the
least happy with their financial aid, according to the survey.  
 The University of Georgia, in Athens, Georgia, beat out
Ohio University, in Athens, Ohio, as the top party school -- a
ranking derived from questions about the use of alcohol and
drugs, the amount of studying and the popularity of fraternities
and sororities. Last year’s No.1 party school, Penn State, was
third.  
 For the 12th year in a row, Brigham Young University, a
Mormon institution in Provo, Utah, was deemed the most sober
school.  
 Students at MIT, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, study the
most, followed by those at Reed and at Harvey Mudd College, in
Claremont, California, according to the survey. Those at the
University of North Dakota, in Grand Forks, study the least.  
 The happiest students are at Brown, in Providence, Rhode
Island, the survey found, followed by those at Claremont McKenna
College, also in Claremont, California, and at Stanford
University, near Palo Alto, California. The unhappiest students
are at Fisk University, in Nashville, Tennessee, according to
the survey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Staley  in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       MIT is Best School for Studies  
                       
                         
                           William B. Plowman/Getty Images 
                         
                         The survey found students at MIT study the most. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The survey found students at MIT study the most. Photographer: William B. Plowman/Getty Images  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  Spreadsheet 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
