-- Funds Provide Inadequate Disclosure on Derivatives, SEC Says
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-08-02T20:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/mutual-funds-provide-inadequate-disclosure-on-use-of-derivatives-sec-says.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators said mutual funds
aren’t telling investors enough about why they use derivatives,
with some funds providing “generic” disclosures and others
failing to explain how the products affect performance.  
 Regulators said they are concerned that the use of
derivatives has increased in the mutual-fund industry without
shareholders comprehending the risks or investment strategies.
Some funds offer information that “may not be consistent with
the intent” of required registration forms, the Securities and
Exchange Commission wrote in a July 30  letter  to the  Investment
Company Institute , the industry’s biggest trade group.  
 The SEC also raised concerns about “abbreviated”
disclosures that give investors a false sense of security about
how much funds rely on derivatives.  
 “While more abbreviated disclosures could lead some
investors to believe that a fund’s exposure to derivatives is
minimal, we have observed that some funds employing this type of
disclosure, in fact, appear to invest significantly in
derivatives,” wrote  Barry Miller , an associate director in the
SEC’s division of investment management.  
 As a result of the inadequate disclosures, investors may
not know which products are used to generate profits, Miller
said in the letter. He advised all funds that use derivatives to
“assess the accuracy and completeness” of their disclosures.  
 Working with Members  
 The ICI “is reviewing the SEC staff’s letter on
derivatives-related disclosures,” said Rachel McTague, a
spokeswoman for the Washington-based group. “We will work with
our members to ensure that they understand and comply with their
disclosure obligations.”  
 Derivatives are securities whose value is linked to assets
such as stocks, bonds or commodities. Congress last month
 increased regulation  of the products after transactions tied to
the U.S. housing market were blamed for triggering the financial
crisis and the near-collapse of companies including  American
International Group Inc.   
 Regulators have previously said they were particularly
focused on leveraged and inverse exchange-traded funds, which
rely on swaps to amplify profits or post inverse returns to an
index. Such strategies enable funds to get around restrictions
on borrowing implemented under the 1940 Investment Company Act.  
 The SEC announced in March it wouldn’t approve new ETFs
that make significant use of derivatives until the agency
completes an examination of the practice. While the review is
ongoing, the SEC’s Miller said the agency wanted to inform the
industry of some of its initial observations.  
 “We believe these observations may give investment
companies immediate guidance to provide investors with more
understandable disclosures,” Miller wrote in his letter to
 Karrie McMillan , the ICI’s general counsel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
