-- Venezuela to Open Bond Exchange Market for State Companies, Sanguino Says
-- Corina Rodriguez Pons
-- 2010-08-02T16:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/venezuela-to-open-bond-exchange-market-for-state-companies-sanguino-says.html

          
          
             Venezuela will create a public bond
market where government-run companies can sell securities in
bolivars to finance development plans,  Ricardo Sanguino , head of
the congressional finance committee, said.  
 The local bond market will initially be open to government-
run banks seeking to purchase debt, and private banks may
eventually be allowed as well, Sanguino said. Brokerages, which
will be banned from buying and selling government debt in
dollars and bolivars, can’t participate in the market, he said.  
 “Dollar-denominated securities may also be sold in the
future, but for now we’re looking to provide a space for
companies like Sidor and Cantv to obtain resources,” Sanguino
said today in a phone interview.  
 President  Hugo Chavez  dismantled Venezuela’s unregulated
currency market in May after accusing brokerages of fueling
capital flight, setting artificial exchange rates and laundering
money. The government now sets three different exchange rates of
2.6, 4.3 and 5.3 bolivars per dollar depending on what the money
will be used for.  
 The public exchange market may allow Chavez, who
nationalized the country’s largest steel mill, Siderurgica del
Orinoco, known as Sidor, and telecommunications provider Cia
Anonima Nacional Telefonos de Venezuela,  Cantv , to finance
companies at preferential interest rates and conditions.  
 Sidor secured 2 billion bolivars ($465.7 million) in
financing from banks last week to pay salaries, Basic Industries
& Mining Minister  Jose Khan  said July 30.  
 “This is not an attempt to open a new unregulated market
to obtain foreign currency,” Sanguino said.  
 The bill to create the public bond exchange market may be
presented to the National Assembly later this week, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        