-- Virginia Health-Care Lawsuit Can Proceed, Judge Says
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-08-02T20:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/virginia-challenge-to-obama-health-care-overhaul-may-proceed-judge-says.html

          
          
             Virginia can proceed with its lawsuit
challenging the health-care overhaul signed by President  Barack Obama  in March, a federal judge said.  
 U.S. District Judge  Henry E. Hudson  in Richmond, Virginia,
today denied a U.S. Justice Department request to throw out the
suit, rejecting arguments that the state had no right to sue.
Virginia said the U.S. Congress had unconstitutionally exceeded
its powers by requiring individuals to buy insurance.  
 “While this case raises a host of complex constitutional
issues, all seem to distill to the single question of whether or
not Congress has the power to regulate -- and tax -- a citizen’s
decision not to participate in interstate commerce,” Hudson
wrote in his 32-page ruling.  
 There is “some authority arguably supporting the theory
underlying each side’s position,” Hudson said. The U.S. Supreme
Court and other federal appeals courts haven’t squarely
addressed the issue, he said.  
 “The decision is a procedural step that just means there
will be a full hearing on the arguments,” U.S. Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  told reporters in a
conference call after Hudson handed down his ruling. “We remain
confident that the case is solid and that there’s a full
constitutional case for the passage of the Affordable Care
Act.”  
 Virginia filed its suit within minutes of Obama signing the
bill on March 23. The following day, Governor  Bob McDonnell 
signed legislation making it illegal to force the state’s
residents to buy health insurance.  
 Florida Lawsuit  
 Florida, joined by 19 other states, filed a separate
lawsuit claiming that the health-reform law is unconstitutional
and puts a fiscal burden on its cash-strapped budget by
expanding state-run Medicaid programs. U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola, Florida, scheduled a non-jury trial in that
case for Sept. 14.  
 Virginia claims in its lawsuit that the federal mandate to
buy health insurance goes beyond Congress’s authority. The U.S.
said the provision is allowed under its power to regulate
commerce because of the $43 billion in unpaid medical bills
absorbed by the market each year.  
 The U.S. said Virginia doesn’t have standing to sue, and
that no one has suffered any injury because the insurance
requirement doesn’t take effect until 2014. The state said the
conflict was inevitable and therefore ripe for litigation now.  
 Virginia Law  
 Virginia filed the case in March, defending the Virginia
Healthcare Freedom Act, the state law barring the compulsory
purchase of health insurance by its citizens.  
 “This case is not about health care, so much as it is
about liberty,” Virginia Attorney General  Kenneth Cuccinelli 
told reporters at a press conference today.  
 Cuccinelli said the federal health-care statute has no
severability clause. That means the entire act will be
invalidated if Virginia’s challenge is upheld, he said.  
 “If this law is ultimately upheld, it will be the new
outer limit” of federal constitutional power, he said. Hudson
is scheduled to hear argument on the merits of the state’s case
on Oct. 18.  
 McDonnell, the state’s Republican governor, said in a
statement that he looked forward to the hearing.  
 “The requirement that all Americans must purchase health
insurance or face a penalty is not permitted under the Commerce
Clause of the United States Constitution,” McDonnell said.  
 Health Club  
 In a July 1 hearing, Hudson expressed skepticism over the
federal legislation’s reach, wondering whether the government
could force citizens to join a health club.  
 Lawyers for the U.S. said Congress has a right to regulate
people who hurt the economy when they become sick or injured and
seek health care without insurance. Because the federal
government covers some costs of the uninsured, it has authority
to require them to get health coverage even if they don’t want
it, the lawyers said.  
 Virginia said the law’s purpose is to ensure that people
buy health-care coverage and not to raise revenue. That means it
shouldn’t be classified as a tax, and that puts it outside the
realm of Congress’ recognized power to tax and spend, the
state’s lawyers argue.  
 The U.S. said the law is within Congress’s authority to tax
and to regulate interstate commerce. The possibility of people
being unable to pay medical bills is sufficient to draw a link
to their insurance coverage and those powers, the federal
government said.  
 ‘Wasting’ Money  
 Larry McNeely of the advocacy group  U.S. PIRG , the
federation of state Public Interest Research Groups, said in a
statement that today’s ruling allows Cuccinelli to “continue
wasting” taxpayers’ money.  
 “Instead of pursuing lawsuits and repeal attempts that
accomplish little more than exciting their political base,
elected officials in Virginia and other states around the
country should focus on using the new health-care law to bring
down costs for their constituents,” McNeely said.  
 The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius,
10-cv-00188, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Richmond).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Virginia Governor Bob McDonnel  
                       
                         
                           Geoff Burke/Getty Images 
                         
                         Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell. Photographer: Geoff Burke/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
