-- Lower Saxony Plans to Sell Some VW Shares, Minister Says
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-08-02T15:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/volkswagen-20-holder-lower-saxony-will-sell-some-shares-to-reduce-deficit.html

          
          
             Lower Saxony,  Volkswagen AG ’s second-
largest shareholder, is weighing a sale of the carmaker’s stock
to help narrow the state government’s budget deficit, Finance
Minister  Hartmut Moellring  said.  
 A  transaction  may happen next year, and Lower Saxony has no
plan to reduce its blocking minority of 20.01 percent in
Europe’s biggest carmaker, Moellring said in a telephone
interview today.  
 The government’s  stake  in VW’s vote-carrying ordinary
shares is could rise after VW completes its merger with Porsche
SE because of the cancelation of some stock, according to a
government official. Lower Saxony may seek to raise 200 million
euros ($264 million) by selling the surplus stock, said the
official, who asked not to be identified because the plan is
confidential and no final decision has been made.  
 “We’ll keep our stake above 20 percent,” Moellring said,
adding that a sale would be aimed at plugging a 1.8 billion-euro
gap in Lower Saxony’s 2011 budget plan.  
 Michael Brendel , a VW spokesman, said the carmaker has no
comment and it’s up to Lower Saxony to disclose its plans for
the government’s VW shares.  
 Volkswagen’s  ordinary shares  fell as much as 1.4 percent
intraday to 72.09 euros after the interview. The stock was up
0.6 percent at 73.15 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in
Frankfurt, valuing the carmaker at 36 billion euros.  
 Volkswagen Law  
 Under Germany’s so-called Volkswagen Law, Lower Saxony may
block major decisions by the carmaker. Porsche’s  holding  company
owns 50.7 percent of VW’s ordinary shares. Qatar Holding LLC,
part of the country’s sovereign wealth fund, has 17 percent of
the voting rights.  
 Lower Saxony Prime Minister  David McAllister , who sits on
Volkswagen’s supervisory board, said in a June 24 interview with
Bloomberg News that he stands “rock solid” behind the state
government’s 20 percent stake in VW.  
 “VW is a global player and has in the past years
integrated very many brands,” said McAllister, 39, who
succeeded  Christian Wulff , now Germany’s President. “We also
managed to integrate Porsche into the VW group.”  
 Volkswagen is acquiring Porsche’s sports-car business after
 Wendelin Wiedeking , former CEO of the 911 luxury-car maker,
failed to use options transactions to take over VW.  
 Supervisory Board  
 Resistance from Wulff, McAllister’s predecessor, last year
helped prevent Porsche from achieving its plan to buy 75 percent
of VW, a holding that could have given it access to VW’s cash.
Wulff has also opposed to efforts by the European Union and by
Wiedeking to scuttle the VW law.  
 “It is not for the Commission to comment on rumors as to
whether the state of Lower Saxony intends to sell part of its
stake in Volkswagen,” said Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for
the Brussels-based European Commission.  
 Volkswagen investors have given Lower Saxony the right to
appoint two supervisory-board members for as long as its home
state holds at least 15 percent of VW’s common stock.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       McAllister backs VW's expansion  
                       
                         
                           CDU Niedersachsen via Bloomberg 
                         
                         David McAllister poses in this undated handout photo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     David McAllister poses in this undated handout photo. Source: CDU Niedersachsen via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lower Saxony's shares to be sold before end of next year  
                       
                         
                           Susana Gonzalez/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A model of a Volkswagen AG Beetle is seen during a presentation ceremony for the Jetta compact sedan. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A model of a Volkswagen AG Beetle is seen during a presentation ceremony for the Jetta compact sedan. Photographer: Susana Gonzalez/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
