-- Western Gas Partners to Buy Pipeline Assets From Anadarko for $498 Million
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-08-02T20:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/western-gas-partners-to-buy-pipeline-assets-from-anadarko-for-498-million.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the Texas
oil company that owns a stake in BP Plc’s damaged Gulf of Mexico
well, agreed to sell Colorado pipeline assets to Western Gas
Partners LP for $498 million.  
 The purchase of the Wattenberg system includes 1,734 miles
(2,790 kilometers) of pipelines that gather natural gas from
producing wells, as well as a plant that can process 105 million
cubic feet of fuel a day,  Western  said today in a statement. The
deal also includes contracts held by The Woodlands, Texas-based
Anadarko to process gas for producers.  
 Anadarko  will get more than $470 million in cash and
partnership units of Western, according to the statement. The
oil and gas producer has a 25 percent stake in BP’s Macondo
well, which caused the biggest oil spill in U.S. history.
Anadarko is in a dispute with  BP  over whether it should have to
pay a share of spill-related costs after alleging that its
partner, which operated the well, caused the disaster.  
 Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York,
has estimated that spill costs may reach $60 billion. The spill
began after a drilling-rig explosion at Macondo that killed 11
workers.  
 The Wattenberg deal is the fourth and largest acquisition
announced by  Western , also based in The Woodlands, since the
partnership sold units to the public in 2008. Anadarko controls
Western through ownership of its general partner, Western Gas
Holdings LLC.  
 Gas Liquids  
 Western  rose 67 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $24.63 as of the
4 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Anadarko climbed $4.11, or 8.4 percent, to $53.27.  
 The purchase will add immediately to cash available for
 distributions  to unit holders, Western Gas Partners Chief
Executive Officer  Don Sinclair  said in the statement. The
Wattenberg system is located in Colorado’s Denver-Julesburg
Basin, which is rich in petroleum liquids that sell at a premium
to dry gas.  
 Western, which bought Wyoming pipelines and processing
plants from Anadarko in February for $254.4 million, said the
latest transaction is scheduled to close early this month with
an effective date of July 1. Anadarko President  Al Walker  told
investors in March that the company expected more asset sales to
Western to help fund exploration and production projects.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        