-- Wyly Broker Schaufele Defended Offshore Firms in 2006 Testimony to Senate
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/wyly-broker-schaufele-defended-offshore-firms-in-2006-testimony-to-senate.html

          
          
             Louis J. Schaufele, the former  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  and Banc of America Securities broker
sued by U.S. regulators for helping  Charles  and  Samuel Wyly 
employ offshore entities to mislead investors, defended the use
of the companies before Congress in 2006.  
 “The firms that I was with knew that the Wylys were
beneficial owners of these accounts, and I relied on the
compliance folks for what they would recommend,” Schaufele told
a U.S. Senate subcommittee examining offshore trusts, according
to a transcript. “My work with the offshore companies has been
subject to the compliance and guidance requirements of the firms
where I’ve been employed.”  
 Schaufele at the time worked in Dallas for  R. Allen Stanford ’s Stanford Group Co. The committee in August 2006 was
probing the use of offshore entities to bypass tax, securities
and money-laundering laws.  
 Senator  Norm Coleman , a Minnesota Republican, said he was
concerned that transactions involving Wyly-related offshore
entities “were done to circumvent or avoid federal security
laws reporting.” Schaufele said he knew of no violations.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in its
July 29 fraud lawsuit that the Wylys used “an elaborate sham
system of trusts and subsidiary companies” in the Isle of Man
and Cayman Islands for 13 years to hide the control of
securities linked to companies on whose boards they sat. They
kept investors in the dark as they sold holdings, in one case
making illegal insider trades, the SEC said.  
 The agency claimed the Wylys’ lawyer, Michael French, knew
or was “reckless in not knowing” that the brothers were
obligated to disclose stock transactions in regulatory filings.
French’s lawyer, Robert Davis, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  
 Longtime Broker  
 Schaufele, now at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , was accused in the
suit of using his position as the Wylys’ longtime stockbroker to
deceive his bosses at Lehman and Banc of America Securities
about the brothers’ control of securities held in the offshore
accounts. He was also accused of illegally trading in Sterling
Software Inc. stock after learning of the Wylys’ intention to
make a “massive, bullish and undisclosed transaction.”  
 Schaufele joined JPMorgan Securities Inc. in Dallas last
year. He was employed at Stanford Group from February 2005 to
March 2009, according to records of the  Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority .  
 Stanford, the group’s founder and chairman, is in jail
awaiting trial on charges that he defrauded investors of
$7 billion, which he denies.  
 “I don’t think he’s in any way related” to the Stanford
case, Schaufele’s lawyer,  Martin Auerbach , said of his client in
a July 30 phone interview. He declined to comment on the SEC’s
allegations against Schaufele, who is on leave from JPMorgan.  
 Job Change  
 When Stanford Group hired Schaufele, it issued a statement
saying he would be “responsible for managing portfolios and
investments for high net worth individuals and families.”  
 Schaufele previously worked for units of  Bank of America
Corp. , Lehman Brothers and Credit Suisse Group AG in Boston and
New York, according to Finra.  
 Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, and  Darin Oduyoye , a spokesman
for New York-based JPMorgan, which has acquired Lehman Brothers,
declined to comment.  
 The Wyly brothers began setting up the offshore network in
1992, the SEC said. They established 17 trusts bearing names of
personal significance, according to the agency’s complaint.  
 In the following years, they transferred millions of stock
options and warrants they received for work as directors, the
SEC said. They also added to the stockpile through other
transactions, such as private offerings, it said.  
 $31.7 Million Profit  
 The brothers also used the offshore network for illegal
insider trading, reaping a $31.7 million profit, the SEC said.  
 “In 2004, when Bank of America demanded to know the
identity of the offshore entities’ beneficial owners in order to
comply with the anti-money laundering provisions of the Patriot
Act, Schaufele upheld his promise” to the brothers “and worked
to keep the Wylys’ control over their offshore system
concealed,” according to the complaint.  
 “He first tried to dissuade the bank from obtaining the
information, then tried to move the accounts to the bank’s prime
broker division,” which he believed wouldn’t request the
information, the SEC said in the complaint.  
 The case is SEC v. Wyly, 10-cv-05760, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Louis J. Schaufele Defended Offshore Firms  
                       
                         
                           Dennis Brack/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Louis J. Schaufele testifies at a Senate hearing titled "Offshore Abuses: The Enablers, the Tools and Offshore Secrecy" in Washington on August 1, 2006. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Louis J. Schaufele testifies at a Senate hearing titled "Offshore Abuses: The Enablers, the Tools and Offshore Secrecy" in Washington on August 1, 2006. Photographer: Dennis Brack/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
