-- Ex-Yahoo M&A Head Mrva Is Said to Join Barclays as Head of Internet Group
-- Serena Saitto
-- 2010-08-02T17:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/yahoo-s-former-m-a-head-mrva-said-to-lead-barclays-web-investment-banking.html

          
          
             Greg Mrva ,  Yahoo! Inc. ’s former head
of mergers and acquisitions, is joining Barclays Capital as head
of Internet investment-banking in Menlo Park, California.  
 Mrva will report to  Laurence Goldberg , the head of global
technology, according to a company statement.  
 Mrva was head of Yahoo’s M&A until last year when the
Internet company’s new chief executive officer,  Carol Bartz ,
hired  Andrew Siegel  from  General Electric Co.  to run corporate
development. Mrva began his career in the M&A unit of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.   
 “His combination of investment banking and corporate
development experience affords him valuable perspective into the
unique challenges and opportunities confronting companies in the
sector,” Goldberg said in the statement.  
 Barclays Capital is the investment-banking unit of  Barclays
PLC , the U.K.’s third-largest bank by assets, which expanded in
the U.S. in September 2008 with the acquisition out of
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s North American
assets.  
 Lehman’s former technology team in Menlo Park, which joined
Barclays Capital as part of the acquisition, was among Yahoo’s
financial advisers in 2008 when the Sunnyvale, California-based
company was in talks to be taken over by  Microsoft Corp.  One
year after spurning Microsoft’s $47.5 billion takeover offer,
Yahoo agreed to enter into an Internet search partnership with
the software maker in July 2009 to better compete against Google
Inc.  
 Barclays’s technology team recently advised Nokia Siemens
Network in its $1.2 billion acquisition of Motorola Inc.’s
wireless network unit and SAP AG in its $5.8 billion acquisition
of Sybase Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        