-- Yen, Dollar Drop as Signs of Global Recovery Buoy Risk Demand
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-08-02T20:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/yen-dollar-drop-as-signs-of-global-recovery-buoy-risk-demand.html

          
          
             The yen and dollar fell against most
of their major counterparts as signs the global recovery is
gaining momentum fueled investor appetite for riskier assets,
damping demand for currencies perceived as havens.  
 The euro strengthened to a three-month high versus the
dollar as a report showed U.S. manufacturing expanded for a 12th
straight month. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
rising wages will probably spur household spending in the next
few quarters. Japan’s currency dropped for the first time in
four days against the euro as stocks rose after data showed
gains in British and Australian manufacturing.  
 “This is more risk-on -- the U.S. dollar remains under
pressure across the board,” said  Jonathan Gencher , director of
foreign-exchange sales at Bank of Montreal in Toronto.  
 The yen weakened 0.9 percent to 113.83 per euro at 4:27
p.m. in New York, from 112.84 on July 30. Japan’s currency was
little changed at 86.39 per dollar, compared with 86.47. The
dollar slid as much as 1.1 percent to $1.3195 per euro, the
weakest level since May 4, from $1.3052, before trading at
$1.3176.  
 The  MSCI World Index  of stocks surged as much as 2.4
percent to an 11-week high as companies including HSBC Holdings
and BNP Paribas SA joined the 65 percent of corporations in the
gauge that have topped earnings estimates this reporting season,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
touched the highest level in six weeks.  
 U.S. Manufacturing  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of
manufacturing in the U.S. declined less than forecast to 55.5 in
July, from 56.2 a month earlier, according to the Tempe,
Arizona-based group. A reading greater than 50 signals
expansion. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a drop to 54.5. Construction spending unexpectedly rose in
June, gaining 0.1 percent, a Commerce Department report showed.  
 Bernanke said the U.S. has “a considerable way to go to
achieve a full recovery.” Still, he said in a speech in
Charleston, South Carolina, “rising demand from households and
businesses should help sustain growth” and consumer spending is
likely to grow.  
 The pound rallied as much as 1.4 percent to $1.5907, the
highest level since Feb. 4, after Markit Economics and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said their U.K.
manufacturing index slipped to 57.3, from 57.6 in June, London-
based Markit said in an e-mailed statement today. The median
estimate of 26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
reading of 57. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  
 ‘Signs of Health’  
 Sterling has gained 11 percent against the greenback since
reaching a low for the year of $1.4231 on May 20. That was about
a week after a coalition government of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats took office following an election, ending 13 years of
Labour Party control.  
 “You had so many people very bearish heading into the U.K.
election and fears that lack of consensus wouldn’t be able to
address the fiscal strains,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior
market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut. “There are still signs of health in the British
economy.”  
 The Canadian dollar strengthened as much as 0.9 percent to
C$1.0205, the strongest level since June 22, as futures on crude
oil, the nation’s largest export, climbed 3.2 percent to $81.44
a barrel in New York. Stock markets in Canada are closed today
for a holiday.  
 Poised for New High  
 Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, may be poised to
exceed the 22-month high reached against its U.S. counterpart in
April, according to a report from Citigroup Inc. citing
technical analysis. The firm said investors should target new
lows below 99.31 cents to the greenback.  
 Australian Industry Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers said
an index of manufacturing rose 1.5 points to 54.4 in July. A
figure above 50 shows the industry is expanding.  
 The yen has appreciated versus all of its major
counterparts this year as speculation the global recovery will
falter stoked demand for the safest assets.  
 The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, decreased for a fourth straight day on
speculation the recovery in the world’s largest economy is
lagging behind others. The index dropped as much as 0.9 percent
to 80.792, the lowest level since April 20.  
 U.S. employers cut 60,000 jobs in July, the second straight
drop in non-farm payrolls this year, according to the median
estimate of 77 economists in a Bloomberg survey before the Labor
Department reports the data Aug. 6.  
 The weakness in the labor market will help force the Fed
“into aggressive easing,” said  Sebastien Galy , a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas in New York. St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard  wrote in a paper last week that the central bank
should resume purchases of Treasuries if the economy slows and
prices fall.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The yen fell against most of its major counterparts  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Japanese yen notes are arranged for a photograph in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Japanese yen notes are arranged for a photograph in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
