-- Yuan Forwards Strengthen as China Highlights Benefits of Exchange Reforms
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-02T07:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/yuan-forwards-strengthen-as-china-highlights-benefits-of-exchange-reforms.html

          
          
             Yuan forwards rose the most in more
than a week as the People’s Bank of China said the relaxation of
exchange-rate controls have made it easier to manage the economy.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards advanced even after
purchasing managers’ reports showed China’s manufacturing is
cooling. The central bank said on June 19 it would allow the
yuan to float against a currency basket, ending a two-year-old
dollar peg. The reform aided in balancing international payments,
boosting domestic demand and economic structuring, PBOC Deputy
Governor Hu Xiaolian said in a July 30 statement.  
 “Slower economic growth won’t likely shift the direction
of allowing gradual appreciation in the yuan as policy makers
are not focusing on the pace of growth,” said  Liu Dongliang , a
Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the
country’s fifth-largest lender by market value. “The yuan rate
will be more affected by movements of major global currencies in
the near term.”  
 The 12-month NDF contracts rose 0.16 percent to 6.6750 per
dollar as of 3:48 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen 1.5
percent from the spot rate of 6.7728.  
 A purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell to 49.4 in July from 50.4
in June, below the dividing line of fifty between expansion and
contraction for the first time in 16 months. A separate,
government-backed PMI dropped to 51.2 from 52.1, the Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing reported yesterday.  
 Band ‘Appropriate’  
 China’s pace of growth will “definitely” slow as the size
of the economy increases, Yi Gang, director of the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange, said in an interview posted
on the currency regulator’s website on July 30.  
 The daily yuan-dollar trading band is “appropriate,”
PBOC’s Hu said in an interview today with the Century Weekly
magazine. The band may be widened in the future, Hu was cited as
saying.  
 The yuan is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on either side of
a daily fixing rate set by the central bank, which was 6.7742
per dollar today.  
 Government notes fell on speculation investors are favoring
stocks over bonds after the Shanghai Composite Index of shares
had its biggest rally last month since July 2009. Concern
inflation accelerated also damped demand, according to  Hu Hangyu ,
a Beijing-based fixed-income analyst with Citic Securities Co.  
 Stocks, Bonds  
 Consumer prices may have risen more than 3 percent in July
from a year ago, compared with 2.9 percent for June, said Hu at
China’s biggest listed brokerage. The statistics bureau is due
to report the figures on Aug. 11.  
 “Bonds have been range-bound in recent weeks without much
impact coming from slower manufacturing growth,” Hu said.
“Stock gains have drawn funds away from the debt market.”  
 The yield on the 3.9 percent note due in August 2014 added
three basis points to 2.5 percent, and the price of the security
dropped 0.12 per 100 yuan face amount to 105.34, according to
China Interbank Bond Market data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 The Shanghai Composite, which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, gained 1.3 percent today after rising 10
percent in July.  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures funding
availability between banks, slid four basis points to 1.64
percent, the lowest level since May 4, according to the daily
fixing rate published by the National Interbank Funding Center.  
 -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  Simon Harvey ,  James Regan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        