-- Hungarian Forint Strengthens to Two-Week High on Europe Banks; Zloty Gains
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-08-02T16:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-02/zloty-jumps-to-3-month-high-on-interest-rate-bets-forint-gains-on-china.html

          
          
             Hungary’s forint gained to a two-week
high against the euro and the Polish zloty rose to the strongest
since May as better-than-estimated profits at European banks and
U.S. economic data boosted investor demand for riskier assets.  
 The forint jumped 1.1 percent to 280.77 per euro at 5:30
p.m. in Budapest, its strongest intraday level since July 19 and
the biggest gain among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The zloty advanced 0.7 percent to 3.9826
per euro, its highest since May. The Czech koruna appreciated
0.6 percent to 24.635, heading for its highest since 2008.  
 Stocks surged worldwide and crude oil jumped above $80 for
the first time in three months after  BNP Paribas SA  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc  reported earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates
and U.S. reports showed manufacturing growth slowed less than
estimated and construction spending increased.  
 “An improved market sentiment generally helped currencies
in the region” of central Europe,  Miroslav Frayer , an economist
at  Komercni Banka AS  in Prague, wrote in a report. “Positive
results at financial institutions translated into a very solid
growth of stock markets.”  
 Hungarian manufacturing expanded in July for the first time
in three months, signaling a recovery from the country’s worst
recession in 18 years, the Hungarian Logistics, Purchasing and
Inventory Society said today.  
 The Hungarian central bank is finished cutting interest
rates because of declines in the forint, the world’s fifth-worst
performer against the euro in the past three months, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said in a report dated July 30. The bank
earlier forecast further rate reductions in Hungary.  
 Chinese Manufacturing  
 Emerging-market equities rose and currencies gained earlier
today on speculation China will reverse policies aimed at
cooling the economy after the country’s manufacturing expanded
the least in more than a year. The purchasing managers’ index
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics slid to
49.4 in July from 50.4 in June. China’s stocks rose after the
PMI data as analysts including those at Morgan Stanley said the
government may do more to aid growth by year-end.  
 “Relief that Chinese PMI was no worse than expected
prompted a rally in risk markets,” RBC Capital analysts led by
 Nick Chamie  in Toronto wrote in a report. “The zloty rallied on
renewed speculation of a rate hike this autumn” after central
banker  Elzbieta Chojna-Duch  “spoke out about the inflationary
consequences of the planned value-added tax hike,” RBC said.  
 Inflation will accelerate if Poland’s government goes ahead
with plans to increase VAT,  Chojna-Duch  of the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Council said on TVN CNBC Biznes television
today. The Cabinet’s fiscal strategy will have a “significant”
influence on interest-rate decisions, she said.  
 Cutting the Deficit  
 Poland’s Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said on July 30 the
government wants to raise the tax by 1 percentage point and step
up asset sales to help cut the budget deficit. Inflation will
probably slow to 2.1 percent in August before accelerating to
more than 2.5 percent by the end of the year,  Slawomir Dudek ,
the deputy head of the ministry’s financial analysis department,
was quoted as saying today by PAP newswire today.  
 “The planned VAT rise of 1 percentage point in 2011, as
announced in the fiscal plan on Friday, may also prompt
inflationary pressure,”  Esther Law , an emerging-market analyst
at  Societe Generale SA  in London, wrote in a report today. “We
think that the MPC could hike rates as early as October.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        