-- UPDATE 2-Top bids $2.78 bln as US wireless auction opens
-- 
-- Thu Jan 24, 2008 5:54pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/24/wireless-auction-idUSN2425560720080124

 

  (Adds second round of bidding, quote from analyst) 

  By  Peter Kaplan WASHINGTON  Jan 24 (Reuters) - Top bidders put up a total
of almost $2.78 billion on Thursday in the opening rounds of
the Federal Communications Commission's auction of coveted U.S.
government-owned airwaves.  The figure represents the highest bids received for five
separate blocks of spectrum at the beginning of the auction,
which is eventually expected to net the federal government at
least $10 billion.  Companies qualified to bid include major carriers AT&T Inc
( T.N ) and Verizon Wireless, as well as possible new competitors
like Internet company Google Inc ( GOOG.O ), EchoStar
Communications Corp ( DISH.O ) and Cablevision Systems Corp
( CVC.N ).  Identities of bidders will be kept secret, under FCC rules,
until the entire auction ends.  Analysts say the major carriers could use the new spectrum
to offer consumers more advanced services such as broadband
access via mobile phones and wireless broadband to laptop
computers.  Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon
Communications Inc ( VZ.N ) and Vodafone Group Plc ( VOD.L ).  The $2.78 billion worth of opening high bids included a
$472 million offer for a closely watched block of spectrum,
known as the "D" block, which will have to be shared with
public safety agencies under FCC rules.  It also included an opening high bid of about $1.24 billion
for the sought-after "C" block, which carries another condition
requiring that it be open to all devices and software
applications as long as the minimum price is met.   Rebecca Arbogast, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus, said
there was nothing unexpected in the bidding so far, and it will
be until middle of next week before "we will start seeing what
the likely outcome is going to be on the D block and whether
the open-access conditions will be triggered on the C block."  The FCC issued results of the first two rounds of bidding
for the government-owned spectrum shortly after the rounds
ended at noon (1700 GMT) and 4:30 p.m.(2130 GMT).  The FCC has set minimum prices of $1.3 billion and $4.7
billion for the D and C blocks respectively. These blocks could
be used to create a national network.  Other spectrum includes local chunks set aside in blocks
designated "A" and "B". The final, "E" block, is considered
less useful because it is limited to one-way data
transmission.  The 700-megahertz signals are valuable because they can go
long distances and penetrate thick walls. The airwaves are
being returned by television broadcasters as they move to
digital from analog signals in early 2009.  The electronic auction is expected to continue for weeks or
even months and will end when no more bids are submitted. The
FCC plans to hold multiple rounds of back-and-forth bidding
each day on each of five blocks of spectrum available for
sale.  Results from each round are made publicly available on the
FCC's Web site about 10 minutes afterward.  Starting on Friday, the FCC is scheduled to hold three
rounds of bidding each day until further notice. Bidding
typically accelerates as the auction progresses.
 (Editing by  Tim Dobbyn ,  Gary Hill )



