-- U.S. returns to Doha talks with renewed optimism
-- By  Missy Ryan
-- Fri Aug 31, 2007 6:11pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/09/01/businesspro-usa-trade-doha-dc-idUSN3128079420070901

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The Bush administration returns to 
world trade talks next week with renewed optimism, but even the 
most ardent supporters of the Doha round see formidable hurdles 
to clinching a deal. 

  Negotiators will gather in Geneva to press ahead in the 
World Trade Organization's Doha round.  In interviews on Friday, Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns 
and a senior U.S. trade official painted a picture of renewed 
optimism, mixed with caution after six years of deep divisions 
on farm subsidies, tariffs and a host of other issues.  "I believe it's still doable ... my hope is that other 
countries will share that optimism," Johanns said.  The trade official, speaking on condition of anonymity, 
said the climate had improved since an unhappy end to talks in 
Potsdam, Germany in June between the round's major players.  "I'm fully expecting to go back to Geneva and find 
countries ... coming there with the intention of negotiation 
and not just reiterating the same sort of speeches," the 
official told Reuters on condition of anonymity.  "We certainly are ready ... and I think we'll see it," he 
said.  But it remained unclear if intentions will push countries 
past sticking points. Washington, for example, wants to ensure 
lower tariffs abroad compensate for farm subsidy cuts at home.  Patience is wearing thin for a round which has missed 
deadline after deadline. President George W. Bush and U.S. 
Trade Representative Susan Schwab are expected to discuss Doha 
prospects next week at a summit in Australia, but Bush so far 
has not veered from his demands for greater market access.  Just this week, French Economy Minister Christine Laguard 
said wide gaps would preclude an agreement in the near future. 
France is a major voice on agriculture in the European Union.
  DEVIL IN THE DETAILS?  The U.S. trade official believes the talks got a boost in 
July when Crawford Falconer, who chairs the round's agriculture 
negotiations, released a draft proposal that helped negotiators 
discern what a new trade deal would mean for their countries.  But the official pointed to several U.S. priorities the 
paper had skirted, like tropical products and goods developing 
countries can shelter from full tariff cuts. He said more 
precise definitions and smaller ranges for tariff or subsidy 
cuts are needed.  U.S. farmers promise to fight any agreement without a net 
increase in trade, and the official said it has been difficult 
to sell a deal to industries at home "when you have no idea 
what the parameters are."  The official said the United States would reach out to 
countries like Brazil and Argentina, which along with India 
have emerged as developing country foils to U.S. and European 
clout in the round.  If a deal proves impossible, Johanns said, the world's 
poorest countries will lose out -- unable, perhaps, to 
negotiate a score of bilateral trade deals on their own -- and 
the world could backslide toward protectionism.  "I worry about the possibility that the world takes a step 
back in terms of opening markets, reform in many key areas, and 
all of that kind of goes on the back burner," he said.