-- Slovakia Seeks Emergency Gas to Counter Shortage
-- Andrea Dudikova
-- 2009-01-09T15:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-01-09/slovakia-seeks-emergency-gas-to-counter-shortage-update2-.html

          
          
             Slovakia is seeking emergency imports
of as much as 10 million cubic meters of natural gas a day as
supplies of the commodity from  Russia  remain halted for a third
day, Economy Minister Lubomir Jahnatek said.  
 Slovensky Plynarensky Priemysel AS, the country’s dominant
gas company, is negotiating to import gas from sources other
than Russia’s OAO Gazprom, including E.ON AG, GDF Suez and  OMV
AG (OMV) , Chairman Bernd Wagner said at a press conference in
Bratislava, Slovakia after meeting with government officials to
discuss the shortage.  
 The utility “is working heavily to get emergency supplies
to Slovakia and some small amounts are already available,”
Wagner said. “Technically, this is quite a complex task we are
facing.”  
 Slovakia relies completely on flows of the commodity via
Ukraine, whose dispute with Russia over pricing and transit fees
makes the eastern European country one of the hardest hit
European Union members. Slovensky is continuing with
restrictions of gas usage for industrial clients as supplies of
stored gas have been falling.  
 Slovensky can’t guarantee supplies of gas for all Slovak
regions for longer than nine days, Wagner said. The government
is urging companies to cut consumption more and will start
penalizing manufacturers which don’t adhere to the curbs,
Jahnatek said.  
 About 1,000 companies have been affected by the
restrictions, including carmaker PSA Peugeot Citroen and Kia
Motors Corp., which halted production yesterday because of the
gas shortage.  
 RWE Transgas AS, the Czech dominant gas trading company,
said it will give up gas from its Slovak storage facility for
Slovakia’s current needs. The utility will release the first 2
million cubic meters of gas as early as tomorrow morning,
spokesman Martin Chalupsky said in an e-mailed statement from
 Prague .  
 The Czech Republic, Slovakia’s former federal partner, can
cover about 15 percent of Slovakia’s gas consumption, or 4
million cubic meters of the commodity, Czech Industry Minister
Martin Riman said earlier today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Dudikova in Prague at 
 adudikova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at   ckirkham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        