-- Centerline Plummets as Company Lowers Profit Forecast
-- David M. Levitt
-- 2007-12-28T21:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-28/centerline-plummets-as-company-lowers-profit-forecast-update4-.html

          
          
             Centerline Holding Co. (CHC) , a lender and
investor in affordable housing, fell the most in its history after
the company lowered its earnings forecast, reduced its dividend,
and wrote down costs from securitizing $2.8 billion of bonds.  
 Centerline fell $2.57 or 25 percent to $7.70 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares declined 52 percent
in the 12 months through yesterday.  
 The Freddie Mac transaction is designed to ``transform'' the
company into primarily an asset manager, said Centerline President
Marc Schnitzer, on a conference call. Until now, he said, the
company was seen by investors as both an investment manager and as
a real estate investment trust specializing in mortgages.  
 ``In many ways we were neither fish nor fowl,'' he said.  
 The New York-based company said its 2007 cash available for
distribution to shareholders will be between $1.70 and $1.75 a
share, down from $1.89. The reduction doesn't include about $95
million of costs related to the $2.8 billion securitization of its
bonds with Freddie Mac, the U.S.'s second-biggest provider of
funds for home loans.  
 Centerline, known until April as CharterMac, also announced a
$131 million equity investment from Related Cos., its largest
shareholder.  New York  real estate investor Stephen M. Ross is
chairman of both companies. The two transactions will allow the
company to transfer its debt risk to bond investors, while
increasing investment in income and fee-paying properties for its
equity investors, Schnitzer said.  
 The company's plan drew criticism from some analysts and
investors on the call.  
 `Punishing' Shareholders  
 ``You're basically punishing the income-oriented shareholders
for more growth-oriented investors that may want to buy your stock
in the future,'' Tony Howard, an analyst with Louisville,
Kentucky-based Hilliard Lyons Inc., said on the call. Howard, who
has a ``neutral'' rating on Centerline, didn't return a message
seeking further comment after the conference call.  
 Related will receive new preferred shares that pay an 11
percent annual dividend. That stock will be convertible to a total
of about 12.2 million common shares at $10.75 a share, according
to a company statement. The transaction will close next month, the
company said.  
 The affordable-housing bonds transferred to  Freddie Mac  are
secured by about 59,000 units of affordable multifamily housing in
31 states, according to Centerline. The bonds are funded by loans
the company made to developers of affordable housing.  
 New York-based Morgan Stanley and Bear Stearns Cos. acted as
financial advisers on the transactions, the company said.  
 The company also said it was reducing its annual dividend to
60 cents a share, from $1.68, subject to approval by its board of
trustees.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at  at  robprag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        