-- Best Buy miss raises TV pricing, margin concerns
-- By  Nicole Maestri
-- Wed Dec 13, 2006 1:25pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/13/businesspro-bestbuy-margins-dc-idUSN1342640420061213

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Best Buy Co Inc. ( BBY.N ) may have 
ridden the flat-panel TV wave to higher profits, but the 
retailer's disappointing quarterly results have sparked worries 
that the wave may have crested sooner than expected. 

  Best Buy said on Tuesday that profit increased 8.7 percent 
in the third quarter ended on November 25, but the gain was 
less than Wall Street had forecast as the company cut prices on 
advanced TVs and computers to try to win sales during the 
fiercely competitive Thanksgiving weekend.  "We have always assumed that, one day, discount retailers 
would commoditize the excess profits out of the flat-panel TV 
business, but we did not expect to see it occur this holiday 
season," Prudential analyst Mark Rowen wrote in a research 
note.  "We are concerned, because if (Best Buy) can't make 
outsized profits on flat-panel TVs now, when will it be able 
to?" Rowen said. "We believe the competitive environment will 
only become more intense next year."  Consumer electronics retailers have benefited as customers 
snap up new MP3 players, laptop computers, video game consoles, 
and high-definition plasma and LCD flat-panel TVs.  But the competition has not stood by and let Best Buy and 
Circuit City Stores Inc. CC.N win sales. Instead, discounters 
like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) and Target Corp. ( TGT.N ) have 
joined the fray, stocking more-advanced TVs and rolling out 
aggressive prices to bring shoppers into their stores.  "Thanksgiving weekend was particularly more intense than 
the prior year," Best Buy CFO Darren Jackson said on a Tuesday 
conference call with analysts. "Consumer electronics is the 
focus for the holidays, and everyone wants a piece of the pie."  Best Buy has said it could offset declining TV prices by 
selling services and accessories to help consumers set up and 
use their new gadgets.  In an interview, Chief Executive Brad Anderson said that he 
expected demand for such services to increase as prices for 
larger-sized televisions fall and customers need help getting 
them installed at homes.  (For a transcript of the Reuters Interview with Anderson, 
please see the Reuters Shop Talk blog: 
 here ).
  CHRISTMAS FUTURE?  Other analysts were also surprised that competition during 
the Thanksgiving weekend took such a toll on Best Buy's 
third-quarter results.  For instance, sales fell 10 percent at the company's 20 
high-end Magnolia Audio Video stores open at least a year.  "While immaterial to the business, the trend is notable as 
a potential indicator of 'Christmas Future' for (Best Buy's) 
broader TV business," wrote Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Colin 
McGranahan in a note, saying the decline could be a "potential 
portent" of TV headwinds for the company.  Goldman Sachs analyst Matthew Fassler said he expected 
better fourth-quarter performance from Best Buy as December 
tends to be less promotional than November, but the third 
quarter raised questions.  "After a monstrous gross margin cycle in 2005, and an 
equally impressive expense control effort in 2006, we believe 
that domestic operating margins are close to peak levels," he 
wrote. "The increasing commoditization of flat panel TV -- now 
in its early stages -- should limit gross margin opportunity."  Credit Suisse analyst Gary Balter said he was wrestling 
with his long-term comfort level with the category.  "Is this a segment destined to low margins?" he wrote. "Is 
the 7 percent margin goal just a dream, or can Best Buy get 
there?"  Best Buy shares were down 1.4 percent at $50.57 in 
afternoon New York Stock Exchange trading, while Circuit City, 
which plans to report its third-quarter results on Tuesday, 
fell 2.1 percent to $23.08.