-- Merck wins latest federal Vioxx trial
-- By Russell McCulley
-- Wed Dec 13, 2006 5:11pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/13/businesspro-merck-vioxx-verdict-dc-idUSWAA00004520061213

 

 NEW ORLEANS  (Reuters) - A New Orleans jury handed Merck & 
Co. ( MRK.N ) a swift victory on Wednesday in the latest federal 
Vioxx product liability trial, finding that the drugmaker 
adequately warned of the heart risks associated with the 
medicine. 

  The jury needed well under two hours to decide that Vioxx 
was not the primary cause of 51-year-old Anthony Dedrick's 2003 
heart attack and that Dedrick's physician had adequate warning 
from Merck of the Vioxx heart risks.  "We're pleased that the jury found for us both on the 
question of Merck's conduct, finding that we acted responsibly, 
and second on the question of causation," Merck's attorney Phil 
Beck said. "And we're pleased that the jury took just about 90 
minutes to reach that conclusion."  Dedrick, who had a long list of health risk factors for 
heart attack, including high blood pressure, high cholesterol, 
diabetes and plaque build-up in his arteries, had been seeking 
$200,000 in damages -- a relatively small amount for such 
cases.  Merck is facing more than 27,000 lawsuits from people who 
claim to have been harmed by the arthritis drug that was 
withdrawn from the market in September of 2004 after a study 
showed that it doubled the risk of heart attack and stroke in 
patients taking it for at least 18 months.  The New Jersey-based drugmaker has insisted it will fight 
each lawsuit case by case, rather than submit to any kind of 
broad settlement agreement.  "Merck has resources to defend itself in how ever many 
trials plaintiffs choose to pursue," Beck said.  Of the Vioxx trials that have reached a jury verdict, Merck 
has now won seven and lost four. Another Merck victory in New 
Jersey state court was overturned by the judge and will be 
retried.  Dedrick's attorney Andy Birchfield had a tough case on his 
hands given the plaintiff's list of health problems and 
questionable lifestyle.  During the trial there was testimony that Dedrick, who took 
Vioxx for his arthritis for six months before his heart attack, 
had abused cocaine and alcohol and was a heavy smoker.  "The alcohol and cocaine abuse certainly makes it a most 
challenging case; we recognized that going in," Birchfield 
said.  "But we also recognize Mr. Dedrick was taking Vioxx for six 
months and he was exactly the kind of patient who should not 
have been taking it.  "Obviously we're disappointed. We felt we presented 
sufficient evidence to the jury that (Vioxx) was a contributing 
factor" to Dedrick's heart attack, Birchfield said.  The trial, held in U.S. District Court in New Orleans, was 
presided over by Judge Eldon Fallon, who is overseeing all 
federal Vioxx cases.