-- U.S mortgage delinquencies, foreclosures mount: MBA
-- By  Lynn Adler
-- Wed Dec 13, 2006 2:30pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/13/businesspro-usa-mortgages-delinquencies-idUSN1345664320061213

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Late payments and new foreclosures on 
U.S. homes rose in the third quarter and are likely to grow as 
a massive wave of adjustable-rate mortgages reset at higher 
interest rates, the Mortgage Bankers Association said on 
Wednesday. 

  Delinquencies rose for all home loans, but most notably for 
adjustable loans to subprime borrowers who were already 
stretched before mortgage rates climbed, the industry trade 
group said in its quarterly National Delinquency Survey.  Still, the share of late payments and foreclosures will 
stay relatively low as the housing market regains its footing 
in the middle of next year, and have a limited impact on the 
overall economy, the MBA said.  "Only 7 percent of all loans out there are subprime 
adjustable loans. We're talking about a 12 percent delinquency 
rate on 7 percent of all home mortgages and the foreclosure 
rate is much lower than that," said MBA Chief Economist Doug 
Duncan.  "So in terms of a macro-economic event, if that's what 
everyone's concerned about, we don't see that happening."  The mortgage delinquency rate rose to 4.67 percent in the 
third quarter, from 4.39 percent in the prior quarter and 4.44 
percent in the third quarter of last year.  By loan type, the rate rose 15 basis points for prime 
mortgages, to 2.44 percent from 2.29 percent, and 86 basis 
points for subprime, to 12.56 percent from 11.70 percent.  New foreclosures on houses rose to 0.46 percent from 0.43 
percent both in the prior quarter and a year earlier.  The rate climbed to 0.19 percent from 0.18 percent on prime 
loans and rose to 1.82 percent from 1.79 percent for subprime.  The figures are seasonally adjusted.  The MBA predicts that between $1.1 trillion and $1.5 
trillion of mortgages face rate resets next year. Up to $700 
billion of those loans will be refinanced, while up to $800 
billion will adjust at less affordable rates.  "Chances are that we're seeing the leading edge of that 
reset wave coming through," Duncan said.  Greater fallout in the subprime arena was widely expected. 
Many borrowers used extremely low teaser rates to help them 
into homes they would otherwise be unable to afford, 
particularly after home prices surged by double digits annually 
for five years.  Subprime borrowers "are more likely susceptible to the 
cumulative increases in rates we've experienced, and the 
slowing of home price appreciation that has resulted," Duncan 
said. Still, "it is important to remember that delinquency and 
foreclosure rates have been quite low the last two years."  Short-term rates have jumped since the bulk of 
adjustable-rate mortgages were created.  The Federal Reserve has increased its federal funds rate 
from 1 percent to 5.25 percent since June 2004, aiming to 
thwart inflationary pressures.  Holders of mortgages that started with extremely low teaser 
rates are starting to see the effects of the Fed credit 
tightening as their mortgages adjust.  "Although labor markets remain strong, the pace of job 
growth has slowed, as has the home price appreciation rate, 
which has decreased in response to higher interest rates and 
rising inventories of unsold homes," said Duncan.  "We expect the housing market to fully regain its footing 
in the middle of 2007," he added. "In the meantime, we 
anticipate some further increases in delinquency and 
foreclosure rates in the quarters ahead."  The Fed on Tuesday kept rates unchanged at 5.25 percent for 
a fourth straight policy meeting. But the central bank cited 
its view of "substantial" cooling in the U.S. housing sector.