-- Google gives employees way to value stock options
-- By  Eric Auchard
-- Wed Dec 13, 2006 8:34am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/13/businesspro-google-options-dc-idUSN1238147120061213

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Google Inc. ( GOOG.O ) will let 
employees sell their vested stock options under a new program 
that will boost options' value to workers while raising the 
cost of options to the company, Google said on Tuesday. 

  The Web search leader said it expects to start the 
transferable stock option program in April 2007 and will take 
an undisclosed charge to reflect the greater value of company 
options under the new scheme.  Transferable options have two advantages over other means 
of motivating and retaining employees: They combine the 
leverage of options -- their initial value can multiply over 
time -- with the ability to understand the tangible value one 
gets in holding a tradable stock, experts in the field said.  Employee options account for roughly 2 percent of Google's 
outstanding shares on a fully diluted basis, executives said.  "The goal is quite simple. It is to increase the perceived 
value of the option to the employee," said David Rolefson, 
Google's manager of equity and compensation. "You don't have to 
wait for an option to be $100 in the money to see its value."  Shares of Google were unchanged at $481.78 following the 
news, which was released four hours after the close of regular 
session trading on the Nasdaq market.  "It could give Google a slight advantage in recruiting 
people," said James Glassman, a financial columnist and fellow 
at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington D.C. "It has 
no real effect on the company's finances. It is an accounting 
change. The impact is all on the human resources side."  Most employees, with the exception of top executives, will 
be able to sell vested options granted after Google went public 
in 2004 to qualified financial institutions via a private 
auction managed by Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ). Citigroup's ( C.N ) 
Smith Barney unit will act as administrator, Google said.  Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, together 
with Chairman and CEO Eric Schmidt and a handful of other 
executives are excluded from the program, officials said.  "There is little precedent for this sort of innovation in 
employee options," said Stanford Law School professor Joseph 
Grundfest, adding that the plan, which Google has passed by the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, was likely to work.  "It seems to be a rather clean effort at introducing a form 
of liquidity that benefits shareholders and employees alike, 
without any attempt to generate an accounting treatment that 
would cause raised eyebrows at the SEC," he said via e-mail.  Grundfest was an SEC commissioner from 1985 to 1990.  Google said financial service providers might buy the 
options as a hedge to other investments. However, the term of 
the options will be cut to two years, or less, once transferred 
into the program, instead of the normal 10-year expiry.  For the purposes of computing the value of the options, 
Google will add two years to the typical four-year life of the 
option, said Mark Fuchs, Google's chief accountant.  Using a Black-Sholes model, the standard method for valuing 
options, a grant under the six-year program will have 46 
percent of the underlying value of the share compared with 37 
percent of the value for a four-year option, Fuchs said.  Rival Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT.O ) was first to experiment with 
offering employees transferable options under a one-off program 
two years ago. It cleared tax and regulatory hurdles for Google 
to introduce its on-going transfer policy, one expert said.