-- Ex-MySpace chairman, Verisign to promote .tv sites
-- By  Kenneth Li
-- Wed Dec 13, 2006 12:39am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/13/businesspro-demandmedia-verisign-dc-idUSN1237934320061213

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The former chairman of MySpace.com is 
throwing his weight behind the ".tv" domain category, betting 
that it will gain popularity as more users watch, create and 
post videos online. 

  Richard Rosenblatt's Demand Media will unveil on Wednesday 
a deal with Internet security and dot-com registry VeriSign 
Inc. ( VRSN.O ) to begin marketing .tv as a preferred Web site 
domain for online videos, in the same way .org is used for 
non-profit groups.  Users can begin registering domain names from Demand at 
ChannelMe.tv on Wednesday.  Rosenblatt's broader plan begins next March, when Demand 
will provide users with Web software to upload and share 
homemade videos, grab professional content from licensed 
sources and blog -- potentially creating their own mini 
MySpaces.  "Video is becoming more personal," Rosenblatt, chairman and 
chief executive of Demand, said in an interview. "It's less 
about the big amorphous Web sites and more about people 
creating their own channel."  The explosion of video-sharing sites like YouTube, which 
Google Inc. ( GOOG.O ) purchased for $1.65 billion in November, 
highlight a growing interest in creating and viewing video on 
the Web.  Santa Monica, California-based Demand hopes users with .tv 
addresses will link them to pages they have already created on 
sites like MySpace or YouTube in order to simplify Web 
addresses that are otherwise hard to remember.  To date, .tv attracts mostly vanity Web sites and the odd 
Hollywood media site.  It has nowhere near the popularity of ".com," which is 
attached to nearly 60 million domains, according to VeriSign, 
the biggest company acting as a middleman for setting up such 
domains.  Rosenblatt is best known for brokering the sale of 
Intermix, which owned the popular social network Web site 
MySpace, to Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. NWSa.N last year for 
about $580 million.  In November, MySpace and other Fox Interactive Media Web 
sites collectively surpassed sites owned by Internet media 
leader Yahoo Inc. ( YHOO.O ) by U.S. page views, according to 
comScore Networks, an Internet measurement firm.  Fox sites had 39.5 billion page views, compared to Yahoo 
sites' 38 billion views, according to a UBS report on the 
comScore data.  Rosenblatt launched Demand Media in May, backed by about 
$220 million in funding from venture capital firms 3i Group Plc 
( III.L ) and Oak Investment Partners. Spectrum Equity is also an 
investor.  His company has been snapping up small Web companies since 
May, including Hillclimb Media, which hosts travel, sports and 
outdoors sites, and Web site registrar eNom.  Demand aims to profit from buying up what is little more 
than unknown billboards sites on the Web and relaunching sites 
lie Grab.com, CasesLadder.com and flashgames.com with social 
networking and video capabilities that serve niche interests.