-- WRAPUP 3-U.S. retail sales send strong signal on growth
-- 
-- Wed Dec 13, 2006 12:39pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/13/usa-economy-idUSN1342703920061213

 

  (Adds more analyst comment, updates market reaction) 

  By  Alister Bull WASHINGTON  Dec 13 (Reuters) - U.S. retail sales jumped
sharply in November as shoppers went on a spending spree that
will reinforce the Federal Reserve's view that the cooling
housing market has not hurt the rest of the economy.  Data released by the Commerce Department on Wednesday
showed retail sales gained 1.0 percent last month, notching
their largest rise since July.  Retail sales excluding autos and also gasoline, a reading
viewed as a more reliable core measure of household spending,
increased 0.9 percent. It was the largest rise since the 2.5
percent gain notched in January.  The data initially helped boost the U.S. stock market,
where the Dow Jones industrial average touched a record high,
before prices settled back to stand little changed by the end
of New York's morning trade.  For currency traders, the news was an excuse to push the
dollar higher. Bond prices fell as dealers bet the data would
make the U.S. central bank less worried about slowing growth,
and less inclined to cut interest rates any time soon.  "The holiday sales season has started in very good form.
This could mean consumer spending growth of 3 percent or
better, and GDP growth could be closer to 2.5 percent," said
Richard DeKaser, chief economist at National City Corp. in
Cleveland, Ohio.  U.S. economic growth slowed in the third quarter to 2.2
percent and many economists had expected it to fade further in
the final three months of 2006 -- a view challenged by
Wednesday's data that prompted other financial firms to lift
their forecasts.  "We boosted our fourth quarter ... GDP (gross domestic
product) forecast to up 2.6 percent from up 2.3 percent,"
economists at Morgan Stanley said on a note to clients.  "Spillover impacts from housing to consumption have clearly
been minimal to this point, as a sizable recent acceleration in
real income growth has provided considerable support to
spending," they said.  BULLISH  The numbers also endorsed the view of Fed Chairman Ben
Bernanke, who said in late November that there had been little
evidence the slowing housing market had had a negative knock-on
effect on the wider economy.  The Fed on Tuesday held interest rates unchanged at 5.25
percent and warned that although growth had moderated, in part
due to the substantial cooling of the housing market, some
inflation risks remained.  Analysts had forecast a 0.2 percent rise in retail sales,
compared with a 0.1 percent decline in October, and a 0.3
percent gain in retail sales excluding autos.  Sales ex-autos in fact rose 1.1 percent, versus a 0.3
percent fall the month before, the Commerce Department said.  Auto and parts sales increased 0.9 percent, gasoline sales
jumped 2.3 percent and the crucial building material and garden
equipment category mounted 1.8 percent.  Sales at department stores and clothing stores were both
flat, but gained a whopping 4.6 percent at electronics and
appliance stores. They also advanced 1.3 percent at other
retail outlets, such as electronic shopping and mail-order.  "The numbers were materially stronger than expected ... so
that would seem to suggest that the early start to Christmas
spending has been good," said Phil Orlando, chief portfolio
manager at Federated Investors in New York.  Not everyone was sanguine. Peter Schiff, president of Euro
Pacific Corp, a brokerage in Darien, Conn., said surging demand
for electronic goods was actually bad news for U.S. growth.  "The fact that Americans bought a bunch of consumer
electronics that were made in China or Japan is an indication
of economic strength over there, not over here ... all we're
doing is going deeper into debt," he said.  INVENTORIES  In a separate Commerce Department release, business
inventories rose 0.4 percent in October as sales fell 0.2
percent. The rise in unsold stocks on hand matched expectations
by U.S. economists polled by Reuters.  The stock-to-sales ratio, which measures how long it would
take to clear out inventories at the current sales pace, rose
for the sixth straight month, climbing to 1.31 months from 1.30
months in September.  In other data, U.S. home mortgage applications rose to the
highest levels in over a year last week as house buying and
loan refinancing continued to rebound, an industry group said.  A seasonally adjusted index of total mortgage applications
jumped 11.4 percent in the week ended Dec. 8 to 721.2, the
highest level since October 2005, after a recent drop in
borrowing costs, the Mortgage Bankers Association said.  (Additional reporting by  Nancy Waitz  in Washington and Al
Yoon in New York)



