-- Help for Medical Glitches, Investor Cocaine Brain: Interview
-- Zinta Lundborg
-- 2010-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-29/help-for-medical-glitches-investor-cocaine-brain-interview.html

          
          
             As the global rates of surgery
grew, so did the damage: A million patients a year died during
medical procedures and more than 7 million were left disabled.
The World Health Organization turned to Dr. Atul Gawande to come
up with a low-cost solution.  
 He developed a pre-operation checklist, which the WHO tried
out in eight hospitals with remarkable results. Deaths fell 47
percent, while complications dropped by more than a third. It
didn’t matter how high-tech or how poor the hospital was -- the
results were significant across the board.  
 In his latest book, “The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get
Things Right,” surgeon and MacArthur Award winner Gawande
argues that the complexity that now characterizes many fields,
ranging from architecture to venture capitalism, can be tamed
with a humble tool.  
 We spoke in a French cafe in New York’s Chelsea district.  
 Lundborg: How does a simple checklist help manage
complexity?  
 Gawande: In medicine, we’re overwhelmed by the volume of
knowledge and information we have to handle. A checklist fills
in for weaknesses in our brains, like memory, and helps us work
more successfully as teams.  
 Lundborg: Why does the checklist have such a bad rap?  
 Gawande: One is sheer embarrassment -- if you’re an expert,
you’re better than that. It’s thought to dumb things down rather
than being about the nuance.  
 Plus a lot of us hate following instructions. We’ve had
experiences where it can get in the way, where the rigidity of
rules makes for bad results.  
 Good Checklist  
 Lundborg: What’s a good checklist?  
 Gawande: This is where science comes in to it. A good
checklist actually improves the ability of an expert to do a job
well. It has to be tested in the real world with feedback from
the people on the front lines.  
 When it works, it helps performance without any improvement
in skill.  
 Lundborg: In the financial world, how does the checklist
counter “greed mode” and “cocaine brain?”  
 Gawande: A group of investors studied mistakes, saw the
recurrent patterns and devised a series of checks at certain
pause points along the way.  
 Making an accurate assessment of the margin of safety is
crucial. You are so sure you’ve got a winner -- you’re working
against everything your brain is screaming at you about how
fantastic this will be -- that you start to disregard risk or
cut corners.  
 Lundborg: Clearly, not many in the financial industry were
using checklists.  
 Gawande: The kinds of mistakes you will never prevent with
a checklist are of values: if you know it and still do it, a
checklist can’t stop that.  
 Emergencies  
 Lundborg: Does the checklist function differently in an
emergency, such as when Sully Sullenberger successfully landed
his plane in the Hudson?  
 Gawande: We wanted to say it was the heroism of the
individual. He responded by saying it was about adherence to
protocol and teamwork, so we said he was just being modest.  
 When the engines went out, he could count on the co-pilot
to run through the checks, so he could focus on the one key
thing that couldn’t be reduced to a checklist, “Where am I
going to land this plane?”  
 Lundborg: In your New Yorker article on expensive health
care in McAllen, Texas, you showed what happens when the patient
is regarded as a profit center. What response did you get?  
 Gawande: I’ve never had an article so widely read. There is
a battle in the culture of medicine between a desire to run a
successful business and the recognition that the patient’s needs
have to come first over any kind of business requirement.  
 Cost Factor  
 We have a health system where doing great at the medical
business is not necessarily what is great for patients. The most
damning thing about the costs of our system is that the doctors
who get the best results are not the ones who are the most
expensive. Often they are the least expensive.  
 Lundborg: So what can we do?  
 Gawande: We know that the existing way of paying doctors is
both inflationary and unsuccessful for the best health of
patients. We’re in a period of needing to undergo a series of
experiments.  
 Do you pay doctors a salary? Do you pay a hospital a
bundled rate for all the patients they take care of in a year?
Do you pay a single price for asthma patients?  
 Lundborg: Doctors used to be gods. How are they faring
during all this turmoil?  
 Demoralized  
 Gawande: Physicians are demoralized in many ways. We point
to bureaucracy, battles with insurance and government, as well
as changing expectations.  
 But what doctors are really responding to is the complexity
of medicine. Starting a process involves multiple people,
systems of care, and you are one part of that machine. We are
not used to learning how to be leaders or teammates in the
context of larger organizations.  
 We find it hard to grapple in this world where the enormous
volume of information and knowledge exceeds our own abilities.  
 “The Checklist Manifesto” is published by Metropolitan
Books (209 pages, $24.50). To buy the book in North America,
click here.  
 (Zinta Lundborg is a writer for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own. This interview was adapted from
a longer conversation.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg in New York 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        