-- Abu Dhabi National Oil Cuts Prices for Cuts Cargoes Lifted in June by 4%
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-07-04T13:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/abu-dhabi-national-oil-sets-june-price-for-murban-crude-at-74-80-a-barrel.html

          
          
             Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., the
state-owned producer, cut the price on all four of its crude
grades by almost 4 percent for cargoes lifted in June.  
 The company, known as Adnoc, lowered the price for  Murban 
crude, its largest export grade, by $3.05 a barrel, or 3.9
percent, to $74.80 a barrel for June shipments, according to an
e-mailed statement today.  
 Lower Zakum  crude was cut $3.1 a barrel, or 3.9 percent, to
$74.55 a barrel. Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates’ capital
and holder of most of its oil resources, lowered Upper Zakum
$2.9 a barrel, or 3.8 percent, to $72.85 a barrel. Umm Shaif
crude was reduced $3.05 to $74.25 a barrel, Adnoc said.  
 The U.A.E., holder of about 7 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, is the fifth-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumping 2.32 million barrels of
crude a day in June, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
federation, which exports most of its crude oil to Asia, has the
capacity to produce about 2.8 million barrels a day, Oil
Minister  Mohamed Al-Hamli  said March 2.  
 Crude oil for August delivery slipped 4 percent since the
end of May in futures trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Abu Dhabi bases its oil prices in part on global
markets and on futures trading in and demand for its own crude,
with August contracts having sold in June.  
 Adnoc last week slashed August shipments of all grades to
customers. It lowered Murban deliveries to 10 percent below
contracted amounts for August from a 3 percent cut in July.
Lower Zakum deliveries were also reduced 10 percent compared
with a 5 percent July reduction. Adnoc lowered August shipments
of Umm Shaif and Upper Zakum by 20 percent, compared with 5
percent and 10 percent reductions in those grades in July.  
 Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest state oil company, may
release official selling prices tomorrow. Dubai, which prices
its oil as a differential to the Oman crude futures contract,
last month narrowed the discount for September liftings.  
 Some producers, like Saudi Arabia and Iraq, announce price
formulas as a premium or discount applied to a benchmark to
determine the cost of oil sold in coming months. Abu Dhabi
announces prices for crude lifted the previous month based on
market conditions, demand and producer and exchange prices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        