-- Agricultural Bank's Shrinking Discount Makes World-Beating IPO Harder Sell
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-05T08:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/agricultural-bank-s-shrinking-discount-makes-world-beating-ipo-harder-sell.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s
valuation discount to its closest rivals has more than halved in
eight trading days, making the world’s biggest initial public
offering in almost four years less appealing to investors.  
 Shares in the Hong Kong part of Agricultural Bank’s IPO are
valued at an average 4.3 percent less than its three biggest
competitors as measured by  book value , based on the top end of
the IPO price range and data compiled by Bloomberg. When the
bank priced the offering on June 24, the gap was 10.5 percent.  
 The narrowing discount, the result of a drop in shares of
publicly traded rivals such as  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , may make it harder for Chairman  Xiang Junbo  to raise
the maximum $20.1 billion he’s seeking in Hong Kong and Shanghai.
It might also dim the prospect of eclipsing ICBC’s record $21.9
billion  IPO  in October 2006, even when taking into account an
option to boost the sale by 15 percent.  
 “We’re not in an environment where people are going to be
blasé about valuations, and as things have sold off, it’s put
some pressure on them,” said  William Fries , a fund manager at
Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management,
which oversees about $57 billion.  
 Beijing-based Agricultural Bank, China’s biggest by number
of customers, expects to set a final IPO price on  July 7 . The
company is also selling stock in Shanghai.  
 Valuations  
 ICBC, the world’s largest bank by market value, exercised
an option to expand its IPO after listing to meet excess demand.
Without the so-called overallotment, the sale would have raised
$19 billion. Agricultural Bank can increase its IPO to as much
as $23.1 billion.  
 “Investors were very enthusiastic about our share sale,
and the booked demand has been very strong,” Agricultural Bank
President  Zhang Yun  said today in remarks broadcast over the
Internet. “We’re very confident with the IPO and listing.”  
 Agricultural Bank  is offering 25.4 billion shares in Hong
Kong at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 apiece, representing 1.55 to 1.79
times 2010 book value as estimated by the IPO’s underwriters.  
 Hong Kong-traded shares of  ICBC ,  Construction Bank Corp. 
and  Bank of China Ltd.  have lost an average 5.9  percent  since
June 24, trimming valuations to 1.87 times estimated book value,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 ‘A Test’  
 Agricultural Bank may be able to sell the Hong Kong shares
for at least HK$3.3, or 1.7 times forecast book value, according
to  Jonathan Siu , an analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi
International (HK) Ltd. That price would allow the bank to raise
as much as $19.5 billion before the overallotment.  
 Xiang is taking his bank public after almost 50 companies
worldwide shelved IPOs in the past three months amid concern
that the end of government stimulus and widening budget gaps
from Greece to Spain will curb the global economic recovery,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index , which includes
shares of ICBC, Construction Bank and Bank of China, has fallen
for nine straight days, the longest losing streak since 1996.  
 “Markets have been quite volatile and this is a test for
them,”  Simon Yuan , head of financial institutions for Greater
China at Credit Suisse Group AG, said at an investment banking
conference in Singapore today. “It’s a question of the price
that will be finally set but I’m quite sure it’s a deal that
will be pulled off successfully.”  
 Credit Suisse isn’t among the IPO’s arrangers.  
 Rivals’ Fundraising  
 Domestic rivals are also competing for investors’ cash.
Bank of China, the nation’s third-largest by market value, said
July 2 it plans to raise as much as 60 billion yuan ($8.9
billion) in a rights offer to replenish capital.  
 Construction Bank  last month won shareholder approval to
raise as much as 75 billion yuan in a rights offer.  
 “With Bank of China’s share placement and then CCB’s,
AgriBank should be willing to leave some profit on the table,”
said  Claude Tiramani , who manages $50 million at Lutetia Capital
in Paris. “So I wouldn’t be expecting the shares to be priced
at the top end of the range.”  
 Agricultural Bank  is selling 22.2 billion shares in
Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan each, implying a price-to-
book ratio of 1.56 to 1.65 times for that tranche, according to
Hong Yuan Securities Co.  
 Shanghai Gap  
 At the top end, the valuation matches the average for
ICBC’s, Construction Bank’s and  Bank of China’s  Shanghai shares.
It was at least 4.1 percent cheaper when the range was set.  
 Yuan-denominated equities  traded on the Shanghai and
Shenzhen bourses, which are only partially open to foreign
investors, are commonly referred to as A shares. Chinese-
incorporated companies listed in Hong Kong are called H shares.  
 “Agricultural Bank will probably be able to price its A
share offering at top end of the range, but I doubt they can do
the same with the H shares,” said Jenny Cai, a portfolio
manager at Beijing-based Springs Capital, which oversees $300
million.  
 -- Luo Jun ,  Eva Woo , with assistance from  Lee Spears  in New
York, Dingmin Zhang in Beijing and  Katrina Nicholas  in
Singapore. Editor:  Philip Lagerkranser   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       AgriBank Shrinking Discount Makes IPO Hard Sell  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Xiang Junbo, chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Xiang Junbo, chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Paul Gordon reports on Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering.
     Agricultural Bank’s valuation discount to its closest rivals has halved in seven trading days, making the world’s biggest initial public offering in almost four years less appealing to investors. Shares in the Hong Kong part of Agricultural Bank’s IPO are valued at an average 5.3 percent less than its three biggest competitors as measured by book value, based on the top end of the IPO price range and data compiled by Bloomberg. When the bank priced the offering on June 24, the gap was 10.5 percent. Bloomberg's Susan Li also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
