-- Alwaleed's Kingdom Holding May Sell Minority Stakes in Hotels, Zok Says
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-05T10:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/alwaleed-s-kingdom-holding-may-sell-minority-stakes-in-hotels-zok-says.html

          
          
             Kingdom Holding Co ., the investment
company controlled by Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed Bin
Talal, and its hotels unit may sell minority stakes held in
hotels as part of a plan to focus on higher-earning properties.  
 Kingdom has a “handful” of assets where it owns a 50
percent stake or less, and it “will assess the viability” of
those holdings and may sell them to reinvest in the same
industry,  Sarmad Zok , chief executive officer of the lodging
unit  Kingdom Hotel  Investments, said by phone from New York on
June 30. He declined to identify the properties.  
 Kingdom Holding owns a 50 percent stake in the Savoy Hotel
in London, 35.5 percent of the Plaza Hotel in New York and 50
percent of the Fairmont in San Francisco, according to
information provided by Kingdom Hotel Investments. It also owns
stakes in five hotel managers including Fairmont Raffles Hotels,
Four Seasons Hotels Inc. and Movenpick Hotels & Resorts AG,
according to the company’s website.  
 Kingdom Hotel will evaluate its portfolio of hotel assets
as well as the hospitality and real-estate investments of its
parent to “reconfigure the overall strategy to capture greater
benefits,” Zok said. The plan to possibly sell minority stakes
will not apply to the five hotel managers, he said.  
 “The monetization of minority stakes” was done
successfully at Kingdom Hotel Investments over the last five
years, “and we will be looking at assessing rationalization
opportunities” for Kingdom Holding’s assets in the mature
markets, Zok said.  
 ‘Strategic Development’  
 Zok was appointed to the board of Kingdom Holding Co. and
its investment committee to drive the “strategic development”
of Kingdom’s hotel portfolio, the Riyadh-based company said in
an e-mailed statement June 30. Kingdom Holding delisted Kingdom
Hotels from Nasdaq Dubai last month after making an offer in
March to buy out all the shares in the company it didn’t own.  
 Kingdom Hotel’s properties include 23 operating hotels and
resorts spread across 19 countries, and four under construction
or in the initial stages of development, including in
Seychelles, Marrakesh and Accra, according to the website. The
company plans to spend $800 million on hotels in the second half
this year and first half of 2011, Zok said in May.  
 The hotel company owns a 43.7 percent stake in the Four
Seasons Hotel Nile Plaza Cairo, has a 29.3 percent holding in
Movenpick Resort & Spa El Gouna in Egypt and owns 12.8 percent
of Four Seasons Amman in Jordan, according to its annual report.  
 Kingdom’s shares were unchanged at 8.1 riyals at 12:35 p.m.
in Riyadh today, valuing the company at 30 billion riyals
 ($8 billion). The shares have risen 1.5 percent this year.  
 “You buy growth in Asia, and you are opportunistic in
capturing bargains in the mature markets,” Zok said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        