-- Anil Ambani's Reliance Power, Reliance Natural to Merge in Share-Swap Deal
-- Anoop Agrawal
-- 2010-07-05T03:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/anil-ambani-s-reliance-power-reliance-natural-to-merge-in-share-swap-deal.html

          
          
             Billionaire  Anil Ambani  will combine
his Reliance Power Ltd. and Reliance Natural Resources Ltd. in a
stock deal valued at about 71.6 billion rupees ($1.53 billion)
to expedite projects after losing a bid to buy cut-price fuel.  
 Reliance Power , which is building generators in India,
offered one of its shares for every four of Reliance Natural,
valuing the fuel supplier at 43.825 rupees a share, 31 percent
less than its July 2 close, before the talks were announced. A
Reliance Power spokesman declined to comment on the calculations
by Bloomberg News. Reliance Natural share fell by a record.  
 The deal comes after India’s top court on May 7 overturned
a natural gas supply accord between Ambani and his estranged
brother and ordered Reliance Natural to pay higher government-
set prices for the fuel to be purchased from  Mukesh Ambani ’s
 Reliance Industries Ltd.  The deal will create an entity with a
market value of $11 billion, the two companies said yesterday.  
 “The merger may not be very positive because Reliance
Natural doesn’t bring much to Reliance Power and it may only
lead to a dilution of value,”  Madanagopal Ramu , a Mumbai-based
analyst with Centrum Broking Pvt. who recommends investors hold
the shares, said on July 2.  
 Reliance Natural fell 26 percent to 47.45 rupees in Mumbai
trading today, after declining as much as 30 percent to 45
rupees. Reliance Power rose 4.6 percent to 183.35 rupees at 9:07
a.m., while the benchmark Sensitive Index gained 0.2 percent.  
 The two companies had said after market close on July 2
they would consider a merger.  
 ‘Fast Tracked’  
 The merger will speed up projects by removing a fuel
intermediary, Reliance Power Chief Executive Officer Jayarama
Chalasani said.  
 “It gets fast tracked,” Chalasani told investors on a
conference call today. “That’s the biggest advantage of this
merger.”  
 The world’s richest brothers split India’s second-biggest
business empire five years ago after their father died in 2002
without leaving a will and had squabbled ever since as their
business interests collided. The Supreme Court verdict prompted
them on May 24 to scrap family agreements that prevented them
from competing and the two have pledged to work harmoniously.  
 Court Order  
 The May 7 court order meant Reliance Natural would buy gas
from India’s largest field, operated by Reliance Industries, on
approval from the federal government and at a higher price than
stated in the family agreement. Reliance Natural and Reliance
Industries said last month they signed a revised gas contract to
comply with the ruling.  
 By merging the companies, Reliance Power may be able to get
gas through Reliance Natural’s supply agreements without having
to pay potential extra marketing margins,  Deven Choksey,  chief
executive officer of Mumbai-based KR Choksey Shares & Securities,
said on July 2.  
 “Reliance Natural’s shareholders will benefit from the
proposed amalgamation by participating in future growth
prospects of Reliance Power’s diversified generation portfolio
of 37,000 megawatts, and its substantial coal reserves in India
and abroad,” the two companies said in a joint statement
yesterday.  
 Reliance Power has power generation assets of 1,000
megawatts, according to its  website . It plans to build a total
of 33,780 megawatts of capacity, Chalasani said on Dec 29.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Anil AAnil Ambani, chairman of Reliance Power Ltd. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
