-- Asia Convertible Bond Slump Means Citigroup Sees 25% Gain: Credit Markets
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-07-05T08:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/asia-convertible-bond-slump-means-citigroup-sees-25-gain-credit-markets.html

          
          
             The worst quarter for Asian equities
in more than a year has pushed yields on convertible bonds
higher than some debt that can’t be exchanged for stock,
prompting strategists to predict gains of 25 percent or more as
the region’s economy posts the fastest growth in the world.  
 “Upside of 25 percent from here would be a conservative
estimate and it could be as much as 50 percent,”  Kim Wong ,
Citigroup Inc.’s head of convertible bond trading for Asia, said
in a telephone interview from Hong Kong.  
 The debt lost 3.92 percent in May and June as measured by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, while the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  of stocks fell 10.4 percent.  PT Bumi Resources ’
$375 million of equity-linked notes due 2014 yield 16.2 percent,
compared with 11.1 percent for its $300 million of bonds due
2016, according to Exane SA and ING Groep NV prices. Shares in
Indonesia’s biggest coal producer fell 16.4 percent to 1,880
rupiah (21 cents) in Jakarta this year through June 30.  
 With the economy in the Asia-Pacific region forecast by
Barclays Capital to grow 7.6 percent this year, faster than the
4.7 percent for the world overall, the securities are a bargain,
according to Swiss bank Lombard Odier Darier Hentsche & Cie.
Some 250 convertible dollar-denominated bonds are outstanding in
Asia-Pacific excluding Japan, compared with 3,406 that can’t be
exchanged for equity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Reward Looks Good’  
 “If equity markets recover strongly you could make 50
percent, 60 percent” on the debt,  Nathalia Barazal , a money
manager who helps oversee 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion) of
equity-linked securities globally at Lombard Odier, said in a
phone interview from Geneva. “If they don’t, you’ve still got a
bond with the safety net of a positive yield, so either way the
risk versus reward looks good.”  
 Convertible bonds are notes that can convert to stock at a
predetermined ratio. When stocks fall, the option to convert
loses its value, pushing prices down.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default fell today, according to traders of
credit-default swaps.  
 Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 mostly
junk-rated European companies declined 8.1 basis points to
559.9, the lowest since June 28, according to Markit Group Ltd.
prices at 9 a.m. in London.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan dropped 5 basis points to 133 basis
points, according to Credit Agricole CIB. That’s the lowest
since June 24, according to CMA DataVision. The Markit iTraxx
Australia index also fell 5 basis points to 131 basis points,
the lowest in a week, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. and CMA.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of bonds and loans.  
 Spreads Widen  
 The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
rather than government debt rose 2 basis points last week to an
average of 197 basis points, or 1.97 percentage points, based on
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
Index. The spread has fluctuated between 190 and 201 basis
points since May 25 after widening from the low this year of 142
on April 21. Yields ended last week at 3.98 percent, compared
with 3.99 percent on June 25.  
 Corporate bond sales tumbled last week. Companies issued
about $19 billion of bonds worldwide in the five-day period
ended July 2, a drop of 57 percent from the previous week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the least in six weeks and
below this year’s average of $45.5 billion.  
 ‘Sobering Reassessment’  
 “In the beginning of April it felt like we were off to the
races again,” said  Tom Newberry , the New York-based head of
global leveraged-finance at Credit Suisse Group AG, the fourth-
biggest underwriter of leveraged loans this year. There’s since
been a “sobering reassessment,” he said.  
 General Motors Co. is seeking a $5 billion revolving line
of credit as concern that the economy will slow leads investors
to shun loans.  
 GM is talking with banks about setting up a revolving line
of credit of $5 billion or more, said two people with knowledge
of the plan. The Detroit-based automaker may use the line to pay
business costs while using cash to refinance more expensive
debt, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private.  
 GM also wants a credit line to establish relationships with
banks, the people said. Noreen Pratscher, a GM spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  
 Loans Tumble  
 The automaker is seeking the loan as prices for the debt
weaken. The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index , which tracks
the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans,
fell 0.93 cent last week to 87.88 cents on the dollar. The index
lost 3.7 percent last quarter after gaining 4.7 percent in the
first three months of the year.  
 Convertible bonds overall have lost 1.48 percent this year
after gaining 36.3 percent in 2009 as stocks rallied amid a
recovery in the economy. The securities lost 29.3 percent in
2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The firm’s
broad corporate bond gauge has gained 5.07 percent following an
increase of 16.3 percent in 2009.  
 Equity-linked securities have been hurt along with stocks
amid concern that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and attempts by
governments to reduce spending will slow economic expansion. The
MSCI World Index of stocks has tumbled 11.45 percent in 2010.  
 Equity-Linked  
 The average yield on equity-linked bonds from Europe, the
Middle East and Africa has “almost doubled” since January,
providing new opportunities for investors, said Barclays Capital
equity-linked analyst  Angus Allison , citing the London-based
bank’s EMEA Convertibles index.  
 Asian convertibles may be more attractive than those of
Europe and the U.S. because the region’s relative economic
strength should translate into a faster equity market recovery,
according to Barazal at Lombard Odier, which also runs an Asia-
Pacific convertible bonds fund worth $350 million.  
 “If it’s growth, budget deficits, whatever you’re looking
at in Europe, Asia looks better,” Barazal said. “We’re
overweight Asia because the fundamentals are good.”  
 PT Berlian Laju Tanker’s  $125 million of 2015 convertible
bonds yield 28.2 percent, compared with 19.7 percent for its
$400 million of non-convertible bonds due 2014, according to
Mizuho Securities Co. and BNP Paribas SA prices.  
 SM Investment Corp ., the Philippines company which owns the
country’s largest bank by assets and its biggest shopping mall
operator, has $300 million of 2012 convertible bonds yielding
4.4 percent, Nomura prices show. Its $350 million of 2013 bonds
which aren’t convertible yield 4.1 percent, BNP prices show.  
 Infratil Bonds  
 Infratil Ltd ., the New Zealand investor in energy and
transport companies, has NZ$77.3 million ($53.5 million) of 2012
convertible bonds yielding 10.2 percent, New Zealand Exchange
Ltd. prices show. Its NZ$20 million of 2011 notes which aren’t
convertible yield 7.9 percent.  
 The size of Asia’s convertible bond market means volatility
is higher than in other parts of the world, according to  James Simmons , a money manager at hedge fund  Enhanced Investment
Products Ltd . The firm doesn’t own any equity-linked notes.  
 “The vast majority of the market is concentrated in the
hands of a small number of people, all of whom act at the same
time,” he said in a phone interview from Hong Kong. “I’m not
saying equities won’t go up or credit spreads won’t tighten,
just that I think you’re not being paid enough to take on that
kind of additional risk right now.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The debt lost 3.92 percent in May and June as measured by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell 10.4 percent. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
