-- Australia May Keep Benchmark Rate at 4.5% for Second Month as Demand Cools
-- Daniel Petrie
-- 2010-07-05T01:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/australia-may-keep-benchmark-rate-at-4-5-for-second-month-as-demand-cools.html

          
          
             The Australian central bank may keep
its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second month on
signs the Group of 20’s most aggressive round of increases is
cooling retail sales and the property market.  
 Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board will leave the overnight  cash  rate target at 4.5 percent
at 2:30 p.m. in Sydney tomorrow, according to all 22 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  
 Stevens has returned borrowing costs to “average” levels
in Australia, one of the few economies to skirt last year’s
global recession, increasing his “flexibility” to react should
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis derail the global recovery.
Policy makers have also signaled that the decision to resume
rate gains will hinge on inflation figures due late this month.  
 “The process of normalizing rates has been completed and
any further rate hikes would signal a tightening cycle -- which
is unlikely to occur until the Reserve Bank views the June
quarter inflation data,” said  Craig James , a senior economist
at Commonwealth Bank of Australia.  
 Stevens has increased rates six times since early October
from a half-century low of 3 percent, citing an economic
expansion the central bank forecasts will almost double to 4
percent in the next two years fueled by China’s demand for iron
ore and energy.  
 Currency Pares Gains  
 The interest-rate moves helped stoke a 27 percent gain in
Australia’s dollar in the 12 months through April 30, making it
the second-best performer among the world’s 16 most-traded
currencies. It has since pared around a third of those gains on
signs the global economy is cooling after manufacturing weakened
in China.  
 The Australian dollar traded at 84.20 U.S. cents at 11:09
a.m. in Sydney, little changed from late last week.  
 “The RBA appears content to pause and assess the extent of
slowing in the Chinese economy and whether sovereign concerns
spill over to the real economy,” said  Tim Toohey , chief
economist at Goldman Sachs JPWere Ltd. in Melbourne.  
 Indonesia’s central bank will also maintain its benchmark
rate at 6.5 percent today, according to a survey of analysts.
The Bank of England and the European Central Bank may also keep
borrowing costs unchanged this week.  
 By contrast, if the global economy rebounds in coming
months, Stevens will be forced to resume interest-rate increases
starting in November, Toohey said.  
 Employment Surge  
 Rising investment by mining companies is fueling an
employment surge that has pushed Australia’s jobless rate to
almost half the level of the U.S. and Europe. The rebound in
employment also threatens to stoke wages, increasing pressure on
inflation that the central bank aims to keep between 2 percent
and 3 percent on average.  
 Job advertisements  rose in June for a second month, gaining
2.7 percent, according to an Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. report released in Melbourne today.  
 The Reserve Bank’s decision to return borrowing costs to
“average” levels in May has given policy makers “the
flexibility to await information on how the recent market
uncertainty might affect the global economy, as well as news
about the outlook for inflation,” the bank said in the minutes
of its June meeting.  
 Inflation Figures  
 The next quarterly inflation figures will be released on
July 28. Consumer prices rose 2.9 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the most since late 2008.  
 Annual inflation held above the top of the central bank’s
target range in June, gaining 3.6 percent from a year earlier, a
gauge published today by TD Securities Ltd. showed.  
 Mining companies including Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. 
reached an agreement last week with Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
on a new resources tax, ending a dispute that cost her
predecessor  Kevin Rudd  his job and paving the way for an
election this year.  
 The deal “addresses a key uncertainty that had cast a
cloud over markets and confidence,” said  Paul Brennan , a senior
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.  
 Reports published since the bank’s last meeting show the
 economy  expanded for a fifth straight quarter in the three
months through March, and exports excluding farm goods surged
the most in almost three decades in April.  
 Household Spending  
 Still, there are signs that higher borrowing costs are
prompting households to cut spending that accounts for more than
half of gross domestic product. Retail sales growth weakened in
May to the slowest pace in three months and building  approvals 
fell. Manufacturing growth slowed in June for a second month and
the services industry contracted.  
 Stevens’ 150 basis points of rate increases have added
about A$3,600 ($3,000) a year to loan repayments on an average
A$300,000 mortgage. Government figures published July 1 showed
the number of permits granted to build or renovate houses and
apartments in May dropped 6.6 percent.  
 Signs of a cooling housing market, which surged 20 percent
in the year to March 31, may give Stevens scope to keep
borrowing costs unchanged in coming months.  
 Traders are betting there is no chance of a rate increase
at central bank monthly meetings until next year, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney
Futures Exchange.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Glenn Stevens, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Ian Stannard, a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, talks about the impact of "accomodative" monetary policy on currency markets.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Mike Elliott, Sydney-based global mining and metals sector leader for Ernst & Young LLP, speaks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Australia's planned resources tax.
     Prime Minister Julia Gillard agreed to cut the planned tax to 30 percent from 40 percent and raise the levy’s trigger level, a week after ousting Kevin Rudd as the nation’s leader to defuse a row that’s damped the government’s election prospects. Elliott also discusses the outlook for the mining industry, and Banpu Pcl's agreement to pay A$2 billion for the 80 percent of Centennial Coal Co. it doesn’t own to take control of thermal and coking coal mines in Australia. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
