-- Banpu Buys Centennial for $1.7 Billion in Thailand's Biggest Overseas Deal
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-07-05T10:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/banpu-agrees-to-buy-rest-of-australia-s-centennial-coal-for-a-6-20-a-share.html

          
          
             Banpu Pcl , Thailand’s biggest coal
producer, agreed to buy the rest of Centennial Coal Co. for A$2
billion ($1.7 billion) in the nation’s biggest overseas takeover
to secure supplies as prices climb.  
 Banpu will pay A$6.20 cash a share, 40 percent more than
Centennial’s closing price on July 2, for the 80 percent of the
producer it doesn’t own, the Sydney-based company said today in
a statement. Centennial directors recommended the bid.  
 The deal gives Bangkok-based Banpu control of 10 mines in
Australia, the world’s largest coal exporter, and power station
customers in Japan and Europe. The Australian government’s
decision last week to cut a planned new tax on mine profits may
trigger more takeovers of resource companies.  
 The compromise has “unleashed some of the deals that were
in the pipeline,”  Mike Elliott , Sydney-based global mining and
metals sector leader for Ernst & Young LLP, said in a Bloomberg
News television interview from Sydney. “The takeover for
Centennial Coal has certainly come about with the removal of
some of that uncertainty.”  
 Thermal coal prices may rise to $110 a ton next year, from
$98 this year, with demand driven by China and India, according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  
 Drive Consolidation  
 Centennial  surged  32 percent to A$5.83 in Sydney trading
for the biggest gain since the shares started trading on Aug. 5,
1994. Banpu, which began building its stake in Centennial after
the proposed profit tax was announced on May 2, rose 2 percent
to close at 614 baht in Bangkok trading.  
 The company “is excited to have exposure to the Australian
coal sector and believes that an acquisition of Centennial would
be the initial step in driving further consolidation,” Chief
Financial Officer Somruedee Chaimongkol said. “Banpu is seeking
to play a long term role in the future development in the
Australian coal industry.”  
 A total of $39.2 billion has been offered for Australian-
based companies in announced deals in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Today, Singapore-based Wilmar
International Ltd. agreed to pay A$1.75 billion for CSR Ltd.’s
Australian sugar unit.  
 The bid also boosted shares of rival Australian producers.
Whitehaven Coal Ltd.  gained  5.1 percent to settle at A$4.75, the
highest close since June 30. Macarthur Coal Ltd. rose 5.2
percent to A$12.75, the highest since June 21. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.4 percent.  
 Yanzhou, Peabody  
 Banpu’s offer is priced at 11.16 times Centennial’s
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.
That’s almost double the 6.77 times EBITDA that Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co. paid when it won Australian government approval for
its A$3.5 billion takeover of Felix Resources Ltd. last year.  
 Peabody Energy Corp. , the largest U.S. coal producer, in
April offered A$4.1 billion for Brisbane-based Macarthur Coal, a
steelmaking coal producer. The bid was reduced after the
Australian government proposed a 40 percent tax on resource
profits. Macarthur rejected the approach.  
 “Banpu has a well established trading arm supplying to
other consumers in the north Asian region,”  Andrew Harrington ,
an analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone.
“They have been a long established player in China. They’re
probably looking to secure more supplies for consumption.”  
 Coal Demand  
 China’s appetite for imported coal remains the “wildcard”
in the power station coal market, Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty Ltd.
said in a June 28 note. The thermal coal market will swing into
a deficit this year, with demand globally to outpace supply by
15 million metric tons, according to Deutsche Bank said in a
June 30 report.  
 “Centennial is strategically placed to take advantage of
strong demand for thermal coal, with long term domestic
contracts expiring in coming years,” Chief Executive Officer
 Bob Cameron  said.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  agreed to cut the planned
profit tax to 30 percent from 40 percent and raise the levy’s
trigger level, a week after ousting  Kevin Rudd  as the nation’s
leader to defuse a row that’s damped the government’s election
prospects. The compromise, announced on July 2, takes effect
July 1, 2012, and apply only to coal and iron ore mines.  
 “The fact that the government’s resolution has just been
announced meant that the price discussions we’ve been holding
could take place with a greater degree of certainty,”
Centennial’s Cameron said on a conference call with reporters.  
 Banpu has applied to Australia’s Foreign Investment Review
Board to approve the deal, Centennial said. Banpu became
Centennial Coal’s biggest shareholder in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Banpu CEO Chanin Vongkusolkit  
                       
                         
                           Palani Mohan/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Banpu CEO Chanin Vongkusolkit poses outside his offices in Bangkok. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Banpu CEO Chanin Vongkusolkit poses outside his offices in Bangkok. Photographer: Palani Mohan/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Mike Elliott, Sydney-based global mining and metals sector leader for Ernst & Young LLP, speaks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Australia's planned resources tax.
     Prime Minister Julia Gillard agreed to cut the planned tax to 30 percent from 40 percent and raise the levy’s trigger level, a week after ousting Kevin Rudd as the nation’s leader to defuse a row that’s damped the government’s election prospects. Elliott also discusses the outlook for the mining industry, and Banpu Pcl's agreement to pay A$2 billion for the 80 percent of Centennial Coal Co. it doesn’t own to take control of thermal and coking coal mines in Australia. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Jeremy Sutcliffe, chief executive officer of CSR Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the sale of the company's sugar unit to Wilmar International Ltd.
     Wilmar, the world’s largest palm oil trader, agreed to buy CSR’s sugar unit for A$1.75 billion ($1.5 billion), beating China’s Bright Food Group Co.’s bid for Australia’s biggest refiner. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Centennial Coal CEO Bob Cameron poses for a photograph. Source: Centennial Coal Co. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
