-- Belka Says Polish Cabinet Must Cut Budget, Ignore Election To Dodge Crisis
-- David McQuaid
-- 2010-07-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/belka-says-polish-cabinet-must-cut-budget-ignore-election-to-dodge-crisis.html

          
          
             Polish central bank Governor  Marek Belka  said the government must ignore election-year pressures
and focus on controlling the budget deficit, even though its
finances are stronger than many European nations.  
 Failure to do so may lead investors to shun Polish bonds
because of concern about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, said
Belka, 58, who headed the International Monetary Fund’s European
department until he became governor last month.  
 “You don’t want to be singled out by the markets as a bad
performer, and the conclusion has to be adjustment on the fiscal
side,” Belka said in a July 2 interview in Warsaw. “Poland is
in a good situation compared to its peers, but come on, this is
a different world. Nobody is 100 percent crisis-proof.”  
 The government, which faces a general election next year,
has pledged to cut the budget deficit to the European Union
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2012 from 6.9
percent this year. Poland needs to roll over 206 billion zloty
($62 billion) of debt in 2011 and 2012, up from 46.2 billion
zloty this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Belka, who prepared election-year budgets in 1997 and 2005
as finance minister and prime minister, respectively, said he
doesn’t favor tax increases, and spending controls should be
enough to narrow the deficit to acceptable levels.  
 “We are not accepting the notion that if an election is
coming, then nothing can be done,” he said. “We are not in the
situation of a country that is close to default. We simply need
some common sense and a little bit of discipline.”  
 ‘Serious Danger’  
 The “most serious danger” to Poland’s economy is
financial-market turbulence churned up by euro-area debt
problems, which may keep the euro weak and trigger swings in the
value of the zloty, Belka said.  
 The central bank’s strategy of targeting 2.5 percent annual
 inflation  was supported by the zloty’s “persistent appreciation
tendency,” which may have come to an end, Belka said.  
 The zloty gained 43 percent against the euro from May 2004,
when Poland entered the EU, to September 2008, when the failure
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. kicked off the global financial
crisis. Since then, it has weakened 19 percent, more than any of
the 26 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, except
the Icelandic krona.  
 While the zloty is particularly exposed to the euro’s
declines, weaker currencies may fuel an export-led recovery in
Europe, Belka said.  
 “A weakening of the euro can have a complicated effect on
stabilizing inflation,” he said. “However, I would rather have
a fast-growing economy in which we have to act decisively on the
inflation front. We are prepared to do it.”  
 Zloty Trend  
 Belka said market volatility was behind his decision to
remove a passage summarizing inflation risks from the central
bank statement released after the June 30 rate meeting, his
first as head of the 10-member Monetary Policy Council.  
 Analysts had used the sentence to gauge the central bank’s
policy stance.  
 “The situation has changed in the sense that we have
volatility of factors, and it would probably be wrong to pre-
commit,” Belka said. “The former way of communicating with the
markets was proper when the different factors impacting
inflation prospects changed in smooth, linear ways.”  
 Dropping the inflation risk statement for a sentence
reporting that the panel discussed “factors that may intensify
inflationary pressure in the medium term,” was interpreted by
some economists as a suggestion that higher interest rates were
on the way. The central bank has kept its key seven-day
reference rate at  3.5 percent  since June 2009.  
 “The risk we identified of a change in the policy stance
has come to pass, albeit in a camouflaged form,” BRE Bank wrote
in a July 1 note to investors. A “pre-emptive or even
reactive” rate increase is probable late this year, BRE said.  
 ‘Bump’ in GDP  
 Belka downplayed the central bank’s July 2 GDP  forecast ,
which showed the economy growing 4.6 percent next year, compared
with a 2.9 percent estimate in February. The spurt will be
short-term and is due primarily to infrastructure investment co-
financed by the EU, he said.  
 “What we see is sort of a bump,” Belka said. “It may
happen, but it has no lasting effect on the longer-term price
evolution.”  
 While Poland’s economic rebound is “more robust” than
expected, the central bank is “concerned that the recovery in
Europe will remain tepid,” Belka said.  
 Those kinds of comments suggest Belka is concerned Polish
growth may falter if deficit-cutting measures in the euro area
stall the recovery,  Marcin Mrowiec , chief economist at Bank
Pekao SA in Warsaw, said in a July 1 research note.  
 Pekao is now “leaning” toward the view that growth will
slow in the second half on slumping exports, suggesting “rate
increases will probably not happen” this year, he said.  
 Belka’s one mention of interest-rate moves was in reference
to a  suggestion  by the IMF, made after a mission to Warsaw on
March 15, that rate cuts might be warranted to curb zloty gains.  
 “I wouldn’t subscribe to this at this juncture, because of
the volatility on the markets and the relative weakness of the
zloty,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McQuaid  in Warsaw 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Marek Belka, governor of the Bank of Poland, during an interview in his office in Warsaw. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
