-- BP's Oil-Collecting Effort Delayed as High Waves Hamper Vessel Connection
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-07-04T16:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/bp-s-oil-collecting-effort-delayed-as-high-waves-hamper-vessel-connection.html

          
          
             Rough seas in the Gulf of Mexico are
delaying  BP Plc ’s efforts to connect a vessel to the leaking
Macondo well that will double the amount of crude being captured
amid the worst U.S. oil spill.  
 The Helix Producer I floating platform hasn’t been able to
attach a 300-foot (91-meter) tube to subsurface equipment
connected to the well on the sea floor because of 5- to 6-foot
waves, said Bryan Ferguson, a spokesman for London-based BP.  
 The link may be postponed for a couple of days while vessel
owner  Helix Energy Solutions Group Inc.  waits for calmer seas,
Ferguson said today in a telephone interview from Houston. The
24-year-old platform can process as much as 25,000 barrels of
crude a day, equal to the amount being captured by a pair of
vessels already connected to the well.  
 “The waves are preventing the vessel from hooking up its
flexible connection,” Ferguson said. “It’s too choppy out
there but hopefully they’ll be able to over the next couple of
days.”  
 A submerged buoy about 300 feet below the surface of the
gulf is plugged into the Macondo well through a series of pipes
extending to the sea floor one mile down. The final step in
feeding some of the leaking crude into the Helix Producer I will
be to connect the buoy to the vessel, Ferguson said.  
 Tanking Shares  
 The Macondo field, which holds an estimated 50 million
barrels of crude, has spewed millions of gallons of oil into the
sea since an April 20 explosion and fire that killed 11 workers
aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig and sank the $365 million
vessel.  
 BP and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , owners of the largest
stakes in the Macondo project, have each lost about half their
market value since the catastrophe. Tokyo-based  Mitsui & Co. ,
which holds an indirect stake in the well, has declined about 33
percent.  
 Transocean Ltd. , the Geneva-based owner of the sunken rig,
has tumbled 48 percent since the disaster. Offshore drilling in
the Gulf of Mexico has come to near-standstill in the past 10
weeks after the Obama administration imposed a six-month
moratorium on exploration in seas deeper than 500 feet.  
 The ban was overturned on June 22 by a federal judge in New
Orleans and Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  last week
indicated he may issue a revised moratorium.  
 Investigations  
 The disaster is under investigation by the U.S. Coast
Guard, Interior Department, Justice Department, U.S.  Chemical
Safety and Hazard  Investigation Board and several House and
Senate committees.  
 BP and contractors that included Transocean and  Halliburton
Co.  were in the process of sealing the well about 40 miles from
the Louisiana coast with cement plugs when the rig was rocked by
two explosions and caught fire.  
 The Helix Producer I can’t hook into the subsea buoy until
the waves drop to 3 feet in height or less, Ferguson said. The
vessel has been on site above the wellhead since June 27.
Violent waves from the outer storm bands of Hurricane Alex
prevented a link-up last week.  
 Houston-based Helix suspended oil production from its
Phoenix development in the gulf so the Helix Producer I could be
disconnected and made available for BP’s containment effort. The
vessel helped resurrect  Chevron Corp. ’s Typhoon development
after Hurricane Rita flipped a $250 million platform in 2005,
prompting Chevron to abandon the field. Helix acquired the
reserves and renamed the field Phoenix.  
 Collection Estimate  
 Connecting the Helix Producer I will allow BP to collect
40,000 to 53,000 barrels a day, accounting for most of the
leaking oil, according to government estimates. A U.S. panel
commissioned to study the flow rate has said 35,000 to 60,000
barrels daily may be gushing from the well.  
 Separately, tests continued today on a Taiwanese skimming
ship called A Whale that can collect up to 500,000 barrels of
crude a day, Ferguson said. The ship, which is longer than three
U.S. football fields, was in the area above the wellhead as of
10:30 a.m. New Orleans time, amidst a plume of crude, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        