-- British Land Targets London's West End to Shield Itself From Market Shocks
-- Chris Bourke
-- 2010-07-05T09:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/british-land-targets-london-s-west-end-to-shield-itself-from-market-shocks.html

          
          
             Sixteen years after  British Land Co. 
bought the biggest office complex in London’s main financial
district, the area’s rents have fallen back to where they were
then. Now it’s looking to the U.K. capital’s West End for
stronger growth.  
 British Land, which sold half of the Broadgate complex last
year, plans to switch the focus of its office business to the
entertainment district, Chief Executive Officer  Chris Grigg , 50,
said in an interview. About 63 percent of its office buildings
are currently in the City of London.  
 Grigg wants to make British Land’s shops and offices, which
lost a total of 4.8 billion pounds ($7.3 billion) in value
during 2008 and 2009, less vulnerable to financial shocks. He
aims to own fewer City offices for shorter periods. In that part
of east London, rents adjusted for inflation are 52 percent
below 1975 levels, according to  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc . The
equivalent West End office rents are 28 percent higher.  
 “We would be perfectly comfortable with 50 percent or more
of our offices in the West End,” Grigg said. “If you look at
the rental performance of the West End over the City, you see
better long-term growth.”  
 British Land’s office buildings alone were valued at 2.6
billion pounds as of March 31, according to its  website . The
company, Britain’s second-largest real estate investment trust,
plans to spend 330 million pounds to redevelop a property on
Baker Street in the West End that it bought in April, as well as
expand the nearby Regent’s Place office estate.  
 Easing of Rules  
 Renting office buildings in the City was more expensive
than in the West End until 1989, according to CB Richard Ellis.
An easing of City regulation, known as “the Big Bang,” sparked
a building boom, with U.S. brokers moving to the area and
wanting large trading floors, said Colin Hargreaves, a director
at  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc . Planning in the West End has remained
more restrictive.  
 The looser regulation also helped to fuel the growth of
Canary Wharf, the district three miles from the main financial
area, which offered bank tenants even greater choice in east
London. City office rents subsequently fell as supply grew.
Rents for both West End and City offices have been rising this
year on demand for a dwindling amount of prime space.  
 “At some point in each cycle, everybody jumps on the City
redevelopment bandwagon,” Hargreaves said. “If they try the
same in the West End, they can’t find the sites. So you never
get the feast and famine that you get in the City.”  
 More Than Rival  
 The proportion of British Land’s offices located in the
City is about three times higher than its biggest rival’s. For
 Land Securities Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest REIT, the figure
is about 19 percent.  
 Values of prime West End offices also tend to exceed those
in the City. West End yields, or rental income expressed as a
percentage of the purchase price, have been comparatively lower
for most of the past 20 years, according to CB Richard Ellis. A
smaller yield usually indicates a higher price.  
 The West End is the world’s most expensive place to lease
an office, according to CB Richard Ellis. Annual occupancy costs,
including rent, taxes and service fees, were the equivalent of
$182.94 a square foot as of March 31, the broker said in a May 5
report.  
 Demand for West End properties is coming from outside the
U.K. as well. Land Securities agreed to sell an office and
retail project on Oxford Street to a Qatar sovereign wealth fund
on June 17 for 250 million pounds.  
 Not ‘Overly Attractive’  
 Given the rise in West End values, not everyone believes
now is the time to invest.  
 “Due to strong yield tightening in the West End over the
last six quarters, we don’t see prime West End offices as an
overly attractive market at the moment,” said  Hans Vrensen ,
global head of research at real-estate broker DTZ Holdings Plc.  
 It may be difficult for British Land to buy more West End
properties because there is a shortage of attractive buildings
for sale, according to Grigg. “It does depend on what becomes
available,” the CEO said.  
 British Land views projects in the West End as longer-term
investments, Grigg said. In the City, it would rather buy or
develop buildings and then sell for a profit. It’s talking to
potential partners about reviving a 225-meter (738-foot) tower
known as the Cheese Grater in the district. The company may sell
that once it’s completed, possibly in 2014, Grigg said.  
 Broadgate Sale  
 British Land sold a 50 percent stake in Broadgate to
 Blackstone Group LP  in September for 77 million pounds, with the
private equity group assuming 987 million pounds of debt, as the
collapse in commercial property values was bottoming out. The
25-year-old complex has 4.4 million square feet (408,773 square
meters) of offices next to Liverpool Street Station.  
 Grigg’s company is spending 175 million pounds to build new
space at Broadgate for  UBS AG , the complex’s biggest tenant. The
bank rents more than 860,000 square feet in four buildings with
leases that expire over 2013 and 2014, according to British Land.
The company may refurbish or redevelop more of the estate and
add more shops, Grigg said.  
 “There will be a need to gradually work one’s way through
that environment, in every sense, as leases fall due,” he said.  
 About 32 percent of British Land’s properties are offices.
The rest are retail assets, including large suburban shopping
parks and warehouses.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Bourke  in London at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     British Land sold half of the Broadgate complex last year. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
