-- BT Asks Managers to Handle Client Calls as First Strike in 23 Years Looms
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/bt-asks-managers-to-fix-networks-field-customer-calls-as-strike-looms.html

          
          
             BT Group Plc, facing its first strike
in 23 years, is asking managers to stand by to help fix
telephone services and field customer calls, according to two
people with knowledge of the company’s plans.  
 BT, the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company, is putting
in place contingency plans where managers from its Openreach
engineering unit can step in for striking technicians, the
people said. They declined to be identified as the preparations
are confidential.  
 The  Communication Workers Union , which represents more than
50,000 BT staff, is scheduled to announce the results of a
strike ballot today after the labor group rejected BT’s revised
pay offer. The CWU is battling BT Chief Executive Officer  Ian Livingston , who has slashed jobs to combat falling sales amid
the economic slowdown.  
 “BT employees have endured thousands of job losses and a
year of pay freezes,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford C Bernstein in London. “While senior executives are
being awarded base salary increases of between 5 percent and 8
percent, they are not getting their share of the pie.”  
 The CWU union rejected a revised pay deal that offered
employees a 5.1 percent  increase in pay  over 21 months, with a 2
percent rise from April 2010, and 3 percent boost in January
2011. Andy Kerr, CWU deputy general secretary, said at the time
the offer was “materially unchanged” from previous proposals.  
 The strike would be the first national industrial action at
BT since 1987, according to the CWU, whose members work in
engineering, call center and retail positions.  
 Investment Expenses  
 A higher pay offer would probably slow BT’s planned 2.5
billion-pound ($3.8 billion) rollout of high-speed Internet
broadband, Bienenstock said. BT might delay the build-out to
“smooth out” higher investment expenses, she said.  
 BT, based in London, said in May it will build a fiber
network serving two-thirds of U.K. homes by 2015. The company
previously had said it would spend 1.5 billion pounds to reach
40 percent of homes by 2012 and catch up with rivals in high-
speed Internet.  
 “Despite this we will hit targets for the high-speed fiber
network,” BT said in an e-mailed response to questions about
the effect of a potential strike.  
 The strike may hit the fiber rollout in 2010 as staff focus
on “repairing services and providing new services, not building
out new infrastructure,” BT said. The Openreach unit will focus
on connecting new customers and so the company’s goal of
reaching 4 million homes by 2010 “could be delayed,” BT said
in the e-mail.  
 Broadband Competition  
 Disrupted fiber plans would “leave BT very vulnerable to
competition from Virgin Media, which does have a very high-speed
broadband offer,” said  Will Draper , an analyst at Execution
Noble in London. “It’s going to leave BT very isolated when it
comes to broadband speed for the next year or two.”  
 BT is betting that the expansion of fiber-optic lines will
help the company catch up with rivals including Virgin Media
Inc. and meet demand for increased bandwidth for services such
as downloading movies and playing video games.  
 The company cut 5,000 more jobs than it initially planned
in the last fiscal year. A total of 20,000 jobs were cut last
year, of which 9,000 were full-time staff. BT has cut about
35,000 jobs in the last two years.  
 Helped by job cuts, BT on May 13 reported fourth-quarter
 operating profit  that beat analyst estimates, prompting the
shares to rise the most in more than nine months in London
trading that day. CEO Livingston said the earnings showed that
the company “demonstrated true credibility,” adding that
“we’ve got a hell of a lot more to do.”  
 ‘Damaging for BT’  
 BT shares  have risen 22 percent in the last 12 months
compared with an 11 percent increase of the 21-member Bloomberg
Europe Telecommunication Services Index.  
 Livingston was awarded a pay rise of 6 percent this year,
taking his base salary to 900,000 pounds from 850,000 a year
earlier, according to its annual report. The CEO chose to accept
a 2 percent rise and donate the rest to charity, BT said.  
 “Industrial action will be damaging for BT,” the
company’s human resources director  Alex Wilson  wrote in a June
14 letter to staff obtained by Bloomberg News. BT “will take
all necessary steps to protect our customers, our business and
our employees before during and after any industrial action.”  
 Employees that do strike won’t be paid on any of the days
they are on strike, Wilson said. BT managers who are represented
by the Prospect union agreed to accept the company’s pay offer
and won’t take part in the action.  
 There’s still a chance that a strike can be averted by
last-minute negotiations. In an e-mailed statement, CWU’s Kerr
said that “If BT is willing to make a genuine improved offer,
we will of course meet them to try to find an end to this
dispute.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ian Livingston BT chief executive officer is posing in this handout photograph. Photographer: Bill Robinson via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
