-- McCain Says Steele's Comments on Afghanistan War Are `Wildly Inaccurate'
-- Alan Bjerga
-- 2010-07-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/mccain-says-steele-s-comments-on-afghanistan-war-are-wildly-inaccurate-.html

          
          
             Senator  John McCain , an Arizona
Republican, said Republican National Committee Chairman  Michael Steele ’s recent comments suggesting that the U.S. will lose the
war in Afghanistan are “wildly inaccurate.”  
 Steele, who said at a Republican fund-raising event July 1
that the conflict in Afghanistan “was a war of Obama’s
choosing” and not something that the U.S. had actively
prosecuted, should reconsider whether he can be an effective
party leader, McCain said on ABC’s  “This Week”  program. Since
Steele’s remarks, conservative Republican leaders including
writer  William Kristol  and  Liz Cheney  have demanded his
resignation.  
 “There’s no excuse” for the remarks, said McCain. “We
need to get everybody behind this effort, because it’s America’s
war. It’s not Bush’s war, it’s not Obama’s war, it’s America’s
war, and we can’t afford to fail.”  
 McCain spoke yesterday from Afghanistan, where he,
independent Senator  Joe Lieberman  of Connecticut and Republican
Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina were spending the July
4 holiday. Graham, speaking from Kabul on CBS’s  “Face the
Nation”  program, said he was “dismayed, angry, upset” over
Steele’s comments.  
 Untimely Comments  
 “It was an uninformed, unnecessary, unwise, untimely
comment,” he said. Graham declined to demand Steele’s
resignation, saying he will leave the matter to the Republican
National Committee. Graham also said his party needs to support
President  Barack Obama ’s commitment to winning the Afghan
conflict and that a victory over the militant Islamic Taliban is
“imperative.”  
 Steele clarified his July 1 remarks July 2 by saying, “The
stakes are too high for us to accept anything but success in
Afghanistan.” In the same statement he said that “for the sake
of the security of the free world, our country must give our
troops the support necessary to win this war.”  
 Graham said yesterday “the good news is Michael Steele is
backtracking so fast he’s going to be in Kabul fighting here
pretty soon.”  
 “It’s up to him to see if he can lead the Republican Party
after this comment,” Graham said. “We’ll see if he can get it
behind him.”  
 November Elections  
 With nationwide unemployment at 9.5 percent in June,
Republicans are trying to regain control of Congress from
Democrats in November’s midterm elections. They are contending
with intra-party challenges from candidates supported by Tea
Party activists who promote limited government.  
 Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican and Tea
Party supporter, said on  “Fox News Sunday”  that Steele needs
to apologize to the military for his remarks and to “refocus on
electing candidates who can stop this rampage of spending and
debt in Washington.”  
 McCain said that Obama’s July 2011 deadline for beginning
to withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan sounds an “uncertain
trumpet” for allies questioning the U.S. commitment to
Afghanistan. McCain endorsed what he called General  David Petraeus ’s “conditions-based” approach to determining how a
U.S. withdrawal would be accomplished.  
 “People in the region are not sure about whether we are
going to be here after the middle of 2011,” said McCain, who
also spoke from Kabul. McCain also said that for all the
challenges faced in the Afghan war, now in its ninth year, the
situation isn’t as bad as it was in Iraq in 2006, before a surge
in U.S. troops there helped stabilize security, heading off a
potential civil war.  
 Withdrawal Deadline  
 U.S. Representative  Duncan Hunter , a California Republican
who served two tours as a Marine in Iraq and one in Afghanistan,
echoed McCain’s concern over the withdrawal date.  
 “I think it’s going to be tough,” said Hunter, who was in
Afghanistan in late May, on  CNN’s “State of the Union” 
program. “I don’t think we can do it in a year.”  
 Lieberman said on “Fox News Sunday” that the current
rules of engagement in Afghanistan “have hurt morale” and that
Petraeus will review them “as soon as possible.”  
 Petraeus told Congress last week that he’s concerned the
current rules, which curtail the use of lethal force to curb
civilian casualties, are too restrictive and are putting
American forces at risk.  
 Afghan Strategy  
 The U.S. will reassess its Afghanistan strategy in December
and is trying to train enough Afghan soldiers and police to
allow a withdrawal of U.S. troops there beginning in July 2011.
President Barack Obama last year authorized the deployment of
30,000 additional troops in an effort to halt a resurgence of
the Taliban that has increased U.S. and allied combat deaths to
the fastest pace of the nine-year war, the longest in American
history.  
 Petraeus, who assumed command of U.S. and NATO forces in
Afghanistan last week, yesterday promised to personnel in the
country a “unity of effort” with diplomatic and Afghan
partners in a “comprehensive, civil-military counterinsurgency
campaign.”  
 “I pledge my total commitment to our mission as we work
together to help achieve a brighter future for a new country in
an ancient land,” he wrote in a letter addressed to NATO
civilian and military personnel. In a hand-written note at the
bottom of the letter, he wrote, “It is a privilege to serve
with you.”  
 Petraeus replaces General  Stanley McChrystal , who was
removed from the war command by Obama last month for disparaging
comments about the administration made in a Rolling Stone
magazine interview.  
 “People are very disappointed that General McChrystal
left. He was beloved by the troops,” Graham said on CBS. “But
General Petraeus has hit the ground running. He’s a hero among
the troops. He knows the region better than any person that I’ve
ever met.”  
 The U.S.-led war in Afghanistan began after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks in the U.S. by al-Qaeda, which had been
harbored by the militant Islamic Taliban that then controlled
the country.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Republican Senator John McCain.Photographer: Astrid Riecken/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
