-- Christie, New Jersey Senate Democrats Reach Agreement on Property-Tax Cap
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-04T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/christie-new-jersey-senate-democrats-reach-agreement-on-property-tax-cap.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
and the Democrats who control the Senate said they have reached
agreement on a plan to curb increases in property taxes used to
fund local government and schools.  
 Under the legislative proposal, the tax increases would be
capped at 2 percent with exemptions for rising health-insurance
costs, bond payments, natural disasters and pension costs,
Christie told reporters yesterday in Trenton. Communities also
would be able to exceed the cap with voter approval.  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver , a Democrat from East
Orange, hasn’t endorsed the plan. The agreement goes to the full
Senate for a vote on July 8.  
 Christie, 47, a Republican who took office in January, said
the agreement ended a special session of the Legislature which
he called July 1 in order to change the state’s present 4
percent property tax cap. Christie said the new tax cap would
take effect in January 2011.  
 “This was about putting our egos aside and getting
something done,” Christie said in a press conference at the
state capitol. “All I wanted to do was build on the momentum
and keep the focus on this.”  
 Christie said he had a “positive discussion” with Oliver
and expects to win her support.  
 2.9 Percent  
 Christie, Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  and Republican
lawmakers in both houses announced the plan following hours of
negotiations in Christie’s Statehouse office. Democrats control
the Senate 23-17 and Assembly 47-33.  
 “We all, Republicans and Democrats, represent taxpayers,”
said Sweeney, a Democrat from West Deptford. “Just because this
got done doesn’t mean we’re going to stop working on” lowering
property taxes.  
 The tax ceiling is lower than a 2.9 percent threshold in
 legislation  passed by Democrats earlier last week.  
 Under a compromise struck with legislators, Christie will
veto that measure and lawmakers will then amend and vote on it
this week in the full Senate, Sweeney said. In May, Christie had
called for a constitutional amendment capping property taxes at
2.5 percent with exceptions only to cover bond payments and
through a public referendum.  
 Highest Property Tax  
 Tom Hester , a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Oliver, said
the Democrat hasn’t spoken to the governor and hasn’t signed on
to the deal.  
 “The Speaker has not been part of any closed door deal,”
he said in a statement. “As the Speaker has said repeatedly, we
will thoroughly vet any proposal. The Assembly Budget Committee
will meet on Wednesday to consider proposed legislation that
represents the Assembly plan.”  
 Barbara Keshishian , head of the state teachers the New
Jersey Education Association, said the agreement would
“devastate” the public schools that account for more than half
of all spending supported by property taxes. She said the deal
was rushed.  
 “Deeper cuts in staff and even larger class sizes are
inevitable,” she said in a statement. “Parents should prepare
to see extracurricular programs eliminated and higher fees
imposed on previously affordable activities.”  
 Christie was elected in November amid discontent with the
state’s taxes and the U.S. recession.  
 New Jersey has the highest average property-tax bills of
any U.S. state at $7,281 in 2009, according to state  data . The
levies, which increased 72 percent since 1999, are the prime
source of revenue for the state’s 566 municipalities and more
than 600 school districts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. Photographer: Tim Larsen/Office of the Governor via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
