-- Oil Rises as Five Days of Decline Makes Commodities Attractive to Purchase
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-07-05T07:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/crude-oil-trades-near-72-after-falling-on-decline-in-jobs-factory-orders.html

          
          
             Crude oil rose for the first time in
six days in New York as investors bet its biggest weekly drop
since May 7 made the commodity cheap given the outlook for
global growth.  
 Oil climbed as much as 0.8 percent, snapping five days of
consecutive declines, after China’s Premier Wen Jiabao said over
the weekend the government will ensure “steady and relatively
fast” growth. Crude’s 14-day relative strength index dropped
below 40 last week for the first time since May 26, approaching
a level that would typically indicate a rebound is imminent.  
 “The outlook for growth around the world is certainly not
as optimistic as it was a few months ago,” said  Toby Hassall , a
commodity analyst at CWA Global Markets Pty in Sydney. “There
will be the longer-term participants in the market who are
viewing this decline in price as a good time to get long.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery gained as much as 56 cents to
$72.70 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. It was at $72.68 a barrel at 2:58 p.m. Singapore time.
The contract fell 81 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $72.14 on July 2.
Prices have declined 8.6 percent since the start of the year.  
 Crude dropped 8.5 percent in the week through July 2 after
reports of slowing economic expansion in the U.S. and China, the
world’s two largest energy consumers.  
 There will be no floor trading on the Nymex today because
of the U.S. Independence Day holiday.  
 Slowing Manufacturing  
 Oil dropped on July 2 after the Labor Department said
payrolls decreased by 125,000 last month as the government cut
temporary census workers. The 1.4 percent reduction in May
bookings with manufacturers was the biggest since March 2009,
the Commerce Department said. Economists in a Bloomberg News
survey projected a 0.5 percent drop.  
 Both the U.S. and China reported last week that
manufacturing was expanding at a slower-than-expected rate.
Crude oil demand growth follows increases in economic expansion
as fuel consumption increases.  
 China’s Wen yesterday addressed the country’s economy in a
statement made after visiting businesses in southern Hunan
province. The nation will maintain policy continuity and
flexibility to ensure “steady and relatively fast” growth and
to balance growth, management of inflation expectations and
economic restructuring, he said.  
 Asia equities were higher for the first time in five days.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent to 111.88 as of
2:42 p.m. in Tokyo.  
 Brent crude oil for August settlement rose as much as 63
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $72.28 a barrel on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London. It was at $72.13 at 3 p.m. Singapore
time. The contract fell 69 cents, or 1 percent, to $71.65 on
July 2.  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their  net-long position  in New York crude-oil futures in the
week ended June 29, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  
 Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 37,120 contracts on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the Washington-based commission said in its
Commitments of Traders report. Net-long positions fell by 2,515
contracts, or 6 percent, from a week earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        