-- Euro Falls on Concern European Central Bank Will Keep Rates Low for Longer
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-05T15:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/dollar-trades-near-six-week-low-versus-euro-on-fed-outlook-jobs-concern.html

          
          
             The euro declined from near its
strongest level in six weeks against the dollar on speculation
the region’s central bank will keep interest rates at a record
low as efforts to trim national budget deficits damp growth.  
 The euro weakened against 13 of its 16 most actively traded
peers. The European Central Bank will leave rates unchanged at 1
percent when policy makers meet on July 8, according to all 55
economists in a Bloomberg survey. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  yesterday pressed governments to trim deficits to
improve consumer and investor confidence.  
 “The euro-zone economy isn’t strong enough to warrant an
interest-rate hike,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Near-term gains for
the euro against the dollar are unlikely.”  
 The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2527 as of 4 p.m. in London
from $1.2566 on July 2, when it reached $1.2612, the highest
level since May 21. The yen traded little changed at 87.74 per
dollar, after climbing to 86.97 on July 1, the strongest since
Dec. 2. The Japanese currency was at 109.81 per euro, from
110.27 in New York.  
 The euro may struggle to extend last week’s gains,
according to RBC Capital Markets, even after banks asked for
fewer-than-expected loans from the ECB last week and prompted
investors to end bets the currency would fall. The currency has
lost 8.1 percent against its global peers this year, making it
the worst performer among the 10 currencies in the basket,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices.  
 ‘Harder Fought’ Gains  
 “We remain bearish,”  Sue Trinh , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at RBC in Hong Kong, wrote today in a report. The
ECB’s tenders last week “morphed into wholesale short
covering,” she said. “With much of this bottling behind us and
positioning better balanced, we expect further gains will be
harder-fought.”  
 The single currency stayed lower against the dollar after a
report showed growth in Europe’s services and manufacturing
industries slowed for a second month in June, adding to signs
the recovery is losing momentum.  
 A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 56 from 56.4 in May, London-
based Markit Economics said today. That’s in line with an
initial estimate published on June 23. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  
 A separate report showed European  retail sales  increased
less than expected in May. Sales in the 16-nation euro area rose
0.2 percent from April, when they fell 0.9 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had forecast a gain of 0.3 percent, the median of 19 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 Yen Bets  
 “There are lingering worries that austerity measures will
harm European growth,” said  Lee Wai Tuck , a currency strategist
at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “We’re still looking to sell the
euro on rallies.”  
 The yen traded near a seven-month high against the dollar
before a report tomorrow that economists said will show U.S.
service industries expanded at a slower pace.  
 Futures traders increased bets for a second week that
Japan’s currency will gain, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. The  difference  in
the number of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators
on an advance in the yen compared with those on a drop -- so-
called net longs -- was 27,427 on June 29, compared with net
longs of 3,630 a week earlier.  
 Safe Haven  
 “The decline in risk appetite over recent weeks is showing
little sign of abating,” said  Gareth Berry , a currency
strategist in Singapore at UBS AG. “The yen will likely
continue to benefit as a safe-haven destination.”  
 The dollar fell to its weakest level in seven months
against the yen on July 1 as traders added to bets the Federal
Reserve will keep its benchmark rate near zero on signs the
economy is slowing.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which make up about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 55 in June from 55.4 the previous month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Readings greater than 50
signal expansion. The report is due tomorrow.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 34 percent
chance the Fed will hold its benchmark rate between zero and
0.25 percent through its April 2011 meeting, up from 12 percent
odds a month earlier.  
 U.S. markets are shut today for the Independence Day
holiday. Trading may be “relatively quiet” due to lower
liquidity,  Khoon Goh , a senior markets economist at ANZ National
Bank Ltd., wrote in a note to clients.  
 Canadian Dollar  
 The Canadian dollar declined against the U.S. currency for a
second day as traders trimmed bets the nation’s central bank
will raise interest rates at its meeting this month amid signs
the global economic recovery may be stalling.  
 The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie, fell 0.4 percent
to C$1.0669 per U.S. dollar. It also slid to 82.24 yen from
82.60 yen.  
 “The market is trading a little more hesitantly, easing
back on expectations for the Bank of Canada,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a currency strategist in Toronto at Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  on June 1 became the
first Group of Seven central banker to raise interest rates,
increasing the target level to 0.5 percent from a record low
0.25 percent. Policy makers next meet on July 20 to set rates,
then again in September, October and December.  
 Economists in June cut forecasts for the benchmark rate to
1.25 percent by year-end, from a forecast in May of 1.5 percent,
according to the weighted average of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net 
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- David Forrester, currency economist at Barclays Capital, talks about the outlook for currencies and economic growth.
     Forrester speaks from Singapore with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
