-- Medvedev Spurs Mortgage Bonds in Housing Plan as Sberbank Prepares Debut
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-07-05T13:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/medvedev-spurs-mortgage-bonds-in-housing-plan-as-sberbank-prepares-debut.html

          
          
             President  Dmitry Medvedev’s  attempt
to boost home purchases is leading OAO Sberbank to plan its
debut mortgage-backed bonds while the government’s housing
agency prepares its first issue in two years.  
 OAO Agency for Housing Mortgage Lending may sell home loan-
backed securities in September, said Denis Grishukhin, head of
structured products in Moscow at the government funding
institution known as AIZhK.  Sberbank , Russia’s biggest lender,
is preparing its  sale  for 2012, Natalia Karaseva, the Moscow-
based head of consumer lending, said in a July 2 e-mail.  
 While Medvedev began an initiative to increase home
ownership in 2008, loan rates average 13.8 percent, more than
twice the level of inflation and above Bank Rossii’s 7.75
percent  benchmark refinancing rate , the  central bank  says.
Lenders may struggle to find investors for mortgage bonds after
losses on the securities from the U.S. subprime crisis,
according to Commerzbank AG and UralSib Financial Corp.  
 “The plans might be more to please the government rather
than them seeing real demand on the market,” said  Marina Vlasenko , a London-based credit analyst at Commerzbank,
Germany’s second-largest lender. “For these mortgage-linked
bonds, the market still has no appetite.”  
 The housing agency will offer 6 billion rubles ($192.8
million) of the bonds in September and expects the notes to have
the same debt ratings as government securities, Grishukhin said.
Russia is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB at
Standard & Poor’s.  
 ‘Russian Dream’  
 Medvedev wants to increase the number of single-family
houses to bolster Russia’s middle class and fuel economic
growth. In a nation of  141 million people , 77 percent are
“cooped up” in apartments dating from Soviet policies that
“excluded everything oriented toward the individual,” Medvedev
said in 2008. The government amassed almost 2.5 million acres
across the country and set up a property fund to help
developers. The fund will nurture home ownership as a “Russian
dream,”  Alexander Braverman , its general director, said in an
interview in Moscow last month.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said in February that
mortgage rates remain too high and the government will spend 250
billion rubles this year to lower costs. As part of the plan,
the government let  Vnesheconombank , the state development bank
known as VEB, buy mortgage-backed securities with part of the
pension assets it manages to help stimulate the market.  
 Distressed Yields  
 Russia’s central bank lowered its  main interest rate  by a
quarter percentage point in May, its 14th reduction in as many
months, to aid recovery from the worst economic slump since the
Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. Moscow property prices tumbled
37 percent between October 2008 and October 2009, after  soaring 
six-fold between 2003 and 2008, according to Moscow-based real
estate consultant  IRN.ru .  
 Outstanding mortgage-backed securities have mostly traded
at distressed levels since the collapse of the U.S. subprime
market, said  Ian McCall , who helps oversee about $500 million of
emerging-market debt as a director at Argo Capital in London.  
 Those backed by loans made in 2008 or earlier trade too
infrequently to show reliable prices, according to Argo and
UralSib, the Moscow-based lender owned by billionaire  Nikolai Tsvetkov . Distressed debt yields at least 10 percentage points,
or 1,000 basis points, above similar-maturity Treasury notes.  
 “After the subprime crisis in the U.S., the risk premium
on such bonds must be larger,” said  Dmitry Dudkin , a fixed-
income analyst at UralSib in Moscow. “Even before the crisis
they were not very popular.”  
 Shorter Maturities  
 AIZhK will “ensure investors’ interest” by reducing the
maturity on new mortgage debt to about 2 1/2 years, Grishukhin
said in a July 3 e-mail. The last bonds it sold in 2007 and 2008
mature in 2039, 2040 and 2041, Bloomberg data show.  
 Sberbank said last week that it plans to make home loans
“more affordable” by cutting the down payment required and
boosting the size of the maximum mortgage loan it extends by as
much as 10 percent from the start of this month.  
 The Russian market for refinancing mortgage loans by
selling bonds is “not fully developed” and it may be premature
to evaluate market demand for such securities, said Sberbank’s
Karaseva. Sberbank’s mortgage-backed bonds will be offered to
VEB as part of its investment program, she said.  
 Investors demand a higher yield to buy Russian government
debt than bonds of Mexico, which has similar credit ratings, and
Brazil, ranked two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s. The extra
yield over U.S. Treasuries on Russian government debt included
in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index fell 3 basis points on
today to 279, compared with a spread of 178 for Mexico and 244
for Brazil.  
 Default Swaps  
 Russia credit-default swaps cost 4 basis points more than
similar contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower
at Ba2 by Moody’s. The  gap  has narrowed from 40 basis points on
April 20. Russia swaps rose 7 basis points to 202 on July 1, the
highest level since June 8. The contracts, which investors use
to hedge against losses on debt or speculate on
creditworthiness, pay the buyer face value if a borrower reneges
on its obligations.  
 Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 3 basis points
today, lowering the yield to 5.475 percent, a three-day low. The
ruble weakened 0.2 percent to 31.1519 per dollar by 4:35 p.m. in
Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements as they allow foreign
investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a specific
level in the future, show the ruble weakening to 31.3470 per
dollar in three months.  
 Unknown Market  
 Russian lenders issued at least 62 billion rubles of
mortgage-backed bonds since May 2007, according to Bloomberg
data. The banks have provided 83.7 billion rubles of home loans
since the start of the year, central bank data show. New
mortgages may reach 280 to 320 billion rubles this year, AIZhK
said in an e-mailed report on June 23.  
 The consumer banking unit of state-run VTB Group, the
country’s second-biggest lender, raised 15 billion rubles in
December in the largest offering of Russian mortgage bonds. The
VTB-24 securities are puttable in December 2011, when holders
can force the bank to redeem them. The price has climbed to
104.3 percent of face value from 100 percent at the time of the
sale, reducing the yield to 6.71 percent, compared with 6.55
percent on VTB-24’s ruble bonds due October 2011.  
 Most of the mortgage bonds investors are willing to buy
come from government-linked institutions, said  Paul Biszko , an
emerging market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.  
 The Russian housing debt market is “really unknown” to
investors, Biszko said in a phone interview. “In this credit
environment I don’t see strong appetite for that kind of
paper.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Russia's President Dmitry Medvedev  
                       
                         
                           Norm Betts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Russia's President Dmitry Medvedev attends the opening plenary session of the Group of Eight summit in Huntsville, Ontario. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russia's President Dmitry Medvedev attends the opening plenary session of the Group of Eight summit in Huntsville, Ontario. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
