-- Eskom Workers Will Consider `Serious' Offer of 9% Pay Raise From Company
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-04T15:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/eskom-workers-will-consider-serious-offer-of-9-pay-raise-from-company.html

          
          
             Labor union leaders welcomed a
decision by Eskom Holdings Ltd., the state-owned utility that
supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s power, to lift its
pay offer to 9 percent to avert a strike during the World Cup.  
 “It’s indeed a very serious offer,” National Union of
Mineworkers secretary general  Frans Baleni  told reporters in
Johannesburg today, adding leaders will recommend the offer to
members and ask them not to strike. NUM will probably give its
official response “during the course of next week.”  
 NUM, which represents about 16,000 of Eskom’s almost 40,000
employees, said July 1 it would call a strike after talks
collapsed. Eskom and the union agreed July 2 to return to third-
party mediation.  
 “A strike tomorrow would have been a catastrophic
disaster,”  Zwelinzima Vavi , general secretary of the Congress
of South African Trade Unions, told reporters in Johannesburg
today. Cosatu “highly recommends” that workers accept the
offer, revised from 8.5 percent, he said.  
 Eskom wouldn’t be able to guarantee power supply if unions
went on strike, the utility said July 1, adding that a strike
may damage the economy and affect the World Cup that ends July
11.  
 The pay increase, almost twice the nation’s May inflation
rate of 4.6 percent, will raise costs at Eskom, faced with a 460
billion rand ($59 billion) expansion program aimed at
preventing a repeat of power shortages that stopped mines in the
country for five days in January 2008.  
 The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa will
recommend that its members accept the offer, according to a
joint NUM/NUMSA statement handed to reporters in Johannesburg
today. The Solidarity union will also recommend the offer to its
members,  Dirk Hermann , deputy general secretary, said by mobile
phone today. The three unions represent about 25,000 workers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        