-- European Teams Take `Key Moments' to Hijack South America's World Cup Push
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-07-04T22:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/european-teams-take-key-moments-to-hijack-south-america-s-world-cup-push.html

          
          
             Of the record five South American
teams that reached the last 16 of soccer’s World Cup, only
Uruguay stands between a European nation taking the title
heading into this week’s semifinals.  
 With Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay also making the
quarterfinals, Europe had faced the prospect of having no
representative in the final four for the first time in the
event’s 80-year history. Victories by the Netherlands, Germany
and Spain over the weekend avoided that prospect.  
 “When it gets to the one-off games it’s fractions and key
moments that decide the outcome,” former England midfielder
 Trevor Steven , an analyst for Ireland’s RTE, said in an
interview. “The best-prepared teams -- not the ones with the
best individuals, but the best-organized ones -- come through.”  
 Chile was the only one of the five South American
qualifiers in South Africa to lose a match in the group stage
and fail to top its pool. Europe’s 13 representatives struggled
early on, with a record low six teams from the region advancing
to the round of 16, which was introduced in 1986.  
 Italy and France, the finalists from four years ago, exited
after finishing last in their groups. England reached the second
round only after beating Slovenia 1-0, before returning home
following a 4-1 loss to Germany -- its worst World Cup defeat.  
 South America’s stumble came in the latter stages, with
pre-tournament favorite Brazil leading the exodus with a 2-1
defeat to the Netherlands. Germany then routed  Diego Maradona ’s
Argentina 4-0 and European champion Spain needed a late goal to
end Paraguay’s best World Cup run.  
 ‘Speaks Volumes’  
 “Three European teams are among the last four in this
World Cup and that speaks volumes for European football,” Spain
coach  Vicente del Bosque  said after his team’s 1-0 win. “It was
said that it would be a Latin American cup, but Uruguay is the
only Latin American team now in the semifinals.”  
 South American coaches and players had attributed their
unprecedented start to the competitive nature of their
qualifying tournament. Of the 10-team region, Bolivia is the
lowest-ranked team on governing body FIFA’s list at No. 65.  
 “This is one of the toughest qualifiers in the world,”
Maradona said after the group stage. “Ecuador deserved to be
here. And it is definitely not the same to play against the
likes of Ecuador as against, let’s say, the Faroe Islands.”  
 Even so, Maradona’s team failed to recover after allowing
an early goal against Germany. It was the first time Argentina
had been behind in five matches at the tournament, and by the
final whistle the two-time champion had slumped to its worst
World Cup loss since a 4-0 defeat to the Netherlands in 1974.  
 Record five-time champion Brazil, which won last year’s
Confederations Cup in South Africa, fell to its first loss in a
World Cup game in the southern hemisphere since 1950.  
 Brazil ‘Fragile’  
 “Brazil were fragile,” said Steven, who played in the
1990 World Cup semifinal against West Germany. “They fell apart
when they had to chase a game against a good Netherlands team.”  
 Paraguay missed a penalty against Spain and had a goal
ruled out for offside that replays showed might have been valid.
Uruguay sealed its place in the final four after Luis Suarez
deliberately stopped a goal-bound header with his hands in the
last minute of extra time to deny Ghana victory.  
 The Uruguayans, who qualified for the tournament by beating
Costa Rica in a playoff, went on to win 4-2 in a shootout after
Suarez was red-carded for his handball and Asamoah Gyan blasted
the resulting penalty against the crossbar.  
 Uruguay is a 12-5 outsider to oust the Netherlands tomorrow
and advance to the final, according to U.K. bookmaker William
Hill. That means a successful $5 bet brings in $12 plus the
original wager. William Hill makes Spain the 8-11 favorite to
get past Germany the following day.  
 Should two European teams reach the July 11 final in
Johannesburg, it would ensure that the continent moves 10-9
ahead of South America in terms of overall  World Cup victories .  
 “Uruguay are a team of fighters,” Netherlands coach  Bert van Marwijk  told reporters two days ago in Johannesburg. “They
battle and survive. That is why they have reached the
semifinals. We must certainly not underestimate them, otherwise
things will go wrong for us.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Cape Town at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Baynes  in Johannesburg at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Argentina's coach Diego Maradona reacts at the end of the 2010 World Cup quarter-final match Argentina vs. Germany on July 3, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Garcia/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
