-- Mexico's Opposition PRI May Gain in Vote, Get Momentum to Take Presidency
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-04T14:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/mexico-s-opposition-pri-may-gain-in-vote-get-momentum-to-take-presidency.html

          
          
             Mexico’s largest opposition party,
out of power for a decade, may boost its chances of taking back
the presidency in elections for 12 governorships today after the
bloodiest campaign season since 1994.  
 The  Institutional Revolutionary Party , which ruled the
country for 71 years until 2000, may win at least 10 governor
races and could win them all, said Roy Campos, head of Mexico
City-based polling group  Consulta Mitofsky . Victories in every
state would put the party known as the PRI at the helm of 22 of
Mexico’s 31 states, up from 19 now.  
 A sweep by the PRI would give the party momentum heading
into the 2012 presidential vote, said Andrew Selee, director of
the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington.
It would also showcase the political strength of state of Mexico
Governor  Enrique Pena Nieto , Selee said. Pena Nieto, the
frontrunner in polls to succeed President  Felipe Calderon ,
campaigned for PRI candidates in several states.  
 “The PRI would like to show that they are the party that’s
in the strongest position to win presidential elections,” Selee
said. “They see this election as their opportunity to position
themselves to win the one in two years.”  
 The election has been overshadowed by rising violence ahead
of the vote, especially along the U.S. border where rival gangs
have been fighting to control the nation’s drug trade. The PRI
gubernatorial candidate in Tamaulipas state,  Rodolfo Torre Cantu , was assassinated June 28. Last month, a mayoral candidate
was shot dead in the same state. This week, a headless body was
found outside the home of another mayoral hopeful.  
 Risk, Turnout  
 Polls opened without reports of violence in Tamaulipas
today, Mexican cable network Milenio TV reported. Elections also
began without incident in Sinaloa and Chihuahua states, cable
network Foro TV said.  
 The cost of protecting Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps has risen 11 basis points
to 137.74 since Torre Cantu was assassinated, according to data
compiled by CMA DataVision.  
 Shootouts tied to drug traffickers, particularly the
violence directed at candidates, may cause voter turnout to fall
to as low as 33 percent from 44 percent to 60 percent in
previous midterm elections, estimates Tony Payan, a political
scientist at the University of Texas in  El Paso .  
 Lower turnout may bolster the PRI’s chances because the
party is adept at using unions, farmer groups and other
organizations to get its supporters to the polls, said Jose
Antonio Crespo, an analyst at the Center for Economic Research
and Teaching in Mexico City.  
 The increasing violence has hurt the popularity of Calderon
and his party. The percentage of registered voters who approve
of Calderon dropped to 53.3 percent in a May poll conducted by
Mitofsky, the lowest level since the beginning of his
administration.  
 2012 Groundwork  
 Pena Nieto, governor of the State of Mexico and a PRI
member, is the leading candidate for the presidency ahead of the
July 2012 vote, according to a poll released June 14 by
Mitofsky. Pena Nieto has 25 percent support of those surveyed
compared with 6 percent for former presidential candidate  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , his closest rival.  
 Torre Cantu, who campaigned on an anti-violence platform,
was a two-to-one favorite in Tamaulipas state before he was
killed, according to a Mitofsky poll. Egidio Torre, the deceased
candidate’s brother, is running in his place.  
 Torre Cantu was the highest-level politician to be
assassinated since presidential candidate  Luis Donaldo Colosio 
was killed in 1994.  
 Should the PRI increase its control over state governments,
the new governors may help rally their constituents to allow the
PRI to win back the presidency, according to  Jorge Chabat , a
political science professor at the Center for Economic Research
and Teaching in Mexico City. Mexicans will also choose dozens of
mayors in today’s vote.  
 Investors Watching  
 Violence has also raged in other parts of Mexico. A July 1
shootout between rival gangs left 21 people dead in a rural area
of Sonora state about 12 miles from the Arizona border. The
Sonora governorship isn’t up for grabs this weekend.  
 Mexico has turned increasingly violent since Calderon came
to office in December 2006 vowing to fight traffickers. More
than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico in violence
related to the drug war since the crackdown began, according to
the U.S. State Department.  
 Investors are paying more attention on Mexico’s drug war
since the killing of Torre Cantu, which “raised the level of
concern over the escalation of drug-related violence,” said
 Eduardo Suarez , a Latin American debt strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada in Toronto.  
 “Moving forward, we expect market reactions to violence-
related news to become a more important driver for Mexican
financial assets,” Suarez said in a July 1 report.  
 Mexico’s economy, the second biggest in Latin America, is
forecast by the central bank to grow 4 percent to 5 percent this
year after a 6.5 percent contraction in 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pena Nieto was governor of Mexico state from 2005 to 2011.  
                       
                         
                           Alfredo Estrella/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         The governor of the state of Mexico, Enrique Pena Nieto. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The governor of the state of Mexico, Enrique Pena Nieto. Photographer: Alfredo Estrella/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
