-- Indian Stocks May Extend Gains on GDP Outlook; Rupee Forecast to Advance
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-05T11:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/indian-stocks-to-extend-gains-on-gdp-growth-outlook-rupee-to-strengthen.html

          
          
             Indian stocks  may gain 10 percent by
the end of this year, extending the longest rally since 1979, as
an unscheduled rate increase by the central bank won’t derail
economic growth, Prudential Financial Inc. said.  
 While stock indexes may drop in the three to four weeks
after the rate decision, strengthening domestic demand may lure
funds to equities, Prudential said. Higher lending rates may
also boost the rupee, according to FirstRand Ltd., helping the
currency recover from Asia’s second-biggest loss.  
 “In the near-term, the latest rate hike is likely to have
a negative impact on the Indian stock market,” said  John Praveen , chief investment strategist at Prudential International
Investments Advisers LLC, a unit of Prudential Financial, which
oversees $693 billion. By the end of 2010, the benchmark Sensex
index may rise to 19,200 as markets stabilize and the central
bank is “seen as being ahead of the curve,” he said.  
 The Sensex, or Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, was
the best performer among the world’s 20 largest equity markets
last quarter, even after central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
raised rates while countries including the Philippines and
Thailand left borrowing costs unchanged. Second-half buying of
stocks by overseas investors is poised to surpass the first,
said the nation’s biggest bank, as the government predicts the
economy will expand at the quickest pace in three years.  
 Market Reaction  
 The Sensex fell 0.1 percent to 17441.44 at the close in
Mumbai, after swinging between gains and losses at least 20
times. The rupee was little changed at 46.8050.  
 Benchmark 10-year bonds fell the most in more than a week,
pushing yields to the highest since June 25. The yield on the
7.8 percent note due 2020 climbed seven basis points to 7.62
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system. The
price fell 0.46, or 46 paise per 100 rupee face amount, to
101.20.  
 The Reserve Bank of India raised the  reverse repurchase
rate  for a third time this year to 4 percent, the highest level
since March 2009, from 3.75 percent. The move ahead of a
scheduled meeting to decide on the rate shows the central bank’s
confidence in the nation’s economic growth amid the global debt
crisis, according to Prudential.  
 India’s $1.2 trillion  economy  expanded 8.6 percent in the
three months through March, the fastest pace after China among
Asia’s major economies.  
 Economic Growth  
 Gross domestic product will expand this year at the fastest
pace since 2008, the government predicts. Net stock purchases by
overseas investors climbed 32 percent in the first half to $6.7
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while
foreigners raised investments in Indian debt by a record 78
percent this year, exchange data showed.  
 Subbarao raised rates a week after the government allowed
fuel prices to rise, threatening to stoke inflation. The
governor acted before the July 27 policy meeting as concerns of
price gains now seemed to be “very much generalized and that
demand-side pressures are evident,” he said last week.  
 The benchmark  inflation  rate unexpectedly accelerated to
10.2 percent in May, while consumer prices paid by industrial
and farm workers rose 14 percent. Inflation is a political issue
in a nation where the World Bank estimates more than three-
quarters of the 1.2 billion people live on less than $2 a day.  
 More Rate Increases  
 In contrast, consumer-price gains are running at 2.9
percent in Australia, 5.1 percent in Indonesia and 4.3 percent
in the Philippines. Australia, South Korea, Indonesia, the
Philippines and Thailand kept borrowing costs unchanged last
month to gauge the effects of the Greece-led debt crisis.  
 Kaushik Das , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG, expects
India’s interest rates to climb by another 25 basis points at
the July 27 meeting and by “at least” 50 basis points through
the end of 2010. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Praveen expects borrowing costs to rise 50 basis points by
the end of the year, and advised investors to hold cash in the
next three to four weeks before buying for the rest of 2010, the
Newark, New Jersey-based investor said in an e-mail.  
 The  Sensex  climbed 1 percent in the past three months, its
sixth straight quarterly advance, the longest winning streak
based on data going back more than three decades.  
 The central bank’s first interest-rate increase this year
was on March 19, and the unscheduled decision drove the Sensex 1
percent lower a day later before the gauge ended the week 0.4
percent higher. The second rise came after an April 20 policy
meeting, and the stock index measure climbed 0.3 percent as the
25 basis point increase was less than some economists expected.  
 ‘Ideal Entry Points’  
 “We don’t think it will have much direct negative impact
for most stocks,” said  Seth Freeman , chief executive officer of
San Francisco-based EM Capital Management LLC, who in May
correctly predicted the gain in small and mid-cap Indian stocks.
“Knee-jerk stock-price dips due to sell-off may be ideal entry
points for investors.”  
 Buying by overseas investors may also boost gains in the
rupee, drawn by higher yields on local assets. The rupee’s 3.2
percent decline in the quarter ended June was the most among
Asia’s 10 most-actively traded currencies after the South Korean
won, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The rupee may rise as high as 46.50 in the next few days,
said  Krishnamurthy Harihar , treasurer at the Indian unit of
FirstRand, South Africa’s second-largest financial services
company. “46.79 looks a good level for exporters to buy the
local currency,” Harihar said.  
 ‘Natural Reaction’  
 The rate increase may also push the benchmark 10-year bond
yields to as high as 7.7 percent, the most in two months, Kotak
Mahindra Bank Ltd. said in a report. Bonds fell today “as a
natural reaction to the policy rate hike,” according to
analysts  Indranil Pan  and Shubhra Mittal.  
 Foreign investors raised investments in Indian debt to
$13.5 billion on July 1, after touching an all-time high $14.5
billion on June 24, according to data released by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India.  
 “RBI feels India’s domestic economy is relatively less
affected by uncertainty in global financial markets,” said
Praveen from Prudential, which operates in India under the brand
name Pramerica. “Once the European debt crisis is resolved and
global financial conditions stabilize, Indian stocks should
recover and post solid gains.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao speaks during a news conference in Mumbai. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Indian rupees are arranged for a photograph in Mumbai. Photographer: Scott Eells/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
