-- RBI May Raise Rates Second Time This Month as Subbarao Has Eye on the Ball
-- Unni Krishnan
-- 2010-07-05T06:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/india-may-raise-rates-second-time-this-month-as-rbi-has-eye-on-the-ball-.html

          
          
             India’s central bank signaled it’s
set to raise interest rates again after an unscheduled increase
last week, on concern that increased consumer spending and
higher fuel prices will stoke inflation.  
 The Reserve Bank of India, led by Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , on July 2 boosted the reverse repurchase and
repurchase rates by a quarter point each, to 4 percent and 5.5
percent, and added it will “take further action as warranted.”  
 Subbarao may follow with another quarter point at the
bank’s next meeting on July 27, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and Barclays Plc said. India is acting ahead of counterparts in
Asia from South Korea and Indonesia to the Philippines and
Thailand as dangers from the fastest inflation among the Group
of 20 nations outweigh risks from Europe’s debt crisis.  
 “The decision shows policy makers have their eye on the
ball,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada. “India needs to focus on inflation
pressures rather than a potential impact from Euro-area
weakness.”  
 India’s benchmark 10-year government bond yields climbed to
the highest in more than a week, advancing seven basis points to
7.63 percent at 11:35 a.m. in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock
Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  rose 0.2 percent to 17,498.09, while
the rupee gained 0.2 percent to 46.71 against the dollar.  
 ‘Desirable’ Move  
 Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  on July 2 described the
monetary tightening as “desirable.” Two days later, he
indicated the RBI should incorporate last week’s move when it
meets this month, according to the Wall Street Journal. The
newspaper quoted him saying he hoped the increase would be
“subsumed in the new policy statement,” speaking in Kolkata,
where he attended a banking conference.  
 India’s $1.2 trillion gross domestic product expanded 8.6
percent in the first quarter of this year from a year earlier,
the fastest pace after China and Brazil among major economies.
Industrial output jumped 17.6 percent in April.  
 Growth in India’s services industry including software and
telecommunications accelerated to a two-year high in June,
according to the Purchasing Managers’ Index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today.  
 “Demand conditions are pretty strong,” said  Gaurav Kapur ,
a Mumbai-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland. “The fuel-
price increase of last month may have also prompted the RBI to
act before the policy meeting,” he said, referring to the
central bank.  
 Capacity Increase  
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest carmaker, is
spending 17 billion rupees to increase capacity 23 percent, to
1.25 million units a year.  Tata Steel Ltd. , India’s largest
producer, last month won environmental approval to expand
capacity at its Jamshedpur unit as it seeks to benefit from
increased demand from carmakers.  
 The strengthening demand in India parallels a trend across
emerging markets from China to Brazil, where expansions are
outpacing those of advanced economies. U.S. growth prospects
have been undermined by reports in the past month showing fewer
workers hired than forecast, a drop in home sales, deterioration
in consumer confidence and slower manufacturing.  
 Concern that expansions in developed nations are sputtering
sent the  MSCI World Index  of stocks down 4 percent last week.  
 India’s growth is pushing up inflation, undermining the
purchasing power of households in a country where more than
three quarters of the 1.2 billion population lives on less than
$2 a day.  
 Inflation Woes  
 India’s benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  unexpectedly
accelerated to 10.2 percent in May. Consumer prices paid by
industrial and farm workers rose almost 14 percent in May,
according to government data.  
 By contrast, consumer-price gains are running at 2.9
percent in Australia, 2 percent in the U.S., 1.6 percent in the
euro zone and 3.1 percent in China.  
 Also boosting inflation are India’s steps to rein in its
budget deficit, which widened to a 16-year high of 6.9 percent
of GDP in the year through March. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
last month freed gasoline prices to cut subsidies, allowing
refiners raise them by about 3.5 rupees a liter.  
 The government also permitted diesel costs to rise by 2
rupees in a country where 65 percent of the goods are
transported by road. Diesel pricing will eventually be freed,
the government said.  
 The fuel-price decision may boost the inflation rate by
about one percentage point, the central bank said.  
 Nationwide Strike  
 The Reserve Bank’s action to slow price gains came after
opposition parties led by the Bharatiya Janata Party called for
a nationwide strike today to protest against the fuel-price
increase. Flights were canceled, companies shut offices and
taxis stayed off the roads in major Indian cities.  
 The central bank said that while growth and inflation were
quickening, it was “inadvisable” to raise rates earlier
because of a  shortage  of cash with lenders.  
 Cash availability dropped after businesses withdrew money
to pay taxes and the government raised 1.06 trillion rupees from
the auction of high-speed mobile phone permits and broadband
internet airwaves to companies including  Bharti Airtel Ltd.   
 To prevent the cash squeeze from hampering  growth , the
central bank added money to the banking system since May. The
bank extended until July 16 a plan to allow lenders keep less
money in government bonds as reserves. The facility was set to
expire on July 2.  
 “Liquidity has begun to ease more recently,” HSBC
Holdings Plc economists  Frederic Neumann  and Prithviraj Srinivas
wrote in a note to clients. “There is still a long way to go”
in raising rates, with another 1.25 percentage points likely in
the coming 12 months, they forecast.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net 
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 Ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Subbarao Has ‘Eye on the Ball’ as Inflation Accelerates  
                       
                         
                           Namas Bhojani/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Duvvuri Subbarao, governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Duvvuri Subbarao, governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Photographer: Namas Bhojani/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
