-- Linklaters Revenue Falls 8.8% as Merger Advisory Work for Law Firms Drops
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/linklaters-revenue-falls-8-8-as-merger-advisory-work-for-law-firms-drops.html

          
          
             Linklaters LLP , one of the U.K.’s
highest-grossing law firms, said revenue fell 8.8 percent to
1.18 billion pounds ($1.8 billion) as the global mergers and
acquisitions market stalled.  
 Linklaters ranked first among law firms advising principals
in global merger and acquisition deals in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The volume of deals fell 38 percent
in 2009 and has remained at a low level this year.  
 “M&A is about 40 percent of our business,” the firm’s
managing partner  Simon Davies  said. “Our profitability has been
quite resilient taking that into account.”  
 Profit per equity partner fell 6.8 percent to 1.2 million
pounds, and overall profit was down 1.2 percent for the year
that ended April 30, the London-based firm said today in a
statement. The lower figure means Linklaters may no longer be
the largest U.K.-based law firm by revenue. Competing firms
 Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP  and  Clifford Chance LLP 
haven’t reported their financial results yet this year.  
 The firm relied on restructuring and financial regulation
work to help offset the decline in deals, and its capital
markets team has been busy advising on high-yield bond
issuances, he said.  
 “Over the next three to five years there will be a lot of
restructuring work with this new barrage of financial
regulation,” he said. “That will be a buoyant area, and it’s
important that we’re alongside our clients in coping with that
new legislation.”  
 Linklaters is advising  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc  in relation to the British government’s
asset-protection program. The firm also represents Lehman
Brothers International Europe, which is liquidating in the U.K.  
 Allen & Overy, which ranked fourth last year in revenue
among U.K. firms, said last week its revenue fell 4 percent to
1.05 billion pounds and partner profits were up 10 percent.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        