-- Japan's Bonds Fall a Second Day Before This Week's 2.8 Trillion Yen Sales
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-05T06:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/japan-s-10-year-bonds-may-fall-as-yields-near-seven-year-low-deter-buyers.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  declined for a second
day on speculation yields near a seven-year low will deter
investors as the government sells 2.8 trillion yen ($31.8
billion) of debt this week.  
 The Ministry of Finance will auction 2.2 trillion of 10-
year bonds tomorrow and 600 billion yen of 30-year debt on July
8. Bonds also dropped on concern falling support for Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  will hamper the government’s efforts to raise
the sales tax. Euro-yen futures surged after Reuters reported
that a central bank official said the Tokyo interbank offered
rate is deviating “substantially” from appropriate levels.  
 “The 10-year coupon is likely to be cut to 1.1 percent,
the lowest since August 2003, thereby thwarting demand at this
week’s auction,” said  Tadashi Matsukawa , who helps oversee the
equivalent of $65.3 billion as manager of the fixed-income
division at PineBridge Investments Japan Co. in Tokyo.  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond rose one basis
point to 1.105 percent as of 3:22 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
1.3 percent security due June 2020 fell 0.091 yen to 101.748 yen.
The yield dropped to 1.055 percent on July 1, the lowest for a
10-year bond since August 2003.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery declined 0.03
to 141.57 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 The previous 10-year auction on June 1 drew bids for 3.85
times the amount on offer, compared with a  ratio  of 3.52 in May.
Primary dealers, which are required to bid at government debt
sales, often reduce holdings of bonds before an auction in case
prices decline before they can pass on the new securities to
investors.  
 Kan’s Rating  
 Kan’s  approval rating fell to 39 percent in an Asahi
newspaper survey taken July 3-4, down nine percentage points
from June 26-27. His disapproval rating increased 11 points to
40 percent. Support for his Democratic Party of Japan slid seven
percentage points to 30 percent.  
 The prime minister said on the weekend he would call a
lower-house election before doubling the nation’s sales tax to
10 percent to bolster finances. The DPJ is advocating cross-
party talks on boosting the 5 percent sales tax in its platform
for this week’s upper-house election.  
 “If declines in his support rating encourage Kan to delay
discussions on the sales tax increase, it will improve the
prospects for Japanese stocks and weaken the recent flight to
the safety of bonds,” said  Tsuyoshi Segawa , a strategist in
Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
banking group.  
 Stocks Gain  
 Bonds also fell as the cost of protecting Asian debt from
default declined and Japanese stocks rose.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan declined two basis points to 136 basis
points in Singapore, according to Credit Agricole CIB. That’s
the lowest level since June 28, according to CMA DataVision in
New York. The index for Australian debt dropped three basis
points to 133 basis points, also the lowest in a week, according
to Nomura Holdings Inc. and CMA.  
 Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions
of credit quality and a drop shows improvement.  
 The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.7 percent and the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of regional shares advanced 0.3 percent.  
 Slowdown Concerns  
 The decline in bonds was tempered on speculation reports
this week will show the global recovery is losing momentum.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of U.S.  non-
manufacturing businesses , which makes up almost 90 percent of
the U.S. economy, slid to 55 in June from 55.4 a month earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s report.
Japan’s machinery orders declined 3 percent in May, after
increasing 4 percent the previous month, a separate survey
showed ahead of the July 8 report.  
 U.S. nonfarm payrolls fell by 125,000 positions last month,
the Labor Department said July 2.  
 “Risk aversion continues, reflecting growing uncertainties
for the economy,” said  Koji Takeuchi , senior economist in Tokyo
at Mizuho Research Institute Ltd. “Bond yields will stay low.”  
 Haruyuki Toyama , director-general at Financial Markets
Department at the Bank of Japan, said in a Reuters report that
Tibor is deviating from proper levels, spurring speculation that
the BOJ may introduce additional measures to ease credit.  
 The three-month rate, known as Tibor, fell for a fourth day
today to 0.380 percent, according to the Japanese Bankers
Association. That’s the lowest level since July 2006.  
 Three-month euro-yen futures for December delivery jumped
0.025 to 99.690 yen at the Tokyo Financial Exchange.  
 “Today’s remarks show the BOJ’s desire to see further
declines in Tibor,” said  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist
at Nikko Cordial Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        