-- Joe Johnson to Rejoin Hawks With Maximum Contract, Spurning Knicks
-- Dex McLuskey
-- 2010-07-05T04:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/joe-johnson-will-sign-with-atlanta-hawks-for-six-more-years-agent-says.html

          
          
             Joe Johnson  agreed to sign a new
six-year contract with the Atlanta Hawks, turning down a chance
to join the New York Knicks and former coach  Mike D’Antoni .  
 Johnson’s deal is worth about $119 million, the maximum
salary permitted under the National Basketball Association’s
labor accord and almost $27 million more than any other team
could offer the free agent, ESPN said on its  website .  
 Johnson’s agent,  Arn Tellem , said the four-time All-Star
considered offers from the Knicks and Chicago Bulls before
deciding to re-sign with the Hawks.  
 “Joe loved playing for D’Antoni and was excited by the
possibility of joining him in New York. It seemed like a
perfect match,” Tellem wrote in his weekly column for the
Huffington Post yesterday. But “when the Hawks offered the
maximum -- six years -- he happily reciprocated.”  
 Johnson, who has averaged more than 20 points a game in
each of his five seasons in Atlanta, can’t officially sign the
contract until July 8 under NBA free agency rules.  
 Johnson arrived in Atlanta from the Phoenix Suns in August
2005. The Hawks won 13 games the season before he arrived to
finish with the worst record in the league. The next year they
won 26 games and have improved every year since, qualifying for
the playoffs the past three years.  
 “When the free-agency period kicked in, Joe made a point
of talking to the Hawks first,” Tellem said. “Their owners
and new coach,  Larry Drew , impressed Joe with their commitment
to making the team championship-caliber. In turn, Joe felt
equally committed to the Hawks, his teammates and the city of
Atlanta.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        