-- Justin Rose Collects Second PGA Tour Win, Looks Ahead to British Open
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-05T04:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/justin-rose-secures-second-pga-golf-tour-win-in-a-month-at-at-t-national.html

          
          
             Justin Rose  captured his second
title on golf’s U.S. PGA Tour in a month at the AT&T National.  
 Rose’s one stroke victory over  Ryan Moore  comes four weeks
after he won the Memorial Tournament in his 162nd start on the
PGA Tour. Last week, the Englishman blew a three-stroke lead
during the final round of the Travelers Championship, closing
with a 5-over-par 75 to finish in a tie for ninth place.  
 “I knew having not closed out last week it was important
for me to do it today,” Rose, 29, said yesterday in his post-
round news conference. “I played much slower and I really felt
calm. I didn’t feel like the nerves got the better of me at all
the whole weekend.”  
 Rose started yesterday’s final round at Aronimink Golf
Club in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania, with a four-shot
advantage and shot an even-par 70. Moore had a 5-under 65 to
finish at 9-under par for the tournament.  
 Rose receives $1.1 million for the win, which comes less
than two weeks before the  British Open . The season’s third
major championship will be held July 15-18 at St. Andrews Golf
Links in Scotland.  
 “You get the feeling playing on the PGA Tour in these big
events like this that you’re playing at sort of the highest
level with a sense of pressure,” Rose said. “And that really
helps you going into major championships.”  
 With the win, Rose takes over second place in the FedEx
Cup standings from  Phil Mickelson , who’s ranked second in the
 Official World Golf Ranking .  Ernie Els  leads the season-long
competition that pays the top player after four playoff events
a $10 million bonus.  
 Rose, who has climbed to No. 35 in the world after
beginning the year ranked 70th, is the third Memorial champion
in four years to also win the AT&T National, following  K.J. Choi  in 2007 and  Tiger Woods  last year. Woods tied for 46th
this year at 4-over.  
 “I just had one of those weeks, unfortunately,” Woods
said. “Hopefully we’ll get dialed in for the British.”  
 Woods served as the tournament’s host the previous three
years. AT&T Inc., the largest U.S. phone company, ended its
endorsement agreement with the world’s top-ranked golfer on
Dec. 31 after details about his admitted marital infidelity
emerged. Woods no longer carries the AT&T logo on his bag or
serves as the event’s official host, though it still benefits
his foundation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        