-- Komorowski Wins Polish Presidential Election, Easing Path to Deficit Cuts
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-07-05T07:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/komorowski-ahead-of-kaczynski-in-polish-presidential-vote-exit-polls-show.html

          
          
             Bronislaw Komorowski  of the ruling
Civic Platform party won Poland’s presidential election,
clearing the way for government plans to cut the budget deficit
and adopt the euro in 2015.  
 Komorowski, acting president and speaker of parliament,
received 52.6 percent of the vote to  Jaroslaw Kaczynski ’s 47.4
percent, with 95 percent of districts reporting. The zloty rose
0.8 percent against the euro at 9:40 a.m. in Warsaw, the biggest
gain among 26 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 The victory by Komorowski, 58, gives Civic Platform control
of the presidency and cabinet, ending policy divisions that
arose under the late President  Lech Kaczynski , who died in an
April 10 plane crash. That may help Prime Minister  Donald Tusk 
push through spending cuts as he seeks to trim a  budget deficit 
that widened to 7.1 percent of gross domestic product last year,
more than twice the European Union limit.  
 “It’s the best outcome for the financial markets,” said
 Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital
in London. “A president from the same party as the government
gives the best chance for passing legislation.”  
 The Civic Platform-led government has proposed limiting
increases in discretionary spending to no more than 1 percent
above inflation, saving an estimated  9 billion zloty  ($2.7
billion) a year by 2013. That will help narrow the deficit to
less than the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP within three years,
the government estimates.  
 Komorowski said June 14 that Poland needs a target date for
joining the euro to “create pressure” for meeting the fiscal
requirements of membership. Tusk’s government has said 2015 is a
realistic date. Kaczynski, leader of Poland’s biggest opposition
party, Law & Justice, opposes setting a deadline.  
 Party Clashes  
 Civic Platform and Law & Justice have clashed for five
years. Lech Kaczynski unexpectedly won the presidency over Tusk
in 2005. Two years later, Tusk’s party took control of
parliament after Law & Justice lost its mandate. Since then,
Civic Platform has said its efforts to modernize Poland were
blocked by Lech Kaczynski.  
 The president represents Poland abroad, is head of the army
and can veto legislation. Overriding a veto requires a three-
fifths majority in parliament.  
 Komorowski’s victory is “good news for the markets and a
serious challenge for the government, which from now on may no
longer use those excuses about an unfriendly president,” said
 Lars Christensen , chief emerging-markets analyst at Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen. “The government needs to go forward with
fiscal reforms and the market will want to see them pretty soon.
The 2011 budget plan will be the first test.”  
 Plane Crash  
 Lech Kaczynski died when a plane carrying many of Poland’s
top civilian and military officials crashed outside Smolensk,
Russia, killing all 96 people on board. Kaczynski was on his way
to honor the 22,000 Polish prisoners of war killed by Soviet
secret police in the Katyn forest and other sites in 1940.  
 Kaczynski, 61, ran stronger than expected. The median of 17
opinion polls conducted in the three weeks before the first
round of voting on June 20 forecast Komorowski would win by 11
percentage points.  
 The voting breakdown shows Kaczynski won 59 percent of the
rural vote, while Komorowski took 59 percent in the cities and
64 percent in metropolitan areas with more than 500,000
inhabitants. Final election results will be announced early this
afternoon in Warsaw, the State Election Commission said.  
 Kaczynski congratulated Komorowski on his victory last
night from his party’s election headquarters in Warsaw.  
 “We must continue changing Poland,” Kaczynski said. “The
huge support we’ve gathered will be needed in the forthcoming
local and general elections.”  
 ‘Fair to Every Pole’  
 Law & Justice last year called for increased spending to
offset the impact of the global economic crisis. Kaczynski has
campaigned to raise benefits for older people and boost the
minimum salary.  
 “Poland has to be fair to every Pole,” Kaczynski said
June 24 in the southeastern city of Rzeszow. Civic Platform
intends to “make richer regions that are already rich.”  
 Uniting the presidency and prime minister’s office under
Civic Platform may not guarantee deficit cuts because lawmakers
may balk at making difficult decisions before parliamentary
elections next year,  Michal Dybula , an economist at BNP Paribas
in Warsaw, said before the runoff.  
 Almost 75 percent of Poland’s budget goes to non-
discretionary spending, including subsidies for local
government, social insurance and debt service, which requires
special legislation to alter.  
 ‘Common Sense’ Needed  
 In an interview on July 2, central bank Governor  Marek Belka  said the government must ignore election-year pressures
and focus on controlling the budget deficit, even though its
finances are stronger than many European nations.  
 Failure to do so may lead investors to shun Polish bonds
because of concern about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, said
Belka, 58, who headed the International Monetary Fund’s European
department until he became governor last month.  
 “Here at the central bank we are not accepting the notion
that if an election is coming, then nothing can be done,” he
said. “We are not in the situation of a country that is close to
default. We simply need some common sense and a little bit of
discipline.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bronislaw Komorowski, who is poised to win Poland's presidential election, is pictured at the Sejm, or Polish parliament, in Warsaw on June 11. Photographer: John  Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Tatha Ghose, senior emerging-markets economist at Commerzbank AG, talks about Bronislaw Komorowski's victory in the Polish presidential election and the country's plans to join the euro in 2015.
     Ghose speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The president represents Poland abroad  
                       
                         
                           John Guillemin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jaroslaw Kaczynski, leader of Poland's Law & Justice party and presidential candidate, pauses as he prepares to cast his ballot paper in the presidential elections. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jaroslaw Kaczynski, leader of Poland's Law & Justice party and presidential candidate, pauses as he prepares to cast his ballot paper in the presidential elections. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
