-- Nadal Heads for Beach, Focuses on Winning U.S. Open After Wimbledon Title
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-04T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/nadal-heads-for-beach-focuses-on-winning-u-s-open-after-wimbledon-title.html

          
          
             After completing his second sweep of
the French Open and Wimbledon titles,  Rafael Nadal  is heading
home to Majorca to relax, rest his knees and focus on his next
goal -- finally winning the U.S. Open.  
 A year after sore knees prevented him from defending his
Wimbledon crown, the Spaniard yesterday beat  Tomas Berdych , of
the Czech Republic, 6-3, 7-5, 6-4 in the grass-court event.  
 “To be back at my favorite tournament of the world here
and play well another time, and not only play well but to finish
with the trophy, is amazing for me,” Nadal said in a news
conference.  
 Nadal did a celebratory somersault on Centre Court after
shaking hands with Berdych at the net, and decided it was time
to give himself a break from tennis.  
 The left-hander didn’t give himself much time to celebrate
his fifth French Open victory last month. Twenty-four hours
after he beat  Robin Soderling  in the final and fell on the red
clay of Roland Garros in front of Queen Sofia of Spain, the
Spaniard was on a train for London. Upon arrival, he took a cab
straight to a Wimbledon warmup event and practiced on the grass
courts on a cold and rainy evening.  
 His eighth Grand Slam championship ties the 24-year-old
with  Andre Agassi ,  Jimmy Connors ,  Ivan Lendl ,  Fred Perry  and  Ken Rosewall .  
 “Keep working to try to be in the U.S. Open finally ready
to try to win,” Nadal said yesterday, when asked what his
target was. “For sure the U.S. Open is going to be one of my
goals for the rest of my career.”  
 U.S. Goal  
 The U.S. Open, which starts Aug. 30 in New York, is the
only major that has eluded Nadal. The Spaniard has reached the
U.S. Open semifinals the past two years, and has never gotten to
the final. Only six men have completed the career slam of all
four majors: Agassi, Perry,  Roger Federer ,  Roy Emerson ,  Rod Laver  and  Don Budge .  
 Yesterday’s win extends Nadal’s lead in the ATP World Tour
rankings because he didn’t have any points to defend from last
year. Berdych’s quarterfinal defeat of 2009 Wimbledon champion
Federer means the Swiss drops one place to No. 3, his lowest
ranking since Nov. 10, 2003. Wimbledon semifinalist Novak Djokovic  of Serbia will move up one spot to No. 2.  
 “Right now, I’m very happy to win Wimbledon,” said Nadal,
who watched Federer’s victory in last year’s final against
American  Andy Roddick  at home on the couch because of
tendinitis in both knees. The Spaniard defeated Federer, who won
a men’s record 15th major at Wimbledon last year, in a five-set
match in 2008.  
 ‘Emotional Moment’  
 ‘It was very difficult for me to be back at my best,’’
Nadal said. “I did, so it’s a very important and emotional
moment for me.”  
 After spending the next four weeks going to the beach,
fishing, playing golf and going to parties with friends in
Majorca, Nadal will return to the men’s tour on Aug. 9 at the
Rogers Cup in Toronto. He’ll play in Cincinnati the following
week.  
 Since ending an 11-month title drought in April by winning
on the clay courts of Monte Carlo, Nadal has dominated the men’s
tour, losing once in his past 32 matches.  
 In order to rest his knees, he’s changed his schedule this
season. He’s played one fewer clay-court event than last year,
when Sweden’s Soderling handed him his only loss at the French
Open.  
 Skipping Davis Cup  
 Nadal is skipping Spain’s quarterfinal Davis Cup match
against France on July 9-11 so he can rest his knees and undergo
treatment.  
 His right knee bothered him during the first week of
Wimbledon, when he played five-set matches in the second round
against Robin Haase of the Netherlands and in the third round
against  Philipp Petzschner  of Germany.  
 Berdych, who never broke Nadal’s serve in the Wimbledon
final, said in a news conference that the Spaniard has a chance
to win in New York.  
 “His biggest weapon is his left hand,” said the Czech,
who will move to No. 8 in the rankings published today. “There
aren’t many players like that. It’s really tough to find the
right rhythm.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Men's Singles Final Champion, Rafael Nadal of Spain speaks during a press conference after defeating Tomas Berdych of Czech Republic on Day Thirteen of the Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Championships. Photographer: Dennis-Pool/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
