-- Israel Adds Two Members to Commission Investigating Gaza Aid Flotilla
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-07-25T10:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/netanyahu-says-his-chief-goal-for-obama-meeting-is-direct-talks-with-abbas.html

          
          
             The Israeli Cabinet approved adding
two members to a commission investigating the May 31 naval raid
on a flotilla of ships bringing supplies to the Gaza Strip in
which nine pro-Palestinian Turkish activists were killed.  
 Reuven Merhav, former director-general of the Foreign
Ministry, and Miguel Deutsch, a Hebrew University law professor,
will join the panel, which originally consisted of three Israeli
members and two international observers,  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s  office said today on its website.  
 Jacob Turkel, the retired Supreme Court Justice who chairs
the commission, sought the two extra members after declaring
that the panel didn’t have sufficient authority to fulfill its
mission. The Cabinet gave Turkel broader powers to subpoena
witnesses and require them to testify in a July 4 decision.  
 Netanyahu’s Cabinet initially approved the Israeli probe on
June 14 after United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon 
called for an international inquiry into the raid, which Turkish
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  described as “barbaric.”
Israel relaxed its blockade of Hamas-ruled Gaza in the face of
increased international criticism of the policy following the
deadly clash aboard one of the ships.  
 Today’s Cabinet decision came in response to a request by
Turkel “to authorize the justice minister to give the panel
additional powers,” Netanyahu’s office said.  
 David Trimble , the Nobel Peace Prize winner from Northern
Ireland and Ken Watkin, a former judge advocate general of
Canada’s armed forces, are on the commission as non-voting
international observers.  
 Hamas Takeover  
 Israel and Egypt imposed a blockade of Gaza after the
Islamic Hamas movement ousted forces loyal to Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and seized full
control of the territory in 2007. Hamas, which won Palestinian
parliamentary elections the previous year, is considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S., the European Union and
Israel.  
 Palestinians, backed by the UN and human-rights groups, say
restrictions on food imports and construction materials have
created a humanitarian crisis. Israel denies that such a crisis
exists, saying it restricts imports of building materials to
Gaza because they can be used to build rockets, bunkers or
bombs. Officials said they were also concerned about weapons
being hidden in food packaging.  
 The Israeli government said June 20 it would loosen the
blockade for shipments by road so that all food will be let in
and only weapons and items with a possible military use are kept
out.  
 Question of Legality  
 Israel says the blockade is legal because it is in “a
state of armed conflict” with Hamas. Some countries, including
Turkey, dispute the legality of the blockade. Legal scholars
such as  Robin Churchill , a professor of international law at the
University of Dundee in Scotland, say the legality turns on
whether the conflict is a full-fledged war and whether the
military benefit is proportionate to civilian suffering.  
 Israel said it issued numerous warnings to the Gaza-bound
flotilla to change course for the port of Ashdod and unload
there. It said its soldiers were attacked with knives and clubs
and seven were wounded, including by gunfire, after people
aboard one of the ships managed to grab Israeli firearms.
Activists said they threw the firearms into the sea and that the
Israelis instigated the violence.  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 Rockets From Gaza  
 Palestinians fired 3,278 rockets and mortars at Israel in
2008, according to army statistics. More than 400 rockets and
mortars have been fired from Gaza into Israel since the end of
the 2008 military operation, killing one foreign worker in
March, the Israeli army said.  
 Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s prime minister, will meet with U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
