-- New York Times Should Charge for News, Google Too: Janet Guyon
-- Janet Guyon
-- 2010-07-04T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/new-york-times-must-charge-for-news-google-too-commentary-by-janet-guyon.html

          
          
             Hal Varian , the chief economist at
 Google Inc. , spends a lot of time talking about the economic
state of the news business, partly at the behest of the Federal
Trade Commission, which wants to know how free online access has
contributed to the financial difficulties of dozens of
newspapers such as the Rocky Mountain News, Los Angeles Times
and Chicago Tribune.  
 That Google has anything constructive to say may seem
counterintuitive given that many folks who run large news
organizations -- News Corp.’s  Rupert Murdoch , for instance --
say that Google and its search engine are the principal cause of
the declining advertising revenue at most print publications.  
 Varian has never run a business. His main credential in the
debate is the book “Information Rules” that he wrote in 1999
with  Carl Shapiro , a fellow professor at the University of
California at Berkeley. In it, Varian and Shapiro apply durable
business and economic rules to the Internet with particular
attention to the value and pricing of information. So while he’s
no newspaperman, he has given the economics of news considerable
thought.  
 If he had to choose a newspaper to run successfully, it
would either be one with a rich audience -- such as that of the
 New York Times  -- and unique content, or the hometown paper with
compelling news and local ads. “The hopeless case to me is a
newspaper filled with generic, widely available content,” he
said in an interview.  
 Both models have something in common: they sell information
that’s not available elsewhere and that is targeted to a
particular audience. While one source of revenue comes from
advertising directed at this audience, there’s no reason why
content producers shouldn’t charge consumers as well. That’s
called subscription. It’s something publishers have been doing
for decades.  
 Louis Vuitton  
 How much, where and when is determined by the competitive
environment and how well a producer can distinguish his product
in the mind of the consumer. That will be the challenge of the
New York Times when it begins charging for online access next
year.  
 “The issue is not how much people value access to a
particular newspaper, but whether comparable content is
available elsewhere for a cheaper price,” says Varian.  
 Perhaps the most brilliant practitioner of getting people
to overpay in a world of cheap knockoffs is Louis Vuitton, the
luxury goods maker.  
 Louis Vuitton never goes on sale and charges $1,000 and up
for a printed, plastic-coated canvas handbag. Last year, the
company recorded revenue growth of at least 10 percent.  Parent
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  earned almost 2 billion
euros on 6.3 billion euros in revenue from fashion and leather
goods purely via the allure that items sold in its shops were
authentic artistic statements worth multiples more than very
good copies found on the street corners of New York City.  
 Cable Billionaire  
 Why content creators, in particular newspapers, ever
succumbed to the notion that they should forever give away their
product online seems one of those odd, lemming-like phenomena
akin to the “irrational exuberance” that preceded the dot-com
stock market crash. Lured by the siren song of having an
infinite audience via electronic distribution, publishers forgot
that it meant infinite ad inventories whose price is rapidly
approaching zero. Traffic was everything.  
 As  John Malone , the cable television billionaire and head
of  Liberty Media Corp. , says, “Traffic ain’t money.” Liberty’s
own Internet investments have been concentrated on e-commerce
sites or those with subscriptions, such as Bodybuilding.com, QVC
and Right Start. “The ad-supported model has been in decline
for awhile,” says  Liberty CEO Greg Maffei .  
 The main beneficiary of all this free content on the Web
has been Google, which has invented thus far the best solution
to sorting information and matching it with people who want to
find it. Just like the publishers, Google makes its money by
selling ads next to content, except Google’s search engine is
much more efficient and its content costs are zero. Facebook
Inc. is next in line to do the same thing, only it’s using
content that users generate.  
 Google Versus New York Times  
 This competitive advantage becomes obvious when looking at
the operating margins of Google versus the New York Times Co.
Google: 35 percent. New York Times: 5.4 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 It’s no wonder that Google and Facebook are suddenly
courting publishers, recognizing that if news devolves into a
world of screaming blogs, there will be less and less valuable
content to place ads against. More worrying, perhaps publishers
will decide to ask Google and Facebook to pay for access just as
they do their print and Internet syndication partners. Murdoch’s
London Times and Sunday Times already block Google News from
aggregating content from its website. Both papers went to a pay
model July 2.  
 Charge for Online  
 It is only rational that publishers are now deciding to
charge online users just as they charge print customers. One
might argue that if a New York Times print subscriber is willing
to pay $300 a year for day-old news, the online subscriber who
gets breaking news, blogs, slide shows, video, personalized
stories and a slew of other advantages (how about throwing in
real-time stock prices?), may be willing to pay even more.  
 Give that online subscriber an iPad or other electronic
reader for free and you’ve got the same model that the mobile
telephone operators have been using for years. New York Times
executives say after two years, their subscribers are hooked for
life. About 800,000 out of their 950,000 print subscribers fall
into this category. If you could get them to pony up for a two-
year subscription in return for an  Apple Inc.  iPad, that might
work. Online subscription plus better ad targeting could do a
lot to improve the bottom line of many newspapers. Or at least
keep them in business.  
 Publishing, in particular the newspaper business, has
always been more about gaining influence than making money. Law,
banking, medicine and, these days, software development, have
always been more stable and more lucrative than newspapering.  
 Work for Free  
 Journalism as a serious profession, rather than a craft,
developed after World War II when economic growth created a boom
in the ad business and television brought announcers into the
living room. Even now, plenty of would-be writers are willing to
work for free on the chance that they become famous and hit the
jackpot. Few do.  
 My great uncle, Fred Guyon, was a reporter and editor in
Oregon during the beginning of the last century. He owned a
newspaper for awhile, sold it and made no money on it. He never
got paid more than $45 a week, the equivalent of $30,000 a year
today. He didn’t marry, had no children and “retired” in his
mid-50s, spending the rest of his life ambling about town and
reading French in the public library.  
 He died in 1981 at the age of 91 at Garber’s University
Nursing Center in Eugene. The Register-Guard wrote a couple
stories about him, one while he was alive, another when he died.
Someone tried to get him a posthumous degree in journalism.  
 He left his only heir, my father, $1,282.23 in a bank
checking account.  
 It didn’t cover the cost of the funeral.  
 (Janet Guyon is a Bloomberg News managing editor and the
former managing editor of Bloomberg.com. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Janet Guyon  in New York at 
 jguyon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        