-- Obama Gets a Bum Rap With Anti-Business Charge: Albert R. Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-07-04T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/obama-gets-a-bum-rap-with-anti-business-charge-albert-r-hunt.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  rejected calls
last year to nationalize the big banks, opting instead for
market-based stress tests and injecting more private capital; he
disappointed liberals by turning down a government-run national
health-care program, and assists the struggling U.S. automobile
industry to survive as a private enterprise.  
 In the face of the worst economic crisis since the
Depression, corporate profits since Obama took office have
soared 40 percent, and the stock market, despite the recent
slump, has risen more than 27 percent.  
 Still, corporate chieftains complain the Obama
administration is anti-business and crushing free enterprise
with the heavy hand of government. “By reaching into virtually
every sector of economic life, government is injecting
uncertainty into the marketplace and making it harder to raise
capital and create new businesses,” recently charged  Ivan Seidenberg , the chairman of New York-based  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , speaking for the  Business Roundtable , the
major big-business group in Washington.  
 This criticism rankles Obama. After Seidenberg’s broadside,
the president instructed National Economic Council Director
 Lawrence Summers  to complain to him. One of the White House
rejoinders is that none of the top economic advisers -- Summers,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  or White House Chief of
Staff  Rahm Emanuel  -- is considered anti-business or a liberal
ideologue; they have instead incurred the enmity of the
political left for being too centrist, too friendly to business
interests.  
 Roosevelt, Kennedy  
 When business leaders complain about occasional populist
rhetoric, the White House reminds them of history:  Franklin Roosevelt ’s broadsides against the “money changers,” or  John F. Kennedy , who after the  steel industry  raised prices in 1962,
 said : “I asked each American to consider what he would do for
his country, and I asked the steel companies. In the last 24
hours we had their answer.”  
 Last year, one of the most sophisticated Wall Street
leaders privately complained about anti-banking demagoguery in
Washington; he exempted the president, though he said Obama
should rein in Democratic lawmakers the way Lyndon B. Johnson
did. That’s a misreading of history as well as contemporary
politics.  
 There also is a healthy dose of hypocrisy. Seidenberg
complained about huge budget deficits and at the same time
advocated a myriad of corporate tax cuts that would add billions
to the shortfall.  
 Corporate Tax Rate  
 The  U.S. corporate tax rate  is the second-highest among
major industrial countries, the Verizon CEO correctly noted. He
neglected to point out that the effective marginal rate paid by
corporations, according to a study by the administration of
President  George W. Bush , is within the average of these
countries because of all the loopholes championed by business
interests.  
 Among Seidenberg’s other complaints was a provision in the
financial-regulation bill on proxy voting for corporate boards
that he said goes “a step too far.” This would allow
stockholders who meet a high threshold to offer candidates for
the board for a shareholder vote; currently, some directors get
their posts with as little as one-third of the shareholder
votes. More democracy for owners of companies doesn’t seem anti-
business.  
 Business’s Role  
 For more than 30 years, much of the business community has
gotten accustomed to more deregulation than regulation from
 Washington , even under Democratic Presidents  Jimmy Carter  and
 Bill Clinton . Those days are over, with the financial crisis,
collapses of mines and the BP Plc oil spill. Big business can
simply carp about this or try to fashion middle ground with a
White House that has shown a willingness to take on some of its
party’s special interests, such as teachers’ unions.  
 More than a few nonpartisan business leaders have
reservations about the health-care and financial-regulation
initiatives without the exaggerated charges. There’s a solid
business case to be made against the administration for dragging
its feet on trade, tempered only by the recent embrace of the
accord with  South Korea .  
 And there are important signals the president should be
sending or changing. In appearances before the  Business
Roundtable , he gave canned speeches and then declined to take
questions. The business leaders resent that; they have a point.  
 CEO in Cabinet  
 Moreover, this is the first administration in memory not to
have a corporate CEO in its senior ranks. Geithner and Summers
notwithstanding, that sends a message. With the initial Obama
economic team breaking up there ought to be a substantive spot
for an articulate, credible CEO such as former  Xerox Corp. (XRX) 
Chairman Anne Mulcahy.  
 The economic messaging, to business and others, remains
muddled. Some prominent business leaders who are Democrats
believe the president privately is disdainful of the business
community. Even if that isn’t the case -- it probably isn’t --
Obama should realize that’s what he too often conveys.  
 A healthier, if sometimes adversarial, relationship also
requires major changes by business leaders, starting with the
Business Roundtable. Their critiques need to be more balanced,
including calling out Republicans for charges such as Obama is
moving the country toward “secular socialism.”  
 The looming fiscal crisis offers an opportunity. The
Business Roundtable has promised “constructive suggestions”
about the need for deficit reduction and entitlement overhaul.  
 Call for Sacrifice  
 If the result is simply, let’s reduce the deficit on the
backs of the working class while providing more tax breaks to
wealthier Americans and corporations, they’ll just be one more
group of special pleaders. A more thoughtful, balanced
suggestion -- to the political right of where Obama and most
Democrats will be -- that entails some sacrifice from their
ranks would afford credibility. That’s true, too, for the
president, if he tackles tough issues on the entitlement side,
like cutting back on the growth of Social Security.  
 Many Middle Americans really do despise  Wall Street , BP and
the  oil companies  and bitterly resent the outsourcing of jobs.
That’s not a product of the policies or rhetoric of Obama or
Washington politicians. It’s because they genuinely believe that
in these difficult times, fat cats are privileged and protected
while they’re getting the shaft. It’s in the interests of both
the Obama administration and the business community to
appreciate and address this reality.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        