-- Model, Body Piercer Tells How She Became TV Chef: Richard Vines
-- Richard Vines
-- 2010-07-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/model-body-piercer-tells-how-she-became-tv-chef-richard-vines.html

          
          
             Gizzi Erskine  perches on the bar
stool of a basement cocktail bar in London’s Soho, checks her
makeup in a mirror, pats her  Audrey Hepburn-style  hairdo,
adjusts her vintage frock and takes a swig of Champagne.  
 The former punk model and professional body piercer is
striking: She’s 5 feet 10 inches (178 centimeters) tall and
combines a sweet face and a friendly manner with the earthiness
of a rock chick and a huge tattoo that covers her entire back.  
 Erskine, 30, is a television presenter, known for shows
such as “ Cook Yourself Thin .” She was also a judge on “Iron
Chef U.K.” and published “Gizzi’s Kitchen Magic,” (Virgin
Books, 20 pounds) where she tempers her flamboyance with lessons
in culinary basics such as making sauces.  
 “I got scouted to model one summer when I was around 15,”
she said. “I spent the summer going from being really quite
small to growing into a woman. I was a really ugly kid so it was
quite a bizarre situation to be asked to model. I was really
heavily into punk at the time. I had the sides of my head
shaved, I had bleached hair, kind of like that classic Westwood-
esque model that was really big at the time.”  
 Outside the studio, she was interested in music and food
and also undertook three years of training in body piercing at
 Cold Steel , in Camden, the edgy north London area whose most
famous denizen is the singer  Amy Winehouse .  
 Leiths School  
 “I was getting piercings myself,” Erskine said. “Part of
the job. I’d have been a bit rubbish if I hadn’t.” She only has
a single piercing left and wouldn’t say where it was.  
 She’s close to her family, frequently mentioning her
mother. When her grandmother died, she left some money to
Erskine, who decided to pursue her passion for food, enrolling
in  Leiths School of Food and Wine . The yearlong diploma course
costs 17,080 pounds ($25,000), according to the school’s
website, which prominently mentions Erskine as a star pupil.  
 She graduated with honors and won a six-month placement on
the “ BBC Good Food Magazine ,” which marked the start of her
career as a writer and broadcaster. She has since worked for
Marie Claire, Elle USA, Arena, FHM and other magazines.  
 Where does she see herself in relation to other women food
broadcasters in the U.K., such as the TV chefs  Delia Smith  and
Nigella Lawson? Or Sophie Dahl, the former model whose “The
Delicious Miss Dahl” has been described as lightweight?  
 “The person I feel I have an affinity with is someone like
Delia, because I’m really into the technical side of cooking,”
she said, sitting in Bob Bob Ricard as the next cork popped.
“My thing is about holding hands in the kitchen and showing you
how you can do things from scratch. I bet I could ask you to
whip up an amazing stir-fry or a really funky dinner, but if I
asked you to make a white sauce, you might go blank.  
 ‘No Goddess’  
 “And taking Nigella, I absolutely hero-worship her, but
I’m as far removed from being a domestic goddess as is humanly
possible. I’m a complete disaster zone everywhere else in my
house. Because I’m classically trained as well, I think both of
those cooks are home cooks, whereas I do actually have a chef-
ing background, and I can actually cook properly.” That must
help.  
 The Sun agrees. The newspaper described her as a “dishy
Delia” and said, “If British chef Gizzi Erskine were a food,
she’d be a hot, flavorsome curry. Because, as she says, she’s
‘naughty, spicy and a little bit saucy too.’”  
 She has just completed the second series of “ Cook Yourself
Thin ,” in which Erskine has lost her three co-presenters and
goes solo, helping women to lose weight. The Tiger Aspect
Productions show is broadcast on Channel 4.  
 What does she thinks she brings to the table?  
 “A lot of chefs show up in their mumsy way,” she said.
“I’m a girl who’s into music, I’m into fashion, I’m into all
those things that a lot of young women are into, so therefore I
have a look and it makes me just a little bit more interesting.
Young people may be able to look at me and get me a bit more.”  
 ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gizzi Erskine  
                       
                         
                           Richard Vines/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gizzi Erskine outside Bob Bob Ricard restaurant in London. The television chef is a former model. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gizzi Erskine outside Bob Bob Ricard restaurant in London. The television chef is a former model. Photographer: Richard Vines/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Gizzi's Kitchen Magic"  
                       
                         
                           Ebury Publishing via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover art of  "Gizzi's Kitchen Magic." The author, British chef Gizzi Erskine, says she tries to add sparkle to classic recipes. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover art of  "Gizzi's Kitchen Magic." The author, British chef Gizzi Erskine, says she tries to add sparkle to classic recipes. Source: Ebury Publishing via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Television chef Gizzi Erskine  
                       
                         
                           Ebury Publishing via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Television chef Gizzi Erskine, author of ''Gizzi's Kitchen Magic.'' 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Television chef Gizzi Erskine, author of ''Gizzi's Kitchen Magic.'' Source: Ebury Publishing via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
