-- Qantas, AirAsia May Make Budget Long-Haul a Force on Asia-Europe Routes
-- Chan Sue Ling
-- 2010-07-05T11:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/qantas-airasia-may-make-budget-long-haul-a-force-on-asia-europe-routes.html

          
          
             Qantas Airways Ltd.  and AirAsia Bhd.
are challenging Singapore Airlines Ltd. and other full-service
carriers with a low-fare, long-haul business model that has
previously failed.  
 Qantas’s  Jetstar  unit will add budget long-haul flights
from Singapore later this year. The carrier cuts costs by
renting movies to passengers and using lightweight equipment to
pare fuel usage. AirAsia X, which flew more than 1 million
passengers in 2009, squeezes 35 percent more seats onto its
planes than full-service carriers to pare expenses.  
 The two carriers also have support from existing airlines,
with AirAsia X able to access flights to about 70 cities from
its Kuala Lumpur hub through cooperation with AirAsia Bhd.,
Asia’s largest budget carrier. These ties may help the long-haul
carriers avoid the fate of standalones Oasis Hong Kong Airlines
Ltd. and London-based Zoom Airlines, which both folded in 2008.  
 “Long haul, low cost is transforming the whole aviation
landscape in Asia,” said  K. Ajith , an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian
Research in Singapore. “Budget carriers may be a force to
reckon with in the future because if they have a strong network
and are viable, they can potentially lure passengers from
established carriers.”  
 London, Australia  
 Long-haul discount airlines differ from  Southwest Airlines
Co.  and  Ryanair Holdings Plc  because they offer flights of more
than five hours and have premium-class seats. AirAsia X, part-
owned by AirAsia Bhd., flies twin-aisle Airbus SAS planes to
London and Australia, and it’s planning services to Japan and
South Korea. Jetstar intends to begin Singapore-Melbourne
flights in December followed by services to Auckland in March.
It’s also planning flights to European and Asian destinations.  
 “There seems to be a market for long-haul discount travel
if prices are low enough,” said  Sean Fenton , who helps manage
$740 million at Tribeca Investment Partners in Sydney. “It’s a
threat to the incumbent carriers.”  
 AirAsia X charges from about 1,286 ringgit ($400) for a
flight from Kuala Lumpur to  Stansted Airport , 40 miles outside
of central London. An economy ticket on Malaysian Airline System
Bhd., the nation’s largest carrier, to Heathrow Airport costs
from about 2,104 ringgit. Singapore Airlines charges from about
S$1,486 ($1,067) for a Singapore-Heathrow coach-class ticket.  
 ‘Different Service Propositions’  
 Singapore Airlines serves “different market segments with
different service propositions,”  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman,
said in an e-mail reply to Bloomberg questions.  
 Malaysian Air  doesn’t intend to compete directly with the
lowest fares rivals are offering to safeguard margins, Chief
Executive Officer  Tengku Azmil Zahruddin  said in an e-mail. The
airline is targeting customers who don’t make decisions based on
price alone, he said.  
 Qantas  declined 2.3 percent to A$2.17 in Sydney trading
today. It’s lost 27 percent this year. Singapore Airlines rose
0.1 percent S$14.52 in Singapore, while AirAsia Bhd. dropped 0.8
percent to 1.25 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur.  
 AirAsia X, which last year had its first annual profit
since starting flights in  2007 , has gained from AirAsia Bhd.’s
feeder traffic, said Chief Executive Officer  Azran Osman Rani .
Oasis Hong Kong, which flew to London and Vancouver, and
transatlantic carrier Zoom, didn’t have similar partners.  
 ‘Real Killer’  
 Relying on a point-to-point market “will be a real killer
because there won’t be enough people flying every day,” Azran
said. “That’s why the Oasis of the world really struggled.”  
 Jetstar , which operates domestic flights within Australia
and services to Japan, has code-shares with Qantas and a
partnership with  Air France-KLM Group , Europe’s largest carrier.  
 AirAsia X cuts costs by using fewer attendants per flight
than full-service carriers because it only loads and serves hot
meals that customers have ordered, Azran said. That saves the
carrier as much as $100 per passenger, he said. Jetstar also
formed a venture with AirAsia Bhd. in January aimed at lowering
costs for spare parts and ground-handling services.  
 AirAsia X’s costs were 2.8 cents per available seat
kilometer last year, Azran said. Jetstar had costs of 6.8
Australian cents (5.7 cents) in the six months ended December,
said Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Buchanan . The carrier made
twice as much  profit  as the Qantas mainline business in that
period.  
 Costs at  Singapore Airlines , including premium and economy
cabins, averaged 8.7 Singapore cents (6.2 cents) last year,
according to Bloomberg calculations on figures from the carrier.  
 Jetstar plans to boost its fleet to about 100 aircraft by
2015 from 65 as of June. AirAsia X aims to increase its twin-
aisle fleet to 20 planes from eight over the same period, as it
strives to more than triple sales.  
 Market Share  
 Including short-haul routes, budget carriers may account
for 30 percent of Asia-Pacific capacity by 2015 from 20 percent
now, said  Derek Sadubin , chief operating officer at the Sydney-
based Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation.  
 Singapore Airlines may be shielded from budget competition
by its reliance on premium passengers, who account for about 40
percent of revenue, said  Ng Sem Guan , an analyst at OSK Research
Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur.  
 “There’s always demand for luxury things such as Mercedes
Benz,” he said.  Singapore Airlines  is “a different animal”
from low-cost carriers, he said.  
 No Frills  
 Travelers now flying economy-class with full-service
airlines may also be reluctant to give up frills just for a
cheaper ticket, said  Rohan Suppiah , an analyst at Kim Eng
Securities Pte in Singapore.  
 “Do you really want to sit for hours in a budget
configuration?” he said. “This model will probably only appeal
to customers who are very price-sensitive.”  
 Zoom stopped flying in August 2008 about a year after it
began London-New York flights, crippled by competition and
rising fuel costs. Oasis Hong Kong, which halted services after
17 months of flying, entered liquidation in June 2008 with about
a HK$1 billion ($128 million) of debts.  
 Stephen Miller , who was Oasis’s chief executive officer,
said there is “great potential in Asia” for low-cost long-haul
because of the high costs at full-service carriers.  
 “But it’s a tough business until you get a name, a certain
percentage of the market and a critical mass of aircraft,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jetstar Airways CEO Bruce Buchanan poses for a photograph during an interview in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
