-- SAP Ex-Chief Leo Apotheker Plans Software, Telecommunications Buyout Fund
-- Francois de Beaupuy
-- 2010-07-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/sap-ex-chief-leo-apotheker-plans-software-telecommunications-buyout-fund.html

          
          
             Former SAP AG head  Leo Apotheker  is
creating a private equity fund to invest in European software,
telecommunications and information-technology companies.  
 “My projects are to try to help European  technology 
companies become global players,” Apotheker said in a July 2
interview in Aix-en-Provence, France. “We build great
technology in Europe; we just don’t know how to bring it to
market and we are unable to really create large companies.”  
 Apotheker and two “well-known” European partners from the
services and telecommunications industries whom he declined to
name are talking to investors and companies “who need different
shareholders,” he said. He said he hopes the fund, which will
raise money for each investment, will start operating in
September or October.  
 Apotheker, 56, resigned as SAP’s chief executive officer in
February amid customer and employee discontent, and a failure to
boost  revenue  at the world’s largest business-management
software maker in 2009, as clients put off investing in new
software during the economic slump. SAP’s supervisory board
decided not to extend Apotheker’s contract, which would have
expired at the end of the year.  
 He predicted the global economy will slow down this year,
affecting demand for business software, which went through a
“disastrous year” in 2009. It will take “a couple of years”
for the industry to match pre-crisis results, and 2010 compared
with 2008 will “not a very pretty picture,” he said.  
 Cloud Computing  
 Apotheker said he wished SAP “would have been quicker” in
attacking the Internet-based software and mobile-computing
 markets  when it identified those growth areas three or four
years ago. More companies will move their applications to cloud-
based software systems as they shift expenses from capital to
operational spending, he said.  
 Cloud systems may become safer than on-premise systems
because “you might be able to focus more attention on what sits
on the cloud and make it more secure,” said the 56-year-old
Apotheker, vice chairman of Schneider Electric SA’s supervisory
board since April. Cloud computing allows companies to store and
have access to data on external servers.  
 “The architecture of the future will be a continuum of
mutualized clouds, private clouds that companies will organize,
and classical on-premise systems.”  
 Cloud computing creates “a great opportunity for
newcomers,” as shown by the success of  Salesforce.com Inc.,  he
said.  
 “I’m not sure that incumbents are agile enough” in the
software business, the former SAP chief said. “When you’re the
incumbent, you are fettered by your environment; the market
forces, the shareholders, the financial markets are such that
it’s hard to be very disruptive on yourself.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Leo Apotheker, then chief executive officer of SAP AG, speaks during a news conference in Frankfurt. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
