-- Saudi King Seeks Wise Oil Use, Not Output Ban, Banque Saudi Analyst Says
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-07-04T08:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/saudi-king-seeks-wise-oil-use-not-output-ban-banque-saudi-analyst-says.html

          
          
             King Abdullah  of Saudi Arabia,
holder of the world’s largest crude-oil reserves, encouraged
using the fuel wisely to protect the interests of future
generations, rather than a ban on exploration, an analyst said.  
 The monarch told Saudi scholars studying in Washington that
he had ordered all oil exploration to cease “in order to keep
the earth’s wealth for our sons and grandsons,” state-owned
 Saudi News Agency  reported yesterday.  
 “The King’s statement shouldn’t be perceived as a message
that Saudi Arabia is stopping its capacity expansion projects
but rather that Saudi Arabia has to be mindful of the future
needs of the country and be cognizant of its usage wisely and
prudently to support future generations,” said  John Sfakianakis , chief economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi
Fransi.  
 Saudi Arabia, the largest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, boosted oil output capacity to
12.5 million barrels a day last year to meet future global
demand. State-owned Saudi Aramco plans to invest more than
$120 billion in the next six years on crude oil and
petrochemical projects, Chief Executive Officer  Khalid al-Falih 
said Jan. 31.  
 “Even though Saudi Aramco’s conventional crude oil
reserves are the largest in the world, at slightly more than 260
billion barrels, we operate an extensive and aggressive
exploration program to ensure we will have the petroleum
resources to meet domestic and world demand for many years to
come,” Aramco said last month in its 2009  annual review .  
 Aramco, the world’s largest state-owned oil company, is
drilling a record number of wells to find more hydrocarbons
resources, Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said in December.  
 Aramco plans to drill 45 to 50 oil exploration wells in
2010, Abdulla al-Naim, vice president for exploration, said in
December.  
 Saudi officials have begun to issue notices against
expanding domestic energy use. Saudi Arabia’s demand will rise
to 8.3 million barrels a day of oil equivalent in 2028 from
3.4 million barrels in 2009 unless the kingdom becomes more
efficient, Aramco’s al-Falih said in April. The increase in
demand may be cut by 50 percent through improved energy
efficiency, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        