-- Spain's Iniesta Says Skill Not Luck Needed for Semifinal Against Germany
-- Alastair Reed
-- 2010-07-04T10:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/spain-s-iniesta-says-skill-not-luck-needed-for-semifinal-against-germany.html

          
          
             Spain scraped into its first World
Cup semifinal last night with the help of the woodwork and a
Paraguayan penalty miss. Players say the European champions
can’t rely on the same fortune against their next opponents.  
 “We’ll have to play a lot better if we’re going to beat
Germany,” man-of-the-match  Andres Iniesta  said in an interview
after Spain’s 1-0 win. “We didn’t play our best but we made it
to the next stage and that’s what’s important.”  
 David Villa  got the only goal in the 83rd minute at Ellis
Park stadium in Johannesburg, setting up a rematch of the 2008
European Championship final on July 7 in Durban. Spain won that
match 1-0.  
 Villa’s strike last night capped a second half in which
both goalkeepers saved penalty kicks within the space of two
minutes.  
 Spain’s  Iker Casillas  stopped Oscar Cardozo’s penalty in
the 59th minute and teammate Xabi Alonso then scored from the
spot for Spain, only for the referee to rule out the goal as
players had encroached the penalty area. Paraguay’s Justo Villar
dived the right way to keep out Alonso’s retake.  
 With the teams tied 0-0, Pedro Rodriguez hit the post with
seven minutes left and the ball went to Villa, whose shot struck
the right post then bounced across the goal line and hit the
left post before going in for his tournament-leading fifth goal.  
 ‘Difficult’  
 “It’s always difficult to play against these teams,”
defender  Gerard Pique  told reporters. “Sometimes you have to
score in the 83rd minute, you cannot choose when you score.”  
 The win was Spain’s first in four quarterfinal appearances
at the World Cup. Spain sealed a top-four finish in 1950 in a
round-robin stage, though the country has never competed in a
semifinal.  
 “We’ve made history already, and we are really proud of
that, but we are still hungry and we want to get into the
final,” reserve goalkeeper  Pepe Reina  said in an interview.
“Germany have probably been the best team so far in the
tournament, and it’s going to be tough.”  
 Germany’s 4-0 rout of  Diego Maradona ’s Argentina yesterday
was the third time in South Africa that  Joachim Loew ’s team
scored four goals, matching Brazil’s 1970 record of getting four
goals in three separate games at the same World Cup. It was the
worst World Cup loss in 36 years for Argentina.  
 Spain and Germany have met three times before at soccer’s
four-yearly championship, with Germany winning in 1966 and 1982.
They drew 1-1 in the group stage of the 1994 tournament.  
 “Germany is a massive game, it will be like a final,”
Spain striker  Fernando Torres  told reporters. “They’re one of
the most exciting teams in the World Cup. I think we can improve
and be much better.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Alastair Reed  in Johannesburg at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        