-- Swatch Maker Death Makes President Converge With Clooney at a Bern Service
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-07-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/swatch-maker-death-makes-president-converge-with-clooney-at-a-bern-service.html

          
          
             No one in the seven-century-old
country of Switzerland can remember when one man brought so many
different people together in life and death.  
 Swiss President  Doris Leuthard  and actor  George Clooney 
were among the mourners at a July 3 memorial service to express
gratitude to Lebanese-born entrepreneur  Nicolas Hayek  for
rescuing the nation’s watchmakers and redefining what it means
to be Swiss.  
 “I’m proud that Switzerland gave a person and entrepreneur
like Nicolas Hayek a place and a home,” Leuthard said at the
event held to honor the founder of  Swatch Group AG , the world’s
largest watch manufacturer. Hayek “not only saved the watch
industry, but also revolutionized it,” Leuthard said.  
 Leuthard and Clooney, who helped market Swatch’s Omega
brand, were joined by International Olympic Committee President
 Jacques Rogge , Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  and more than 1,000 others at a conference center in
the Swiss capital of Bern to pay their respects to Hayek. The
hall was decorated with red curtains on either side of a large
screen that showed images and film of Hayek in his roles as a
watch entrepreneur and advocate of green technology. Seven
bunches of sunflowers adorned the lectern.  
 Hayek was “enriching to our society and our national
economy,” said Leuthard, who spoke in German, French and
English. “With him, Switzerland loses an independent and
critical spirit who has influenced politics without getting
involved in politics himself.”  
 Heart Failure  
 Never before has someone brought together so many important
people from so various backgrounds, said  Franco Taisch , a
professor of business law at the University of Luzern.  
 “Nicolas Hayek had the unique ability to entertain good
relationships with people from business, show business and
politics,” Taisch said. “At the same time, he was a true
entrepreneur who gave a lot of impetus to Switzerland’s
economy.”  
 Hayek, who died June 28 of heart failure at age 82, was
the “face” of his industry, said  Rene Weber , an analyst at
Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich. “He was more Swiss than most of the
rest of us.”  
 Hayek built Swatch into a $15 billion company from the
merger of two ailing Swiss horologists during the 1980s when
cheaper Japanese wrist watches with quartz movements flooded the
market. His success mirrors Hans Wilsdorf, the German-born
founder of Rolex Group, as both were foreigners who had to fight
to enter the Swiss establishment, said James Dowling, co-author
of “The Best of Time: Rolex Wristwatches, an Unauthorized
History” (Schiffer Publishing 2006).  
 “He’s one of the people hardest to replace in Swiss
watchmaking,” Dowling said.  
 Iconic Brand  
 Hayek was famous for his collectible, multi-colored plastic
timepieces that Swatch produced in large quantities to keep idle
factories running across Switzerland. The name came from
“second watch,” as Hayek wanted clients to buy more than one.  
 The styling made the Swatch an iconic label that generated
enough profit to allow Hayek to take control of more prestigious
names such as Breguet and expand the Omega moniker.  
 Swatch now owns 19 brands, including Rado, Tissot and
Blancpain, that range in price from less than $50 to more than
$700,000. Hayek also popularized automatic movements that power
watches by harnessing the wearer’s activity, rather than relying
on batteries and quartz. The company developed ways to
manufacture components so efficiently that it now makes three
quarters of the movements, or watch motors, for luxury
timepieces, according to an estimate by  Luca Solca , a London-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  
 Balloon Trip  
 At a meeting attended by the leaders of every Swatch brand
in 1993, Hayek introduced them as “Mr. Longines” and “Mr.
Omega,” said  Bertrand Piccard , whose solar airplane project won
sponsorship from Hayek’s Omega brand in 2006. Hayek went on to
say “and me, my name is Mr. Omega-Longines-Swatch-Blancpain,”
according to Piccard.  
 Hayek once told Piccard, who completed the first non-stop
worldwide hot-air balloon trip in 1999, that he was thankful to
the bankers who refused to support him when he started his
company in Biel, a city close to the French border about two
hour’s drive from Geneva.  
 “His exact words were, ‘If they had helped me, I’d be only
a millionaire,” the balloonist said. “But thanks to them, now
I’m a billionaire.’”  
 Hayek became Swiss more than 50 years ago, as he left
Lebanon in his youth and studied in France and began working in
Switzerland, Swatch spokeswoman  Beatrice Howald  said. His
adopted nation picked him as a torchbearer for the 1996 Olympics
in Atlanta.  
 ‘Allez la Suisse’  
 In his annual speeches to shareholders, he often discussed
the state of Swiss society. He said May 12 that Switzerland,
home to 220,000 millionaires, must take risks to avoid
stagnation and the “disease of the hyper-rich.”  
 “During the course of this year of difficulties, some
Swiss people began to question themselves and their country,”
Hayek said. “I would like to call upon them to regain
confidence: Come on Switzerland! Allez la Suisse, Hopp
Schweiz!”  
 Hayek also said 1.7 million foreigners have chosen
Switzerland because it’s peace-loving, never colonized another
nation and enjoys a high standard of living.  
 “Pretty much everything you can say about him, you
wouldn’t normally say about a Swiss person,” said Dowling,
author of the Rolex history. “He could be very aggressive and
he was flamboyant, smoking big cigars.”  
 The watchmaker’s legacy includes the survival of brands
such as Omega, Longines and Breguet, and a fortune estimated at
$3.9 billion by Forbes magazine.  
 Critic of Bankers  
 Hayek has even been eulogized by Swiss politicians who
oppose immigration.  
 “He was a patriot,”  Christoph Blocher  of the People’s
Party wrote in Le Matin, adding they knew each other 40 years.  
 Jean-Claude Biver , who used to oversee Swatch’s Blancpain
brand, recalled a trip with Hayek to Munich 10 years ago. Hayek
told Biver, who now runs the Hublot watch company, to meet him
at 5 a.m. at Zurich airport, which meant Biver had to wake at
2:30 a.m. When Biver arrived, Hayek gave him a bag his wife had
prepared with cookies and apples to last for the trip.  
 “He was unique because of his simplicity,” Biver said
last week in an interview. “You wouldn’t expect a billionaire
to do this with you. You would expect him to take a private
jet.”  
 Hayek was a critic of Swiss banks and the “Anglo-Saxon
mentality” of short-term investors. In Swatch’s 2008 annual
report, the company said it wasn’t intended for members of the
“financial circus.”  
 The Children  
 Close family members were the only attendees of his burial
July 1 in his hometown of Meisterschwanden, Blick reported. The
newspaper showed a photo of Hayek’s grave decorated with a
wooden cross, candles and sunflowers.  
 He was “the number one fan of Switzerland,” said  Nick Hayek Jr. , Hayek’s son, who is chief executive officer of Swatch
Group, at the July 3 memorial service. “‘Go, Switzerland!’ was
his motto,” he said.  
 His sister,  Nayla Hayek , 59, was appointed chairwoman of
Swatch Group last week  
 “In Swatch Group now, there are 24,000 orphans because he
was like another father to all of us,”  Francois Thiebaud , head
of the Tissot brand, told Swiss television TSR last week. “He
was 82, but he had the heart of someone just 17.”  
 Santa Claus  
 Hayek used Swatch to pursue his interest in cars,
telephones and alternative energy. Omega developed a flight
instrument based on an idea from Swatch board member  Claude Nicollier , a former astronaut. Piccard’s Solar Impulse plane
tested its solar cells in Omega watch labs to determine whether
they could withstand temperatures of minus 40 degrees Celsius
(minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit).  
 “His talent was so multifaceted he could have become Mr.
Mobile phone, Mr. I-technology or Mr. Car Manufacturer instead
of Mr. Swatch,” said Aurel Bacs, who heads the watch department
at auction house  Christie’s International  in Geneva. “If he
lived in England, he probably would have tried to save the U.K.
car industry.”  
 Hayek often said he saw himself as an artist and that he
didn’t really consider his job as work. He said employees should
think like children and imagine that Santa Claus exists. Among
his biggest achievements in watchmaking was the recreation of a
Breguet pocket watch that was ordered for French queen Marie-
Antoinette in 1783.  
 “We have lost a man who put appreciation of his employees
ahead of value creation at any price,” Leuthard said at the
July 3 service. “Not only was his door always open but he
always had an open ear for the concerns of his staff. He was as
present on the factory floor as he was in his office. This
brought him a lot of respect and a high credibility.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nicolas G. Hayek gestures during a joint press conference, on September, 2009, in Bern. Photographer: Fabrice Coffrini/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       An Image of Swatch Group AG founder Nicolas Hayek  
                       
                         
                           Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Passersby look at an image of Swatch Group AG founder Nicolas Hayek on a screen outside the Kursaal in Bern on Saturday. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Passersby look at an image of Swatch Group AG founder Nicolas Hayek on a screen outside the Kursaal in Bern on Saturday. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
