-- U.K. Government Departments Told to Plan for Budget Cuts of as Much as 40%
-- Eddie Buckle
-- 2010-07-05T08:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/u-k-government-departments-told-to-plan-for-budget-cuts-of-as-much-as-40-.html

          
          
             U.K. government departments have been
told to plan for spending cuts of as much as 40 percent as
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  seeks to narrow a
 record budget deficit .  
 The Treasury has ordered most ministers to draw up
scenarios for spending reductions of both 25 percent, the
average figure specified by Osborne in last month’s budget, and
40 percent over four years, Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond 
said on BBC 1 television’s “Andrew Marr Show” yesterday.  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition of Conservatives
and Liberal Democrats is proposing expenditure cuts and tax
increases totaling 113 billion pounds ($172 billion) to slash a
deficit of 11 percent of economic output. Osborne is due to set
budgets for each department in a spending review in October once
ministers have made their own proposals.  
 “What we’re not going to do is slice 25 percent off every
department,” Hammond said. While no department will have to
reduce spending by the full 40 percent, “some departments may
see cuts a bit higher than 25 percent,” he said.  
 Education Secretary  Michael Gove  will today announce a
reduction of as much as 3.5 million pounds in the schools
budget, the Guardian newspaper reported. That will mean freezing
plans to rebuild about 700 schools, the newspaper said.  
 Education, Defense  
 Under the Treasury plans, Gove and Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  have both been asked to prepare proposals for budget cuts of
10 percent and 20 percent. The only departments exempted are
health and international development.  
 “We are determined to tackle the record budget deficit in
order to keep rates lower for longer, protect jobs, and maintain
the quality of essential public services,” the Treasury said in
an e-mailed statement. “These planning assumptions are not
final settlements.”  
 The opposition  Labour Party ’s home-affairs spokesman,  Alan Johnson , told the BBC that the idea such large-scale spending
cuts could be made without harming services such as policing was
“fantasy land.”  
 Ministers agreed to draw up the plans when the Cabinet met
in Bradford, northern England, last week, the Treasury said.  
 Business Secretary  Vince Cable ’s department will have to
set out how it can reduce its spending to as little as 11.5
billion pounds by 2015 from 19.2 billion pounds in the current
fiscal year. Gove’s officials will need to draw up a blueprint
to cut the education budget to 40.7 billion pounds from 50.9
billion pounds.  
 Job Losses  
 The  Institute for Fiscal Studies , a London-based
independent research group, said the cuts to public spending
would be the deepest since World War II and some departments
would face reductions of a third. There will be 610,000 jobs cut
in the public sector over the next five years as the spending
squeeze is implemented, the government’s new Office for Budget
Responsibility said last week.  
 Ministers will meet civil-service union officials today to
discuss possible changes to the compensation terms for those who
lose their jobs, the BBC reported.  
 “They want to bring redundancy arrangements into line with
the private sector but not do anything about pay,”  Mark Serwotka , the general secretary of the Public and Commercial
Services union, told BBC Radio 4 this morning. “There’s no
argument for any cuts in public services at all at the moment.”  
 Hammond said that as far as his own department was
concerned, “we will not have so much money to spend” on road
and rail projects. “We will have to look at our priorities,”
he said.  
 “It is crystal clear that modernization and upgrade works
will be axed,”  Bob Crow , the general secretary of the Rail,
Maritime and Transport union, said in an e-mailed statement.
“With cuts of up to 40 percent in the transport budget we are
looking at thousands of job losses amongst the staff who operate
and maintain services with dire consequences for passenger
safety as corners are cut.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eddie Buckle  in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne speaks during an interview at the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting in Busan. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
