-- Wilmar Bids $1.5 Billion for CSR Sugar Unit, Counters China's Bright Food
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-05T07:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-04/wilmar-international-agrees-to-buy-csr-s-sugar-division-for-1-47-billion.html

          
          
             Wilmar International Ltd., the
world’s largest palm oil trader, agreed to buy  CSR Ltd. ’s sugar
unit for A$1.75 billion ($1.5 billion), beating China’s Bright
Food Group Co.’s bid for Australia’s biggest refiner.  
 The offer includes A$1.35 billion in cash and A$403 million
in assumed net debt, Singapore-based Wilmar said today in a
statement. Sydney-based CSR is the world’s second-largest
exporter of raw sugar and Australia’s No.1 producer of sugar-
based ethanol and renewable energy generator from biomass.  
 Buying Sucrogen will give Wilmar mills that produce 45
percent of Australia’s raw sugar and account for about 4 percent
of global trade. Wilmar’s Chief Executive Officer  Kuok Khoon Hong , said the purchase will help his company’s plans to expand
sales in Indonesia and other Asian nations.  
 “They’ve been talking about growing their own plantations
in Indonesia” to take advantage of rising demand,  Carey Wong ,
an analyst at OCBC Investment Research, said from Singapore.
“This deal gives them a foot in the door a lot faster.”  
 Wilmar, which expects the transaction to boost earnings
from the first year, gained 2.3 percent to S$5.88 on the
Singapore stock  exchange  while the Straits Times Index was
little changed at 2,844.84 as of 2:35 p.m. local time. CSR  rose 
3.5 percent to A$1.755 on the Australian stock exchange at the
4:10 p.m. Sydney-time close.  
 Swap Contracts  
 The cost of insuring CSR’s bonds from non-payment fell the
most in almost two months. Credit-default swaps on CSR dropped
13 basis points to 69 basis points as of 3:57 p.m. in Sydney,
the biggest decline since May 10, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc. and CMA DataVision. The swap contracts typically fall as
perceptions of credit-worthiness improve.  
 Bright Food Group, Shanghai’s biggest food company, raised
its initial conditional offer for CSR’s sugar unit to A$1.75
billion in April. It intends to trim the bid to between A$1.65
billion and A$1.7 billion, the Australian Financial Review said
today, citing unidentified people close to the deal.  
 “A prominent investment bank had valued the business at
A$1.5 billion so this looks to be a very good price for
shareholders,”  Ben Potter , a strategist with IG Markets, said
in an e-mailed note. The deal provides “certainty after months
of negotiations with China based Bright Food Group,” he said.  
 Sale Price  
 The Sucrogen sale was completed at an earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization multiple of 9.7
times, CSR said today. That compares with a multiple of 8.8
times for the  acquisition  of Spanish sugar business Azucarera
Ebro SA by Associated British Foods Plc. That deal was announced
in December 2008.  
 Chen Chunshan, a Shanghai-based spokesman for Bright Food,
wasn’t available to comment.  
 A total of $39.2 billion has been offered for Australian-
based companies in announced deals so far in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Today, Banpu Pcl, Thailand’s biggest
coal producer, agreed to pay A$2 billion for the rest of
Australia’s Centennial Coal Co. as demand climbs in China.  
 Australia, the third-largest sugar exporter after Brazil
and Thailand, ships most of its raw sugar to Asia. Sugar price
premiums for deliveries in Asia are likely to remain at “well
above normal” levels until near the end of the year amid a
supply shortfall, Mackay Sugar Ltd., Australia’s second-largest
miller, said last month.  
 Sugar Futures  
 Raw sugar for October delivery gained 2.6 percent, to 16.7
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York on July 2. The
most-active contract earlier rose to 16.72 cents, the highest
level since April 22. The sweetener reached a 29-year high of
30.4 cents on Feb. 1 after adverse weather reduced production in
Brazil and India.  
 Wilmar, whose 2009 profit rose to a record $1.88 billion as
demand for vegetable oil soared in China, plans to enter the
sugar-milling and the cane-plantation businesses in Indonesia,
Kuok said March 1. The oilseeds and grains company has more than
300 processing plants across four nations.  
 About 40 percent of China’s bottled edible oil is supplied
by Wilmar and it may take advantage of this network to supply
sugar to the world’s second-largest consumer, OCBC’s Wong said.  
 China’s demand for sugar is forecast to rise to 15.5
million metric tons in the 2010-2011 season, from 14.9 million
tons, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said in May.  
 Colonial Sugar  
 CSR was formed in 1855 and known as the Colonial Sugar
Refining company before changing its name in 1973 after an
expansion into building materials and resource projects. It
sought to sell the sugar business to take advantage of a surge
in prices last year after adverse weather reduced output in
Brazil, the largest producer, and India.  
 The  sale  will leave the company focused on its building
products business, CSR said in a statement. Alternative plans to
spin off the sugar business will be put on hold until the end of
the year, it said.  
 “If for any reason the sale cannot be completed CSR may
seek to proceed with a form of demerger,” the company said in
the statement. It expects the deal to be completed by or before
the fourth quarter.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net ;
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Manila at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wilmar International CEO Kuok Khoon speaks during a news briefing in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
