-- Measuring The Big Shift
-- Lang Davison
-- 2009-06-20T00:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-19/measuring-the-big-shift.html

          
          
             About two years ago, on the sixth floor of the Deloitte offices in San Jose, we began outlining a new framework on a whiteboard. We were trying to get our heads around the long-term transformation we saw happening to the global business environment as a result of digital technology and, to a lesser extent, public policy changes. We later came to call this transformation the Big Shift. 

 About that time we also began gathering examples and illustrations of the Big Shift as it played out in diverse arenas from open-source software to online gaming. Yet stories and theory only go so far. Wouldn't it be better, we asked ourselves, if we could somehow quantify this Big Shift, and find a way to measure the rate and magnitude of the long-term changes happening in this epochal time? 

 And so began the pursuit of what today we're publishing as  The 2009 Shift Index , a new set of economic indicators built for the digital world. Because it focuses on longer-term, "secular" changes to the business environment, the Shift Index is designed as a complement to the overwhelmingly short-term, cyclical measures that comprise most of today's economic indices.  

 The full report and findings are available here . And a summary version of the framework, index, and findings is now out in the July/August  Harvard Business Review .  In the months and years to come, this inaugural index, which focuses exclusively on the U.S. economy, will be regularly updated to track changes over time and expand the ability to compare performance trends across industries, countries, and firms. 

 The Shift Index tracks 25 metrics in nine categories across three sets of main indicators:  Foundations , which set the stage for major change;  Flows  of resources, such as knowledge, which allow businesses to enhance productivity; and  Impacts , which help gauge progress at an economy-wide level. Together these indicators represent phases of transformation in the Big Shift taking place in the global business environment. 

 What do the findings show? The 2009 Shift Index reveals a disquieting performance paradox in the US corporate sector. On the one hand, labor productivity has nearly doubled since 1965. During those same years, however, US companies' Return on Assets (ROA) progressively dropped 75 percent from their 1965 level.  

 How can firms be getting lower returns even as they're becoming more efficient? The answer resides in the heightened competition among firms. Competitive intensity nearly doubled between 1965 and 2008, forcing firms to compete away the benefits of productivity gains, which were instead captured by creative talent in the form of higher compensation and numbers of consumers through increasing performance/price ratios and wider choice. 

 It's little surprise to find also that the highest-performing companies are struggling to maintain their ROA rates and are increasingly losing market leadership positions. Taken as a whole, the findings portray a U.S. corporate sector in which long-term forces of change are undercutting normal sources of economic value. "Normal" may in fact be a thing of the past: even after the economy resumes growing, companies' returns will remain under pressure.  

 To respond to this performance challenge, U.S. companies will need to let go of industrial- era organizational structures (and the reporting relationships, incentive systems, and managerial processes that go with them) and operational practices in favor of the new institutional architectures and business practices needed to create and capture economic value in the era of the Big Shift.  

 Companies must move beyond their fixation on getting bigger and more cost-effective to make the   institutional innovations  necessary to accelerate performance improvement as they add participants to their ecosystems, expanding learning and innovation in  collaboration curves  and  creation spaces . Companies must move, in other words, from scalable efficiency to scalable learning and performance. Only then will they make the most of our new era's fast-moving digital infrastructure. 

 The initial launch of the Shift Index reflects a work in progress. We hope the work we've done so far will encourage others to challenge and augment these methodologies and findings. We look forward to the comments section of this blog continuing to be a lively part of that discussion.  

 Lang Davison is the former executive director of the Deloitte Center for the Edge and was previously editor-in-chief of  The McKinsey Quarterly.  He is co-author of  The Power of Pull: How Small Moves, Smartly Made, Set Big Things in Motion. 

