-- Qantas takeover offer seen as early as Wednesday
-- 
-- Mon Dec 11, 2006 9:27pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/12/businesspro-qantas-takeover-dc-idUSSYD896120061212

 

 MELBOURNE  (Reuters) - Qantas Airways Ltd. ( QAN.AX ), 
Australia's top airline, is expected to announce a takeover 
offer of around A$10.9 billion (US$8.55 billion) from a 
consortium led by Macquarie Bank Ltd. MBL.AX this week, 
possibly as early as Wednesday, sources said. 

  Shareholders have been waiting for the offer since the 
carrier confirmed nearly two weeks ago that it had received a 
buyout approach from a consortium that includes Macquarie and 
private equity firm Texas Pacific Group TPG.UL.  Two people close to the transaction said a bid was unlikely 
to be announced on Tuesday, but was not far away. A source 
close to Qantas said the ball was in the acquirer's court.  "We'd all welcome some resolution to this as soon as 
possible," the source said.  Groups involved in the talks include Allco Finance Group 
AFG.AX, Pacific Equity Partners and Canadian investment firm 
Onex Corp. ( OCX.TO ). Final stakes in the consortium have yet to 
be set.  Analysts have speculated that the board of Qantas will hold 
out for an offer of at least A$5.50 a share, or A$10.9 billion.  Qantas shares last traded down 1.7 percent at A$5.17 in a 
firmer market.  A portfolio manager with BT Funds Management, which owns 
0.43 percent of Qantas, declined to comment on what would be a 
fair price, but said the outlook for Qantas was strong for this 
year.  "The operating environment for the business is 
exceptionally positive. The oil price is stable, if not 
declining, which is also positive," said Troy Angus.  "Overall, the earnings of the business look very sound for 
this year. It's a very favourable starting point."  An offer at A$5.50 would be 26 percent higher than Qantas's 
share price before the airline said it had been approached with 
a buyout proposal.  At that price it would be worth 15.6 times forecast 
earnings for this year, topping the 12.7 multiple on its 
biggest Asia Pacific rival, Singapore Airlines Ltd. ( SIAL.SI ), 
but cheaper than Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. ( 0293.HK ) at 18.3, 
according to Reuters data.  The biggest shareholder in Qantas is U.S. fund manager 
Capital Group, whose U.S. and European arms own 12.7 percent of 
the airline. The group never comments on any of its 
investments, a spokesman said.  Macquarie declined to comment on Tuesday.  It said two weeks ago that stakes in the consortium would 
stay within the ownership caps set for Qantas, including 
keeping the airline 51 percent in Australian hands and ensuring 
no individual holds more than 25 percent.  Macquarie also said it would limit its stake to less than 
15 percent to avoid any conflict of interest with its airport 
interests.  ($1=A$1.28)