-- Shell may struggle to recoup Sakhalin-2 costs
-- By  Tom Bergin
-- Tue Dec 12, 2006 10:28am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/12/businesspro-shell-sakhalin-dc-idUSL1292428520061212

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - Gazprom ( GAZP.MM ) may pay Royal Dutch 
Shell Plc ( RDSa.L ) for money already spent developing the 
Sakhalin-2 oil and gas fields if it buys a stake, but analysts 
do not expect the Russian giant to pay a premium for expected 
profits or control. 

  Shell has offered to cede control of the project, Russia's 
biggest single foreign investment, to the world's largest gas 
company after months of government pressure, industry sources 
told Reuters on Monday.  On Tuesday Gazprom Chairman Dmitry Medvedev said his 
company planned to buy around 50 percent of the Shell-led 
project, which is based off Russia's east coast.  This would represent a blow for Shell, which is struggling 
to find big new fields, but the exact impact depends on price.  Sakhalin-2 is expected to cost $22 billion. On top of 
recouping this investment, analysts said the project would 
yield its shareholders future profits with a net present value 
(NPV) of $12.7 billion to $23.6 billion.  However, the final sale price may be based on other 
factors.  "It's all down to politics. It's beyond the fundamentals of 
the project ... It looks like Gazprom wants to try and get in 
at cost, and it looks like Shell wants to make some money," 
said Peter Hitchens at Teather & Greenwood.  A spokesman said on Tuesday that Shell expected to be 
treated equitably in negotiations, but analysts said this was 
unlikely.  "I wouldn't be massively optimistic Gazprom would pay above 
cost," said Dominic Ellis, an oil analyst at Man Securities 
said.  One analyst who asked not to be named said Gazprom may not 
even be willing to pay the full price for the costs already 
incurred.  "They're going to squeeze and squeeze until they get the 
deal they want ... Would they pay past development costs? It's 
debatable," the analyst said, adding that Shell and Gazprom 
were unlikely to disclose the terms of any deal.
  WEIGHS ON SHARES  News of the offer to cede control and Medvedev's statements 
weighed on Shell's shares on Monday and Tuesday.  Its London-listed A shares traded down 1.27 percent at 1783 
pence at 1441 GMT, compared to a 0.3 percent fall in the DJ 
Stoxx European oil and gas sector index .SXEP.  Analysts' estimates of the NPV of Sakhalin-2 vary wildly 
partly because of the decades-long nature of the investment and 
their differing forecasts for oil and gas prices.  Citigroup estimates the project's NPV at $12.7 billion, 
while Morgan Stanley said that if oil prices were $60 per 
barrel, it could be worth $23.6 billion to its shareholders, 
Shell and Japanese companies Mitsui & Co ( 8031.T ) and 
Mitsubishi  ( 8058.T ).  Wood Mackenzie has put the project's value at $15 billion 
and Merrill Lynch at $17.5 billion.  Even for the world's second-largest fully quoted oil 
company by market capitalization, the loss of most of its 
Sakhalin-2 stake without fair compensation would hurt.  Shell's 55 percent stake in Sakhalin-2 represents up to 6 
percent of the Anglo-Dutch company's market capitalization, 
Morgan Stanley said in a research note last month.  This explains its share price weakness, but investors have 
also expected some destruction of value for months.  Most analysts' valuations are based on the partners being 
able to recoup all costs -- something the production-sharing 
contract covering the project is supposed to allow.  However, Russia has objected to a doubling of the original 
$10 billion budget due to soaring costs in the oil industry and 
overly optimistic budgeting by Shell in the 1990s, while a 
state regulator has threatened big fines for environmental 
damage.  Analysts now expect a compromise on the budget overrun and 
increased costs to deal with the regulator's environmental 
complaints, both of which would hit the value of the project.  If not balanced with the right to buy other assets in 
Russia -- something proposed as part of a deal by which Gazprom 
would take a 25 percent stake in Sakhalin-2 -- the loss of a 
large chunk of Sakhalin-2 would also be damaging to Shell's 
reserves base and production growth plans.  "This would put a serious dent in the company's target of 
achieving 3.8 to 4.0 million barrels of oil equivalent per day 
of production in 2009," Merrill Lynch said in a research note.  (Additional reporting Dmitry Zhdannikov and Douglas Busvine 
in Moscow)