-- New COO for Citigroup
-- By  Dan Wilchins
-- Mon Dec 11, 2006 8:10pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/12/businesspro-citigroup-druskin-dc-idUSWEN100220061212

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Citigroup Inc. ( C.N ), under pressure 
to cut costs and boost a lackluster share price, promoted 
corporate and investment banking head Robert Druskin to chief 
operating officer on Monday. 

  Druskin was immediately charged by Chief Executive Charles 
Prince with reviewing the bank's cost base, a major focus of 
investor criticism. The promotion was seen by some analysts as 
making him the bank's de facto number two executive.  Druskin, 59, will remain CEO of the commercial and 
investment banking unit, and will also become chairman of that 
unit. He will join Prince and Clinton-era Treasury Secretary 
Robert Rubin as members of the office of the chairman. All 
changes are effective January 1.  Investors have been pressuring the top U.S. bank by assets 
to improve its financial performance for some time. In July, 
one of the bank's largest shareholders, Saudi Prince Alwaleed 
bin Talal, called for "draconian measures" to control costs.  Druskin's promotion seemed unlikely to assuage criticism 
from Alwaleed and others, though, and the company's shares were 
down more than 1.5 percent in after-hours trading.  "It's an incremental change. I think Citigroup needs 
something more radical than this," said Ralph Cole, who helps 
manage $2.4 billion at Ferguson Wellman Capital Management, 
which owns Citi shares.  Citigroup shares have just hit their highest level in five 
years on hopes the bank would announce major changes at an 
investor presentation on Thursday, including replacing senior 
management and perhaps even spinning off units.  But speaking to reporters on a conference call, Prince 
ruled out other major management changes in the near term. He 
also dismissed talk of spin-offs as contrary to what he has 
said numerous times and insisted the bank is on the right 
track.  "The train is up on the rails and headed in the right 
direction from a strategy point of view," he said.
  POWER SHIFT?  Some investors see Druskin's promotion as a way of taking 
power from Chief Financial Officer Sallie Krawcheck, 42, who 
has been rumored to be looking at leaving.  "Clearly, that would seem, on the face of it, to put Sallie 
in a more subordinate role," said Lee Forker, president of New 
England Research & Management in Boston, which does not own 
Citigroup shares.  Prince told reporters that Druskin is filling a spot 
vacated by Robert Willumstad, who announced his resignation in 
July 2005. It does not represent a demotion for Krawcheck, who 
is happy in her role and not looking to leave, he added.  "Radical change might be in analysts' dreams, but it's not 
something on Prince's desk," said Michael Holland, founder of 
Holland Investments in New York, which owns Citigroup shares.  Other possible measures Citigroup may consider in the near 
term include boosting its dividend by about 10 percent a year, 
said an analyst who asked not to be named.  Some investors are eager for change. In the first nine 
months of 2006, Citigroup's income from continuing operations 
rose 9 percent, but operating expenses rose 13 percent, and 
revenue rose just 5 percent.  Since Prince, 56, took the reins in October 2003, Citi's 
share price has risen a little more than 10 percent, while the 
KBW Bank Index .BKX has surged more than 30 percent.  Druskin worked closely with the operating business in the 
corporate and investment bank, and in the first quarter will 
conduct a complete review of the company's operations and 
potential for cost cutting through structural changes, like 
sharing back offices among multiple businesses, Prince said.  Druskin, who joined Smith Barney in 1991 as chief 
administrative officer, will be succeeded as president of the 
commercial and investment bank by Michael Klein and Thomas 
Maheras.  Citigroup shares rose nearly 2 percent on Monday to close 
at $52.88 on the New York Stock Exchange, but fell to $52.07 in 
after-hours trading, when Druskin's promotion was announced.