-- "Slight softening" in 1st-qtr job outlook: Manpower
-- 
-- Tue Dec 12, 2006 12:30am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/12/businesspro-manpower-outlook-dc-idUSN0837300420061212

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The U.S. labor market looks set for a 
'slight softening' in the first three months of 2007, according 
to a quarterly survey with a strong record of predicting shifts 
in employment trends. 

  The survey, by staffing company Manpower Inc. ( MAN.N ), 
found 23 percent of U.S. employers expect to add jobs in the 
first quarter, while 11 percent expect to reduce total 
employment.  That compared with 28 percent and 8 percent, respectively, 
in the previous survey.  "It's the second consecutive quarter where there has been a 
slight softening," said Manpower's Jonas Prising, who heads the 
company's North American operations. "It is very small and 
subtle, and overall I think you would call it steady with some 
weakness."  Four of 10 industry segments expect weaker hiring activity 
in the first quarter, including durable goods manufacturing; 
transportation and utilities; finance, insurance and real 
estate, and construction. The strongest hiring outlook is among 
mining-industry employers, Manpower found.  In terms of geography, the most optimistic regions -- the 
South and West -- are coming down from their highs, Prising 
said, partly reflecting a weaker housing market.  The Manpower employment survey, which dates back to 1962, 
has been a strong predictor of both general sentiment and 
industry-specific trends, Prising said. Recent employment data, 
including the steady pace of payroll growth in November, had 
been predicted by the previous survey, which had also pointed 
to declines in construction and factory jobs.  The first-quarter survey, which polled 14,000 U.S. 
employers, contrasts with Manpower's international survey of 
some 50,000 companies. The international poll found 20 out of 
23 countries and territories expect stronger hiring compared 
with a year ago, and most have also improved their outlook over 
the past three months.  U.S. labor demand is also markedly different from the way 
it looked in 2000 and 2001, when strong demand for workers led 
to almost "indiscriminate hiring," Prising said.  "Today, I think companies are very intent and very 
surgical. (They say) 'Yeah, we may need somebody, but if we 
can't find them, we'll wait."'