-- WRAPUP 3-U.S. trade gap narrows sharply in October
-- 
-- Tue Dec 12, 2006 4:56pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/12/usa-economy-idUSN1230425820061212

 

  (Adds Fed decision, market close) 

  By  Doug Palmer WASHINGTON  Dec 12 (Reuters) - A record drop in oil import
prices pushed the U.S. trade deficit in October to its lowest
level in more than a year, while U.S. exports rose to a new
high, a Commerce Department report showed on Tuesday.  The trade gap shrank 8.4 percent in October to $58.9
billion, the biggest drop since December 2001, surprising
analysts who had expected a much smaller decline.  The deficit was the smallest since August 2005, the last
time it totaled less than $60 billion. However, the annual
trade gap could still reach a record $760 billion in 2006.  The smaller-than-expected October shortfall signaled
slightly stronger U.S. economic growth in the fourth quarter
than previously forecast, a number of analysts said.  Even so, gross domestic product would probably be only "in
the 1 percent to 2 percent range," said Nigel Gault, U.S.
economist with Global Insight.  The Institute of Supply Management said in its semiannual
forecast on Tuesday it expected stronger growth in the U.S.
manufacturing sector in 2007 and only a slight slowdown in
growth in the services sector.  Meanwhile, the chief executive officers of major U.S.
companies, in a quarterly survey released on Tuesday by the
Business Roundtable, said they expected economic growth to slow
slightly over the next six months.  The dollar briefly gained ground after the trade data, but
then slipped as traders focused on an afternoon meeting of
Federal Reserve policy-makers on interest-rate policy.  The Fed voted for a fourth straight time to keep benchmark
interest rates at 5.25 percent, while holding out the
possibility of future interest rate hikes to address inflation
concerns. At the same time, it took note of a "substantial"
cooling in the housing market and said "inflation pressures
seem likely to moderate over time."  The greenback has been taking a beating on concerns about
the U.S. trade and budget deficits and limited prospects for
more interest rate rises in 2007.  U.S. stocks closed lower as disappointing earnings from
electronics retailer Best Buy Inc. ( BBY.N ) made traders gloomy
about the strength of the holiday shopping season.  A weak forecast from steelmaker Nucor Inc. ( NUE.N )
contributed to the sour mood in stocks, while U.S. Treasury
debt prices firmed on the Fed decision.  U.S. imports fell 2.7 percent during October, the largest
decline since December 2001, aided by an 11.3 percent drop in
the price of imported oil to $55.47 per barrel. Oil import
volumes also fell for a second consecutive month.  The monthly trade gap with members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries shrank 18.3 percent during
October to $7.5 billion.  Lower oil imports also more than offset record imports of
consumer goods, food, feeds and beverages and of advanced
technology products.  Meanwhile, the politically sensitive trade deficit with
China swelled to a record $24.4 billion in October, as imports
from there surged to $29.3 billion, also a record.  The trade gap with China for the first 10 months of the
year totaled $190.6 billion, keeping it on track to easily
surpass last year's record of $202 billion.  "It looks as if our deficit with China will be about $240
billion this year, about a 15 percent increase," said Joel
Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors.  The galloping trade deficit with China is one of the main
reasons for top-level meetings on Thursday and Friday in
Beijing. U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson is leading a
team of Bush administration Cabinet officials and Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke for talks with senior Chinese
officials on trade and economic concerns.  Paulson has warned against expecting quick results from the
meeting, but many manufacturers who feel harmed by China's
currency and trade policies are growing impatient.  "Today's figures should remind Secretary Paulson that major
progress in fixing America's broken China trade policy is
needed now," said Alan Tonelson, research fellow at the U.S.
Business and Industry Council.  Overall U.S. exports increased a slight 0.2 percent in
October to a record $123.6 billion, led by records in services,
capital goods and consumer goods.  Exports have been aided by the dollar's decline, which has
made U.S. products more competitive in world markets.  Separately, data from SpendingPulse, a service of
MasterCard Advisors, showed U.S. retail sales excluding autos
rose 0.3 percent in November after a 0.3 percent drop in
October. The data comes one day ahead of a government report on
retail sales.  Other reports provided a mixed picture of holiday shopping.
The International Council of Shopping Centers and UBS said U.S.
chain store sales rose 1 percent last week, while Redbook
Research said so far this month sales were down 1.7 percent
compared with this point in November.



