-- PPR Revenue Increases 18% on Luxury Sales, Puma
-- Sara Gay Forden
-- 2007-07-26T14:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-26/ppr-revenue-increases-18-on-luxury-sales-puma-update4-.html

          
          
             PPR SA (PP) , the owner of Gucci Group,
said second-quarter revenue climbed 18 percent on the
acquisition of the Puma AG sports-clothing brand and sales of
$7,800 Bottega Veneta handbags.  
 Sales rose to 4.79 billion euros ($6.6 billion) in the
quarter from 4.06 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the 4.73 billion-euro median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Excluding Puma, revenue increased 5.9 percent, more than the 4.2
billion euro median estimate.  
 PPR owns almost two-thirds of Puma after offering to buy
the German sporting-goods maker in April, adding Gore
Windstopper jackets and Complete Concinnity running shoes to its
array of fashion brands. Growth at PPR's luxury goods unit has
compensated for slower sales at the Conforama furniture chain
and Fnac book and electronics stores in  France , its home market.  
 ``All of the businesses improved in the second quarter with
the exception of Gucci Group, which was still very strong,''
said  John Guy , an MF Global analyst in  London . Guy has a ``buy''
rating on the stock.  
 The stock fell 1.95 euros, or 1.5 percent, to 128.71 euros
at 4:30 p.m. in Paris, giving the retailer a market value of
16.5 billion euros. The stock has risen 14 percent since the
beginning of the year, more than three times the gain of the 14-member Bloomberg European Fashion Index.  
 `Broadened Portfolio'  
 Puma, which supplies soccer uniforms to World Cup champion
 Italy , gives PPR a global brand that straddles sports and
fashion. The company plans to expand the brand, whose sales
quadrupled in the past five years, in developing markets.  
 ``Puma has broadened our portfolio of international brands
with high growth potential and will strengthen our global
presence,'' Chairman Francois-Henri Pinault said in the
statement.  
 Total sales excluding acquisitions and currency movements
rose 5.6 percent in the quarter. The yen fell 5.7 percent
against the euro in the three months through June, while the
dollar lost 1.4 percent during the same period. That reduced
U.S. and Japanese revenue converted into euros.  
 ``Although the sector is likely to continue to benefit from
robust demand, we believe ongoing deterioration in the yen and
the dollar relative to the euro will remain a key concern in
2008,'' Lehman Brothers analyst Allegra Perry wrote in a July 5
report. The securities firm reduced its recommendation on the
luxury goods industry to ``2-neutral'' from ``1-positive.''  
 Gucci Sales  
 The company saw a strong sales trend in June, which
continued in July, PPR Chief Financial Officer Jean-Francois Palus said on a conference call, adding that he is ``reasonably
upbeat'' about market conditions. He predicted ``satisfactory
growth'' in profits, sales and  cash flow  this year.  
 Revenue at Gucci Group rose 7.7 percent to 836 million
euros, or 14 percent excluding currency swings, as more
customers bought Bottega Veneta handbags and  Yves Saint Laurent 
dresses. The weakness of the dollar reduced U.S. sales, which
gained 5.5 percent. They were up 14 percent excluding exchange
rate factors. In  Japan , sales fell 2.8 percent.  
 Palus said sales of Gucci brand products rose 4 percent in
Japan as the company continued to upgrade stores and products.  
 ``The yen is at its lowest and the Japanese clients find it
difficult to accept rising prices, in particular for Gucci,''
Palus said. ``Gucci is working to improve the brand's image and
to incite customers to buy the more expensive models.''  
 `Other Brands'  
 Palus said he is ``optimistic'' for Gucci's performance in
Japan in the second half after upgraded products are introduced
in the third and fourth quarters.  
 Bottega Veneta sales advanced 48 percent in the quarter,
while revenue at Yves Saint Laurent rose 13 percent on sales of
apparel and leather goods. YSL makeup and  Stella McCartney 
perfume also helped sales.  
 Second-quarter revenue at Puma rose 3 percent. Puma's
accounts were fully consolidated as of April.  
 The Fnac electronics chain had a 6.3 percent increase in
sales, while revenue at Conforama furniture stores gained 2.7
percent.  
 Sales at the Redcats mail-order unit fell 1.4 percent as
the company cut spending on catalogs and continued building its
Internet business. Revenue at CFAO, PPR's African unit that
retails cars and pharmaceuticals, climbed 12.5 percent on strong
performance of its automobile business.  
 PPR has built itself into the world's third-biggest luxury-goods company with the purchase of Gucci Group and brands
including Stella McCartney and  Alexander McQueen , which it has
said would become profitable this year. Sales of PPR's so-called
``Other Brands,'' which include Balenciaga, Boucheron, Sergio
Rossi, Stella McCartney and Alexander McQueen, rose 24 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Gay Forden in Milan at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        