-- Sprint's New WiMax Network to Use Google Search, Maps
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2007-07-26T20:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-26/sprint-s-new-wimax-network-to-use-google-search-maps-update4-.html

          
          
             Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-biggest U.S. mobile-phone company, said it will add Google Inc.
search and mapping services to a planned high-speed wireless
network.  
 Google will help Sprint develop ways for consumers and
businesses to use mobile-location technology, offering customized
searches or messaging services that take into account the user's
whereabouts, said Barry West, Sprint's chief technology officer.  
 The agreement gives Reston, Virginia-based Sprint the
prestige of working with the most popular search engine, along
with a source of revenue, West said. For Google, the deal brings
a way to extend its search engine into the mobile-device market.  
 ``Google is clearly an important partner, given its
dominance of broadband and wired Internet search,'' Thomas J. Lee, a J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. analyst in  New York , said in a
note to clients this morning. He rates both Sprint and Clearwire
shares ``overweight.''  
 West said Google will pay Sprint as part of the agreement,
declining to be specific.  
 Sprint and  Craig McCaw 's Clearwire Corp. said last week they
would use a technology called WiMax to build a wireless network
that's more than five times faster than today's standard. They
plan to reach about 100 million people by the end of 2008.  
 Shares of Sprint fell 77 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $20.89 at
4:05 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Kirkland,
Washington-based Clearwire gained 25 cents to $31.66 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. Google, in  Mountain View ,  California , fell
$1.76 to $508.  
 Wider Range  
 WiMax networks have a wider range than current Wi-Fi
technology and can encompass entire cities, providing high-speed
access to mobile phones and other gadgets. Sprint plans to start
selling WiMax service in April.  
 Sprint's agreement with Clearwire allows the company to
build the WiMax network at a lower cost than the $3 billion it
originally planned. Chief Executive Officer Gary Forsee said last
week that the Clearwire agreement will create ``meaningful
savings,'' without offering specifics.  
 Google (GOOG) 's search and communications features, such as the
Gmail e-mail service, will appear on the Web site that users
visit when they access Sprint's WiMax network, West said.
Notebook computers, phones and other wireless devices will use a
version of that portal. Services based on the user's location
also will be available on that site, West said.  
 `Know Where You Are'  
 ``The one thing that we have which is unique in the Internet
world is that we know where you are,'' he said. ``We can now do
search based on your location. We can also offer services based
on your location.''  
 Sprint won't limit users from accessing services from
Google's competitors, West said. The company may charge more for
higher-speed services, such as the connections needed to make
phone calls using the Internet, he said.  
 While Sprint hasn't decided how much it will charge for
WiMax access, the company plans to make the service competitive
with the high-speed Internet connections offered over home-phone
lines by companies such as  AT&T Inc. (T) , West said.  
 ``There's a premium for mobility, we know that,'' he said.
``But it's not 50 to 60 bucks. It's more in the range of five to
10 bucks.''  
 Sprint ranks behind AT&T and  Verizon Wireless  in U.S.
mobile-phone customers.  
 Separately, Google has said it may bid at least $4.6 billion
to buy wireless airwaves at a federal auction. The company is
considering joining smaller mobile-phone service providers to
create its own network. The WiMax agreement isn't related to
those plans, West said.  
 The agreement with Google won't include Clearwire, Sprint
spokesman John Polivka said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  San Francisco  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        