-- Intel profit falls
-- By  Scott Hillis
-- Tue Jan 16, 2007 6:43pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/17/businesspro-intel-results-dc-idUSWEN225020070117

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Intel Corp.'s ( INTC.O ) quarterly 
profit fell 40 percent amid a bruising price war with AMD and 
the top chipmaker's stock fell nearly 3 percent on Tuesday 
after it forecast gross margins would not improve this year. 

  Intel, which supplies processors for about three-quarters 
of the world's personal computers, also said it expected sales 
for the first quarter of between $8.7 billion and $9.3 billion, 
compared to the average Wall Street forecast of $8.93 billion.  Intel said gross margin would be about 49 percent in the 
first quarter and 50 percent for the year. Fourth-quarter gross 
margin was 49.6 percent, up from 49.1 percent in the third 
quarter but down from 61.8 percent a year earlier.  "If Intel is saying they don't expect any gross margin 
increase this year, that's a disappointment," said Jane Snorek, 
technology analyst at First American Funds in Milwaukee.  Intel shares fell 2.7 percent to $21.70 in extended trading 
on concerns about the outlook for its gross margin, which had 
improved in the past two quarters.  Chief Financial Officer Andy Bryant said fourth-quarter 
margins were helped by higher sales and new products, though 
some of that was offset by charges associated with 
underutilization of factories and its flash memory chip 
operations.  "When you look to Q1, when revenue falls you expect margins 
to come off a little bit. We are also getting ready to start 
production on the 45-nanometer process and there are extra 
costs associated with that," Bryant said.  Bryant was referring to the next generation of chipmaking 
equipment that will cost Intel billions of dollars to deploy 
but let it make smaller, faster chips.  Intel's fourth-quarter net profit, including special items, 
was $1.5 billion, or 26 cents per share, compared to $2.45 
billion, or 40 cents per share, a year earlier.  Excluding restructuring charges and gains from the sale of 
assets, the profit was 25 cents per share, in line with the 
average Wall Street forecast for adjusted earnings.  Revenue was $9.69 billion, down 5 percent from $10.2 
billion a year earlier, though it was ahead of the average 
forecast of $9.43 billion.  Santa Clara, California-based Intel has been locked in a 
price war with chief rival Advanced Micro Devices Inc. ( AMD.N ). 
Over the past year, Intel shares have fallen nearly 15 percent 
while AMD's have lost nearly half their value.  The price war has bitten more deeply into AMD's bottom 
line, and the Sunnyvale, California-based company said last 
week its profit and revenue would fall short of analysts' 
estimates. Its stock is valued at 11.6 times expected 2007 
profit, compared to nearly 19 times for Intel shares.  "The competitive pressures with AMD were more severe than 
we had thought," said JoAnne Feeney, managing director of FTN 
Midwest Securities. "Intel continues to struggle to regain its 
market share."  (Additional reporting by  Michael Kahn )