-- TJX says system breached, customer data stolen
-- 
-- Wed Jan 17, 2007 5:24pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/17/businesspro-tjx-security-dc-idUSWEN232220070117

 

  LOS ANGELES (Reuters! - TJX Cos Inc. ( TJX.N ), which 
operates the T.J. Maxx and Marshalls chains, said on Wednesday 
that the computer systems that process its customer 
transactions had been breached and customer information had 
been stolen. 

  The off-price retailer said it discovered the intrusion in 
mid-December, but it does not yet know the full extent of the 
theft or the number of customers affected.  "The company is committed to providing its customers with 
more information when it becomes available," Framingham, 
Massachusetts-based TJX said in a prepared statement.  TJX said the breach involves the computer network that 
handles credit card, debit card, check and return transactions 
at its T.J. Maxx, Marshalls, HomeGoods and A.J. Wright stores 
in the United States and Puerto Rico; and its Winners and 
HomeSense stores in Canada.  It said the intrusion could also affect customers at stores 
in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and its Bob's Stores in the 
United States.  The retailer said it cannot yet estimate the financial cost 
it will incur due to the breach, and it does not expect to be 
able to quantify the financial impact by the time it announces 
January 2007 sales results.  C.L. King analyst Mark Montagna said that the breach was 
likely to have little meaningful impact on the company, and 
said no more information will probably be available until 
fourth-quarter earnings are announced in February.  "The question mark is whether they have insurance for these 
types of things," said Jefferies analyst Timothy Allen. "Either 
way, the Street will look at it as more of a one-time issue. 
Maybe going forward their (information technology) costs are 
higher, but I don't know if it's anything more than a couple of 
cents."  More critical, said Allen, is how TJX treats affected 
customers. The company should use the incident as an 
opportunity to offer excellent customer service, he said, 
whether through personal phone calls about the breach or 
discount coupons to lure shoppers back to stores.  The breach may have compromised privileged information 
about credit and debit card sales in TJX stores, excluding 
Bob's Stores, in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico 
during 2003 and from mid-May through December 2006.  TJX notified law enforcement immediately after discovering 
the breach, but it said it kept it confidential at the request 
of law enforcement.  Concerned customers can call a helpline at 866-484-6978 in 
the United States, 866-903-1408 in Canada and 0800-77-90-15 in 
the U.K. and Ireland.  (Additional reporting by  Alexandria Sage )