-- NEC says will be able to keep Nasdaq ADR listing
-- 
-- Wed Jan 17, 2007 5:28am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/17/businesspro-nec-sec-dc-idUST25588920070117

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Japan's NEC Corp. ( 6701.T ), mired in an 
accounting mess, said on Wednesday it would be able to keep its 
listing for American Depositary Receipts on Nasdaq provided it 
filed a report by February 28. 

  The electronics group is having to recalculate earnings 
results for the year to last March for submission to the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission, a problem that only got 
worse after it made a sudden switch to Japanese accounting 
rules after missing the SEC deadline in October.  NEC said it is working toward making the new SEC deadline.  The sudden change to Japanese rules led to mistakes and 
forced it to restate first-half earnings.  In December, NEC announced its net loss in the six months 
to September 30 was 34 percent bigger than it had reported in 
November, saying it had made mistakes in accounting 
subsidiaries' tax and had also made errors such as confusing 
book and market value.  The debacle has also prompted the Tokyo Stock Exchange to 
ask NEC to submit a report on steps to improve its disclosure 
practices.  NEC shares have taken a beating since announced it had 
abandoned U.S. accounting standards on October 24. At 
Wednesday's close of 610 yen, it remains 10 percent below its 
October 24 level although it has recovered somewhat from recent 
lows of around 545.  For U.S, authorities, NEC is collecting documents for some 
100,000 contracts at the request of independent auditor Ernst & 
Young ERNY.UL ShinNihon to demonstrate fair pricing of NEC's 
maintenance services.  U.S. auditors are targeting software contracts, demanding 
companies prove with statistical evidence that they are not 
posting profits early from bulk contracts comprising hardware, 
software and maintenance.  NEC has issued some 10 billion yen ($83 million) worth of 
ADRs, or less than 1 percent of its market capitalization. 
Although small, NEC has kept its listing to heighten its 
visibility abroad, executives have said.