-- Producer prices, industrial output up in December
-- By Joanne Morrison
-- Wed Jan 17, 2007 3:00pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/17/businesspro-usa-economy-dc-idUSN1724775220070117

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. producer prices rose in 
December at a more moderate pace than a month earlier and 
industrial output ended the year on a strong note, data on 
Wednesday showed, suggesting little need for the Federal 
Reserve to alter its steady-as-it-goes interest-rate stance. 

  The Labor Department's Producer Price Index increased 0.9 
percent in December. Excluding volatile food and energy prices, 
the index advanced a smaller 0.2 percent.  The Fed reported industrial output that was stronger than 
expected in December, rising 0.4 percent on robust gains in 
manufacturing and mining. For all of 2006, industrial output 
grew 4 percent, the biggest annual gain in six years.  Both reports strengthened the belief the Fed was not likely 
to cut interest rates over the next few months, particularly as 
the economy still showed some risks of inflation.  "I think people are beginning to recognize that the 
economy's not in recession," said Gary Thayer, chief economist 
at A.G. Edwards and Sons Inc. in St. Louis. "Although housing 
is a drag on the activity, the rest of the economy is still 
doing fine."  The Fed had this same message about the economy's strength 
in its Beige Book report, which is comprised of anecdotes from 
the central bank's 12 regions. The report pointed to modest 
economic growth at the end of last year.  While many companies were looking for employees with 
special skills, the Fed report said housing markets continued 
to soften and that bulging inventories of unsold homes were 
slowing construction.  However, other data on Wednesday showed U.S. home-builder 
sentiment has improved in January to its strongest since last 
summer amid price cuts and other incentives. But mortgage 
applications fell last week.  While softer than in November, the government's take on 
inflation at the producer level was higher than expected in 
December. Economists polled by Reuters ahead of the report were 
expecting a 0.5 percent rise in the overall PPI index and a 
more moderate 0.1 percent advance in the so-called core PPI, 
which excludes food and energy prices.  "This only goes to show that there's some inflation risks 
in the U.S. economy. And I guess this backs up what the Fed has 
been saying for so long, that they are still a little bit 
concerned about inflation." said Steven Butler, director of 
foreign exchange trading at Scotia Capital in Toronto.  Treasury prices were slightly weaker while the dollar 
slipped against European currencies. U.S. stocks were up 
slightly in afternoon trading. However, financial markets are 
expected to react more to the crucial Consumer Price Index 
report to be released on Thursday.  Wall Street economists are expecting to a 0.4 percent rise 
in consumer prices in December and a 0.2 percent gain in the 
core CPI.  In 2006, producer prices were up only 1.1 percent, while 
the core index was up 2 percent.  Energy prices in December advanced by 2.5 percent from the 
month before after surging 6.1 percent in November, but 
economists noted this may not be an accurate reading as energy 
prices fell after the department's survey was taken for the 
December report.  "It's a fluke when they took the survey because energy 
prices are down," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard 
and Poor's Ratings Services in New York.
  INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES  The stronger-than-expected rise in industrial output was 
fueled by a 0.7 gain in factory production and a 0.8 increase 
at mines.  Analysts polled by Reuters had predicted a 0.1 percent rise 
in output. But the Fed revised down its November industrial 
output to a 0.1 percent decline from a 0.2 percent increase.  Warm weather in December drove output at utilities down 2.6 
percent. But even so, economists said it was a strong showing 
for the nation's industrial sector.  "Exceptionally warm weather brought buyers to the motor 
vehicle showrooms which helped production in the industry," 
said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist for the 
Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI here.