-- Virgin America again seeks U.S. approval to fly
-- 
-- Wed Jan 17, 2007 6:53pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/17/businesspro-airlines-virgin-us-dc-idUSWAT00686220070117

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Virgin America Inc. revised its 
ownership application on Wednesday, hoping to reverse a 
tentative decision by U.S. regulators to deny its bid to start 
low-cost airline service this year. 

  The company, with branding and financial ties to British 
entrepreneur Richard Branson's Virgin Group VA.UL, has made 
significant changes to its original proposal, which the U.S. 
Transportation Department rejected on December 27.  Transportation planners determined Virgin America failed to 
satisfy a long-standing federal law that limits foreign 
participation in U.S. airlines. Carriers must be controlled by 
U.S. citizens and overseas equity is restricted to 25 percent 
of voting stock.  Regulators found Virgin America had too much financing from 
entities based in the Cayman Islands and foreign limited 
partnerships.  Virgin America has agreed that its U.S.-based investment 
funds, Cyrus Capital Partners and Black Canyon Capital, will 
limit investors to U.S. citizens only. American investors have 
also pledged another $20 million.  Regulators had also cited the pervasive involvement of 
Virgin Group and its executives in the creation of Virgin 
America, and found the new carrier would probably be controlled 
by Branson and his interests.  Virgin Group committed $88.4 million in debt and equity 
financing -- slightly less than one-half of the San 
Francisco-based company's total start-up financing of $177.3 
million. The debt agreements show Virgin America's survival is 
contingent on Virgin Group financing, the Transportation 
Department said in its December finding.  In response, Virgin Group has agreed to "clarify and relax" 
certain items in its trademark license to "demonstrate how 
Virgin America is free to fly with our without the Virgin brand 
name."  Virgin Group also proposed to give up a board seat and 
relinquish veto or consent rights regarding some aspects of 
Virgin America's operations. Virgin Group would hold two of 
eight seats with voting rights.  Virgin Group would also place its voting shares in a trust 
with a trustee approved by the Transportation Department.  Virgin America said it would also remove its chief 
executive, veteran airline executive Fred Reid, if the 
Transportation Department finds that necessary.