-- GM CEO sees deal with Delphi, union, soon
-- 
-- Wed Jan 17, 2007 4:18am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/17/businesspro-gm-wagoner-delphi-dc-idUSN1725688820070117

 

 DEARBORN, Michigan  (Reuters) - General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) 
Chief Executive Rick Wagoner on Tuesday said a deal with 
bankrupt former subsidiary Delphi Corp. DPHIQ.PK and its 
union to cut wages and benefits was possible in the "near 
term." 

  "We can envision potential for a solution in the relatively 
near term," Wagoner told reporters on the sidelines of the 
Automotive News World Congress in Dearborn, Michigan.  "I would hope that next year ... we can talk about how it 
was done relatively early in '07."  GM, which spun off Delphi in 1999, has been in negotiations 
with the parts supplier and its major union to allow the 
supplier to emerge from bankruptcy with lower costs.  GM has made resolving its remaining labor-related issues 
with Delphi a top priority to avoid a potential strike that 
would shut down its North American operations.  The automaker has said it expected its total exposure to 
Delphi's bankruptcy to be $6 billion to $7.5 billion.  Wagoner on Tuesday called a recent decision by a federal 
bankruptcy judge to approve Delphi's $3.4 billion emergence 
plan a "positive step in the right direction."  The court last week approved a bankruptcy-emergence deal 
with a group of investors led by Appaloosa Management LP and 
Cerberus Capital Management.  The hearing was initially postponed following an 
alternative funding plan proposed last month by hedge fund 
Highland Capital Management LP.  Under the Cerberus deal, GM would receive 7 million shares 
of common stock in the reorganized Delphi, $2.63 billion in 
cash and an unconditional release of alleged Delphi claims 
against GM.  The initial Delphi plan was seen as a prod to a faster deal 
between GM, Delphi and the United Auto Workers Union since the 
plan set a January 31 deadline for reaching a three-way 
agreement as a condition for the offer.  Wagoner said on Tuesday the process of trying to negotiate 
a deal has been "incredibly complex," and said remaining issues 
included looking into sales of certain Delphi facilities.  Delphi filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. automotive 
history in October 2005, aiming to slash wages and benefits and 
close some operations to reorganize its money-losing domestic 
unit. International operations were excluded from the filing.