-- Trust banks show strong results
-- By Svea Herbst-Bayliss
-- Wed Jan 17, 2007 2:07pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/17/businesspro-trustbanks-results-dc-idUSN1731864520070117

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - Three of the four largest U.S. trust 
banks -- which manage money, hold securities and process trades 
for clients -- reported strong earnings on Wednesday, as demand 
rose for their asset management and servicing products. 

  Boston-based State Street Corp.( STT.N ), Pittsburgh-based 
Mellon Financial Corp MEL.N and Chicago-based Northern Trust 
Corp ( NTRS.O ) all reported double-digit gains in profit and 
beat or met Wall Street analysts' forecasts, according to 
Reuters Estimates.  But only State Street's stock price rose, gaining 1.83 
percent. Mellon's dipped nearly half a percent and Northern 
Trust's fell as much as 5 percent as analysts picked through 
the numbers and executives gave future forecasts.  "Many people were expecting strong numbers from these 
companies," said Gerard Cassidy, analyst at RBC Capital, 
adding: "but because these were good solid quarters with no 
gimmicks but not blowout quarters, people may be happy to sell 
off the stock a little bit because the news was already built 
in."  State Street, the world's biggest institutional asset 
manager with $1.7 trillion in assets, said fresh growth at its 
State Street Global Advisors money management arm helped 
profits jump 17 percent to $291 million or 86 cents per share. 
Analysts had forecast 84 cents a share for the company.  State Street Global, which created the now hugely popular 
exchange traded funds and is adding more hedge fund products 
for clients, delivered $253 million in management fees, marking 
a 19 percent rise. Asset servicing fees earned from clients 
like Bank of America Corp. ( BAC.N ), Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. 
MER.N and Charles Schwab Corp. SCHW.O rose 10 percent.  Mellon, which will soon combine with former rival Bank of 
New York Co. Inc. ( BK.N ) to create the world's biggest 
securities servicing company and one of the largest asset 
managers, said stronger asset management fees helped net income 
jump 14 percent to $237 million or 57 cents per share.  Merrill Lynch analyst Brian Bedell wrote: "The strong 
quarter should bring modest upside to consensus and supports 
our above-consensus outlook" of $2.54 per share for the year. 
Other analysts are looking for $2.47. For all of 2006, Mellon 
earned $2.25 per share from continuing operations and had net 
income of $2.17.  Mellon boasted a 52 percent jump in investment management 
fee revenue for the fourth quarter. A good chunk of that came 
from hedge fund products which collect fees only once a year, 
executives explained, cautioning analysts to expect a more 
moderate rate of growth in the first quarter.  The company, criticized by a large shareholder early last 
year for trying to do too many things, has recently streamlined 
operations by selling off its venture capital unit, among 
others, and is now trying hard to earn more revenue abroad.  Last year it purchased Scottish asset management firm 
Walter Scott & Partners, and executives said more small 
purchases may be on the horizon.  But to date, Mellon is still lagging State Street on 
foreign earnings, analysts noted.  To stay ahead and possibly expand its lead, State Street's 
sales force will now try to lure clients away from Mellon and 
Bank of New York as the two work on their integration. "We 
share a lot of customers now, and our hope is to get a bigger 
piece," State Street chairman and CEO Ron Logue told Reuters.  Meanwhile, Northern Trust said strong growth in client 
assets pushed net income up 15.7 percent to $170.8 million or 
77 cents per share as assets under management grew 13 percent 
to $697 billion over the same period.  But the numbers disappointed some analysts because the gain 
was fueled, in part, by a lower tax rate.  Analysts also worried that Northern faced higher than 
expected operating expenses, something that was addressed by 
company executives on a conference call. Chief Financial 
Officer Steven Fradkin said the matter would be given 
"additional attention" in the future.