-- Producer prices signal inflation risk
-- By Joanne Morrison
-- Wed Jan 17, 2007 11:00am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/17/businesspro-usa-economy-prices-dc-idUSN1616642720070117

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. producer prices rose more than 
expected in December but they advanced at a far more moderate 
pace than a month earlier on smaller gains in energy prices, a 
government report on Wednesday showed. 

  The Labor Department's Producer Price Index increased by 
0.9 percent in December. Excluding volatile food and energy 
prices, the index advanced by 0.2 percent. Still, the gains 
were greater than expected.  They added to expectations that the Federal Reserve is not 
likely to cut interest rates over the next few months as the 
economy still shows some risks of inflation.  Economists polled by Reuters ahead of the report were 
expecting a 0.5 percent rise in the overall index and a more 
moderate 0.1 percent advance in the so-called core PPI, which 
excludes food and energy prices.  "This only goes to show that there's some inflation risks 
in the U.S. economy. And I guess this backs up what the Fed has 
been saying for so long, that they are still a little bit 
concerned about inflation." said Steven Butler, director of 
foreign exchange trading at Scotia Capital in Toronto.  Treasury prices shed their gains right after release of the 
report, while the dollar rose against other major currencies. 
But financial markets are expected to react more to the crucial 
Consumer Price Index report to be released on Thursday.  Wall Street economists are expecting to see a 0.4 percent 
rise in consumer prices in December and a 0.2 percent gain in 
the core CPI.  Even so, U.S. short-term interest rate futures slipped on 
Wednesday, keeping the implied chances of a Federal Reserve 
rate cut in the next few months minimal.  "We've seen strong economic growth and virtually zero 
chance of the Fed lowering rates, and all that puts pressure on 
the Fed to keep rates at the same level," said Boris 
Schlossberg, senior currency strategist at Forex Capital 
Markets in New York.
  NOVEMBER PRICES HIGHER  In November, prices rose 2.0 percent on a surge in prices 
for gasoline and cars and light trucks, while the core rate 
advanced by 1.3 percent.  In December, prices were up 1.1 percent compared with the 
same period the year earlier for the overall index and by 2.0 
percent for the core index.  Energy prices in December advanced by 2.5 percent after 
surging 6.1 percent in November. The Labor Department said 
prices for passenger cars were down 0.2 percent in December 
while prices for light trucks advanced 0.7 percent. That was 
after prices for both cars and light trucks posted huge gains 
the prior month.  A separate government report on Wednesday that measures 
investment in U.S. assets showed an increase in November. 
According to a Treasury Department report, net overall capital 
inflow into the United States increased to $74.9 billion in 
November from $60.4 billion in October.  The flows were large enough to cover the U.S. trade deficit 
that month, which was $58.2 billion.