-- Jefferies CEO Discloses $200 Million of Deferred Pay
-- Miles Weiss
-- 2007-04-11T19:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-11/jefferies-ceo-discloses-200-million-of-deferred-pay-update2-.html

          
          
             Richard Handler , the chairman of
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , stashed away more than $200 million in
deferred compensation since joining the brokerage 17 years ago,
mostly through stock awards he received in lieu of cash.  
 Jefferies, a New York-based brokerage, disclosed the size of
Handler's nest egg for the first time in a proxy statement filed
yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
deferred stock awards became more valuable as the company's stock
soared.  
 Handler, 45, ``made an equity risk along with other
shareholders and it must have turned out well for him,'' said
 Alan Johnson , the managing director of Johnson Associates Inc., a
 New York  compensation consultant that specializes in the
financial services industry. ``It's hard to complain about
that.''  
 The SEC adopted rules last July that require public
companies to begin providing new details this year on deferred
compensation, including the entire amount that top executives
have squirreled away, said Jannice Koors, a managing director at
New York-based compensation consulting firm Pearl Meyer &
Partners. ``That number has never ever been disclosed anywhere''
Koors said.  
 Rising Share Price  
 According to yesterday's  proxy statement , Handler had $201.7
million of deferred compensation at the end of 2006. That
included $151.2 million of deferred stock bonuses plus
appreciation, $10.9 million in a company deferred compensation
plan, and $39.6 million Handler had earned as head of the high
yield division and placed in a self-directed deferred account.  
 The deferred compensation disclosure shows how Handler has
come to own almost 10 percent of Jefferies shares since signing
on as an executive vice president in 1990. By delaying income
taxes on his stock bonuses until age 65, Handler reaped the full
benefit of Jefferies' rising share price, which increased at an
average annual rate of almost 26 percent since 2000.  
 Most investment bankers who receive stock bonuses must sell
or forfeit shares to pay federal income taxes of as much as 30
percent that come due when they receive full title to the awards.
By placing his grants in deferred compensation accounts, Handler
put off these taxes until he reaches age 65, eliminating the need
to sell shares and allowing him to fully capture the gains in
Jefferies' stock market value.  
 ``He chose to defer his stock awards instead of cashing them
out when they vested and going to buy a boat,'' said Koors, the
New York compensation consultant. ``It doesn't mean he got a
better deal than somebody at another company.''  
 Jefferies spokesman  Tom Tarrant  declined to comment.  
 Started With Milken  
 After graduating from  Stanford University  with an MBA in
1987 and working with  Michael Milken  at Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc., Handler joined Jefferies and co-founded its high-yield bond
division. Now chief executive officer as well as chairman,
Handler took most of his pay in the form of company stock, and by
the end of 2006 had built up a 9.6 percent stake comprised of
11.7 million company shares.  
 In general, the deferred compensation totals disclosed this
year have often been lower than anticipated, according to Mark Borges, a former SEC attorney who is now a principal at Mercer
Human Resource Consulting in  Washington .  
 ``We were all expecting to see $100 million in everybody's
account, but that wasn't the case,'' Borges said in an interview
today. Borges said many of the proxies he has reviewed show
executives have accumulated less than $1 million in deferred
salaries and bonuses.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Erik Schatzker  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        