-- Gazprom to Resume Ukraine Talks After Debt Repayment
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2008-11-26T12:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-11-26/gazprom-to-resume-ukraine-talks-after-debt-repayment-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom said it plans to resume
talks with  Ukraine  on the price of natural gas once  Russia ’s
neighbor begins repaying debts, pledging to do “everything” to
avoid a supply cut.  
 Negotiations could start if Ukraine meets a Dec. 1 deadline
to pay at least $430 million for gas purchased in September and
part of a debt for October,  Sergei Kupriyanov , spokesman for the
Moscow-based company, told reporters on a conference call today.  
 Ukraine can pay the September debt once it acquires enough
dollars, Oleh Dubina, chief executive officer of state energy
company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, told reporters in Kiev. Ukraine’s
hryvnia fell to a record low against the dollar earlier today.  
 Russia’s gas exporter has urged Naftogaz to clear the debt,
without ruling out that a 2006 cutoff could be repeated in
January. The dispute stalled talks on a gradual increase in
Ukraine’s gas price agreed by Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and his Ukrainian counterpart, Yulia Timoshenko, in October.  
 Gazprom will do “everything” to avoid a cutoff after Dec.
31, Kupriyanov said. A price dispute led the company to shut off
supplies to Ukraine for more than two days in January 2006,
causing a drop in volumes in  Europe . Ukraine, whose pipelines ship
80 percent of Russian gas exports to western Europe, experienced
another disruption in March amid a disagreement over debt.  
 Late Payment Fines  
 A discrepancy in how much Ukraine owes Gazprom arose because
Naftogaz didn’t count penalties and fines for late payment,
Kupriyanov said. Ukraine owes $430 million for September, $800
million for October and $340 million in penalties and fines, he
said. Including November, Naftogaz has a total debt of $2.4
billion, according to Gazprom.  
 Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller to recover the debt at a Nov. 20 meeting. Miller said later
the same day that Gazprom could more than double the price Ukraine
pays for supplies to at least $400 per 1,000 cubic meters.  
 Bohdan Sokolovskyi, an aide to Ukrainian President  Viktor Yushchenko , said yesterday the country owes $400 million for
September and $860 million for October, without naming an amount
for November.  
 One of the conditions of the agreement reached by Putin and
Timoshenko is that all outstanding debt is repaid, Kupriyanov
said. The key provisions of that deal are long-term, direct
contracts between Gazprom and Naftogaz; a gradual transition to
market prices; and permission for Gazprom to supply Ukrainian
retail consumers with 7.5 billion cubic meters of the 55 billion
cubic meters of gas supplied annually.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucian Kim in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Guy Collins at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        