-- Sportingbet says Louisiana drops charges
-- 
-- Wed Mar 21, 2007 6:21am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/21/businesspro-sportingbet-louisiana-dc-idUSL2141583120070321

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - Sportingbet Plc SBT.L said on 
Wednesday the state of Louisiana had withdrawn charges of 
"gambling by computer" against its former chairman, Peter 
Dicks, whose arrest heralded a U.S. crackdown on online gaming. 

  Sportingbet said in a statement it had reached an amicable 
resolution with the St Landry District Attorney in the State of 
Louisiana meaning "all related warrants issued by the Louisiana 
State Police have been canceled with immediate effect."  Sportingbet said both it and the St Landry District 
Attorney now consider the matter closed.  On September 7, Peter Dicks, then Sportingbet's chairman, 
was arrested in New York at the request of Louisiana. Dicks's 
arrest came before the United States banned online gaming 
financial transactions in October.  Dicks fought moves to transfer him to Louisiana and was 
freed on September 29 to return to Britain after New York Gov. 
George Pataki reviewed the documents and decided extradition to 
Louisiana was not appropriate.  Dicks's lawyer Barry Slotnick said at the time, "As the 
governor did not sign the warrant, we believe Louisiana should 
withdraw their warrant."  Sportingbet is now the subject of a takeover approach, 
having said on March 7 it was in talks with Austrian Internet 
bookmaker bwin BWIN.VI, marking the first move in a 
long-awaited consolidation of European betting operators.  Bwin's move came a day after Europe's highest court ruled 
in favor of European Union gambling liberalization.  The online gaming industry is struggling to consolidate to 
cut costs and improve margins after the U.S. ban.  On February 28, Sportingbet posted a 54 percent increase in 
second-quarter profit excluding its former U.S. operations 
which it sold in October for a nominal $1 after taking a 210 
million pounds ($411 million) charge following the U.S. ban.  At 0950 GMT, Sportingbet shares, which peaked at 452 pence 
in January 2006, were up 7.2 percent to a five-month high at 
67.25 pence that valued the company at 291 million pounds.