-- Subprime jitters subside as funding found
-- By  Pedro Nicolaci da Costa
-- Wed Mar 21, 2007 12:21pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/21/businesspro-usa-subprime-dc-idUSN2142228420070321

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Fears that turbulence in the high-risk 
mortgage market would spread eased on Wednesday after two 
lenders managed to secure enough money to stay afloat. 

  Fremont General Corp. FMT.N announced it is selling $4 
billion of subprime residential loans to an unidentified buyer, 
a move that drove its battered stock up as much as 19 percent 
to a session high at $10.45 on the New York Stock Exchange.  Meanwhile, hedge fund operator Citadel LP has taken a 4.5 
percent stake in Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co. LEND.O, 
a San Diego-based subprime lender. Accredited's stock climbed 
more than 10 percent to a session high at $11.91 on Nasdaq.  "That consolidation effort makes it less of a contagion," 
said Mark Ficke, head of U.S. government bond trading at BNP 
Paribas in New York.  Still, troubled lenders were paying a steep price for their 
newfound cash.  Accredited will pay a hefty 13 percent annual interest to 
Farallon Capital Management, a San Francisco hedge fund that 
has offered the company a five-year loan for $200 million. 
Fremont itself acknowledged it was taking a $140 million 
pre-tax hit on the sale of its loans.  It was too early to say whether such fresh sources of 
funding would be enough to keep a lid on the housing debacle, 
which many analysts worry could have a ripple effect through 
the economy.  Investors are especially keen to hear the Federal Reserve's 
thinking on the matter, with the release of the central bank's 
policy statement due out in a few hours.  Preemptively, the bond market turned lower on the idea that 
limited fallout from the subprime crisis would translate into a 
resilient economy that did not require any additional monetary 
stimulus.  The latest data hardly pointed to economic acceleration, 
though, with U.S. mortgage applications slipping even as 
interest rates hovered near recent lows.
  MORE SUBPRIME OVERSIGHT SOUGHT  As the troubles in the subprime market simmered, 
politicians in Washington have been calling for greater 
oversight, with a congressional panel expected to hold a 
hearing on the matter on Thursday.  But executives from New Century Mortgage Corp. ( NEWC.PK ) 
refused to testify at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on the 
issue, although executives from four other major subprime 
lenders are expected to make an appearance. New Century's stock 
is down almost 18 percent at $1.39 on the Pink Sheets.  Subprime lenders are struggling because of rising 
delinquencies and defaults, and in many cases because they 
lowered their underwriting standards too far. Many, including 
Fremont, have announced plans to cut jobs.  The layoffs have extended beyond the subprime sector, 
however, affecting larger banks like Wells Fargo ( WFC.N ). The 
fifth-largest U.S. bank said on Tuesday it was eliminating 121 
jobs in Tempe, Arizona, in a unit that offers mortgages to 
higher-risk borrowers.  Wells Fargo's cuts are on top of 323 previously announced 
job cuts in the home loan unit, including 252 in Fort Mill, 
South Carolina, and 71 in Concord, California. Wells Fargo 
shares slipped 0.6 percent to $34.42 on the NYSE.  (Additional reporting by  Burton Frierson )