-- Carrefour Must Find Property `Solutions,' Duran Says
-- Elliott Gotkine
-- 2007-03-29T15:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-29/carrefour-must-find-property-solutions-duran-says-update3-.html

          
          
             Carrefour SA (CA) , Europe's biggest
retailer, must find ways to sell real estate without disturbing
its operations, Chief Executive Officer Jose Luis Duran said.  
 ``We have to find solutions,'' the CEO said today in an
interview during a conference in  Barcelona , Spain.  
 Duran softened his stance on real estate after strategy talks
with representatives of Colony Capital LLC and Groupe Arnault, who
teamed up this month to buy a 9.8 percent stake in Paris-based
Carrefour. The CEO has resisted property sales until now, arguing
that loss of control over rental costs would erode margins.  
 ``We all agree on targets -- how to go quicker, how to go
faster, and how to create more value for shareholders,'' he
said. ``The question is how to do it without endangering the
operating side of the business.''  
 The retailer is ``clearly undervalued'' and has ``enormous
potential'' for development,  Bernard Arnault , the billionaire
CEO of luxury-goods maker  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
said today on Europe1 radio.  
 ``Colony has pushed the management to think more about how
to extract value from real estate,'' said Emmanuel Soupre, who
helps oversee $33 billion in stocks as a fund manager at Banque
de Neuflize in Paris. ``We will see if the relationship turns
out to be a happy couple or an arranged marriage.''  
 Too Low?  
 Carrefour has 6 million square meters (64.6 million square
feet) of retail space excluding warehouses and backrooms worth
15 billion euros ($20 billion) to 20 billion euros, according
to Finance Director Eric Reiss. That's too low, analysts and
investors say.  
 The retailer's land and buildings, 80 percent of which are
located in Europe, are worth at least 26 billion euros,
according to Guillaume Rascoussier, an analyst at Oddo & Cie.
in Paris. ``Carrefour may first sell its shopping centers and
subsequently launch an IPO of its Carrefour Property
subsidiary,'' he wrote in a March 26 note.  
 Duran said he aims to continue raising sales with the help
of discounts. Executives will accelerate the price-cutting
strategy implemented in the past 24 months, he said.  
 The CEO declined to comment on speculation about a possible
bid for Carrefour, the operator of Champion supermarkets, by
buyout firms. ``There is not a single company, not just in
retail, where private equity is not looking around,'' he said.  
 Family Stake  
 The company's stock has gained 19 percent this year,
helped by speculation that the 13 percent stake controlled by
its main investor may be for sale. The holding, owned by the
Halley family, will not be sold, a spokesman said March 23.  
 Carrefour is gearing up to enter  India  in ``months to
come'' and taking time to choose a partner, according to Duran.
``It's a difficult market where we absolutely have to have a
partner,'' he said.  
 Duran declined to comment on reports that Carrefour is in
talks to form a joint venture with  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
India's largest company by market value. Reliance, whose
activities range from refining oil to making textiles, is
adding to its retail division to capitalize on growth of the
Indian middle class and a pending loosening of retail laws.  
 Carrefour shares added 63 cents, or 1.2 percent, to 54.72
euros in Paris today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        