-- Roche to Buy CuraGen Unit for $140 Million to Map DNA
-- Angela Cullen
-- 2007-03-29T20:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-29/roche-to-buy-curagen-unit-for-140-million-to-map-dna-update6-.html

          
          
             Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world's
biggest maker of diagnostic tests, agreed to buy CuraGen Corp.'s
454 Life Sciences for $140 million in cash to gain the company's
DNA-mapping technology.  
 Shareholders of 454 Life Sciences, a majority-owned unit of
CuraGen, may also get as much as $14.9 million in cash from
holders of stock options and warrants, if those are exercised,
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche said today in a statement on its
Web site. Roche already had a research collaboration with the
company that gave it access to the genome-sequencing system.  
 454 Life Sciences' machines can read how genetic sequences
are organized on a single strand of DNA. German scientists are
using the technology to try to uncover the genetic makeup of
Neanderthals using 45,000-year-old bones found in  Croatia , the
company said last year. Mapping can also help identify the
genetic cause of a disease or suggest ways to treat it.  
 ``This acquisition is part of our strategy to strengthen our
position as a major player in the sequencing market,'' Severin Schwan, who heads Roche's diagnostics unit, said in the
statement. ``Our existing collaboration is very successful.''  
 Roche shares gained 2.9 Swiss francs, or 1.4 percent, to
217.1 francs at the close of trading in Zurich. CuraGen shares
slid 77 cents, or 20 percent, to $3.07 at the  New York  close of
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  
 ``It's an interesting addition for Roche Diagnostics, but
it's not relevant to the value of the company's stock,'' said
Holger Geissler, who manages the equivalent of $1.8 billion in
pharmaceutical stocks, including Roche, at DWS Investment GmbH in
Frankfurt.  
 Avastin  
 Separately, the European Union approved Roche's and
Genentech Inc.'s Avastin drug as a first choice to treat breast
cancer that has spread, in combination with chemotherapy. The
approval was based on tests that showed the medicine helps women
live on average twice as long as those given chemotherapy alone.  
 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration last year delayed
approving Avastin, Roche's and partner Genentech Inc.'s second-biggest cancer product, to treat breast tumors because it wanted
more time to analyze the safety and effectiveness of the drug.  
 ``This is a positive signal given the delay for this
indication in the U.S.,'' said Geissler in a televised interview
today.  
 Avastin was first approved in the U.S. in February 2004 as a
first-choice treatment for people with colon cancer that had
spread.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Marthe Fourcade in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen in  Frankfurt  at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        