-- `Sarah Palin's Alaska' Is Most-Watched Premiere on Discovery's TLC Network
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-15T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/-sarah-palin-s-alaska-is-most-watched-premiere-on-discovery-s-tlc-network.html
"Sarah Palin’s Alaska," the reality-
TV show on  Discovery Communications Inc. ’s TLC network,
drew 4.96 million viewers for its premiere episode last night.  The documentary-style series, in which  former Alaska Governor Palin  explores the state’s wilderness and lifestyle,
was the most-watched premiere ever on TLC, topping the 2003
initial episode of “What Not to Wear,” the network said today
in a press release.  Palin, 46, and husband Todd encounter fighting bears while
they are fishing, and viewers get a glimpse of everyday life,
including Palin doing at-home TV news interviews and keeping
boys from going upstairs with their daughter Willow.  TLC has been increasing food and family-reality programming
to help drive ratings following the end of “Jon and Kate Plus
8,”  Richard Greenfield , an analyst with BTIG LLC, wrote in a
report last month. Viewership was up 10 percent on TLC in the
third quarter, according to Greenfield.  The initial episode was watched by 1.8 million viewers age
25 to 54, 1.1 million of whom were women, the cable network
said, citing Nielsen Co. data. The eight-week series airs at 9
p.m. New York time on Sundays and is produced by Mark Burnett
Productions.  Discovery Communications, based in Silver Spring, Maryland,
fell 17 cents to $40.23 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The  shares  have gained 31 percent this year.  Palin’s 20-year-old daughter  Bristol Palin  has also been in
a leading role on TV lately. She’s competing on Walt Disney Co.-
owned ABC’s “Dancing With the Stars,” and fans including Tea
Party supporters have been driving votes to help her overcome
low judges’ ratings and stay on the show. “Dancing With the
Stars” is TV’s most-watched show this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  