-- Lacker Calls for Fed Policy Move to Avoid 1970s-Style Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-11-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/lacker-calls-for-fed-policy-moves-to-avert-repeat-of-1970s-style-inflation.html
The Federal Reserve may soon need to
tighten policy even amid a high U.S. unemployment rate to avert
a rise in prices similar to the 1970s, Richmond Fed President
 Jeffrey Lacker  said.  “At some point in the not-too-distant future, we are
likely to face an economy growing in a self-sustaining way while
the unemployment rate is still relatively high by historical
standards,” Lacker said yesterday in a speech in Richmond,
Virginia. “The decisions we make at that time will be the true
test of whether we’ve learned our lessons.”  The central bank on Nov. 3 said it would buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June, expanding record
stimulus to try to reduce 9.6 percent unemployment and keep
inflation from dropping. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to
boost growth after near-zero interest rates and $1.7 trillion in
securities purchases helped pull the economy out of recession
without bringing down joblessness close to a 26-year high.  “It is not the high level of unemployment alone that
motivated the action, but rather the slow pace of improvement
and the belief that further monetary stimulus could help,”
Lacker said.  The U.S. added 151,000 jobs last month as employment gained
for the first time in five months, while the jobless rate held
steady. The unemployment rate may average 9.3 percent in 2011,
according to the median forecast of 52 economists surveyed this
month by Bloomberg News.  ‘False Expectations’  “Risks remain, especially those associated with
inadvertently creating false expectations that the Fed is
preoccupied with achieving a specific level of the unemployment
rate,” Lacker said at the 2010 International Conference for
Advanced Placement Economics teachers.  Today’s monetary policy might benefit from a review of the
1960s and 1970s, when a focus on unemployment led to an
acceleration in inflation, Lacker said.  “Monetary policy can alter unemployment only
temporarily,” he said. “Trying to keep unemployment
permanently lower than it otherwise would be, as was the
objective in the second half of the 1960s, is a recipe for
continually accelerating inflation.”  Lacker told reporters after his speech the Fed would resist
pressure to help the Treasury finance the debt as happened in
the late 1930s and 1940s. “I think we’ve learned the lessons of
that pretty well,” he said.  Not Monetize Debt  The purpose of further easing “isn’t to monetize the
debt,” he said. Instead, it’s “designed to improve the outlook
for inflation and unemployment.”  Since the 1980s, the Fed has achieved credibility in
fighting inflation by tightening policy when necessary, Lacker
said in response to audience questions.  “It takes vigilance going forward to maintain that
credibility,” he said.  Lacker described the current level of unemployment as
“very high,” adding, “the consensus outlook for a relatively
slow recovery in economic output -- growth in the 2.5- to 3-
percent range in the next year -- suggests that progress toward
more desirable rates of unemployment may continue to be slow.”  Fed officials are debating why unemployment is persisting
close to 10 percent. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  says
businesses are holding back because of uncertainty over new
regulations, such as health-care reform, and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis says a mismatch of worker skills and
jobs is contributing to the problem.  Weak Demand  Others, led by Bernanke, say weak demand is a primary
cause. “The pace of structural change is not greater than
normal,” he said in a speech in Boston last month, and “the
bulk of the increase in unemployment since the recession began
is attributable to the sharp contraction in economic activity.”  “Inflation recently has been quite low,” Lacker said,
adding in response to an audience question that he was
“comfortable” with the current level and doesn’t see deflation
as a “major risk.”  The Fed’s preferred gauge for consumer prices, which
excludes food and energy, rose 1.2 percent in September from a
year earlier, the slowest pace since 2001. Fed policy makers
have a long-run goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent inflation they
see as consistent with achieving legislative mandates for
maximum employment and stable prices.  Surges in the price of commodities aren’t a concern by
themselves, Lacker told reporters after his speech. “Our job is
not to stamp out large relative price movements,” he said.
Rather, the goal is to “keep overall domestic value of currency
stable.”  The Fed said after its latest meeting “the unemployment
rate is elevated, and measures of underlying inflation are
somewhat low” compared with its mandate. “Progress toward its
objectives has been disappointingly slow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  