-- TAIF May Sell Shares in Units to Fund $11 Billion Russian Refining Plan
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-11-15T13:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/taif-may-sell-shares-in-units-to-fund-11-billion-russian-refining-plan.html
TAIF , an investment group based in
Russia’s Tatarstan region, will decide this year on a plan to
sell shares in its refineries and chemical plants to help fund
347 billion rubles ($11 billion) of investments.  “Talks are ongoing with banks, there are offers,” said
 Albert Shigaboutdinov , general director of the group, which had
almost $8 billion of assets at the end of last year. “We will
choose the best way to do this: loans, bonds, an IPO.”  The group is considering selling equity in the TAIF-NK oil
refinery and petrochemicals units  OAO Nizhnekamskneftekhim  and
OAO Kazanorgsintez to fund the investment plan through 2016,
Shigaboutdinov said in an interview in Tatarstan’s capital,
Kazan. More detailed plans will be ready by the end of the first
quarter, he said.  Demand for Russian equities rebounded in the third quarter
after the 30-stock Micex  Index  in Moscow rallied to its highest
since July 2008. Russian companies, including  Mail.ru , an
investor in Facebook Inc., have sold $6.3 billion this year from
$1.2 billion in 2009, Bloomberg data show. That compares with
$36 billion in 2007, when Russia accounted for about a third of
IPOs on the London Stock Exchange, according to Morgan Stanley.  TAIF holds stakes in more than 70 companies in Tatarstan
and sponsors the Rubin Kazan soccer club, which will play
Barcelona in the Champions League next month. The three plants
will probably have net income of 15.6 billion rubles on revenue
of 248 billion rubles this year, according to a presentation.  JPMorgan, Merrill Lynch  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch have
sent representatives to visit the Nizhnekamskneftekhim unit,
Russia’s largest petrochemicals plant, according to an Oct. 28
 statement  on the plant’s website.  “The chemicals units have the most potential for an IPO,”
Mikhail Ganelin, a Moscow-based analyst at Troika Dialog, said
by phone today. Nizhnekamskneftekhim “has the most transparency
of all of TAIFs businesses. It has strong financials, it has
reported IFRS results for more than three years and it is one of
the largest producers of synthetic rubber and plastics in
eastern Europe.”  Valuing TAIF’s businesses is difficult, said Ganelin
because of a historical lack of transparency.  Improving Refineries  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has urged Russian industry to
produce more value-added goods and move away from reliance on
sales of raw materials. The state sets a lower export tax burden
on refiners than crude suppliers and has prepared an order to
bar new oil refineries with a depth of less than 70 percent from
using state-run OAO Transneft’s pipelines. Refining depth refers
to the quality and range of products a plant is able to produce.  TAIF is planning 88 billion rubles of investment for the
TAIF-NK oil refinery, which processed 7.75 million tons of oil
(about 155,000 barrels a day) last year. The investment will be
used to improve the plant’s refining depth to 98.5 percent from
72 percent now and increase capacity to 10.1 million tons a year
in 2016, according to the group’s annual report.  TAIF may invest 149 billion rubles in Nizhnekamskneftekhim,
Shigaboutdinov said. Another 110 billion is planned for the
Kazanorgsintez petrochemical plant at, according to the
presentation. The plants produce materials for plastics, pipes
and tires among other products, he said.  Russian demand for petrochemicals will continue to grow as
the country develops end-product manufacturing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 