-- Pilot-Rest Rule May Be 15 Times More Costly Than Projected, Airlines Say
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-11-16T16:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/airlines-call-on-faa-to-withdraw-onerous-u-s-pilot-rest-plan.html
A Federal Aviation Administration
plan to give pilots more rest in response to a fatal crash in
upstate New York will be 15 times more expensive than projected,
the airlines’ trade group said in opposing the rules.  The Air Transport Association in Washington, representing
the nation’s biggest carriers, said the plan is “onerous” and
would cost $19.6 billion in the next 10 years, not $1.25 billion
as projected by the FAA.  “The factual record that the FAA organized is riddled with
mistakes and the analysis fails to make a rational connection
between the facts, science and operational experience,” the
trade group, whose members include  United Continental Holdings
Inc.  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. , said yesterday in comments.  Labor unions for pilots also faulted the agency proposal,
signaling the FAA failed to reach a consensus on a plan that
would revamp fatigue rules that have been in effect for decades
with results of research showing the number of takeoffs and
landings, not just hours worked, affects tiredness.  The  rule  proposed on Sept. 10, which could change after the
comments are reviewed, must become final by next August, under a
deadline set by Congress.  The agency is proposing that airline pilots would get nine
hours of  rest  between shifts, a 13 percent rise from current
schedules. The changes, prompted by an airplane crash that left
no survivors last year near Buffalo, New York, also would
require that pilots get at least 30 consecutive work-free hours
a week, a 25 percent increase from existing rules.  Research, Operations  The agency should work with airlines to write a rule using
scientific research and information about airline operations,
airline trade association Chief Executive Officer  James May  said
in a statement.  Pilots for carriers such as  AMR Corp. ’s American
Airlines and  US Airways Group Inc.  also object, saying the FAA
should scrap part of the plan that in some cases would let crews
operate the controls as long as 10 hours, up from eight.  “You cannot reduce pilot fatigue by increasing the time
the pilot is at the controls,”  Jeffrey Skiles , first officer on
the US Airways flight that crashed without fatalities into the
Hudson River in New York in January 2009, said at a Nov. 10 news
conference.  The FAA began overhauling the rules in June 2009, four
months after a regional carrier flying for  Continental Airlines
Inc.  crashed near Buffalo, killing 50 people, including both
pilots. The National Transportation Safety Board concluded the
pilots’ performances probably were impaired by fatigue, though
it couldn’t determine the extent of their tiredness or the role
that may have played.  Colgan Pilot  Captain Marvin Renslow, 47, “had experienced chronic sleep
loss,” the board said in its report, which blamed the crash of
the plane from  Pinnacle Airline Corp .’s Colgan Air unit on his
incorrect response to a cockpit stall warning.  The Regional Airline Association, a Washington-based group
with members including Pinnacle, said in its comments yesterday
that it would support any FAA effort to withdraw and replace the
current pilot-fatigue plan.  “The magnitude of the necessary changes that we see is
beyond what we would have hoped for,” according to the
association, whose members include  Republic Airways Holdings
Inc.  and  SkyWest Inc.  “Airlines strongly believe that getting
the regulation right is more important than getting it out
quickly.”  The proposal limits workdays to as few as nine hours when a
pilot flies seven or more segments. Those who start between
midnight and 4 a.m. also face a nine-hour limit. Pilots who
begin from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. could work as long as 13 hours.  The maximum workday would be trimmed to 13 hours, from 16
under the 1940s-era rules last updated in 1985. Unions have said
the current eight-hour break between shifts is insufficient,
because after waiting in airport security lines and traveling to
hotels, pilots may have only a few hours for sleep.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  