-- Haiti Cholera Epidemic Threatens Security Two Weeks Before Polls, UN Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-15T20:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/haiti-cholera-epidemic-threatens-security-two-weeks-before-polls-un-says.html
The cholera epidemic that has killed
more than 900 people in Haiti is an “issue of national
security” two weeks before elections there, the head of  United
Nations  humanitarian aid operations said today.  “This is far beyond, now, a health or sanitation matter,”
 Nigel Fisher  told reporters in New York during a teleconference
from Haiti’s capital, Port-au-Prince.  Fisher said the UN is concerned about “political
incitement of demonstrations” against cholera treatment centers
and UN peacekeeping bases ahead of Nov. 28 presidential and
parliamentary elections.  More than 700 demonstrators targeted a UN base and cholera
treatment centers today in Cap Haitien, Haiti’s second-largest
city. Haitians who claim UN peacekeeping soldiers from Nepal
were the cause of the cholera outbreak set two police stations
on fire after clashing with authorities in a protest at a UN
base, according to Radio Kiskeya.  “We had to fire tear gas to disburse the crowd,” Vincenzo
Pugliese, a spokesman for the UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti,
said. “The situation remains volatile.”  The UN is concerned that cholera centers are being targeted
because of fears that people living in surrounding neighborhoods
will become infected, and that Nepalese peacekeepers are being
blamed for bringing the disease into the country, Pugliese said.
The UN has traced the strain of cholera to southern Asia, but
hasn’t confirmed that it was brought into Haiti by Nepalese
soldiers.  The outbreak has killed 917 people, with 14,642
hospitalizations, according to the Haitian Health Ministry’s
website.  ‘Easily Manipulated’  Pugliese said that with the combination of the cholera
epidemic and the earthquake that killed 300,000 people in
January, “people become vulnerable and are easily
manipulated.”  Haiti, the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, is
still recovering from the earthquake that caused $7.8 billion in
damage and crippled the nation’s government. The cholera
outbreak originated last month in the Artibonite River valley,
which wasn’t severely damaged by the earthquake.  The UN and Haiti’s government are countering the unrest
with an education campaign including hourly radio messages about
how to prevent the spread of cholera and a six-hour program
yesterday. Mobile phone text messages and loudspeakers in camps
for the 1.3 million people displaced by the earthquake also are
being used.  The UN last week issued an appeal for $160 million in aid
to deal with the epidemic. Fisher said that the number of cases
will increase “significantly” in coming days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  