-- Majestic Wine Chief Says Retailers Should Cut Down on Cheap Drink Deals
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-11-15T14:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/majestic-wine-chief-says-retailers-should-cut-down-on-cheap-drink-deals.html
Majestic Wine Plc  Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Lewis  said U.K. retailers are acting irresponsibly
by offering discounts on alcohol as concern mounts that cheap
booze promotions are fueling Britain’s drinking culture.  The CEO said formal attempts to ban the sale of alcohol at
below cost are unlikely to succeed. “I don’t think there’s any
appetite for minimum pricing in the industry,” he said in a
telephone interview today.  Public pressure to tackle excessive drinking is growing,
with violent crime fueled by alcohol costing the nation as much
as 13 billion pounds ($21 billion) a year,  the Home Office 
estimates. Alcohol consumption has risen 40 percent in England
since 1970 to the equivalent of 120 bottles of wine a year per
adult, according to the U.K.’s chief medical officer. The new
government is reviewing alcohol taxation and pricing.  “Some of the pricing activity taking place in U.K.
retailers at the moment is highly irresponsible,” said Lewis,
an executive board member of  The Wine and Spirit Trade
Association . “Some of the prices on beer and spirits are highly
irresponsible and they are not good for the industry. They bring
down critical attention on the industry.”  Little more than half the alcohol drunk in the U.K. is now
consumed in pubs, down from 88 percent in 1979, as supermarkets
can offer heavily discounted deals, known as loss-leaders. In
2009, 40 pubs a week closed, according to the British Beer and
Pub Association.  “Majestic just don’t go in there, we’re not into loss-
leading spirits and beers,” Lewis said.  Price Controls  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  backs plans for local
councils to impose a minimum price for alcohol, according to an
August interview with the Manchester Evening News newspaper.  The newspaper quoted Cameron as saying that he was “very
supportive” of proposals by councils in Greater Manchester to
make it illegal for pubs and shops to sell alcohol for less than
50 pence a unit within their boundaries.  “It’s only right and proper that the government requires
the industry to act in a more responsible way,” Lewis said. “I
don’t take any great enjoyment about being part of an industry
unless that industry is prepared to act in a responsible way.”  In May,  Tesco Plc , the largest U.K. retailer, said it would
support any government plan to introduce a minimum price on
beers, wine, ciders and spirits, should lawmakers proceed with
such a measure.  ‘Lost Opportunity’  Last week, Scottish lawmakers rejected a plan to impose a
minimum price on alcoholic drinks in a vote that the British
Medical Association in Scotland called a “lost opportunity” to
improve the nation’s health.  The minority  Scottish National Party  government proposed to
ban the sale of alcohol under 45 pence a unit. The bill was
opposed 76 to 49, with four uncast ballots.  The proposal would have resulted in a minimum price of
12.60 pounds for a 70-centiliter (24-ounce) bottle of Scotch
whisky, up from an average price of 10.85 pounds in Scotland,
according to the Scotch Whisky Association.  Majestic reported an 18 percent increase in first-half
profit as it added more customers. Net income advanced to 5.1
million pounds for the 26 weeks to Sept. 27, from 4.3 million
pounds a year earlier, it said today in a statement.  The company last year lowered its minimum purchase
requirement to six bottles from 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 