-- Hajj Spells Contracts for Companies as Pilgrims Flock to Mecca
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2010-11-16T16:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/hajj-spells-contracts-for-companies-as-pilgrims-flock-to-saudi-holy-cities.html
The biggest religious gathering in
the world is getting bigger for business.  The annual Hajj pilgrimage is spurring opportunities for
companies like the Saudi Binladin Group and Hilton Worldwide
Inc. as the government in Saudi Arabia invests in new rail lines
and airport expansions needed to meet the rising number of
Muslim pilgrims to Islam’s two holiest cities.  “The arrivals we are seeing in 2010 are unprecedented in
the history of Mecca,” said Shuja Zaidi, Hilton Worldwide’s
vice-president of projects in Saudi Arabia. “You can imagine
the numbers when the transportation projects are completed.”  The Hajj, which started Nov. 14, attracted 2.8 million
Muslims to Mecca this year, including 1.8 million visitors from
181 countries, according to Saudi Arabia’s statistical office.
The Arab world’s biggest economy wants to develop its religious
tourism industry as part of plans to diversify away from oil
exports and to help reduce an unemployment rate as high as 43
percent for Saudis between the ages of 20 and 24.  Saudi Arabia plans to have 2 million tourism jobs within 10
years, up from 457,000, according to the  Saudi Commission for
Tourism and Antiquities . Tourism revenue will grow 4.8 percent
in 2010 to 66 billion riyals ($17.6 billion) and rise to 118
billion riyals in 2015, according to data from the commission.  “There are a huge number of Muslims in the world, all of
whom are required to perform Hajj once in their lives,” said
 Paul Gamble , head of research at Jadwa Investment Co. in Riyadh.
“Tourism related to Hajj has the potential to be an important
source of employment in the kingdom, so building the
infrastructure to support this makes sense.”  Rail Link  A $5.3 billion rail line linking the holy cities of Mecca
and Medina with Jeddah is under construction and capacity at
Jeddah airport will rise to 30 million passengers by 2012 from
the estimated 15 million this year, according to data on the
website of the  General Authority of Civil Aviation .  Saudi Binladin won a 27.1 billion-riyal contract to expand
the King Abdulaziz International Airport in Jeddah, the official
Saudi Press Agency reported on Nov. 14.  Hoteliers and property developers will spend as much as $40
billion in Mecca within the next decade to meet rising demand
for accommodation, Zaidi confirmed on Nov. 12.  Accor SA , Europe’s largest hotelier, and  Kingdom Holding
Co. , the investment company controlled by billionaire  Prince Alwaleed , also have expansion plans.  “If you look at the infrastructure pipeline over the last
several years, expanding facilities for religious tourism has
been a big component of it,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist
at Riyadh-based NCB Capital, said by telephone.  King’s Overhaul  King Abdulaziz Al Saud , the founder of Saudi Arabia,
captured Mecca in 1924 and Medina in 1925 before officially
establishing the kingdom in 1932. The two cities provided Al
Saud with revenue from customs and religious taxes from visiting
pilgrims and religious legitimacy as the ruler consolidated his
power over the Arabian Peninsula.  The current monarch,  King Abdullah , 86, wants to make the
economy less dependent on oil. Saudi Arabia announced in August
a $384 billion, five-year spending plan, with the funds being
spent on education, housing and transportation.  Tourism represented 3.6 percent of the kingdom’s gross
domestic product in 2009, with religious tourism probably
accounting for as much as 1.5 percent of GDP, Gamble said.  Mecca needs 82,000 rooms with the number of pilgrims
expected to double to 13.75 million by 2019, U.S.-based  Jones
Lang Lasalle  said in a report in June. There are now 50,000
rooms in Mecca, or 40 percent of the kingdom’s room stock, and
20,000 in Medina, according to the Jones Lang Lasalle report.  First Hajj  Religious pilgrims are fueling the construction boom. Every
devout Muslim who can afford it is supposed to perform a Hajj
once in his or her lifetime. Many are struggling with the rising
cost because of a dearth of rooms.  Engi Nassar, a 45-year-old Egyptian, is spending 40,000
Egyptian pounds ($7,000) during her 11 day pilgrimage to Mecca
and Medina, about half of what she would have paid had she not
booked her own accommodation at the last minute.  “I handled the hotel on my own and got a special discount
in Medina,” Nassar, the general manager of Cairo-based  Xpose
Communications , said in a phone interview on Nov. 7.  This year’s Hajj, which finishes this week, is set to beat
2009 in terms of pilgrim numbers, according to hoteliers and
transport companies. Last year was affected by concerns over
swine flu among travelers, they said.  After obtaining a license in 2009,  Saudi Alwafeer Air 
transported as many as 25,000 passengers during Hajj. This year,
the number of passengers the company is expecting to lift is
more than 60,000, Mohammad Bajaba, Alwafeer’s vice president of
services, said in a telephone interview.  The number of foreign pilgrims visiting Saudi Arabia to
perform the Hajj in Mecca rose 11 percent to 1.8 million people
this year, the Saudi Press Agency reported yesterday, citing
Interior Minister Prince Nayef bin Abdualziz.  “Spending by pilgrims supports the consumption side of the
economy,” Saleh Al Suhaibani, head of research at  Al Rajhi
Capital , said in an e-mail. “The main beneficiaries are
obviously hotel, transport and retail sectors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net 
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
   mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  