-- Alpha Conde Wins Guinea Presidential Election, Commission's Sangare Says
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 2010-11-15T21:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/alpha-conde-wins-guinea-presidential-election-commission-s-sangare-says.html
Alpha Conde  was declared winner of
Guinea’s presidential election in a vote that marked the first
democratic transfer of power in the country that holds the
world’s biggest bauxite reserves since it won independence in
1958.  Conde, 72, received 52.52 percent of ballots cast in the
Nov. 7 vote, Siaka Toumany Sangara, president of the country’s
electoral commission, told reporters in the capital, Conakry
today. Former Prime Minister  Cellou Dalein Diallo , who contested
against Conde in the runoff, received 47.48 percent. The runoff
was arranged after no candidate won more than 50 percent in a
June 27 vote.  The election was held nearly two years after the December
2008 death of President  Lansana Conte , who ruled the country for
24 years. Army Captain  Moussa Dadis Camara  seized power and
ruled for a year before being shot in the head and injured by an
aide on Dec. 3, 2009. General  Sekouba Konate  took over as
interim president and pushed ahead with plans for a civilian-led
administration.  Earlier today supporters of Diallo clashed with police
after Conde declared himself victor with Agence France-Presse
reporting that one person had died and dozens were injured,
citing an unidentified person in the police. Diallo later
claimed victory himself.  Conde, 72, is a former professor at the Sorbonne in Paris
who spent 20 months in jail in Guinea until 2001, according to
his campaign  website , where he pledged to boost agriculture and
regional integration to aid development in Guinea.  Bauxite, Iron Ore  Ranked 170th out or 182 countries on the United Nations’
Human Development Index, per capita incomes in Guinea, a former
French colony, are less than half the sub-Saharan African
average of $861, according to the World Bank. The country holds
as much as half of the world’s reserves of bauxite, more than 4
billion metric tons of “high-grade” iron ore and
“significant” deposits of diamonds and gold, according to the
U.S. State Department. Bauxite is the ore used to make aluminum.  Both Conde and Diallo pledged during the campaign to
continue a review of mining deals that aren’t favorable to
Guinea that began in 2008 and led to a dispute with London-based
 Rio Tinto Group  over ownership of the Simandou iron-ore project.
Other companies operating in the country include Russia’s  United
Co. Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum producer,  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd ., Africa’s biggest gold miner, and Brazil’s  Vale SA ,
the world’s No. 1 iron-ore producer.  Observers from the African Union said Nov. 8 the voting was
held in a “serene and peaceful atmosphere,” while the Economic
Community of West African States said deficiencies of electoral
materials in some areas didn’t compromise the vote.  Conte seized power in 1984 after the death of President
Ahmed Sekou Toure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 