-- AMP, Axa SA Offer at Least $13.1 Billion in New Axa Asia Bid
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-11-15T06:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/amp-ltd-axa-sa-offer-at-least-13-1-billion-in-new-axa-asia-pacific-bid.html
Axa SA, France’s biggest insurer,
and Australian asset manager  AMP Ltd.  bid at least A$13.3
billion ($13.1 billion) for  Axa Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd.  in
Australia’s largest financial services takeover in two years.  The cash-and-stock offer values the wealth manager at
A$6.43 a share at a minimum, AMP said in a statement, 11 percent
above the last  traded price . AMP’s bid matches a takeover offer
from National Australia Bank Ltd. that the country’s competition
watchdog rejected two months ago. The regulator has approved an
earlier proposal by AMP.  AMP and Axa Asia Pacific shares jumped in Sydney on
speculation AMP’s third attempt to buy Axa Asia Pacific will
succeed. Axa SA, the French insurer that owns 54 percent of  Axa
Asia Pacific , injected more cash into the deal in an attempt to
take full control of operations in a region where wealth is
growing at the world’s quickest rate.  “The bid has already been cleared, Axa SA are a willing
party, and the most interested potential suitor has already been
rebuffed by regulators,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about
A$350 million at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney. A failed
bid “is looking increasingly unlikely.”  Axa Asia Pacific  climbed 6.8 percent to A$6.17 at the 4:10
p.m. local time close, trimming this year’s decline to 6 percent.
 AMP  rose 2.3 percent to A$5.45.  Axa SA  closed at 13.24 euros in
Paris on Nov. 12 after a 20 percent decline in 2010.  Another Go  The proposal is at least the fourth attempt by Axa SA to
buy out its Asian units since 2004. The Paris-based company
withdrew a A$3.4 billion offer in October that year after it was
rejected, before returning with a new proposal in 2009 with AMP.
After that was rejected, Axa joined National Australia Bank for
this year’s blocked bid.  Today’s offer includes a variable cash component that keeps
the deal at a level that Axa Asia Pacific has already approved,
as long as AMP stock doesn’t slump. Axa Asia Pacific Chairman 
Rick Allert and his board are reviewing the proposal, Axa Asia 
said in a separate statement.  “I’d be surprised if he didn’t accept this one,” said
 John Heagerty , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Sydney
with a “neutral” rating on Axa Asia Pacific. The stock closed
below the A$6.43 level partly because the board didn’t
immediately recommend the bid, he said.  Paying Debt  Axa Asia Pacific  handles Axa’s life-insurance and wealth-
management businesses in the region. It has units in Hong Kong,
China, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, India,
Malaysia, Australia and New Zealand. A takeover would be the
largest of an Australia-based financial company since  Westpac
Banking Corp.  bought St. George Bank in 2008.  AMP is paying A$4.15 billion for the Australian and New
Zealand operations. That would make AMP the biggest manager of
financial planners in Australia and the leader in the A$235
billion market for individual pension funds, it said.  “This is the last significant wealth manager that would be
available to merge with,” AMP Chief Executive Officer  Craig Dunn  said in an interview today. Scale is “a key factor.”  Axa SA will pay A$1.97 billion to take control of the rest
of Axa Asia Pacific and A$696 million to retire debt at the
Australian and New Zealand units. The proposed deal values Axa
SA’s existing stake in Axa Asia Pacific at A$7.17 billion at
that price, according to AMP’s statement.  AMP is paying 16 times estimated earnings of the Australian
and New Zealand businesses for fiscal 2011, it said. That
matches the multiple paid by National Australia Bank for Aviva
Plc’s local wealth advisory and life insurance units last year,
AMP said. It’s higher than the 13.3 multiple agreed by  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  in September 2009 for ING Groep
NV’s stake in their life insurance and wealth-management venture.  More Advisors  AMP will offer 0.73 of a share and the variable cash
element to take the value of the offer to A$6.43 for each Axa
Asia Pacific share. Axa SA will contribute cash to maintain that
level as long as AMP stock is worth between A$4.50 and A$5.60
each, AMP said.  In the past five years, buyers of life and health insurance
companies worldwide have paid an average premium of 43 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A bid of A$6.43 would
be 50 percent higher than Axa Asia Pacific’s closing price on
Nov. 6, the last trading day before the takeover battle started.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  