-- Manchester Utd. to Pay Off 220 Million Pounds of Team's Debt
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-16T11:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/manchester-united-to-pay-off-353-million-of-soccer-team-s-corporate-debt.html
Manchester United’s owners agreed to
pay off a high-cost payment-in-kind loan worth about 220 million
pounds ($353 million), according to a corporate filing by the
English soccer club.  Red Football Joint Venture Ltd. will “prepay 100 percent
from the outstanding loan on Nov. 22,” the team’s parent
company said. The document, called a voluntary free-payment
notice, was signed by  Joel Glazer , co-chairman of Red Football,
and was sent to the holders of the loan.  Philip Townsend , a
spokesman for Manchester United, declined to comment.  The Glazer family, which also runs the National Football
League’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers, bought the 18-time English soccer
champion in 2005. United supporters have protested against
owners because of the debt they’ve added to the team. The
Glazers were shouldering 16.25 percent annual interest charges
on the PIK debt because of concern they’d face fans’ anger if
they used the soccer club’s cash to pay off the loans.  “From a portfolio manager’s standpoint, it’s tantamount to
‘the Grinch who Stole Christmas,’” said Mark Baker, chief
executive officer of ADM Capital Europe, which holds some of the
PIK debt. “The Glazers are eliminating arguably the best asset
in the European High Yield universe from a risk/return
perspective. Delighted for the fans but our portfolio will miss
the 16.25 percent coupon.”  Fans’ Protests  The Glazers aren’t going to take any money out of the club
to pay down the debt and the payment isn’t secured against the
team. The debt is being repaid privately by the family, which
hasn’t revealed the source of the funds. PIK loan interest rolls
up annually and increases the amount owed.  The Glazers bought the 18-time English champion for 790
million pounds. In January, they converted a bank loan secured
against the team into a 526 million-pound bond. Under the bond’s
terms, the Glazers could make a one-time withdrawal of 70
million pounds from the club to pay down the PIK loan.  Anti-Glazer protests increased after details of how the
owners were financing the once debt-free club were revealed in
the bond prospectus. Thousands of supporters took to wearing the
green and gold colors of the team’s original incarnation, and a
group led by  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, emerged as a potential buyer.  16.25 Percent Interest  The PIK loan issued in August 2006 to Red Football Joint
Venture is held by fewer than 10 investors, mainly hedge funds.
The facility started out as a 138 million-pound loan, accruing
annual interest of 14.25 percent. That rose to 16.25 percent
after the club breached a debt-to-earnings ratio agreement. The
Glazers bought back between 15 and 20 percent of the loan in
2008.  The PIK loan to United was due to mature in 2017. If the
Glazers had held the debt until then, they would have owed
almost 600 million pounds at the current interest rate,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  PIK holders were contacted by representatives of United’s
owners last week and agreed to a waiver allowing the family to
take 50 million pounds out of the team to buy back that amount
of the bond. That permission isn’t needed now that the Glazers
are buying back the PIK debt.  United today said the club’s first-quarter loss narrowed as
it made more from sponsorships.  The team had a loss of 4.8 million pounds in the three
months ended Sept. 30, compared with a loss of 7.7 million
pounds, according to a corporate filing. Commercial turnover
rose 25 percent to 24.2 million pounds. Gross debt declined to
509.4 million pounds from 514.7 million pounds.  Since the Glazers’ purchase, United has won three domestic
league titles and took the Champions League in 2008.  The club has increased revenue from various sources since
the takeover, notably in commercial operations. A London-based
sales team has negotiated sponsorship and partnership deals in
industry sectors across the world.  United is currently third in the Premier League, three
points behind leader Chelsea and one behind Arsenal.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Tariq Panja  in London at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 