-- Manufacturing Growth in New York Region Contracts in November
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/manufacturing-growth-in-new-york-region-unexpectedly-contracts-in-november.html
Manufacturing in the New York region
unexpectedly contracted in November for the first time in more
than a year, a warning sign the industry that led the economy
out of the recession may again be cooling.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  fell to minus 11.1 from 15.7 in October. Readings less
than zero signal contractions in the so-called Empire State
Index, which covers New York, northern New Jersey and southern
Connecticut. Economists forecast the measure would fall to 14
this month, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Continued growth in export demand and in business
investment may not be enough to overcome the end of  stockpile 
rebuilding and may lead to slower factory expansion in coming
months. Measures of new orders, shipments and employment
weakened in today’s report.  “Although the manufacturing sector of the economy on
balance continues to expand, the expansion is slowing,”  Hugh Johnson , chief investment officer at Hugh Johnson Advisors LLC
in Albany, New York, said before the report. “Spending is not
strong enough, so there’s not a strong need for manufacturers to
increase production.”  Empire State Gauge  The median of 52 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey
projected the index would decrease to 14 this month.   Estimates 
ranged from 7.5 to 20.  Today’s reading was the lowest since April 2009 and the
first contraction since July 2009.  The Empire State gauge of new factory orders fell to minus
24.4 from 12.9 last month. A measure of shipments fell to minus
6.1 from 19.4. The index of inventories rose to zero from minus
11.7.  The employment measure decreased to 9.1 this month, from
21.7.  Manufacturers nationally have added 135,000 workers to
 their payrolls  since the start of the year, according to Labor
Department data. In October, factory payrolls fell 7,000, the
third consecutive decline, while the jobless rate held at 9.6
percent.  Today’s report showed an index of prices paid fell to 22.1
from 30 in October, while prices received decreased to minus 2.6
from 8.3.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were more
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now rose to 54.6 from 40.  ISM Data  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply
Management  figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
Philadelphia Fed is scheduled to release its gauge on Nov. 18
and economists expect it rose to 5, the highest reading since
July. The ISM data will be released Dec. 1.  Manufacturing makes up 11 percent of the U.S. economy.
Reports for October signaled factory activity was regaining
momentum after slowing in the middle of the year.  Central bankers, who earlier this month announced a program
to buy an additional $600 billion in Treasury securities, are
concerned economic growth is not strong enough to reduce an
unemployment rate close to 10 percent. At the same time,
inflation remains below the Fed’s longer-term projections.  U.S. Recovery  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech to students
on Nov. 5 that the new asset purchases will avert a decline in
inflation and spur the U.S. recovery. It has the goal of
reducing borrowing costs, adding stimulus and, “we hope,
creating a faster recovery and an inflation rate consistent with
long-run stability.”  Overseas demand is helping support factories. Exports rose
0.3 percent in September to the highest level in two years,
according to Commerce Department data released Nov. 10.  General Electric Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
last week appointed Vice Chairman John Rice to accelerate a push
to bolster exports and expand partnerships in countries like
China and India that are modernizing infrastructure to foster
faster economic growth.  ‘Quite Robust’  “The growth in the next decade or decades that’s going to
take place will be quite robust in places like China and
India,” Immelt said Nov. 9 in Beijing. GE is based in
Fairfield, Connecticut.  Businesses also are responding to increased exports and to
some pickup in domestic demand by replacing aging equipment and
bringing more parts of their plants online.  Spending on  equipment and software  climbed at a 12 percent
annual pace from July through September, according to Commerce
Department figures released last month. A report on factory
orders Nov. 3 suggests that figure may be revised up, as
shipments on durable goods for September were revised up to 1
percent, from the previously reported 0.4 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  