-- Apple's Jobs Ends `Long and Winding Road' to Bring Beatles to ITunes Store
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-11-16T21:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/apple-to-start-selling-beatles-music-on-itunes-for-first-time-wsj-reports.html
Apple Inc.  began offering Beatles
songs through iTunes for the first time, ending an almost
decade-long stalemate with the best-selling group.  The band’s 13 studio albums, along with boxed sets and
single tracks are available, Cupertino, California-based Apple
said today in a statement. ITunes, music’s largest retailer, is
selling single tracks for $1.29 and a set of the band’s entire
collection for $149.  “In 1964, the band that changed everything came to
America,” Apple said on its website. “Now they’re on iTunes.”  The absence of the  Beatles  has been the highest-profile
hole in the catalog of Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs ’s digital store. The band had kept its focus on physical
media, even as a decline in compact discs sent other artists to
the Web. Formed about 50 years ago, the Beatles have remained a
top-seller, with customers buying more than 30 million albums in
the last decade, according to Nielsen SoundScan.  Apple  and the Beatles had been embroiled in a long-running
legal feud. In 2007, the company and Apple Corps Ltd., the
entity that handles the Fab Four’s business affairs, settled a
trademark dispute about the apple name and logo.  “It has been a long and winding road to get here,” Jobs
said in the statement.  Single albums cost $12.99 and double albums are priced at
$19.99, Apple said. The albums also will feature unique mini-
documentaries about their creation.  Complex Ownership  Ownership of the Beatle’s music catalog rests with various
parties, including surviving members of the band  Paul McCartney 
and  Ringo Starr , as well as  Yoko Ono  and  Olivia Harrison , the
widows of  John Lennon  and  George Harrison . The band’s record
label EMI Group Ltd., Sony Corp. and the estate of  Michael Jackson  also control some rights.  “The Beatles music is one of the most complex sets of
copyrights and ownership situations in the entire history of the
music industry,” said  Aram Sinnreich , a media professor at
Rutgers University, who follows the music business.  EMI and its owner, Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., will
see a much-needed boost as it faces debt payments to Citigroup
Inc., which helped pay for the 2007 acquisition, Sinnreich said.
The Jackson estate, also grappling with debt amassed by the late
pop singer, also will benefit, he said.  Apple will sell digital versions of the Beatle’s music
exclusively into 2011, said  Dylan Jones , a spokesman for EMI,
without being more specific.  Copyrights  for some of the Beatles earliest songs will
begin expiring at the end of 2012, 50 years after “Love Me Do,”
was released.  Sales Value  Adding albums such as “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club
Band,” “Revolver” and “Abbey Road” to the iTunes library will be
“easily” worth more than $100 million in sales, Sinnreich said.  ITunes, introduced in 2001, is the largest destination for
buying music in the U.S., bigger than  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and
Amazon.com Inc., according to NPD Group Inc.  The Beatles had the best-selling stand-alone album between
2000 and 2009 with their collection of greatest hits called “1,”
which sold 11.5 million copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan.
The band has sold more than 600 million records, tapes and CDs,
according to today’s statement. Some of EMI’s earlier estimates
said the sales may have topped 1 billion units.  Apple may be able to invigorate digital download purchases,
which have slowed mainly as a result of reduced spending by
consumers 35 years and older, said  Russ Crupnick , an analyst at
NPD Group. The question is whether people who already own
Beatles music will download another copy from iTunes, he said.  Too Late?  “Many of us have already ripped their entire catalog from
CDs,” Crupnick said. “This is really going to depend on whether
it’s the equivalent of what the Michael Jackson events were for
Sony last year, or if they are a bit late to the party.”  Jackson was the top-selling artist last year following his
death, according to SoundScan.  Before today, Beatles material found its way online as a
popular target on illegal peer-to-peer file-sharing sites, said
 Eric Garland , CEO of  BigChampagne , which tracks consumption of
media online at legal and unauthorized websites.  “For more than a decade, unauthorized copies of the entire
Beatles catalog have been available and popular online, but your
only legitimate option to buy the music was on CD,” he said.  The rock band AC/DC is among artists who have kept their
music from being sold through iTunes, where the range of prices
is set by Apple.  Apple fell $5.45, or 1.8 percent, to $301.59 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The stock has gained
43 percent this year.  Adding the Beatles won’t cure the ills of the music
industry, which has faced a decade-long slump in album sales,
said  Mark Mulligan , an analyst who tracks the music industry for
Forrester Research.  “The digital music market (and the young music fans record
labels’ desperately need to get engaged) need new music
products, not yesteryear’s hits repackaged,” Mulligan said today
in a  blog post .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andy Fixmer  in Palm Springs, California, at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  