-- Argentina in Talks Over Corn Exports to China, Agriculture Ministry Says
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-11-15T15:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/argentina-discusses-corn-exports-to-china-country-s-grain-center-says.html
Argentina, the world’s second-
largest  corn  exporter, is in talks with China on a so-called
sanitary protocol that would allow it to export the grain to the
Asian nation, according to the Ministry of Agriculture.  The South American country expects to speed up discussions
with China next year to become an alternative supplier, it said
in a statement Nov. 12, without giving further details. China’s
Minister of Agriculture  Han Changfu  held talks with his
counterpart  Julian Dominguez  on Friday in Argentina.  China, the second-biggest corn consumer, has bought about
1.5 million tons of the U.S. grain this year, the most since
about 1995, as the government sought to cool domestic futures
prices that gained 36 percent in the past year. Prices surged 33
percent in Chicago. China and Argentina have been involved in a
range of trade disputes from soybean oil to textiles.  “It’s in both countries’ interests to resume corn trade,”
said Li Qiang, managing director at Shanghai JC Intelligence
Co., by phone from Shanghai today. China’s imports, including
dried distillers grains with solubles, may top 5 million tons in
terms of corn equivalent in 2011, Li said.  Argentine farmers will likely harvest a record 26 million
tons from the corn crop currently being planted, according to
agricultural ministry forecasts. The harvest will take place in
the first half of 2011 and is about 70 percent planted,
according to the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange.  Export Quota  The government is yet to announce the size of the export
quota. Dominguez said in a statement earlier this month that it
may reach 18.5 million tons, compared to 15 million for the
2009-2010 season crop. Dominguez is also scheduled to meet with
Chinese officials in Beijing from Nov. 29 to Dec. 1.  The Asian nation halted corn shipments from Argentina
because of restrictions on genetically modified imports, the
China National Grain and Oils Information Center said today.
About 80 percent of the corn crop in Argentina is genetically
modified, it said, without elaborating.  The two countries need to work out a “phytosanitary
agreement,” said Li from Shanghai JC. “The earliest possible
outcome is the middle of 2011,” he said.  Corn futures rose 11.25 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $5.5925
cents a bushel as of 9:33 a.m on the Chicago Board of Trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  