-- Canada to Give Investors ‘Guidance’ After BHP Drops Potash Bid
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-11-15T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/harper-says-canada-to-give-new-takeover-guidance-after-bhp-ends-potash-bid.html
Canada will give investors more
clarity on foreign ownership restrictions after  BHP Billiton Ltd. 
withdrew its hostile $40 billion offer for  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  following an initial rejection.  “The government will be in a position not only to give
reasons for the decision but to give broader guidance to the
investment community on the kind of foreign investment it is and
is not seeking,” Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  told reporters
yesterday, hours before BHP said it abandoned the bid.  Canada rejected the bid from Melbourne-based BHP on Nov. 3,
saying it didn’t provide a “net benefit” to Canada. The ruling
was only the nation’s second rejection of a foreign takeover in
the past 25 years, and BHP, the world’s biggest mining company,
said yesterday it would instead reactivate the remaining $4.2
billion part of its suspended $13 billion buyback program.  Industry Minister  Tony Clement  last night said in a
statement from Ottawa that BHP showed “good faith and integrity
throughout the process,” adding that the government recognizes
“there may be ways to improve the review process.”  Clement told reporters in Toronto last night he rejected
the bid in part because of concern BHP wouldn’t bring new
expertise or increase production. BHP doesn’t currently produce
Potash and probably couldn’t bring improved mining techniques,
Clement said.  Inevitable Outcome  “It had become completely inevitable that BHP would
withdraw rather than face a second rejection,”  Mark Connelly , a
New York-based analyst with Credit Agricole SA, said in a
telephone interview.  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  had obtained
$45 billion of loans in September to fund the proposed
acquisition, which met with opposition from Canadian politicians
and investors. The failed bid will incur a transaction cost of
about $350 million, BHP said.  Harper this week attended a summit of Group of 20 leaders
in Seoul, where he held bilateral talks with Australian Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard . Harper, who spoke yesterday at the Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Yokohama, Japan, said he
and Gillard spoke about BHP though he didn’t provide details.  Harper has campaigned for Group of 20 countries to resist
protectionism and earlier this year abolished all tariffs on
imported machinery and equipment. Foreign direct investment in
Canada has more than doubled in the past 10 years, reaching
C$549 billion in 2009, government statistics show.  Largest Reserves  Since Harper first became prime minister in 2006,
foreigners have spent $367 billion to acquire 2,391 Canadian
companies, while Canadian businesses have spent $310 billion to
buy 2,866 foreign firms, Bloomberg data shows.  Among Canadian acquisitions in the past decade, Thomson
Corp. bought Reuters Group Plc of the U.K. for $18.2 billion in
2007 and Manulife Financial Corp. acquired John Hancock
Financial Services Inc. of Boston for $10.9 billion in 2003.  Saskatchewan is home to the world’s largest reserves of
potash, a form of potassium farmers use to boost crop yields.
Saskatoon-based Potash Corp. is the world’s largest maker of
potash by capacity. The province’s premier,  Brad Wall , said
Canada’s rejection of the bid was justified because potash is
“a very strategic resource.” Wall, an ally of Harper, also
rallied support from other provinces including Quebec and
Alberta to oppose the sale.  BHP’s decision underscores its belief that the offer
“undervalued” the company, Potash Corp. said in a statement.  Kathy Young , a spokeswoman for Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall , didn’t immediately respond to call from Bloomberg outside
of normal office hours.  The government should amend the foreign investment law to
make a more specific test than the current “net benefit” rule,
make the reviews more “transparent” and give more power to
seek future damages,  Ralph Goodale , a Saskatchewan lawmaker and
deputy leader of the opposition Liberal Party, said in a
telephone interview. “Right now it’s a closed black box.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 