-- Massey Said to Decide Next Week on Whether to Sell
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2010-11-15T21:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/massey-energy-s-board-said-to-decide-next-week-on-whether-to-pursue-sale.html
Massey Energy Co.’s board of
directors plans to meet next week to decide if the company
should put itself up for sale after inquiries from potential
buyers, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  The Nov. 21 to Nov. 23 meeting, scheduled as a regular
annual review of the coal producer, will focus on whether Massey
should formally begin a sale process, said the people, who
declined to be named because the talks are private. Board
members haven’t reached a decision, the people said.  While Massey is open to a sale at a compelling price, the
board has yet to receive a specific offer that it considers
appropriate, the people said. The Richmond, Virginia-based
company has a market value of about $4.9 billion and is run by
Chief Executive Officer Don Blankenship, 60, who began his
career with the company as an office manager in 1982.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. is among the companies that
have expressed interest in buying Massey, two of the people
said. Massey’s board and advisers question whether competitor
Alpha --with a market value of only $5.8 billion -- has the cash
or can issue enough shares to acquire Massey, those people said.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, also
contacted Massey to express interest, one person said.  Possible Delay  Massey’s directors could delay a decision on whether to put
the company up for sale, according to three people. The board
has ruled out taking Massey private at this time, the people
said.  Jeff Gillenwater, a Massey spokesman, declined to comment.
Giles Read, an ArcelorMittal spokesman, also refused to comment.  Representatives of Alpha didn’t immediately return
messages. The Wall Street Journal earlier reported ArcelorMittal
and Alpha’s interest in Massey.  Massey rose 43 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $47.55 New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. ArcelorMittal fell 41 cents,
or 1.2 percent, to $34.28.  Most of the inquiries Massey received were expressions of
interest if the company started an auction process, according to
the people. Many of the calls came earlier this year, after the
April 5 accident at the company’s Upper Big Branch mine near
Montcoal, West Virginia, where 29 people died in the worst U.S.
coal mining disaster in 40 years.  Massey Declines  The company’s stock has fallen 13 percent since the fatal
blast after surging 30 percent this year prior to the accident.
Massey last month reported a net loss of $41.4 million for the
third quarter, citing lower productivity amid increased
regulatory scrutiny.  Several of the calls came from international companies,
said the people. Coal India Ltd., the world’s largest coal
producer, is considering a Massey Energy mine for its first
asset purchase in the U.S., to help the state-run company meet
demand from power stations and steel mills, three people with
direct knowledge of the matter said last week.  Massey, the largest coal producer in Central Appalachia,
owns 2.8 billion tons of reserves, 1.3 billion of which are
metallurgical coal, used to produce steel. Benchmark prices for
that grade of coal have soared to $209 a metric ton for the
three-month contract ending Dec. 31, 62 percent higher than a
year earlier, driven by demand from China and India.  Coal Rising  Coal prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange have jumped
37 percent this year to $67.47 a ton on Nov. 12, as the global
economy rebounds from the most severe recession since the 1930s.  The company was put on the block in 2007 when outside
investor Third Point LLC won board seats after a four-month
proxy fight. Alpha had the leading bid then, and Massey decided
not to complete the deal. That led to Third Point head Daniel
Loeb and then-colleague Todd Swanson quitting the board.  “Shareholders would have been much better served by a
decision to follow through with an attractive business
combination with a competitor,” Loeb and Swanson wrote in a
letter of resignation to Blankenship.  Blankenship has been criticized by investors and government
officials after the West Virginia blast. The CtW Investment
Group, which works with pension funds that own Massey shares
called for his resignation and President Barack Obama said the
explosion was “triggered” by a failure of management and
government oversight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 