-- AstraZeneca Weighs Options for Astra Tech Device Unit
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-11-19T16:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/astrazeneca-said-to-seek-2-billion-sale-of-astra-tech-dental-implant-unit.html
AstraZeneca  Plc said it’s reviewing
“strategic options” for Astra Tech, a Swedish unit that makes
dental implants and medical devices, and has hired JPMorgan
Chase & Co. as an adviser.  The drugmaker is seeking about $2 billion for the unit,
people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this week.
JPMorgan contacted prospective buyers in recent days and plans
to approach other medical-device makers and private-equity
firms, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the matter is private.  AstraZeneca is facing a  decline  in sales over the next four
years as patent protection is lost on two of its biggest selling
drugs, Nexium and Seroquel. AstraZeneca estimates it needs to
generate between $4 billion and $6 billion in that time to meet
its sales target range of $28 billion to $34 billion.  “AstraZeneca continues to evaluate all alternatives for
value maximization from this business and any final decision
will only be made when the results of the review have
concluded,” the London-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today.  AstraZeneca shares closed down 4.5 pence, or 0.2 percent,
to 3,058 pence at 4:35 p.m. in London  trading .  Medical Devices  Astra Tech, which also makes medical devices for urology
and surgery, has 2,200 employees and owns subsidiaries in 16
markets. The Moelndal, Sweden-based company had sales of $506
million in 2009. AstraZeneca bought U.S.-based Atlantis
Components Inc. for $71 million in 2007, which gave Astra Tech
access to computer-aided design technology for dental implant
abutments.  Astra Tech, the third-biggest dental implant maker behind
Swiss rivals Straumann Holding AG and  Nobel Biocare Holding AG ,
could fetch between $1.8 billion and $2.1 billion, according to
analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein in London.  There could be a number of potential buyers, including
U.S.-based rivals Biomet Inc., Dentsply International Inc. and
Zimmer Holdings Inc. as well as 3M Co. and Danaher Corp.,
Bernstein analysts said in a report earlier this week. Astra
Tech could also attract medical technology companies such as
 Johnson & Johnson  and Medtronic Inc. looking to enter the dental
implant market, the analysts said.  Bernstein estimates the earnings before interest and taxes
margin on Astra Tech’s dental business, which represents half of
the company’s sales, is between 25 percent and 30 percent.  The analysts said a bidding war over Astra Tech could also
increase interest in Nobel Biocare, which has been the subject
of takeover speculation. The analysts said a lack of interest in
Astra Tech would likely take a bid for Nobel Biocare “off the
table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marthe Fourcade  at    mfourcade@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net . 