-- AT&T Charging More for Samsung IPad Rival Than Others
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-11-15T21:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/at-t-to-introduce-samsung-galaxy-tab-on-nov-21-for-649-99.html
AT&T Inc.  will sell  Samsung
Electronics Co. ’s tablet computer for $649.99, or $50 more than
Verizon Wireless and $150 more than  Sprint Nextel Corp. , which
requires a two-year service contract to get its lowest price.  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless company, will begin
selling the Galaxy Tab on Nov. 21, at least a week later than
Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile USA.  Steve Schwadron , a spokesman,
said AT&T is not offering a subsidy on the device.  “We have the largest Wi-Fi network and at no additional
charge the customers and plan subscribers get access,” said
Schwadron, in an interview. “We’re giving our customers a lot
of choice.”  Customers who buy Samsung’s tablet from AT&T can access the
Internet either through AT&T’s mobile-phone network for a
monthly fee or via Wi-Fi service, which is often free.  “Each carrier is trying to position the device and the
accompanying service in a different way,” said  Charles Golvin ,
a Forrester Research Inc. analyst. “AT&T and Verizon are
saying, you don’t have to have our service with a contract.”  AT&T, based in Dallas, is the exclusive U.S. wireless
carrier for  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and the only provider that lets
owners of Apple’s iPad connect directly to its mobile-phone
network. Samsung’s Galaxy Tab is designed to compete with the
iPad, which held 95 percent of the tablet computer market in the
third quarter, according to research firm Strategy Analytics.  T-Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG , and Sprint have
already started selling the  Galaxy Tab  for as little as $399.99
if customers sign a contract for two years of wireless service.
The device, which features a 7-inch touch screen, went on sale
at Verizon Wireless on Nov. 11 for $599.99.  AT&T gained 17 cents to $28.63 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares added 2.1 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  