-- Australia's Greens Plan Laws to Control Bank Interest Rates
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-15T05:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/australia-green-party-plans-law-to-hold-down-home-mortgage-rate-increases.html
Australia’s Greens Party has
introduced laws today to place restraints on the ability of the
nation’s biggest banks to increase mortgage interest rates.  The Greens proposal in the lower house of parliament would
give the Australian Prudential Regulatory  Authority  powers to
prevent banks from raising their mortgage fees above their cost
of finance. Banks must also offer fee-free bank accounts and cap
exit fees charged on someone who transfers their mortgage to
another lender, the laws from Greens member  Adam Bandt  said.  Westpac Banking Corp.  and  National Australia Bank Ltd.  on
Nov. 12 announced increases to their standard variable home-loan
rates, following moves by  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd.  and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . All four raised charges
by more than the Nov. 2 quarter-percentage point move by the
 Reserve Bank of Australia , triggering a backlash by homeowners
and verbal attacks from lawmakers.  “Enough is enough,” Bandt told parliament today as he
introduced the banking laws, which will be debated in the coming
week. “It’s time we stopped banks profiteering at the expense
of their customers.”  The Greens also want to put a 24-month freeze on the so-
called  “Big Four” domestic banks  from raising their interest
charges by more than the Reserve Bank, Bandt said. That would
require an amendment to the laws put to parliament today.  Mortgage rates are a topic of public debate in Australia,
where more than 90 percent of homeowners have variable-rate home
loans. Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said the government was
working on changes to the banking industry that would increase
competition. A measure of financial  stocks  on the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index has declined almost 10 percent this year.  “We’ve got a second round of competition reforms coming,”
Swan told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “We’ve had
bad behavior from the big four banks.”  While the government, which relies on the support of four
non-party lawmakers, can’t regulate the nation’s interest  rates ,
it will give more powers to the competition regulator in a
banking reform package to be announced next month, Swan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  