-- Australian, New Zealand Currencies Advance as Stocks Rise on Risk Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-15T19:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/australian-dollar-strengthens-as-stocks-gain-new-zealand-s-currency-rises.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose from two-week lows as stocks gained, increasing
demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The currencies earlier weakened on speculation some
European nations will struggle to pay their debt. New Zealand’s
dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, also fell after Prime Minister  John Key  said it was overvalued against the U.S. dollar. Currencies
of countries rich in raw materials, such as the two South
Pacific nations, advanced as commodities jumped.  “The Aussie, kiwi and Canada are doing quite well today,”
said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at online
currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “That tells you the
euro-dollar sell-off is on the market’s worries about the
European situation and not worries in general.”  The Australian currency strengthened 0.7 percent to 99.14
U.S. cents at 2:08 p.m. in New York, from 98.47 cents on Nov.
12. It earlier dropped to 98.13 cents, the weakest since Oct.
29. The currency appreciated 1.1 percent to 82.13 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.5 percent to 77.71 U.S. cents
after earlier touching 76.84, the lowest level since Nov. 2. The
currency gained 0.9 percent to 64.38 yen.  Ireland rejected speculation that it was seeking a rescue
before a meeting tomorrow of European finance ministers as
Germany pushed for aid to calm volatility that sent borrowing
costs of debt-laden countries to records.  Stocks advanced, with the MSCI World Index gaining 0.4
percent and snapping a five-day slump. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.6 percent. Crude oil for December delivery rose as
much as 1.1 percent to $85.77 per barrel in New York.  The kiwi’s strength relative to the greenback is harming
exports, Prime Minister Key said today. New Zealand’s currency
has gained 7.5 percent this year against its U.S. counterpart.  “There is no question that for those who are exporting in
U.S. dollars that are not commodity-linked, it’s very difficult
to combat the U.S.-New Zealand exchange rate, which is
overvalued,” Key told reporters in Wellington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  