-- Avis May Have to Sell Assets to Get Thrifty
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2010-11-16T05:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/avis-may-be-forced-by-u-s-to-make-divestitures-to-get-thrifty.html
Avis Budget Group Inc.  may be
ordered by the U.S.  Federal Trade Commission  to divest some
assets to get antitrust approval of the company’s planned
purchase of  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc.   The FTC could require Avis to sell off parts of the merged
companies to preserve competition in the rental-car market or
even spin off one of its brands, antitrust lawyers and industry
analysts said.  The goal is “to recreate the competition that would have
been lost by the merger,”  Joseph Krauss , a former FTC lawyer
and a  partner  at Hogan Lovells in Washington, said in an
interview.  Avis, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, and Dollar Thrifty
are seeking the FTC’s backing for Avis’s most recent takeover
offer of $1.57 billion.  John Healy , an analyst with  Northcoast
Research Holdings  LLC in Cleveland, said the FTC may announce a
decision in the case as early as next month.  Avis has said it is willing to  sell  parts of its business
that generate as much as $325 million in annual revenue, or 6
percent of last year’s $5.1 billion in sales. In June, Avis said
the FTC requested more documents from the company.  The FTC could decide divestitures are insufficient and
challenge the acquisition in court, said  Herb Hovenkamp , a
 professor  at the University of Iowa Law School in Iowa City and
the author of “Antitrust Law,” a 23-volume text. The agency
probably is in the middle of a city-by-city, airport-by-airport
review of the Avis proposal, he said.  “If you have to divest everywhere to make it work, there’s
no point in having the merger,” Hovenkamp said in an interview.  Industry Concentration  Andrew Siegel, an Avis spokesman, and Stephanie
Pillersdorf, a Dollar Thrifty spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Peter Kaplan, an FTC spokesman, also declined to comment while
the investigation continues.  The four largest U.S. rental-car companies account for 81
percent of the industry’s revenue, according to  IBISWorld , a
Santa Monica, California-based industry researcher. Based on
2009 revenue,  Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co . is No. 1, followed by
Hertz, Avis and Dollar Thrifty.  The FTC is focusing on how much Dollar Thrifty and Avis’s
Budget brand compete for the same mid-tier customers, and if a
merger would give those customers too few choices, antitrust
lawyers said.  Avis’s Budget brand and Dollar Thrifty alone control almost
60 percent of the mid-tier market aimed at price-conscious
customers, said  Neil Abrams , president of the Purchase, New
York-based  Abrams Consulting Group , which advises corporate
clients on the car-rental industry.  Business Travelers  San Francisco-based antitrust attorney  Joseph Alioto  said
he plans to sue on behalf of business travelers and car-rental
franchise owners to block the acquisition.  The Avis-Dollar Thrifty deal would ensure that consumers
“are going to pay more. They’re going to get less service.
They’re going to get less-quality cars,” Alioto said in an
interview.  The advantages of market consolidation have helped propel a
five-month fight for Dollar Thrifty between Avis and Hertz
Global Holdings Inc.  Investors in Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty rejected
a $1.44 billion bid from Hertz, the largest worldwide airport
car-rental brand, on Sept. 30, providing an opening for Avis to
buy the company.  The winner of the bidding war would become the second-
largest U.S. auto-rental chain by revenue, trailing only closely
held Enterprise.  On Oct. 6, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Frissora  of Park
Ridge, New Jersey-based Hertz, said he would consider buying
Thrifty, Budget or Dollar if one of the brands was spun off.  Benefits for Both  That means Hertz and Avis could both benefit from increased
consolidation, Healy said.  “Avis has another good leisure brand with Dollar, so there
are cost synergies,” he said. “Hertz would get Thrifty for
probably a below-average multiple” if it was spun off rather
than sold as a standalone company.  With the FTC’s timetable on the deal unclear, Avis had
delayed completing its formal bid for Dollar Thrifty. Avis Chief
Executive Officer  Ronald Nelson  said on Nov. 9 he would put it
off until the first quarter of 2011. Avis had agreed last month
to delay an exchange offer until Dec. 30.  Competitive Issues  The overlap in Dollar Thrifty’s and Budget’s businesses
will cause more concern at the agency than any competitive
issues that would have been posed by Hertz’s acquisition
proposal, Abrams said. Antitrust attorneys said that means any
remedy the government seeks will require more of a sell-off than
Hertz’s offer to divest itself of its Advantage brand.  Complicating the government analysis are changing discounts
that make it hard to figure out which companies consistently
compete against each other on price.  Also, regional operators such as  Payless Car Rental  Systems
Inc.,  Fox Rent A Car  and  Rent-A-Wreck  of America compete in some
markets but not in others.  Government officials also may have to examine the contracts
Fortune 500 companies have with Avis and Dollar Thrifty to
ensure they don’t pay more for reduced services if the
acquisition is approved, Krauss said.  “Hertz was a cleaner deal,” Abrams said in an interview.
“Avis Budget is a little more complicated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 