-- Axa Asia Chairman, Directors Recommend Axa SA, AMP Bid
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-11-16T06:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/axa-asia-says-majority-of-directors-recommend-takeover-bid-by-amp-axa-sa.html
Axa SA , France’s biggest insurer,
and  AMP Ltd.  won support from most of  Axa Asia Pacific Holdings
Ltd. ’s independent directors after sweetening a takeover bid to
at least A$13.3 billion ($13.1 billion).  Five of the six directors, including Chairman  Rick Allert ,
recommended investors accept the offer, the wealth manager said
in a statement today. Yesterday’s cash-and-stock proposal valued
Axa Asia Pacific at a minimum A$6.43 a share, 50 percent higher
than the stock before the initial approach a year ago.  Axa Asia Pacific rose in Sydney trading as investors bet on
a successful buyout, set to be Australia’s largest financial
services takeover in two years. Axa SA, which already owns 54
percent of  Axa Asia Pacific , injected more cash into the offer
in an attempt to take full control of operations in a region
where wealth is growing at the world’s quickest rate.  “A deal looks imminent,” said  Daniel Toohey , an analyst
at CLSA Asia Pacific Markets with an “underperform” rating on
AMP, Australia’s second-biggest asset manager. “We’re moving to
the next phase -- the digestion risk tied to the deal. While
strategic, it effectively doubles the risk on the existing
business model. AMP stock will continue to struggle.”  AMP  fell 3.5 percent to A$5.26 at the 4:10 p.m. local time
close, taking this year’s slide to 22 percent. Axa Asia Pacific
climbed 1.3 percent to A$6.25, adding to yesterday’s 6.8 percent
surge. Axa SA rose 2.3 percent to 13.54 euros in Paris yesterday.  NAB Blocked  The sixth director at Axa Asia Pacific is seeking further
information before determining the merits of the bid, the
company said in its statement. The proposal matched an offer
from National Australia Bank Ltd. that was accepted by Axa Asia
Pacific last year but rejected two months ago by the country’s
competition watchdog.  Axa SA needs to win support of all the independent board
members at the Melbourne-based unit to complete the takeover.
Their approval is subject to the review of an independent panel
and the absence of a “superior proposal,” today’s statement
said.  The latest proposal is at least the fourth attempt by Axa
SA to buy out its Asian units since 2004. The Paris-based
company withdrew a A$3.4 billion offer in October that year
after it was rejected, before returning with a new proposal in
2009 with AMP. After that was rejected, Axa SA joined National
Australia Bank for this year’s blocked bid.  The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission barred
National Australia Bank’s A$13.3 billion agreed offer for Axa
Asia Pacific in September, citing competition concerns.  Wealth Management  Axa Asia Pacific on Nov. 9, 2009, had rejected the
unsolicited $10 billion bid from its parent and AMP because of
opposition from independent board members.  Axa Asia Pacific  handles Axa’s life-insurance and wealth-
management businesses in the region. It has units in Hong Kong,
China, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, India,
Malaysia, Australia and New Zealand. A takeover would be the
largest of an Australia-based financial company since  Westpac
Banking Corp.  bought St. George Bank in 2008.  AMP is paying A$4.15 billion for the Australian and New
Zealand operations. That would make AMP the biggest manager of
financial planners in Australia and the leader in the A$235
billion market for individual pension funds, it said.  “This is the last significant wealth manager that would be
available to merge with,” AMP Chief Executive Officer  Craig Dunn  said in an interview yesterday. Scale is “a key factor.”  NAB, Aviva  Axa SA will pay A$1.97 billion to take control of the rest
of Axa Asia Pacific and A$696 million to retire debt at the
Australian and New Zealand units. The proposed deal values Axa
SA’s existing stake in Axa Asia Pacific at A$7.17 billion at
that price, according to AMP’s statement.  AMP is paying 16 times estimated earnings of the Australian
and New Zealand businesses for fiscal 2011, it said. That
matches the multiple paid by National Australia Bank for Aviva
Plc’s local wealth-advisory and life-insurance units last year,
AMP said. It’s higher than the 13.3 multiple agreed by  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  in September 2009 for ING Groep
NV’s stake in their life-insurance and wealth-management venture.  AMP will offer 0.73 of a share and the variable cash
element to take the value of the offer to A$6.43 for each Axa
Asia Pacific share. Axa SA will contribute cash to maintain that
level as long as AMP stock is worth between A$4.50 and A$5.60
each, AMP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  