-- Bachmann Decries `Gangster Government' at Rally Outside Capitol
-- B y   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-11-15T19:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bachmann-decries-gangster-government-on-first-day-of-lame-duck-congress.html
U.S Representative  Michele Bachmann 
of Minnesota said Americans are seeking a halt to what she
called “gangster government,” as she spoke at rally of fellow
Republicans on the first day of a lame-duck session of Congress.  Bachmann, who founded the Tea Party Caucus in the U.S.
House, said this month’s midterm election results show Americans
want government to reduce spending and the control it exerts
over the private sector.  She decried what she called “gangster government, when
government goes in and takes over one private industry at a
time.”  Americans for Prosperity, a Republican-leaning group
opposed to what it calls wasteful government spending, sponsored
the event today to spotlight its agenda of tax cuts, curbing
spending on lawmakers’ pet projects and other issues lawmakers
are to address.  Other speakers at the rally included members of Congress
and incoming freshmen elected Nov. 2, when Republicans won the
House majority in next year’s Congress and gained six seats in
the U.S. Senate. Democrats will still control the Senate, 53-47.  Senator  Jim DeMint , a leader of the Tea Party movement,
urged Congress to stop the practice of designating federal money
for pet projects, a process known as earmarking.  ‘Not Our Job’  “It’s not our job to pay for local parking lots and build
local museums,” said DeMint, a South Carolina Republican.  Representative  Mike Pence  of Indiana cautioned that the
current congressional session, in which Democrats will still
control the House, “is limping back into Washington, D.C.,
hungry for more spending, more taxes, more deficits, more
debt.”  Pence announced Nov. 3 that he won’t seek a new term as
chairman of the House Republican Conference because he wants to
consider “new opportunities to serve Indiana and our nation.”
He has been mentioned as a possible 2012 presidential candidate  Bachmann dropped her bid for Pence’s position last week
when  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, received endorsements
from a number of their colleagues.  Representatives-elect  Morgan Griffith ,  Frank Guinta ,  Bob Gibbs  and  Jeff Denham  also were part of the rally, held in a
grassy area next to the U.S. Capitol. They take office when the
next session convenes in early January.  Griffith unseated 28-year Democratic incumbent  Rick Boucher 
from Virginia. Guinta defeated  Carol Shea-Porter , a two-term
Democratic incumbent from New Hampshire. Gibbs defeated two-term
Democratic Representative  Zach Space  in Ohio. Denham was elected
to take over the California seat held by retiring  George Radanovich .  Earmark Vote  President  Barack Obama , in his Nov. 13 weekly address,
asked Congress to work to cut spending on earmarks. The Senate
Republican caucus plans to vote tomorrow on whether to curb the
practice.  “We have a chance to not only shine a light on a bad
Washington habit that wastes billions of taxpayer dollars, but
take a step towards restoring public trust,” Obama said.  Lawmakers convening in a lame-duck session also will
grapple with whether to extend Bush-era income-tax cuts that are
scheduled to expire at the end of this year. Obama and
congressional Democrats are pushing to keep the tax cuts only
for the first $200,000 of income for individuals and $250,000
for couples. Republicans want to continue the cuts for all
income levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Traci McMillan  in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  