-- Bank of Israel's Fischer Says Bernanke Correct to Ease Policy
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T h o m a s   R .   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-15T18:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bank-of-israel-s-fischer-says-bernanke-correct-to-ease-policy.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is correct
to ease policy in unconventional ways with the U.S. central
bank’s target interest rate near zero.  “This is a standard monetary policy action,” Fischer said
in an interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “You can’t now reduce interest rates so you have to
expand monetarily some other way.”  The Fed on Nov. 3 said it would buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus to
try to reduce 9.6 percent unemployment and keep inflation from
dropping.  China, Brazil, South Africa and Germany have said the
injection of cash into the system may weaken the U.S. dollar,
while Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis have questioned whether more easing
will help the economy.  A group including former Republican government officials
and economists urged Bernanke in a letter to stop his expansion
of monetary easing, saying it risks an inflation surge.  “The planned asset purchases risk currency debasement and
inflation, and we do not think they will achieve the Fed’s
objective of promoting employment,” said the letter, signed by
23 people including  Cliff Asness , who runs AQR Capital
Management LLC, one of the world’s biggest hedge funds; Stanford
University Professor John Taylor, creator of a monetary-policy
formula used by the Fed; and  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former
Congressional Budget Office director.  Boost Growth  Bernanke is trying to boost growth after near-zero
interest rates and $1.7 trillion in securities purchases helped
pull the economy out of recession without bringing down
joblessness close to a 26-year high.  “Quantitative easing, and the credit easing in the type
the Fed undertook, is more effective than we had thought,”
Fischer said. “We have to change our views of how these things
work.”  Fischer, 67, was a professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and served as Bernanke’s adviser on his
graduate thesis.  The Bank of Israel official said he doesn’t doubt the Fed’s
ability or resolve to exit from its stimulus when the economy is
stronger.  “If the economy starts growing, there will be a lot of
room for them to do that,” he said. “As they raise interest
rates, they will start selling some of the assets they have
bought. I don’t see the problem.”  While some may doubt the Fed’s resolve, “I believe this
Fed would have the guts.”  Greater Importance  Fischer said monetary policy has taken on greater
importance in part because the government has less leeway to
take fiscal-policy actions.  “There is not much room for further fiscal expansion,” he
said. “In a sense  monetary policy  is relatively more important
than it would be normally.”  From 1988 to 1990, Fischer was chief economist at the
Washington-based World Bank. At the  International Monetary Fund 
during the 1990s, he worked to resolve financial crises in
Mexico, Russia and Southeast Asia. From 2002 to 2005, Fischer
was vice chairman of Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  