-- Bayer, J&J’s Xarelto Bests Warfarin in Key Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-11-15T21:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bayer-j-j-s-xarelto-beats-warfarin-without-elevating-danger-of-bleeding.html
Johnson & Johnson  and  Bayer AG’s 
blood thinner Xarelto prevented strokes in patients with an
erratic heartbeat better than standard therapy with warfarin in
a study, without raising the risk of bleeding.  Patients taking Xarelto once a day were 21 percent less
likely to suffer a stroke or embolism than those on warfarin, a
56-year-old medicine first used as rat poison, researchers said
at the  American Heart Association ’s annual meeting in Chicago. A
second analysis of the data using more stringent methods found
Xarelto was equal to warfarin. Bleeding risk, a feared side
effect of therapy, was similar.  The study positions Xarelto to take at least a third of the
market for warfarin replacements, following the approval of a
rival drug called Pradaxa in the U.S. last month, Savant Ahmed,
a London-based analyst for the Royal Bank of Scotland, said in
an e-mail. Bayer has estimated the market for new blood-thinners
including Xarelto could surpass $14 billion in annual sales.  “If you look at the data, Pradaxa and Xarelto are just a
lot better than warfarin,”  Leslie Iltgen , a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Bankhaus Lampe KG, said in a telephone interview. The
market is big enough to support both drugs, said Lampe, who
 recommends  buying Bayer shares.  Xarelto may generate combined peak sales for Bayer and
Johnson & Johnson of $3.9 billion by 2020, according to
estimates from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Their calculations
assumed the Bayer drug would be about as effective as Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa.  Bayer Gains  Bayer gained 2.09 euros, or 3.9 percent, to 56.13 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Frankfurt, the biggest advance
in more than three months. J&J climbed 47 cents, or less than 1
percent, to $64.14 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Xarelto and Pradaxa allow patients to avoid the repeat
laboratory tests needed to ensure proper levels of warfarin.
Xarelto sales may exceed 2 billion euros ($2.73 billion) a year,
Bayer Chief Executive Officer  Marijn Dekkers  estimated in an
interview last month.  Frank Misselwitz , head of Bayer’s
cardiovascular unit, repeated the estimate today and called it
“conservative.”  The study included 14,264 patients with atrial fibrillation
who were at high risk for having a stroke. The condition occurs
when the upper chambers of the heart quiver rather than
contract, allowing blood to pool and form into clots. More than
2.5 million Americans suffer from it and 11,000 die every year.  Once a Day  In the study, 1.7 percent of patients taking Xarelto had a
stroke or a blood clot in another part of the body, compared
with 2.2 percent of those given warfarin.  “We have a drug you can take once a day, without
monitoring, that is at least as good as warfarin and carries no
additional risk,” said  Robert Califf , the study co-chairman and
vice chancellor for clinical research at Duke University Medical
Center in Durham, North Carolina. “The findings as we dive into
the details of the data look better and better.”  When the researchers included patients who stopped the
medicine before the trial was complete, 2.1 percent of those on
Xarelto and 2.4 percent of those on warfarin had a stroke or a
clot, a difference that was no longer statistically significant.  The study was funded by New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
Johnson & Johnson and Germany’s Bayer.  Bayer’s View  “The trial exceeded expectations,”  Bayer’s Misselwitz 
said in a telephone interview today, adding that the results
don’t put Xarelto at a disadvantage compared with Pradaxa.  Boehringer’s Pradaxa, taken twice a day, reduced the risk
of strokes in its pivotal study by 34 percent without additional
bleeding. The trial didn’t mask which drug patients were taking,
which can skew the results, and included a less-sick patient
population.  Pradaxa sales have been moving “at a very nice pace”
compared with what the company anticipated, said Wa’el Hashad,
Boehringer’s vice president, cardiovascular and metabolic
disorders marketing, in a telephone interview. Many insurance
companies waived the standard waiting period to cover new
medications, and the company has concluded its scientific
presentations at most major insurers.  While researchers cautioned against comparing the two drugs
and their respective studies, doctors will have to choose if
Xarelto is approved. Johnson & Johnson plans to file for U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval of the drug for patients
with atrial fibrillation before the end of the year. Bayer will
do the same in Europe, Misselwitz said.  More Drugs  There are more than a half-dozen pills now in development
to prevent blood clots from forming in patients with the erratic
heart rate known as atrial fibrillation.  Pfizer Inc.  and
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  are next in line, with data expected
from their warfarin replacement, known as apixaban, next year.  “We see ample room for many blockbuster players, given the
substantial market opportunity with no ‘one size fits all’
drug,”  Jami Rubin , an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co. in New
York, said in a Nov. 4 note to investors. The market opportunity
is a “rare bright spot” for drug companies who have struggled
to develop new blockbuster treatments to replace medicines going
off patent, she said.  Merck & Co.  is working on a rival medication known as
betrixaban that it licensed from Portola Pharmaceuticals Inc. in
2009. The drug is in the second of three stages of testing.
Tokyo drugmaker Daiichi-Sankyo Co. has a similar product in
late-stage testing.  Bleeding Risk  Patients taking Xarelto had slightly higher risks of
nuisance bleeding, such as oozing from a wound, and needed more
transfusions, according to Califf. The risk of more serious
bleeding, including hemorrhage in the brain or those leading to
death, was cut by about half, he said.  “These data show pretty convincingly that we have a real
alternative here that is effective, that’s better than warfarin,
that’s easy to manage and is once daily,” Peter DiBattiste,
vice president of cardiovascular development at Johnson &
Johnson. “We don’t have any safety signal of concern. This is a
real solution for patients who have been struggling with
warfarin for 60 years.”  Both Xarelto and Pradaxa, from Ingelheim, Germany-based
Boehringer, appear to reduce the risk of the most dangerous,
deadly bleeding, Califf said. The findings suggest the drugs,
and perhaps the entire class of medicines, don’t cause the same
side effects as warfarin. While the hypothesis needs to be
confirmed, the implication is that even patients who do well
with warfarin may benefit from one of the newer drugs, he said.  There were few discontinuations, and the drug didn’t seem
to have the problem with stomach upset including abdominal pain
seen with Pradaxa or the higher rate of heart attack, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  