-- Beazley's Bid for Insurer Hardy Is Rejected; Amlin, Beazley Revenue Gains
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-11-15T11:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/beazley-s-bid-for-insurer-hardy-is-rejected-amlin-beazley-revenue-gains.html
Beazley Plc , the fifth-biggest
publicly traded Lloyd’s of London insurer, said  Hardy
Underwriting Bermuda Ltd.  rejected a sweetened takeover offer
worth 171 million pounds ($275 million) in cash.  Hardy refused to recommend the 330-pence-a-share bid to its
shareholders and declined to meet with Beazley to discuss it,
the Dublin-based insurer said today in a statement. Beazley
previously announced a bid of 300 pence a share on Oct. 18.  Beazley will probably have to raise its bid to 350 pence
a share before Hardy will engage in discussions, according to
 Charles Coyne , a London-based analyst at FinnCap Ltd. with a
“buy” rating on Hardy and a “hold” recommendation on Beazley.
“They haven’t lost money at Lloyd’s since their inception. The
reserving record is excellent.”  The bid for Hardy follows fellow Lloyd’s of London insurer
Brit’s 888 million-pound takeover by Apollo Global Management
and CVC Capital Partners Ltd., which was agreed on Oct. 26.
Beazley is looking to buy Hardy, the smallest publicly traded
Lloyd’s insurer, to increase sales of property, aviation and
marine insurance outside the U.S.  “We’re asking shareholders to encourage the board of Hardy
to enter into discussions,”  Andrew Horton , Beazley’s chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview. “We have the
available resources to put in a higher offer. But without any
discussions with Hardy we’re not moving from where we are.”  Hardy Gains  Hardy climbed 11.5 pence, or 3.9 percent, to 310 pence
at 11:05 a.m. in London trading, valuing the firm at about
160 million pounds. Beazley rose 1 percent to 118.2 pence.  Hardy’s board unanimously rejected Beazley’s proposal
“because it’s not materially different from the first offer,”
Chief Executive Officer  Barbara Merry  said in a telephone
interview. Beazley’s valuation is “simply not enough,” she
said, declining to comment on an acceptable price.  The offer values Hardy at about 1.36 times the insurer’s
book value at June 30 and is 50 percent higher than its closing
share price on Oct. 5, the day before the first offer was made,
Beazley said. Apollo and CVC will pay about book value for Brit,
which has a lower return on equity, according to Joy
Ferneyhough, a London-based analyst at Execution Noble Ltd.  Beazley has no plans to make a hostile offer to
shareholders, Horton said. “We do need the board of Hardy to
engage with us because our board thinks it’s too risky buying
another insurance company without due diligence.”  Competition Increasing  Amlin Plc  and  Hiscox Ltd. , the two biggest Lloyd’s
insurers, have risen more than 20 percent since June last year
even as non-life premium rates are declining around the world.
Insurers’ capital reserves, built up after 2009’s rally in
equity markets and two years of relatively few costly natural
catastrophes, are prompting more competition in the industry,
causing rates to fall.  “Scale is important and, if anything, will become more
important,” Horton said. Clients “do like knowing that the
company they’re being insured with has a reasonable-sized
balance sheet.”  Hardy’s Merry disagrees. “The whole structure of the
Lloyd’s market, being subscription based, allows for the
continuation of small businesses,” she said. Lloyd’s insurers
typically divide up premiums and share responsibility for paying
claims for large risks such as earthquakes and hurricanes.  “We can still underwrite massive risks, but we only need
to be a part of them,” Merry said.  Nine-month revenue at Beazley climbed 2 percent to $1.35
billion, the company said in a separate statement. Sales of
reinsurance increased 24 percent to $167 million, offsetting
overall premium-rate declines of 2 percent.  Amlin  said revenue this year through Oct. 31 rose
39 percent after its acquisition of Fortis Corporate Insurance
NV last year. Premium rates dropped an average of 1.9 percent
during the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  