-- Belka Says Improving Growth Outlook `May Warrant Some Monetary Tightening'
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2010-11-15T12:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/belka-says-improving-growth-outlook-may-warrant-some-monetary-tightening-.html
Poland’s improved economic-growth
outlook may warrant monetary tightening, while the zloty’s gains
may limit the scope for higher rates, according to central bank
Governor  Marek Belka .  While accelerating growth will raise the risk of faster
 inflation  and may justify higher interest rates, Poland also
faces rising capital inflows strengthening the zloty, Belka said
at a conference in Vienna today.  The “improving growth outlook in Poland increases the risk
that inflationary pressure, albeit currently low, will increase
somewhat over the medium term, which may warrant some monetary
tightening,” Belka said. “If strong capital flows” to
emerging markets persist, the stronger zloty may “take the
burden off monetary tightening and limit the scope for  interest
rate  increases.”  The central bank followed policy makers in other countries
in attempting to slow inflows as low interest rates and weak
 economic growth  in developed economies force investors to turn
to emerging markets for higher returns.  The zloty has been the strongest emerging economy currency
in the second half of this year so far, rising 16.6 percent
against the dollar since the beginning of June.  “Interest rate hikes may increase the risk of excessive
foreign exchange appreciation,” Belka added. “Strong
appreciation may negatively affect econonmic conditions of firms
in Poland and reinforce capital inflows.”  Policy makers at the Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw on Oct.
27 left their benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record-low
3.5 percent on concern that higher rates may attract capital
inflows, strengthening the zloty and undermining an export-led
recovery. They considered raising borrowing costs in August and
September, according to minutes of the rate meetings.  The economy will expand 4.3 percent next year and 4.2
percent in 2012 after this year’s estimated 3.5 percent, the
central bank said on Oct. 29. Belka voted against a rate
increase to 4 percent in August, when policy makers decided with
a 6-4 majority to keep borrowing costs unchanged.  Foreign Currency Lending  According to Belka, zloty appreciation and an increased
difference between interest rates in Poland and elsewhere “may
boost foreign-currency lending.”  While foreign currency lending has been widespread in
Poland and many other eastern European countries, as banks
offerg lower interest rates for loans in euros or Swiss
francs, the cost of repaying loans soared when the local
currencies plunged among investor uncertainty during the global
crisis.  “The most important risk to the financial system’s
stability in Poland relates to foreign exchange lending to
households,” Belka said today.  While Poland’s financial regulator implemented measures to
limit lending in foreign currencies in 2009, households and
companies in Poland are still though very reliant on foreign-
currency loans. They accounted for 37 percent of all loans of
Polish housholds after the first quarter, as well as 64 percent
of home loans, the country’s financial markets regulator has
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Groendahl  in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net 
 Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullene at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  