-- Benchmark China Money Rate Rises to One-Week High on Monetary Tightening
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-15T08:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/benchmark-china-money-rate-rises-to-one-week-high-on-monetary-tightening.html
China’s benchmark  money-market rate 
rose to the highest level in seven days after the central bank
ordered lenders to set aside more funds as reserves.  The People’s Bank of China in October raised its benchmark
interest rates for the first time since 2007 and last week
boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios by as much as a
percentage point, seeking to tame the fastest inflation in two
years. Consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent from a year earlier in
October, exceeding all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey
conducted before the data was released on Nov. 11.  “Repo rates are rising after last week’s hike in reserve
requirements and rumors of further hikes,” said  Frances Cheung ,
a Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “We
still see another 25 basis point-rise in interest rates, which
could happen any time until year-end.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, rose eight basis points to 1.78 percent as of
4:08 p.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled by National
Interbank Funding Centre. That’s the highest level since Nov. 4.  Two-year swaps, the fixed rate needed to receive the
floating seven-day repo rate, rose four basis points to 3.04
percent, after increasing 12 basis points last week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yield on the benchmark 3.29 percent bond due September
2020 was little changed at 3.98 percent, data from the Interbank
Funding Center showed. That’s the highest rate for a benchmark
10-year  note  since September 2008.  -- Sonja Cheung . Editors:  James Regan ,  Simon Harvey   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Cheung in Hong Kong at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  