-- Berlusconi Ministers Quit Government; Move May Speed Early Vote
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-15T14:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/berlusconi-ministers-quit-government-in-move-that-may-speed-early-election.html
Four top officials from Italian
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government, including a
Cabinet member, resigned today in a move designed to bring down
his administration and possibly trigger early elections.  Four members of the new Future and Liberty for Italy party
formed by Chamber of Deputies Speaker  Gianfranco Fini  sent their
letters of resignation to the premier, a spokesman for Deputy
Industry Minister  Adolfo Urso  said. Urso was among those who
stepped down.  Fini, who broke with Berlusconi in July, called for the
premier’s resignation earlier this month after media reports
that Berlusconi helped secure the release from police custody of
a 17-year-old nightclub dancer. The rupture with Fini, who co-
founded the premier’s  People of Liberty party , comes as
parliament prepares to vote on the government’s 2011 budget.  Berlusconi acknowledged the defection of Fini’s allies in a
Nov. 13 statement and said he would call confidence votes in
both houses of parliament after the budget is passed to see if
he has sufficient support to govern. The government’s future
will be at the center of a meeting today between the premier and
his ally  Umberto Bossi , leader of the Northern League.  Berlusconi’s Decision  “There are so many possibilities, so many hypotheses,”
said  Roberto Maroni , Interior Minister and a leading politician
of the League. “The final decision is in the hands of the prime
minister.”  Berlusconi, 74, may have enough backing in the upper house,
the Senate, to survive a confidence vote. In the  Chamber of
Deputies , Fini has the votes to deny Berlusconi a majority and
topple the government. Even if the government falls, early
elections are not a certainty.  President  Giorgio Napolitano  would first consult the
parties to see if another government might be formed with or
without Berlusconi as its head, before calling for a vote. While
Berlusconi’s popularity has declined to near-record lows since
his 2008 re-election, polls indicate that he might win a vote
without Fini and secure a majority in at least one house of
parliament.  Napolitano will meet tomorrow with Fini and Senate Speaker
 Renato Schifani  for an unscheduled update on the parliamentary
agenda, the Chamber of Deputies said in a statement today.  Early Voting?  “The likelihood of new elections in the near future is now
pretty high,”  Natacha Valla , an economist at Goldman Sachs in
Paris, wrote in a note to investors. “Yet, in a general move of
wisdom, the entire political class agreed to postpone any formal
step that would precipitate early elections until after the
finance law has been passed, showing full awareness of the fact
that an open political crisis before securing the 2011 budget
would be most unwelcome in the context of heightened market
anxiety regarding public finances in the euro zone.”  The yield premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar-maturity German bonds rose to a euro-era
record of 180.9 basis points on Nov. 11 as concern that Ireland
and Portugal may follow Greece in having to seek a European
Union-led bailout hurt bonds of other so-called peripheral
countries. The spread fell less than 1 basis point today to 164.  Budget Passage  “We expect the budget law to be approved within four to
six weeks,”  Fabio Fois , an economist at Barclays Capital in
London, said in an e-mailed note today. “Should the Senate
approve the budget without amendments, we think a confidence
vote could be triggered in mid-December.”  The confidence votes may coincide with a decision by
Italy’s Constitutional Court set for Dec. 14 on the validity of
a law passed by the government granting Berlusconi and other top
officials immunity from prosecution while in office. Should the
court rule against the premier, pending corruption trials
against him could resume.  The biggest legal threat to Berlusconi comes from a Milan
court that has already convicted his co-defendant in the case.
The court is trying Berlusconi for allegedly paying $600,000 to
U.K. lawyer David Mills to lie under oath on his behalf.  The criminal charges against Mills were thrown out in
February because the statute of limitations had expired. Civil
charges against Mills were upheld along with a 250,000-euro
damage payment. Berlusconi denies any wrongdoing in the case and
has said that judges are trying to destroy him politically.  ‘Ruby’  The political crisis has accelerated after the revelations
that Berlusconi contacted police in Milan after they arrested a
woman known as “Ruby heart stealer” on suspicion of theft.
Maroni, testifying on the incident in parliament last week, said
that Berlusconi had called police to inquire about the girl,
whom he referred to as a relative of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . The woman, who turned 18 this month, is Moroccan and
not related to the Egyptian leader.  Berlusconi admitted helping the girl, who had attended a
party at his Milan villa months earlier. The premier said he
sent his former dental hygienist, a one-time television showgirl
and now a regional politician for his party, to take custody of
the girl upon her release from jail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 