-- BHP’s Three Failed Deals Won’t Stop Pursuit of M&A
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-11-16T07:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bhp-s-three-failed-deals-won-t-stop-kloppers-pursuit-of-m-a.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers  won’t let three failed investments worth
more than $100 billion prevent further takeover attempts.
Finding big, buyable targets will be the difficulty.  BHP , the world’s largest mining company, scrapped a $40
billion hostile cash bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
yesterday after the transaction was rejected by Canada.
Kloppers’ two other failed deals -- a bid for  Rio Tinto Group 
and an iron ore venture with that company -- were abandoned
following competition concerns from regulators.  “With the size of BHP, he has to go and do things that are
fairly audacious, which are always going to have a fair amount
of regulatory risk,” said  Shaun Manuell , head of asset
management at Melbourne-based Equity Trustees Ltd., which
manages the equivalent of $1 billion including BHP shares.
“There is not a lot there that fits within their demographic of
large, low-cost mines.”  Kloppers may decide to pursue energy  acquisitions , with
UBS AG singling out Anadarko Petroleum Ltd., Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. and closely held U.S.-based coal producer Drummond Co. as
possible targets.  “The board wants to encourage Marius and his executive
team to look at these transactions, not to make them concerned
about looking at these transactions,” Chairman  Jac Nasser  told
reporters in Perth today. “We are not about to walk away with
our tails between our legs because we haven’t had success.”  Some shareholders are yet to be won over to a takeover
strategy, with 64 percent of respondents to a Bloomberg News
survey in September saying BHP should invest in its own mines,
make buybacks or pay dividends ahead of acquisitions.  Underperformance  BHP’s  Australian shares  have underperformed since the
Potash Corp. offer was announced on Aug. 17, rising 11 percent,
less than Rio’s 22 percent and Xstrata Plc’s 36 percent gain.
BHP’s Sydney-traded shares rose 0.7 percent to A$44.45 at the
4:10 p.m. local time close.  BHP, which held $12.5 billion of  cash  on June 30, is
considering takeovers in the energy industry, J.  Michael Yeager ,
CEO of the company’s oil and gas division, said in September.  The company’s petroleum unit is its third largest by
sales, accounting for 17 percent of revenue in the last
financial year. Iron ore and base metals are the biggest earners.  “The favored sectors will be iron ore, coking coal,
copper and oil,” said  Peter Chilton , who helps manage the
equivalent of $790 million at Constellation Capital Management
Ltd., including BHP shares. “I’m sure they will do smaller
acquisitions. There are not that many tier-one assets around,
which is why BHP went for Potash,” the world’s biggest producer
of the crop nutrient, he said by phone from Sydney.  BHP Meeting  The Melbourne-based company has the potential to  earn more 
than $40 billion a year in earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization from next year, Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd. said last month.  Kloppers, 48, has spent at least $800 million on costs
related to the three abandoned deals since his appointment as
CEO in May 2007. He resumed BHP’s share buyback yesterday and
Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty expects the company to
raise its first-half dividend and consider “on-and-off-market”
buybacks for its Australian-traded stock.  The potential returns of buying Potash Corp. outweighed the
risks of rejection, Nasser told shareholders today at BHP’s
 annual meeting  in Perth. The rejection won’t change BHP’s
acquisition strategy, he said.  “No pain no gain,” Nasser said. “We are not about to
change from transactions that potentially involve large, tier-
one assets, valuable, quality assets and change that to go after
second-tier, lower quality acquisitions.”  Acquisition Options  BHP spent $450 million on the bid for  Rio  in 2008 and $350
million on the Potash Corp. offer, according to the company. The
failed bid to set up the iron ore joint venture with Rio cost
$75 million, according to the  Australian Financial Review .  “The potential for a large, debt-funded acquisition
remains, but is not unduly threatening to BHP’s  credit ,”
 Michael Bush , an analyst at National Australia Bank Ltd., said
in a note yesterday. “Oil and gas opportunities are likely,
with attention currently centering on Woodside Petroleum, though
for BHP, earnings-per-share accretive deals in this sector may
be harder to identify than those within the mining industry.”  Market-share concerns constrain BHP’s acquisition options
in iron ore and coking coal, while industry fundamentals would
rule out aluminum and nickel, leaving oil and copper, Citigroup
Inc. said this month.  “World-class M&A” opportunities are limited in copper,
and an oil acquisition risks skewing BHP’s production
portfolio toward energy, Citigroup said.  Global Reach  BHP, the world’s largest coal exporter and third-largest
iron-ore shipper, can trace its roots to the Australian outback
town of Broken Hill where it began mining base metals in 1885.  The company now has operations in Australia, Africa, South
America, North America and Europe. It has sales of $1.52 million
for every 1,000  employees , compared with Xstrata, which has
$768,000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rio has sales
of $525,000 for every 1,000 employees.  “BHP probably need to reassess their M&A strategy,” said
 Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne, including BHP shares. “The
regulatory environment is proving more difficult than they
originally assessed and that may be due to the sheer size of the
deals that they’re proposing.”  BHP’s  London-traded shares  have advanced 174 percent over
the past two years, compared with a 114 percent gain for Rio.
BHP is trading at a forward price-to-earnings ratio of 12.06
times, while Rio is trading at 12.4 times.  “He still has a future with BHP,” said Constellation’s
Chilton. “He attempted the almost undoable, because he was up
against regulators. You need somebody who has some drive and he
has.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  