-- BHP May Raise Dividend After Scrapping Potash Takeover Bid, Goldman Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-11-15T17:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bhp-may-raise-dividend-after-scrapping-potash-bid-goldman-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
biggest mining company, may raise its dividend in the first half
after scrapping a $40 billion takeover bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty said.  BHP resumed plans to purchase $4.2 billion of its shares
under a $13 billion buyback program suspended in 2007, the
Melbourne-based company said today after announcing it abandoned
its offer for the world’s largest fertilizer maker.  “At the first-half result we would expect BHP to increase
its  dividend , particularly as the weak U.S. dollar has resulted
in the Australian dollar dividend falling,”  Neil Goodwill  and
 Roscoe Widdup , Melbourne-based analysts at Goldman Sachs, wrote
in a report today. “We would also expect BHP to consider on-
and-off-market buybacks for the Australian listed stock.”  The Australian dollar has risen 18 percent against the U.S.
dollar since end-June, the most among the 16 major currencies
Bloomberg tracks. It reached parity with the U.S. dollar last
month for the first time since July 1982. BHP, due to report
first-half results on Feb. 16, paid a dividend of 87 cents a
share for the year ended June 30, according to Goldman Sachs.
The company may pay 99 cents this year, Goldman estimates.  “From a market perspective the removal of acquisition risk
with regard to Potash Corp. and the reactivation of the buyback
program will, we believe, be regarded as sensible,” Goldman
said in the report. “Overall we think BHP would likely be
conservative and preserve a very strong balance sheet for
potential opportunities in what has been a volatile market.”  BHP  rose 1.8 percent to 2,406 pence by the 4:35 p.m. London
close. It earlier fell 0.4 percent to A$44.14 in Sydney.  The company could buy back $20 billion to $30 billion of
its shares by the end of fiscal 2012, Goldman said. The broker
reinstated BHP coverage today with a “conviction buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  