-- Blackstone Confirms $4.50-a-Share Dynegy Offer Price
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-15T21:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/blackstone-reconfirms-its-affiliate-s-offer-for-dynegy.html
Blackstone Group LP  said it isn’t
raising its $540 million, or $4.50-a-share, agreement to buy
 Dynegy Inc . in response to opposition from the company’s two
largest shareholders.  Proposals made public last week by billionaire investor
 Carl Icahn  and hedge fund Seneca Capital don’t address the risk
that the stock may fall if the deal is voted down, Blackstone
said in a statement today. A shareholder meeting to vote on the
acquisition is scheduled Nov. 17 at Dynegy’s headquarters in
Houston.  Blackstone’s offer represents a 62 percent premium to
Dynegy’s closing share price on Aug. 12, the day before the
transaction was announced, the New York-based private-equity
firm said. No competing bid emerged for Dynegy, which Blackstone
values at $4.7 billion including assumption of debt.  “We have found only one potential transaction, the current
one with Blackstone, which provides certain value to our common
stockholders,” Dynegy said in a separate statement today.
“Failure to complete the Blackstone transaction would present
stockholders with substantial continuing risk to commodity
prices that have actually fallen significantly since the
Blackstone transaction was approved.”  Icahn, whose Icahn Capital LP owns 7.9 percent of Dynegy
common stock, said today in a filing he is preparing to ask the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for permission to raise
that stake above 10 percent. Icahn Associates Corp. holds a 2
percent stake. Seneca  holds  9.3 percent.  Shares Fall  Dynegy  fell  6 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $4.63 at 4:03 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
closed above Blackstone’s offer price on every day except for
four in the almost three months since the purchase was
announced.  Icahn said on Nov. 12 he would offer a $2 billion line of
credit to keep the company liquid and avoid the Blackstone sale.
Seneca said on Nov. 11 it would nominate two men to replace
Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Williamson  and  David Biegler  on
Dynegy’s board.  Icahn’s filing last week proposed an interest rate five
basis points below the rate on Dynegy’s existing credit line,
and would allow Dynegy to sell $1.5 billion of assets without
prepayment.  If the Blackstone takeover closes, NRG Energy Inc., Texas’s
second-largest power producer, agreed to pay $1.36 billion for
Dynegy plants in California and Maine. Dynegy also has plants in
the U.S. Midwest and Northeast.  Raising Price Target  The Icahn credit line offer prompted JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst Andrew Smith to raise his price target for Dynegy today
to $7 from $5, recommending clients to buy the stock. Icahn’s
“liquidity backstop” may add 25 percent to Dynegy’s value, he
wrote.  Seneca “has no credibility” and Icahn’s offer of a credit
line, if accepted, would put him in position to force the
company into bankruptcy if it’s unable to repay the debt,
Blackstone said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 