-- BlackRock Developing Local ETFs in Chile, Colombia to Attract Investors
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-15T19:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/blackrock-developing-local-etfs-in-chile-colombia-to-attract-investors.html
BlackRock Inc.,  the world’s largest
money manager, plans to offer local exchange-traded funds in
Colombia and Chile to expand its business to institutional and
retail investors in the South American nations.  Work on the creation of locally-listed, peso-denominated
ETFs in Chile will probably begin “in the short term,” said
 Axel Christensen , BlackRock’s managing director for South
America excluding Brazil. iShares, the ETF fund business of New
York-based BlackRock, is also in talks with the Colombian stock
exchange to list local equity ETFs, he said.  “The opportunity to launch these ETFs in Chile will unfold
in the first half of next year as the final details of the ETF
regulation are being worked on at the local regulator,”
Christensen said in an interview from his office in Santiago
today. “In Colombia, we are already in negotiations with the
local stock exchange.”  Christensen said that BlackRock is working on educating the
local investment communities in those countries with the hope of
reaching the volumes that ETFs have in Mexico, where they
account for a third of average daily trading.  “What took Mexico six to seven years, we hope will take
only a couple of years to do in the countries we cover from
Santiago,” he said.  ETFs issue a fixed number of shares and trade throughout
the day like stocks. Most are designed to passively track a
benchmark equity index.  Worldwide ETF holdings have surged almost 14-fold in the
past decade to $897 billion, Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. said
last month. BlackRock manages about $40 billion in assets in
Latin America, Spain and Portugal, including $25 billion in
iShares ETFs, Christensen said. iShares assets in Latin America
have grown about 15 to 20 percent a year, he said.  The Chilean government’s new rules for ETFs were part of a
broader package of reforms aimed at boosting trading and
attracting more foreign investors to Latin America’s third-
largest stock market. The reform modified mutual fund rules to
allow secondary trading and enable pension funds to invest in
them. Chile’s pension funds had $138 billion under management at
the end of September, according their regulator,
Superintendencia de Pensiones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  