-- Bonds Beat BRIC Rivals as Inflation Shows Signs of Slowing: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-11-15T10:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bonds-beat-bric-rivals-as-inflation-shows-signs-of-slowing-india-credit.html
Indian bonds outperformed those of
the largest emerging nations in the past month, with the biggest
decline in yields relative to Treasuries among BRIC nations, on
signs  inflation  is slowing.  A government report today showed the wholesale-price index
rose 8.58 percent in October, the least since January, according
to a government statement. Yields on India’s 10-year bonds
dropped relative to U.S. treasuries more than Brazil’s, while
similar rates in Russia and China jumped.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao’s decision to raise
interest rates six times this year is boosting confidence he
will tame benchmark inflation that is about twice the rate in
Brazil and China and more than 2 percentage points above
Russia’s. Nomura Holdings Inc. forecast India’s benchmark yield
will drop 28 basis points to 7.80 percent by March after data
last week showed slowing factory output and food-price gains.  “We expect the RBI to pause in its rate hikes in the
immediate future given the softening trend in inflation and
factory output,” said Sonal Varma, a Mumbai-based economist at
Nomura. “It is prudent for the RBI to take stock of previous
policy actions.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year notes was little changed
at 8.07 percent. The rate is 524 basis points, or 5.24
percentage points,  more  than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries,
down from 558 a month earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gap for Brazil’s 10-year yields narrowed one
basis point, while the spread widened three points in Russia and
16 in China during the same period. Brazil, Russia, India and
China make up the so-called BRIC markets of the largest emerging
nations.  Industrial Output  Growth in  industrial production  slowed to 4.4 percent in
September from this year’s high of 16.8 percent in January, the
government said on Nov. 12. The previous day, Commerce Ministry
data showed  food inflation  slowed to a one-year low of 12.3
percent in the week to Oct. 30.  “Given the deceleration in factory output, we think the
RBI is likely to hold rates,” Jay Shankar, a Mumbai-based chief
economist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd., said in an interview
on Nov. 12. “We were earlier expecting a 25-basis point
increase by March. The chances of that have diminished after the
deceleration in the key economic data.”  He forecasts the benchmark yield will drop to 7.90 percent
by January. The Reserve Bank predicted on Nov. 2 that benchmark
wholesale-price  inflation  may slow to 5.5 percent by the end of
March.  Bond Volatility  India uses the wholesale-price  index  as a benchmark for
measuring inflation. The consumer-price inflation rate for
industrial workers quickened 9.82 percent in September. In
contrast, consumer price inflation rate rose 5.2 percent in
Brazil, 7.5 percent in Russia and 4.4 percent in China.  The government raised $2.5 billion, selling seven-, 10- and
30-year bonds at maximum yields of 7.99 percent, 8.10 percent
and 8.49 percent at an auction on Nov. 12.  India’s government bonds underperformed earlier this year
as average inflation in the first nine months jumped sevenfold
to 9.7 percent. The securities returned 3.9 percent this year,
the third-worst performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt
markets outside Japan, according to indexes compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Narrowing swings in the bond yields of Asia’s third-biggest
economy signaled a smaller potential for losses. A measure of
the 10-year rate’s 30-day historical  volatility  has declined to
7.5 percent from 19.1 percent in May, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. A similar gauge was at 17 percent in Brazil, 12 percent in
Russia and 19.3 percent in China.  Treasury Yields  The  cost  of fixing rates on money for a year in India’s
interest-rate swap market has declined eight basis points from a
two-year high of 6.83 percent reached on Oct. 28, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The rupee appreciated 3 percent this year as the Reserve
Bank raised the benchmark repurchase rate 150 basis points to
6.25 percent, attracting fund inflows into the nation. The
currency dropped 0.7 percent today to 45.12 per dollar today.  Yields in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, have also
climbed on speculation efforts by the Federal Reserve to spur
the economy will lead to faster inflation. The benchmark 10-year
treasury yield rose to 2.79 percent on Nov. 12 from 2.65 percent
a day earlier.  Bank Holdings  The Reserve Bank said on Nov. 2 that increases in global
commodity-prices pose a risk to its inflation outlook. Record
share sales in India have also starved the bond market of funds,
raising  overnight borrowing rates  to an average 6.3 percent this
quarter from 5.4 percent in the previous three months.  Banks, the biggest buyers of government debt, raised their
holdings by 1.8 percent in the two weeks to Oct. 22, the most
since April, before a cash shortage in the last week of the
month prompted them to cut their positions, Reserve Bank of
India data show.  Factory-output and India’s food inflation data “don’t
really matter for investors as long as the liquidity shortage
continues,” Prasanna Ananthasubramaniam, the Mumbai-based chief
economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd., said in
an interview on Nov. 12. “Liquidity is a bigger concern now.”  Cash Crunch  The Reserve Bank has increased daily lending to banks to
alleviate the cash squeeze. The central bank lent 1.2 trillion
rupees ($27 billion) to local lenders Nov. 11, an all-time high.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, has decreased 70 basis points to 169 from a one-year
high reached in May, according to CMA prices.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “The industrial-output data indicate further hikes may not
be necessary,”  Roy Paul , deputy general manager at Mumbai-based
Federal Bank Ltd., said in an interview on Nov. 12. “It’s a
good level to enter bonds in the backdrop of a likely pause.”
He predicts the 10-year yield will drop to 7.60 percent by
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 