-- Bondholders Gain Standing to Demand Action on More Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-15T20:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bondholders-gain-standing-to-demand-more-mortgage-buybacks-attorney-says.html
A group of  mortgage -bond holders has
expanded to give members stakes of at least 25 percent in more
than 3,000 securitizations, potentially putting them in a
stronger position to force lenders to buy back soured home
loans, lawyer  Talcott Franklin  said.  The number of deals the RMBS Investor Clearing House now
has a big enough interest in to request action by bond trustees
has climbed about 30 percent since a July statement by Franklin.
The clearing house allows bondholders to coordinate without
divulging to each other which securities they own.  The group added three new portfolios Nov. 12 that weren’t
included in the most recent total, Franklin said in an e-mail
from Dallas that day. A quarter of bond investors in any single
deal marks the minimum threshold to force mortgage-bond trustees
to grant access to loan files that may help investors prove
mortgage sellers should buy back bad  debt  or take other action.  “The more firms, and bonds, that are in the clearing
house, the more likely it is that this issue is decided by the
relevant contracts and not by external pressure applied to any
member firm or firms,” said  Bill Frey , the head of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based securities firm Greenwich Financial Services
LLC, which is working with the clearing house.  Recent additions include “several substantial foreign
investors,” Frey said in a telephone interview.  No Guarantees  The mortgage-bond deals the clearing house is interested in
are so-called  non-agency securities , meaning they lack
government guarantees. Almost 30 percent of  loans underlying the
bonds  are now at least 30 days delinquent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The group Franklin represents owns more than $600 billion
of non-agency securities. The group said in July letters to bond
trustees that it had more than 50 percent participation in about
900 deals, a threshold that can give them the power to fire
trustees.  The clearing house now covers investors holding 50 percent
of 1,325 deals, Franklin said in the e-mail.  Participants in Franklin’s clearing house include BlackRock
Inc., Pacific Investment Management Co., Fortress Investment
Group LLC, Fannie Mae and Federal Home Loan Banks, people
familiar with the matter said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  