-- Options Showing Quantitative Easing Working Before It Begins
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-11-15T18:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bond-options-showing-quantitative-easing-starting-to-work-before-it-begins.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s $600 billion plan to spark inflation in the U.S.
economy is already showing signs of succeeding, if the market
for bond options is any indication.  As the central bank starts a second round of  purchases  of
Treasuries through its so-called quantitative-easing policy,
investors are paying eight times more than in April for options
on interest-rate swaps that protect against rising yields
relative to those that bet on them falling, according to
Barclays Plc data. Bonds that compensate for higher consumer
prices also show heightened inflation expectations.  While a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll last week of 1,030
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers
showed that 56 percent said the plan won’t boost growth, half
said it will help avoid deflation. That may be more important to
Bernanke because a general decline in prices makes consumers and
businesses less willing to invest.  Policy makers, who have kept the central bank’s target for
overnight interest rates between banks near zero since 2008,
“are happy to see that inflation expectations have moved up”
in the bond market, said  Stuart Spodek , a managing director at
New York-based BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money
manager, with $3.45 trillion in assets. “There would be a lot
more concern out there if the Fed was doing this and the market
was telling you that we are still going to have deflation.”  ‘Clueless’ Move  Foreign officials are less complimentary, saying Bernanke’s
strategy to inject cash into the economy by purchasing bonds
will only succeed in devaluing the dollar and disrupting
emerging-market economies as their currencies rise.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Nov. 5
in Berlin that the Fed’s move was “clueless.” Brazil’s central
bank president,  Henrique Meirelles , said “excess liquidity” in
the U.S. economy is creating “risks for everyone.” In China,
Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said “many countries are
worried about the impact of the policy on their economies.”  Even some U.S. government officials have been critical,
with Senator  Richard Shelby , the Senate Banking Committee’s top-
ranking Republican, saying he’s “worried about the risks” of
the Fed’s actions.  A total of 75 percent surveyed in the Bloomberg poll said
the securities purchases will have little or no effect on
joblessness, which has held above 9 percent since May 2009.  Bonds Tumble  Bond yields show investors already anticipate faster
growth. Yields on 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for everything
from corporate bonds to mortgage rates rose last week by the
most since December, surging 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage
point, to 2.79 percent. The price of the benchmark 2.625 percent
note due November 2020 auctioned by the government last week
closed at 98 19/32 on Nov. 12. The yield rose five basis points
to 2.84 percent at 1:47 p.m. in New York.  The difference between volatility on one-year options that
lock in paying fixed rates on 10-year interest-rate swaps and
those that grant the right to receive fixed payments, known as
the payer skew, suggest traders expect higher yields. It’s up to
26 basis points from about 3 in April, according to Barclays.  “There has been a change in investors’ perceptions about
inflation,” said  Piyush Goyal,  a fixed-income strategist in New
York at Barclays. “The payer skew has risen by a massive
amount.”  A  committee  of bond dealers and investors which meets with
the Treasury quarterly noted the skew’s rise in November 2009 as
a signal of investors’ concerns over record debt sales.  Market Predictor  After the measure surged to an all-time high of 38 basis
points in October 2009, the 10-year Treasury yield rose more
than a percentage point to this year’s peak of about 4 percent
in April. The skew then plunged to about 3 basis points by late
April, just as the 10-year yield began a slide to this year’s
low of 2.33 percent on Oct. 8.  While the skew is now rising, there’s little evidence of
accelerating inflation. In two days the government may say that
the cost of goods and services excluding food and energy rose
0.7 percent in October from a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That
would be the smallest year-over-year gain since 1961.  The Fed’s desire to spark some inflation is why it’s
“pegging the 10-year note at about 2.5 percent and the federal
funds rate at about zero for as far as the eyes can see,” said
 Jeffrey Gundlach , founder and head of Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine Capital LP, which has $6.8 billion in assets. “The
10-year yield is being pegged at a lower level than would be the
case if the Fed wasn’t buying bonds through quantitative
easing.”  Beating Gross  Gundlach, the only bond manager to post higher returns than
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  in the past 5, 10
and 15 years, expects 10-year yields to remain at about current
levels as the Fed buys more debt. Gundlach’s new fund, the
DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund, has gained 17.4 percent from
its inception in April, compared with 8.5 percent for Gross’s
Total Return Fund, Bloomberg data show.  The Fed said Nov. 3 that it would buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June because “the pace of recovery in output
and employment continues to be slow.” It kicked off the program
on Nov. 12 by purchasing $7.229 billion of Treasuries maturing
from November 2014 to April 2016. Policy makers acquired $7.923
billion in Treasuries today.  “Bernanke will be successful,” said  Fabrizio Fiorini , who
manages about $8 billion in assets as head of fixed income at
Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan. “A rise in yields, perceived
as proof of the Fed’s success, will create a virtuous circle
that will be helpful for the housing market, consumer confidence
and consumption and probably employment.”  Letter to Fed  A group including former Republican government officials
and economists urged Fed Chairman  Bernanke  to halt his expansion
of monetary stimulus, saying it risks an inflation surge.  “The planned asset purchases risk currency debasement and
inflation, and we do not think they will achieve the Fed’s
objective of promoting employment,” said the letter, signed by
23 people including  Cliff Asness , who runs AQR Capital
Management LLC, one of the world’s biggest hedge funds; Stanford
University Professor  John Taylor , creator of a monetary-policy
formula used by the Fed; and  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former
Congressional Budget Office director.  Breakeven Rates  The market for bonds that protect against rising consumer
prices is signaling the same. The  difference  between yields on
10-year TIPS and Treasuries -- which represents the annual
inflation rate investors anticipate over the life of the
securities -- rose as high as 2.15 percentage points last week,
from this year’s low of 1.51 points in August. The difference,
known as the breakeven rate, averaged 2.11 points over the last
five years.  The five-year, five-year forward rate the Fed uses to chart
investor expectations for inflation surged to 3.08 percent on
Nov. 1 from an almost two-year low of 2.17 percent on Aug. 24.
The rate averaged 2.6 percent the five years before the
beginning of the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  While Treasuries have returned 7.8 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, they lost 3.72 percent in 2009
even as the Fed began purchasing $1.7 trillion of Treasuries and
mortgage-related debt in its first quantitative-easing program,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Bond Losses  Last week’s drop in Treasuries contributed to a loss of 1.4
percent since 10-year yields fell to this year’s low on Oct. 8,
as measured by the firm’s Treasury Master Index. The longest-
dated bonds, which are hurt the most when inflation accelerates,
have tumbled 8.2 percent.  World equity and commodity markets have surged since
Bernanke first indicated in an Aug. 27 speech to central bankers
in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, that he was prepared to pump more cash
into the economy.  The  MSCI  World Index touched a two-year high this month,
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached its strongest level
since September 2008. Oil climbed to a two-year peak, while gold
and cotton rose to records last week, boosted by a weakening
dollar.  Signs are emerging that the economy may be strengthening.
Employers added 151,000 workers to payrolls in October, the
first gain in five months, the government said Nov. 5. The
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index expanded at the
fastest pace in five months in October and its services index
showed the quickest rate of expansion in three months.  “The economy has definitely done better since Bernanke
spoke in Jackson Hole,” said  Michael Materasso , co-chairman of
the fixed-income policy committee at San Mateo, California-based
Franklin Templeton Investments, which oversees $261.2 billion in
bonds.  Materasso says he prefers corporate debt securities,
emerging-market bonds and commercial mortgage debentures to
government debt. “There are better opportunities in U.S. bond
market than Treasuries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 