-- Pickens Buys Stake in BP Plc, Sells Transocean Shares
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2010-11-15T19:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bp-capital-took-new-stakes-in-bp-schlumberger-noble-in-quarter.html
Billionaire oil investor  T. Boone Pickens  bought shares of  BP Plc , the owner of the well that
caused the biggest offshore U.S. crude spill in history, and
sold his holdings in  Transocean Ltd ., which owned the drilling
rig that exploded, according to a regulatory filing.  Pickens’s BP Capital Management LP bought $19.8 million
worth of London-based BP’s  American depositary receipts  in the
three months ending Sept. 30, according to a public filing
today. Pickens began acquiring the stock after BP’s Macondo well
in the Gulf of Mexico erupted in April and spewed 4.9 million
barrels of crude. Each receipt is worth six ordinary BP shares.  BP Capital, based in Dallas, sold its holdings in
Transocean, the Vernier, Switzerland-based company that leased
the Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded to BP. The fund held
almost 202,000 shares of Transocean in the second quarter.  The value of BP Capital’s holdings rose 34 percent to
$279.3 million from $208.3 million in the prior quarter,
according to a Bloomberg calculation. Pickens said in July that
BP was a “good buy.”  BP Capital also bought $13 million in shares of
 Schlumberger Ltd ., the Houston-based oil services provider. The
fund acquired $11.4 million worth of Geneva-based  Noble Corp .,
the world’s third-largest deep-water oil and natural-gas
driller.  Adding Shares  Pickens’s fund in the third quarter increased stakes in
 Apache Corp ., the Houston-based independent oil company;  McMoRan
Exploration Co ., the New Orleans-based partner in U.S. offshore
oil discoveries; and Plains Exploration & Production Co., the
Houston-based oil and gas producer.  The fund cut holdings in  Hess Corp ., the New York City-
based oil company, and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp ., the Woodlands,
Texas-based partner in BP’s Macondo well, according to the
filing.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show
their U.S.-listed stocks, options and convertible bonds. The
filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much cash the
funds hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 