-- Bristol-Myers Partner Otsuka Wins Abilify Ruling
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-11-15T22:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/bristol-myers-partner-otsuka-wins-ruling-on-schizophrenia-treatment-patent.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  partner
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. won a court ruling that will prevent
generic versions of the schizophrenia treatment Abilify from
entering the U.S. market until April 2015.  U.S. District Judge  Mary L. Cooper  in Trenton, New Jersey,
upheld a patent that covers aripiprazole, the key ingredient in
the drug. Tokyo-based Otsuka discovered the drug and co-markets
it with New York-based Bristol-Myers in the U.S. and Europe.  The ruling is a loss for companies seeking to sell generic
versions of the medicine, including  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd.,  Novartis AG’s Sandoz; Apotex Inc.;  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  and Synthon BV. Bristol-Myers’s
sales of Abilify were $1.86 billion in the nine months ended
Sept. 30, the company said in an Oct. 26 statement. The drug
accounted for about 14 percent of company sales last year.  “This is an important product for Bristol, and from that
standpoint, this is definitely a positive development,”  Linda Bannister , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in Des Peres,
Missouri, said in a phone interview. “Usually these decisions
stand, so it looks like we won’t have a generic until 2015.”  Bristol-Myers  rose  30 cents to $26.32 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is up 4.2
percent this year. Otsuka is closely held.  Most investors were anticipating a ruling in favor of
Bristol-Myers and Otsuka,  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with
Leerink Swann & Co. in Boston, said in a note to investors. A
loss of patent protection for Abilify would have cut Bristol-
Myers earnings by about 40 cents a share through 2014 because of
the generic competition, Fernandez said.  ‘Patent Monopoly’  Bristol-Myers and Otsuka are pleased with the court’s
decision, said  Sonia Choi , a spokeswoman for Bristol-Myers.
Representatives of generic-drug makers Teva and Novartis
declined to discuss the ruling. Officials with the other
companies didn’t return messages seeking comment.  Abilify is the sixth-biggest selling drug in the U.S.,
Otsuka said in a Nov. 11 court filing. Teva and Apotex told the
court in a filing the same day that the drug was already covered
by a patent that expired in 2005. The medicine was first
approved by U.S. regulators in 2002.  “Otsuka has been able to extend its patent monopoly on
aripiprazole for almost an additional decade,” the generic-drug
makers said. “Otsuka is not entitled to extend its period of
exclusivity by obtaining a claim in a later patent that is, as
here, merely an ‘obvious modification’ of a claim in an early
patent.”  ‘Patentably Distinct’  Otsuka called that position “absurd” and said that the
compound is “patentably distinct” from the earlier compound.  “Although scientists have been trying to replicate
aripiprazole’s unique properties since at least 1994 (when
aripiprazole’s successful clinical results were published), no
other antipsychotic drug like aripiprazole has been discovered
to date,” Otsuka said in the filing.  Considering the state of known science in 1988, it wasn’t
clear that researchers should look at the compound Otsuka
selected when it was seeking an antipsychotic drug that had
fewer side effects, Judge Cooper said in her ruling.  “The evidence of failure of researchers to develop a safe
and effective atypical antipsychotic as of Oct. 31, 1988,
supports a finding that aripiprazole would not have been
obvious,” the judge said.  Withholding Data  Cooper went through the history of schizophrenia treatments
and the different compounds that are on the market.  “She spent a lot of time on this matter,” said  James Monroe , a lawyer at Finnegan Henderson in Washington who
represented Otsuka and said he was “ecstatic” at today’s
decision. “She gave very close consideration” to the arguments
presented by both sides.  The generic-drug makers also accused Otsuka of making false
statements and failing to provide important research papers to
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to obtain the patent, an
allegation Otsuka denied.  Cooper said the information wasn’t material to the patent
application, nor was there any intent on Otsuka’s part to
mislead the agency by not providing the papers.  The lead case is Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. v. Sandoz Inc.,
07cv1000, U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 