-- Buffett Takes BNY Mellon Stake, Adds Wells Fargo Stock
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-11-15T22:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/buffett-s-berkshire-takes-stake-in-bny-mellon-adds-to-wells-fargo-holding.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  disclosed a stake in Bank of New York Mellon Corp. and
increased its holding in Wells Fargo & Co. as the lender
posted record profit.  Buffett’s firm had 1.99 million shares of BNY Mellon, the
world’s largest custody bank, at the end of the third quarter,
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said today in a regulatory
filing that listed the company’s U.S. stockholdings as of Sept.
30. Berkshire had 336.4 million shares of Wells Fargo, compared
with 320.1 million three months earlier.  Buffett, 80, is seeking investments as Berkshire’s  cash
hoard builds  and interest-bearing deals he struck during the
financial crisis come to a close. Berkshire has increased  its
Wells Fargo stake  in four quarters since the beginning of 2009
as reductions in short-term interest rates and financial
industry rescue programs helped revive profit at lenders.  “The government is trying to help these banks,” said  Paul Howard , director of research at Solstice Investment Research in
Glastonbury, Connecticut. “The banks borrow from the government
at zero and then lend it out to you and me at higher rates.”  BNY Mellon climbed 1.6 percent to $28.l8 at 4:48 p.m. in
extended trading in New York. Wells Fargo advanced 17 cents to
$27.82.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, reported third-
quarter profit of  $3.34 billion  as credit conditions improved.
The San Francisco-based lender, which bought Wachovia Corp. at
the depths of the credit crisis, has closed its consumer-finance
branch network to improve results.  Home Depot, Iron Mountain  Buffett’s firm eliminated stakes in Home Depot Inc., the
largest U.S. home improvement retailer, Iron Mountain Inc., a
provider of records management, and auto retailer CarMax Inc.
All of the holdings were at least partly managed by Berkshire’s
Geico auto-insurance unit, according to company filings.  “They might have been held directly by Geico under  Lou Simpson ,” the Berkshire investment manager who is retiring at
the end of this year, said  Thomas Russo , a partner at Gardner
Russo & Gardner in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, which holds a stake
in Buffett’s firm. “Those funds are going to be consolidated in
the broader portfolio at Berkshire.” An e-mail to Buffett’s
assistant seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned.  Simpson, Combs  Buffett said last month that he hired hedge-fund manager
 Todd Combs , 39, to help with Berkshire’s investments, which
included $57.6 billion in stock, $36.4 billion in bonds and a
derivatives portfolio of more than $60 billion as of Sept. 30.
Simpson, 73, had been described by Buffett as his backup stock-
picker.  Berkshire’s stake in Comcast Corp., the largest U.S. cable-
television company, declined to about 187,000 shares from 12
million on June 30.  Stephen Burke , a Berkshire director, is
chief operating officer at Philadelphia-based Comcast.  John Demming , a spokesman for Comcast, and Atlanta-based
Home Depot’s  Ron DeFeo  declined to comment. A representative for
Iron Mountain had no immediate comment. Attempts to reach CarMax
for comment weren’t immediately successful.  Buffett has been trimming Berkshire’s  equity portfolio 
since the 2008 financial crisis. The 80-year-old chairman,
renowned for his multibillion dollar stock bets, has instead
focused on buying whole companies as he prepares the firm for
his eventual departure. In the third quarter, Berkshire’s equity
sales exceeded purchases by about $1.2 billion, according to a
Nov. 5 regulatory filing.  Berkshire’s cash holdings jumped 23 percent to  $34.5
billion  in the three months ended Sept. 30. That’s the company’s
biggest quarter-end total since the first period of 2008 as the
economic recovery and Buffett’s February takeover of Burlington
Northern Santa Fe help earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 