-- California's $25 Billion Budget Gap Looms Over Revenue Notes: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-15T18:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/california-s-25-billion-budget-gap-looms-over-revenue-notes-muni-credit.html
California  is selling $10 billion of
one-year notes to boost cash on hand, as the state that produces
13 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product tries to assure
investors it can repay the loan amid a $25 billion budget gap.  Investors are being offered $2 billion of notes maturing in
May at tentative yields of 1 percent to 1.25 percent, according
to two people familiar with the offering. That’s about 0.58 to
0.83 percentage point more than  top-rated one-year municipal
bonds  as of Nov. 12, according to Municipal Market Advisors
data. The $8 billion of notes maturing in June are quoted at
1.25 percent to 1.5 percent, or about 0.83 to 1.08 percentage
points more than top-rated notes.  The issue comes after the state’s  Legislative Analyst’s
Office  said California’s deficit may exceed $25 billion in the
next 19 months, including $6.1 billion in the fiscal year that
ends in June. Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  also is  selling  $3.75
billion of long-term obligations starting later this week.  “If you are full on California then don’t add fuel to the
fire,” said  Marilyn Cohen , chief executive officer of Envision
Capital Management in Los Angeles, who manages $250 million in
fixed-income assets. “If you hardly have any California
exposure and you’ve got money sitting in money markets, then you
better make sure it’s worth your while because the news
headlines are going to continue to go from bad to terminal.”  Individual Investors  The state will take orders today and tomorrow from
individual investors for the revenue anticipation notes, short-
term municipal bonds known as RANs that the state offers when
cash is low and repays from later tax collections. Institutional
investors such as mutual funds will place orders Nov. 17.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is managing the sale, along with De La Rosa
& Co. and Wells Fargo Securities.  California’s notes come to market after yields on top-rated
one-year municipal bonds rose 1 basis point to 0.42 percent Nov.
12 after falling to the lowest on record in August. Top-rated
one-year municipal bonds  yielded 0.3 percent  on Aug. 18,
according to MMA data, the lowest since the index began in 2001.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The notes are rated F2 by Fitch Ratings, its third highest.
Standard & Poor’s rated the notes SP-1, second highest, while
Moody’s Investors Service assigned the notes MIG-1, its top
rating. S&P ranks California’s long-term debt at A-, its fourth-
lowest investment grade, the riskiest among U.S. states.  No Surprise  The LAO deficit projection “doesn’t surprise us, and it
should not surprise investors,” said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman
for Lockyer. “We fully disclosed potential budget problems in
our prospectus for the RAN deal, and we do not expect the LAO’s
projection to affect the cash-flow borrowing transaction. We
still will have more than enough cash available to repay the
RANs on time and in full.”  When California sold $8.8 billion of one-year debt on Sept.
23 last year, notes that matured in May were priced to yield
1.25 percent, or about 59 basis points more than top-rated one-
year bonds, according to data from MMA, an independent research
firm based in Concord, Massachusetts. Notes that matured in June
were priced to yield 1.5 percent, or 84 basis points more than
top-rated debt at the time.  Lockyer was able to sell $6.64 billion of those notes to
individual investors, or about 75 percent of the total.  ‘Punitive’ Yield  The “punitive” yield California pays this year will be
determined by the amount of individual investor interest the
state can draw, said  Regina Shafer , who oversees $5.3 billion in
tax-exempt municipal bonds as assistant vice president of fixed-
income investments for USAA Investment Management Co. in San
Antonio, Texas. The notes will be attractive to retail buyers
compared with other cash alternatives such as money market
funds, which offer lower yields, she said.  “Given the marketing effort, it’ll probably be priced
pretty easily,” Shafer said. “Where states have a high tax
rate, it’s very attractive. I think retail will be very
successful.”  Texas  borrowed $7.8 billion Aug. 24 through the sale of
one-year tax- and revenue-anticipation notes, paying a weighted
average interest cost of 0.34 percent, or 4 basis points more
than top-rated, one-year bonds, according to the  comptroller’s
website  for the sale. The notes carried the highest short-term
ratings from Moody’s, S&P and Fitch.  New Jersey, whose short-term debt also carries a top credit
ranking, borrowed $2.25 billion priced to yield 0.33 percent on
Aug. 19. That was 3 basis points more than top-rated debt at the
time.  Extra Yield  California sold about $6.3 billion in general-obligation
debt following its RANs sale last year, Bloomberg data show.
Amid increased supply, the  extra yield above AAA bonds  investors
demanded for 10-year debt from state issuers increased to 158
basis points by year-end from 104 basis points on Oct. 8.  States and municipalities are poised to borrow about $16.8
billion this week,  the most on record , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg dating to 2003. Issuers plan to offer more
than  $20.1 billion  in the next 30 days, according to the
Bloomberg visible supply index on Nov. 12, the most since Oct.
23, 2009, and almost double the daily average this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  