-- Canada's Clement Says BHP-Potash Decision Made `On the Facts' of the Bid
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-15T13:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/canada-s-clement-says-bhp-potash-decision-made-on-the-facts-of-the-bid.html
Canadian Industry Minister Tony
Clement comments on his earlier decision to reject  BHP Billiton
Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile offer for  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  He spoke at a press conference last night in
Toronto.  On the BHP bid:  “BHP is a successful mining company generally, but this
would have been its major foray into the potash industry.”  “BHP did not demonstrate to my satisfaction that their
plans to market potash would enhance Canada’s already prosperous
position to compete internationally.”  “My decision, I must stress, was based on the facts as
applied to this particular Investment Canada Act review.”  “BHP Billiton is a large successful mining company. But
they do not have comparable experience to PCS in the mining and
marketing of potash. And therefore my concern was that the, a
successful bid could jeopardize the benefits that Canadians
derive from the industry based on those grounds.”  “Where we were looking at their proposals and their
undertakings with respect to capital investments and how that
would play with their current plans for capital investment and
current planned projects including Jansen Lake of course, and
basically, I came to the conclusion, let’s just put it in a
nutshell that we were concerned that the bid would mean that
other capital expenditures may not be as forthcoming. And so
that the net impact would be negative rather than positive.”  “BHP, as is its right, disagrees with our analysis and
conclusions. I think you would expect that from a bidder that
was keen to acquire the asset, but at the end of the day we have
a responsibility to Canadians and that’s what we discharged.”  “I myself had a I thought a fairly positive discussion
with Marius Kloppers yesterday morning and certainly I could see
where he was going in terms of his thinking, he obviously had to
have conversations with his board and with his leadership team.
But certainly it came as no surprise when this decision came
down a couple of hours ago.”  On Canada’s investment laws:  “We recognize that the Investment Canada review process
could be improved. We could provide greater clarity to Canadians
and greater certainty to international investors. Consequently,
I’m open to a review of the process and to considering proposals
for improvement arising out of any parliamentary review.”  “Despite the BHP bid being withdrawn, I will be providing
shortly some general principles for future investments in our
country.”  “When you look at our major trading partners, USA, UK,
even Australia, they all have means by which they consider
foreign investments and have the equivalent of a net benefit to
Canada test, whether it is called national interest or something
to that effect, they have a way to assess the pluses and the
minuses of large takeover bids.”  “When you have a law in place and we are a country that
values the rule of law, and it states certain factors to be
considered for foreign investment, it stands to reason that in
many cases, those foreign investments would be approved, but
there may be some cases where they would not be approved, and I
think foreign investors understand that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  