-- Casino Agrees to Buy Rival Carrefour’s 42 Thai Stores
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-11-15T12:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/casino-agrees-to-buy-carrefour-s-supermarkets-in-thailand-for-1-2-billion.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA  agreed
to buy French supermarket rival  Carrefour SA’s  business in
Thailand for 868 million euros ($1.18 billion), giving the
company 42 more stores in an economy growing faster than its
home market.  The stores being acquired will add to  Casino ’s 111 in
Thailand, which operate under the  Big C Supercenter Pcl  brand.
The Saint-Etienne, France-based retailer generates about 6.3
percent of its  revenue  in Asia, compared to about two-thirds in
France, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Casino, which beat out Tesco Plc and others for the stores,
is expanding in Asia, its third-largest region after France and
Latin America. The grocer is also considering an offer for the
food-retailing business of PT Matahari Putra Prima, two people
familiar with the matter said this month. The company is paying
120 percent of sales for the Carrefour stores and a multiple of
13 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, Carrefour said.  The sales premium “seems a relatively high valuation,”
said  Christopher Hogbin , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in
London. “That said, there are clear synergies” of about 30
million euros a year, he said by telephone. Hogbin  rates  both
Carrefour and Casino “market perform.”  The purchase, which will be completed in early 2011, will
boost Casino’s  earnings per share  by 0.4 percent in the first 12
months and by 2 percent in three years, Chief Financial Officer
 Antoine Giscard D’Estaing  said. Casino has been operating in
Thailand since 1999.  Synergies  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s largest retailer, has
proposed paying 0.69 times revenue and 9.99 times Ebitda to
purchase South Africa’s Massmart Holdings Ltd., according to
Bloomberg data.  The acquisition of Carrefour’s 34 superstores and eight
supermarkets in Thailand will generate so-called synergies
equivalent to around 1.2 percent of the combined 2010 estimated
sales,  Casino  said. These include improved purchasing terms,
rationalized distribution and higher efficiency in the greater
Bangkok area, where Big C’s presence will more than double,
D’Estaing said on a conference call today. The synergies are
expected to be fully implemented by 2013.  Carrefour’s Thai business may generate sales of 734 million
euros in 2010, Casino said. The company had total revenue of
26.8 billion euros  last year . Big C sales may reach 1.8 billion
euros in 2010, D’Estaing said.  Carrefour  shares  rose 18 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 37.78
euros at 1:37 p.m. in Paris. Casino shares added 30 cents, or
0.5 percent, to 66.89 euros, giving the company a market value
of 7.4 billion euros.  Carrefour Strategy  For  Carrefour , the sale forms part of a plan to sell its
businesses in Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore to focus on China
and Indonesia. The Paris-based retailer said today that it
didn’t envisage being able to occupy a leading position in the
Thai market in the medium or long-term.  Tesco, which operates 663 stores in Thailand under the Tesco
Lotus brand, is still likely to be interested in acquiring
Carrefour’s other southeast Asian operations, analysts at Shore
Capital said.  If it doesn’t and Carrefour extracts a high price
in Malaysia from  Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd. , a local
operator of Giant stores, Tesco could benefit from a more
financially constrained rival in that market, they added.  “The market should take comfort that Tesco has shown
capital discipline and not over-bid for these stores,”  Clive Black  and  Darren Shirley , analysts at Shore Capital, wrote today
in a note. They recommend buying Tesco stock.  Advisers  Carrefour  is being advised on the deal by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and UBS AG, people familiar with the matter have
said. Deutsche Bank AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Rothschild advised Casino on the transaction, people familiar
said.  Carrefour operates 37 shopping centers in Thailand, which
account for around 50 percent of its earnings, before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization in the country. By buying the
business, Big C’s shopping-center portfolio will grow to 106.
Casino is confident it can improve Carrefour’s Thai shopping
center rental income, D’Estaing said.  The purchase will be financed out of Big C’s existing cash
balance as well as through debt financing, Casino said. Big C
had net cash of 2 billion Thai Baht ($66.8 million) at the end
of the first-half of 2010, D’Estaing said. The deal will have
“limited impact” on Casino’s net debt to earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization ratio, the CFO
said.  Casino intends to dispose of 700 million euros of assets in
2011 in addition to the 1 billion-euro disposal program already
announced, the CFO also said. The company has no plans to sell
any Carrefour stores in Thailand, he said. Casino sold its stake
in Dutch retailer Super de Boer last year for 550 million euros.  Big C will hold an extraordinary general meeting on Jan. 5,
Casino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in London at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 