-- Caterpillar to Buy Bucyrus to Expand Mining Range
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-11-15T21:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/caterpillar-agrees-to-buy-bucyrus-for-7-6-billion-in-cash-to-sell-shares.html
Caterpillar Inc. , the world’s
largest maker of construction equipment, agreed to buy Bucyrus
International Inc. for $7.6 billion to add shovels and drills to
its range of mining machinery.  Bucyrus shareholders will receive $92 a share, 32 percent
more than the Nov. 12 closing share price, Peoria, Illinois-
based Caterpillar said today in a statement. The deal is valued
at $8.6 billion including net debt and Caterpillar will fund it
with a combination of  cash ,  debt  and as much as $2 billion of
equity, the company said.  Caterpillar is expanding its mining business as coal and
metals producers raise investment to meet growing demand from
emerging economies. The company has already announced plans this
year to invest $700 million developing trucks and shovels.
Growth in mining may help Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  raise  earnings  to $8 to $10 a share in 2012 and boost
sales to as much as $60 billion.  The deal “fills an important portion in Caterpillar’s
portfolio,” said  Mark Demos , a fund manager for Fifth Third
Asset Management in Minneapolis which held 81,113 Caterpillar
shares as of June 30. “They do business with these customers
and now they will be able to provide them a full line of mining
products.”  Bucyrus rose $20.18, or 29 percent, to $89.80 at 4:29 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Caterpillar climbed 78 cents, or
1 percent, to $81.82 on the New York Stock Exchange. Milwaukee-
based  Joy Global Inc ., which also makes mining equipment,  gained 
$5.39, or 7.4 percent, to $77.77 in Nasdaq trading.  ‘Very Attractive’  “The mining industry is very attractive to us for the long
term,” Oberhelman said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
“In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “With all the things going on
around the globe with globalization, urbanization and demand for
minerals, things in the earth, we will be strong for a long
period of time.”  Mining companies’ capital expenditure globally will rise by
more than 15 percent in 2011 as commodity prices rise,  Stephen Volkmann , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in New York, said in a
report. There’s little overlap between Caterpillar’s and South
Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based Bucyrus’s products, he said.  Bucyrus would be Caterpillar’s biggest acquisition since at
least 1980, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, followed by
the company’s purchase of Perkins Ltd. in 1997 for $1.3 billion.  Largest Transaction  The deal would also be the largest announced in the
construction and mining machinery industry in the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 32 percent
premium being paid by Caterpillar compares with the 28 percent
average paid in the industry in that period.  While the acquisition looks a “little expensive,” the
cost savings Caterpillar may get make the deal look
“reasonable,” Demos said. Caterpillar said the acquisition
will help save more than $400 million annually beginning 2015.  On Oct. 21, Caterpillar raised its full-year earnings
 forecast  to $3.80 to $4 a share, up from a July prediction of
$3.15 to $3.85. Third-quarter net income almost doubled to $1.22
a share from 64 cents a year earlier and sales rose 53 percent
to $11.1 billion.  Bucyrus gives Caterpillar an opportunity to gain from
growth in emerging markets and tap a business with extensive
after-market parts and services opportunities,  Larry De Maria ,
an analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach in New York who has a
“neutral” rating on the shares, said in an interview.  “For Caterpillar, this is clearly a major acquisition and
in line with what they are looking for but bigger than
expected,” De Maria said.  Breakup Fee  The transaction will close in mid-2011, Caterpillar said.
The company plans to locate its mining business headquarters in
South Milwaukee and maintain the Bucyrus brand for certain
products.  Bucyrus would pay a $200 million breakup fee to Caterpillar
should the deal be terminated under certain conditions, Bucyrus
said in a filing.  Caterpillar was advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its
legal advisers were Mayer Brown LLP, Sidley Austin LLP and
Howrey LLP. Bucyrus was advised by Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG. Its
legal advisers were Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Arnold & Porter
LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Date Singh  at   ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 