-- Cathay Pacific Sees Record Profit on Travel Rebound
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-11-15T11:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/cathay-pacific-expects-full-year-net-income-of-at-least-hk-12-5-billion.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., Hong
Kong’s largest carrier, forecast a better-than expected record
annual profit on rebounding travel demand and asset sales.  Net income will likely be at least HK$12.5 billion ($1.6
billion) this year, the airline said in a statement today.
That’s more than double last year’s profit and it surpasses the
HK$11.7 billion average of 18 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The airline’s passenger numbers surged 11 percent through
October, while freight volumes leapt 20 percent, as business
travelers resumed flying and Chinese exporters boosted shipments
overseas amid the economic pickup. The carrier has also sold
stakes in an air-cargo handler and a maintenance company, as
well as benefiting from rising profit at affiliate Air China
Ltd.  “Demand for both air travel and cargo has helped Cathay
Pacific and that will translate into good earnings,” said  Jay Ryu , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co.,
who has a “buy” recommendation on the carrier. “With the
economy recovering, business-class travel appears to be coming
back and that could help lift earnings next year as well.”  Cathay said its forecast includes a HK$2.2 billion gain
from the sale of shares in Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals Ltd.
and Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Co. as well as a 57.1 million
euro ($78 million) fine from the European Union tied to
anticompetitive actions in the air-cargo industry.  Air China Stake  The airline expects a HK$1.7 billion profit in the second
half from its stake in Air China, the nation’s largest
international carrier. Cathay made a net income of HK$4.7
billion in 2009, rebounding from a record loss a year earlier.  “We are expecting an outstanding financial result
following a very difficult period brought about by the global
financial crisis,” Chief Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said in
the statement. “We are of course delighted to be so handsomely
in the black, but the dramatic turnaround in our fortunes serves
to illustrate yet again the volatile and cyclical nature of our
business.”  The airline fell 0.2 percent to HK$22.05 in Hong Kong
trading today. It has jumped 64 percent in the past year, the
second-best performance in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index , which
has gained 6.5 percent. The forecast came after the market
close.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. , the world’s second-largest carrier
by market value, said last week it would increase capacity 5
percent in the fiscal second half after reporting better-than-
expected quarterly earnings.  Air China’s third-quarter net income surged 484 percent
from a year earlier to 5.2 billion yuan ($783 million),
according to an Oct. 28 Shanghai Stock Exchange statement.
Cathay owns about 19 percent of the Beijing-based carrier, the
world’s largest by market value.  Asia-Pacific airlines will probably post a combined profit
of $5.2 billion this year, more than double an earlier forecast
of $2.2 billion, because of rebounding travel demand, the
International Air Transport Association said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 