-- Cattle Gain as World Equity Rebound Revives U.S. Beef Prospects; Hogs Rise
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-15T20:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/cattle-gain-as-world-equity-rebound-revives-u-s-beef-prospects-hogs-rise.html
Cattle futures climbed as rebounding
global equity markets revived demand prospects for U.S. beef.
Hog futures also rose.  Beef and veal exports this year through September were up
17 percent from a year ago, U.S. Department of Agriculture  data 
show. Steers for immediate delivery in the first four days of
last week were 17 percent more costly than a year earlier,
according to the USDA. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose for
the first time in three sessions.  “Export business has been very, very supportive to both
the cash-beef and cash-cattle trade here for the last several
months,” said  Troy Vetterkind , the owner of Vetterkind Cattle
Brokerage in Chicago. “That’s certainly friendly news” for
cattle futures, he said.  Cattle futures for February delivery rose 1.125 cents, or
1.1 percent, to settle at $1.02825 a pound at 1 p.m. on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The most-active contract has
climbed 21 percent in the past 12 months.  Beef exports grew at a “torrid pace” in September, the
U.S. Meat Export Federation said in a  statement  e-mailed today.
Beef shipments in the year through September were valued at $2.9
billion, up 27 percent from a year earlier, according to the
federation.  “We are finding a very positive and receptive audience for
U.S. red meat in the international market,”  Philip Seng , the
head of the federation, said in the statement.  On Nov. 12, cattle futures fell 1.1 percent, the biggest
drop for the most-active contract since Oct. 1. The S&P climbed
as much as 0.7 percent today, and corn and soybean futures
rallied.  “You’re seeing some short-covering after the big sell-off
that we had” last week, Vetterkind said. “Obviously, it looks
like some of the outside markets have stabilized.”  Feeder-cattle futures for January settlement rose 0.65
cent, or 0.6 percent, to $1.1505 a pound.  Hog futures for February settlement gained 0.45 cent, or
0.6 percent, to settle at 75.025 cents a pound on the CME.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 