-- McConnell to Back Ban on `Earmarks' for Pet Projects
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-15T23:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/mcconnell-changes-position-to-support-moratorium-on-pet-project-earmarks-.html
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , faced with greater influence of lawmakers elected
with Tea Party support, dropped his opposition to a plan by
House Republican leaders to ban budget “earmarks” for
lawmakers’ pet projects.  McConnell, a Kentucky Republican who has supported such
projects in the past, today said he doesn’t apologize for his
efforts to channel federal money to his home state for “vital
projects” to clean up hazardous chemicals at two government
facilities. Still, he said it is clear that the voters want both
parties to be serious about cutting spending.  “Nearly every day that the Senate’s been in session for
the past two years, I have come down to this spot and said that
Democrats are ignoring the wishes of the American people,”
McConnell said. “I won’t be guilty of the same thing.”  President  Barack Obama  said in a statement he welcomed
McConnell’s decision to oppose earmarks. “I look forward to
working with Democrats and Republicans to not only end earmark
spending, but to find other ways to bring down our deficits,”
the president said.  McConnell spoke as Congress returned for a lame-duck
session following the Nov. 2 election, in which Republicans
gained six seats in the Senate and took control of the House
with a gain of at least 60 seats.  Senator DeMint  The Senate Republican caucus will meet tomorrow to pick
leaders for the new Congress and vote on a proposal by Senator
 Jim DeMint  of South Carolina to ban lawmakers from proposing
legislative earmarks that direct spending to specific projects,
usually in their home states. House Republicans plan to vote on
a similar proposal later this week. House Democrats didn’t
attempt to ban them last year.  The caucus includes five newly elected Republicans who were
backed by DeMint’s Senate Conservatives Fund. They will be
eligible to vote on the earmarks issue even though they don’t
take their seats in the Senate until January.  McConnell’s switch on the earmark issue signaled a
recognition that DeMint and the people he helped elect,
including  Rand Paul  of Kentucky, are a political force in the
Senate.  In Kentucky’s Republican primary, Paul defeated the
candidate McConnell backed,  Trey Grayson , for the nomination to
fill the Senate seat to be vacated by  Jim Bunning , who is
retiring. Paul ran with support of the Tea Party movement as did
several other new Republican faces in the Senate, including Mike
Lee of Utah and  Marco Rubio  of Florida.  ‘Symbolic of Waste’  “It’s symbolic of waste up here and people are annoyed by
that,” Paul said regarding earmarks after the six newly elected
senators met with the Republican leader.  Obama has previously identified a ban on earmarks as an
area on which he and Republicans in Congress may be able to find
agreement. Earmarks amount to about $16 billion a year.
Eliminating them wouldn’t necessarily save taxpayers money as
the funds would be spent for other purposes.  Still, Senate Democrats said they aren’t likely to end the
practice of earmarks.  “I don’t think the earmark process will disappear,” said
Democratic Senator Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia.  Violating the Constitution  Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa said he knew of no effort by his
Democratic colleagues to try to ban the practice. A ban “flies
in the face of the Constitution,” which, he said, gives
Congress the power to direct “every dime that the federal
government spends if we wanted to.”  Harkin, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
said he is “willing to stand up and defend any directed funding
I have ever done.”  Earmarks are a legitimate exercise of congressional power
“as long as the people know where it is and it’s out there in
the open,” he said.  McConnell said he is “not wild about turning over more
spending authority” to the president, particularly because such
earmarks were needed to force the government to clean up
radioactive waste at one facility and begin removing toxic
chemicals at another.  Still, he said, “unless people like me show the American
people that we’re willing to follow through on small or even
symbolic things, we risk losing them on our broader efforts to
cut spending and rein in government.”  Greasing the Skids  In a statement, DeMint said, “Earmarks have greased the
skids for runaway spending and bad policy for decades.” He
challenged Obama to follow through on his “promises to veto any
bill” with earmarks.  Republican Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma said he will try
to force a vote on an earmark moratorium on the first piece of
legislation that the lame-duck Congress deals with in two days.  “Imposing a moratorium on earmarks is an important step
that will -- as a matter of symbol and substance -- begin a new
era of sobriety in Washington,” he said.  Coburn’s fellow Oklahoman, Senator Jim Inhofe, defended
earmarks, saying they have “dramatically decreased over the
last several years” since Congress required more disclosure.
“If you restrict what Congress can do, that money goes back
into the administration” and gives Obama more flexibility to
spend it, he said. “Is there any question why President Obama
embraced the ban on earmarks?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  