-- China's Youku.com Files for $150 Million U.S. IPO
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-15T19:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/china-s-youku-files-to-raise-150-million-in-u-s-share-sale.html
Youku.com Inc ., China’s biggest
online-video company, will seek to raise as much as $150 million
in a U.S. initial public offering as competition intensifies
with rival  Tudou Holdings Ltd.   Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  will underwrite Beijing-based
Youku’s IPO, the company said in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission today. The pricing of the
sale wasn’t disclosed. Allen & Co., Piper Jaffray Cos. and
Pacific Crest Securities also are working on the deal.  Youku, a site that combines elements of YouTube and Hulu,
is spending more money to add commercially produced videos, part
of a bid to broaden its audience. The company also is expanding
Internet bandwidth and upgrading technology as it vies with
Tudou for dominance in China, the world’s biggest Internet
market by users.  In the third quarter, China’s online-video market more than
doubled to 621 million yuan ($93 million), according to Beijing-
based research company Analysys International. Youku had the
largest share at 23 percent, followed by 19 percent for Tudou.  China had an estimated 420 million Internet users at the
end of June, according to  data  from the government-sponsored
China Internet Network Information Center. That exceeds the U.S.
population. Youku said today it had 203 million monthly unique
visitors from homes and offices in September, citing data from
Beijing-based  IResearch Inc.   YouTube Meets Hulu  Google Inc. ’s YouTube, the world’s most popular video site,
is inaccessible in China. That’s given local competitors more
room to grow.  Youku, established in 2006, isn’t a copy of YouTube, Chief
Executive Officer  Victor Koo  said in an interview last month.
Whereas U.S. video sites are dominated by music videos and short
clips, about 60 percent of Youku’s content is long-form, such as
movies, Koo said.  That makes it similar to Hulu LLC, a U.S. service that
shows TV programs and other content. It was founded in 2007 by
 General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal and News Corp.’s Fox.  About 70 percent of Youku’s content is professionally
produced, with the remainder being a mix of user-generated
content, Koo said. There’s also some original programming
produced by Youku, he said.  ‘Excellent and Cool’  Youku, which means “excellent and cool” in Chinese, had
previously raised $110 million from investors, including
Chengwei Ventures, Brookside Capital, Maverick Capital and
Sutter Hill Ventures. Its last round of private-equity funding
from existing investors raised $40 million in December.  The company had a net loss of $26.7 million last year on
sales of $22.5 million, according to the filing. It has long-
term debt of $2.1 million and cash and equivalents of $44.2
million, according to the  filing .  Born in Hong Kong and educated in Australia and the United
States, Koo has lived in China since 1994, according to the
company’s website. He is a graduate of University of California,
Berkeley, as well as Stanford Graduate School of Business.  From 1999 to 2005, Koo helped turn Web portal  Sohu.com Inc. 
from a startup into a publicly held company. He served in such
roles as chief financial officer, chief operating officer and
president.  Tudou’s IPO  Tudou is planning its own IPO. The company filed to raise
as much as $120 million on Nov. 9, without disclosing a price
range or date for the deal.  Credit Suisse Group AG  and Deutsche
Bank AG will arrange Tudou’s IPO, the company said.  Tudou means “potato” in Chinese, a playful reference to
couch potato, Chief Executive Officer Gary Wang said in an
interview in September. The company started its website in 2005
and has raised at least $135 million through five rounds of
funding. Its investors include Crescent Point, IDG China, GGV
Capital, General Catalyst and Singapore’s state investment
company Temasek Holdings Pte.  Chinese companies have accounted for five of the 10 best-
performing U.S. IPOs this year. The biggest first-day rally came
from Beijing-based  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd. , which
provides content for business websites.  Chinese companies have accounted for 13 percent of the
$19.2 billion raised through U.S. initial offerings this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg excluding closed-end
funds and investment companies.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  