-- China's Nuclear Plant Leak Poses No Threat to Environment, Public, Workers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T10:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/china-nuclear-plant-workers-exposed-to-radiation-south-china-post-reports.html
Radiation that leaked from  Daya Bay
nuclear power station , China’s first large-scale atomic
generator, poses no danger to the environment, the public or
plant workers, said China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co.  The leak, detected on Oct. 23, was caused by a fault at a
pipeline bearing coolant from the No. 1 reactor, the state-owned
company said on its website today. The fault has been fixed
since it was found on Oct. 26, Guangdong Nuclear  said .  The leak is  Daya Bay ’s second following a leakage from a
fuel rod in May. The No. 1 reactor has been shut since Oct. 22
for scheduled maintenance, Guangdong Nuclear, which owns 75
percent of the plant, said today.  Guangdong Nuclear classified the leak as a “level one”
incident, the least serious on a scale of one to seven set by
the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  The Daya Bay plant in southern China’s Guangdong province
is 50 kilometers (31 miles) from Hong Kong’s Tsim Sha Tsui
district and has been in commercial operation since 1994. It
generates 10 billion kilowatt-hours a year to Hong Kong and
Guangdong, according to the website of the Hong Kong Nuclear
Investment, a unit of  CLP Holdings Ltd.  that owns 25 percent of
the power station.  Maintenance at the No. 1 reactor will be completed by the
end of November, Guangdong Nuclear said.  Chest X-Rays  Hong Kong-listed  CLP  fell 1.1 percent to close at HK$63.05.
The benchmark Hang Seng Index declined 1.4 percent.  Workers at the station were exposed to radiation equivalent
to two chest X-rays after the leak, the South China Morning Post
reported, citing Chan Siu-hung, managing director of Hong Kong
Nuclear Investment. The leak was contained in a sealed building,
the English-language daily newspaper said.  Guangdong Nuclear didn’t say in its statement how much
radiation the workers were exposed to.  Hong Kong lawmaker Wong Kwok-hing criticized the plant
operators in a hearing today, saying the leak should have been
disclosed to the public immediately.  The 1986 nuclear disaster at Chernobyl atomic station in
the Ukraine had sparked protests in Hong Kong against the Daya
Bay plant in the mid-1980s. Environmental activists were
concerned about the risks of building a plant close to Hong Kong.  -- Chua Baizhen  and  Wang Ying  in Beijing,  John Duce  and  Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Jane Lee ,  Dirk Beveridge .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dirk Beveridge at 
 dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net . 