-- China May Start Measures to Curb Food, Cotton Price Increases, Paper Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T03:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/china-to-start-measures-to-control-food-prices-securities-journal-reports.html
China may impose price limits on
food and toughen punishment of those found speculating on
agriculture futures including corn and cotton to combat rising
 inflation , the  China Securities Journal  reported, citing an
unidentified person.  The government may also crack down on hoarding, offer food
subsidies and hold local mayors responsible for ensuring
vegetable supplies and controlling prices, the report said. In
May, the government said hoarders will be fined by up to five
times the value of the commodities held, the paper said.  The National Development and Reform Commission, the state
economic planner, didn’t immediately respond to faxed questions
sent by Bloomberg News.  Corn prices in China jumped to a record today as tightening
supplies increased their investment appeal. Rice also reached an
all-time high. China has already sold sugar, cotton, corn,
aluminum and zinc from stockpiles in an effort to ease supply
shortages and curb inflation, which gained at the fastest pace
in two years last month.  “Prices of food and cotton have gone up to the point that
the government has decided to step up efforts to crack down on
speculation and make sure that inflation doesn’t flare up
further,” Dong Shuzhi, manager at Beida Founder Commodities
Co., said by phone from Shanghai today.  Consumer prices  in China gained 4.4 percent in October. The
government’s full-year inflation target is 3 percent. China’s
central bank raised bank reserve requirements last week and last
month increased interest rates for the first time in three years
to tame inflation.  Record Prices  Vegetable prices in the first 10 days of this month jumped
by 62.4 percent from a year earlier, the Financial News said
today, citing a survey of prices by the  Ministry of Commerce .
Prices have also jumped 11.3 percent from the beginning of this
year, it said.  Corn for September delivery gained to a record 2,419 yuan a
metric ($364) ton before dropping as much as 1.3 percent to
2,378 yuan a ton on the Dalian Commodity Exchange. Rice on the
Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange fell as much as 1.7 percent after
reaching 2,558 yuan, the highest ever.  The Ministry of Commerce said today it will work with other
government agencies to curb inflation. The supply of most goods
is sufficient although a few products, including diesel, are in
short supply, the ministry said in a statement ahead of a news
conference in Beijing. The government is selling pork and sugar
from reserves to ensure supply, the ministry said.  The Dalian Commodity Exchange said yesterday that it will
curb “abnormal” trading to prevent the price manipulation and
other activities that disrupt an orderly market.  The exchange may void any trade, including instances in
which the buyer and seller are the same entity; if they are
between related accounts; or if they are frequently placed and
canceled, the statement said.  Dalian became the third bourse following the Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange and Shanghai Futures Exchange to announce
steps to curb speculation in commodities since Oct. 26.  -- Feiwen Rong . With assistance from  Zhe Huang  in Beijing.
Editors: Richard Dobson, Jarrett Banks.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  