-- China Needs to Import 20 Million Bales of Cotton, Olam CEO Verghese Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2010-11-15T07:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/china-needs-to-import-20-million-bales-of-cotton-olam-ceo-verghese-says.html
China, the biggest cotton importer,
may buy 20 million bales this year to meet rising demand from
the domestic textile industry, sustaining price gains, Olam
International Ltd. said. The amount would be a record.  The Asian nation purchased 10.9 million bales in the year
ended July 31, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
which  estimated  on Nov. 9 that China’s imports will rise to 15
million bales. The country  imported  19.3 million bales in the
year ended July 2006, according to USDA data.  “The priority for the Chinese government is food-crop
production is maximized and not so much fiber,” Olam Chief
Executive Officer  Sunny Verghese  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “China will continue to rely on significant
imports to meet its cotton requirements.”  Cotton futures in New York and Zhengzhou surged to records
this month on concern that domestic shortages in China may
prompt the nation to boost imports. Cotton on ICE Futures U.S.
has climbed 66 percent this year.  China’s purchases are the reason “we feel prices will hold
up at very high levels,” Wayne Gordon, a senior analyst at
Rabobank Groep NV, said by phone from Sydney today. “Given that
it has run down its strategic stocks, it will be in the market
trying to top up reserves.”  Stockpiles Low  Production in China is forecast by the USDA to trail
domestic demand for the 12th straight year, pushing the nation’s
stockpiles to the lowest level since 1995.  China grows about 30 million bales a year and demand is
about 50 million bales, said Verghese of Olam, one of the
world’s three biggest cotton suppliers. “It has to import 20
million bales,” he said.  Verghese’s production estimate for China matches the USDA’s
forecast, while the agency  projected  the Asian nation’s demand
will be 47 million bales. Each bale weighs about 480 pounds.  Olam has cotton operations in countries including the U.S.,
India, Uzbekistan, Australia, and Brazil, according to its
 website . These are the top five biggest exporting countries that
are forecast to account for about 77 percent of global shipments
in the year ended July 31 next year, according to USDA  data .  Olam’s sales of industrial raw materials including cotton
and wood products gained 29 percent to 287,706 tons in the first
quarter ended Sept. 30, the company said Nov. 11.  Sales Increase  Cotton sales grew as the company “increased market share
in Australia and the U.S.,” it said. The company also sells to
China, according to its website.  “You’ve seen the supply-and-demand imbalance sequence over
the last nine years. Agricultural commodity demand has exceeded
agricultural commodity supply,” he said. “That’s a sequence we
haven’t seen for over a hundred years.”  Global production of cotton was forecast to exceed demand
for a fifth straight year, and harvests of  corn  will trail
consumption for a second straight year, according to USDA data.
The wheat market will be in  deficit  for the first time in three
years, while  rice , for the first time in four years, according
to USDA estimates.  “The supply-and-demand imbalance will continue to grow,”
Verghese said. “Obviously there’s an element of funds’
investments in commodity markets that exaggerate these moves.
But the underlying supply-and-demand imbalance is the key driver
moving up commodity prices.”  Corn futures surged 66 percent from this year’s low, while
wheat jumped 67 percent and rice advanced 46 percent on concerns
about shrinking global grain supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  