-- China Threats Merit Shifting of U.S. Defense Dollars, House's McKeon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-15T23:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/china-threats-merit-shifting-of-u-s-defense-dollars-house-s-mckeon-says.html
The House Armed Services Committee’s
top Republican said he favors shifting defense dollars to boost
U.S. missile defense and to counter China’s ability to limit
U.S. operations in the western Pacific.  “While China today may not intend to attack our carriers,
neutralize our bases in Japan and Guam, or push back our naval
presence out of the South China Sea, they are without question
making the investments and developing capabilities to do just
that,” California Representative  Howard McKeon  told a meeting
sponsored by the Washington-based  Foreign Policy Initiative 
research group today.  “The question is whether we will be ready and capable to
respond,” said McKeon, who is line to lead the armed services
panel when Republicans take control of the House next year. “I
view it as the responsibility of the Armed Services Committee to
shift funds to higher national-security priorities and promising
technologies such as missile defense” and efforts to counter
China’s “anti-access” threat.  McKeon’s speech represents the most detailed outline of the
Republican defense agenda since the party won enough seats in
Nov. 2 midterm elections for a House majority in the next
Congress. He signaled a desire to raise defense spending more
than planned annual increases of 1 percent after inflation.  Military Investment  “One percent real growth over the next five years is a net
cut for investment and procurement accounts,” he said. “A
defense-budget decline portends an America in decline.”  McKeon also said he would like the committee to hear
testimony from the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan, General
 David Petraeus , to evaluate President  Barack Obama ’s plan
to begin transferring forces out of that country.  In his speech, McKeon said that to protect the continental
U.S. and American forces “we can’t just talk about missile
defenses -- we need to invest in missile defense,” including
the  Aegis air-defense network . Lockheed Martin Corp. and
 Raytheon Co.  are the Pentagon’s primary contractors for the
Aegis network on Navy destroyers and cruisers and the Standard-
missile family of interceptors designed to stop anti-ship
missiles.  Chinese Capabilities  Increased missile defense and “anti-access” military
spending could benefit companies that make sea-based missile
defense and electronic warfare systems, such as Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed, Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon,
and Los Angeles-based  Northrop Grumman Corp. , said  Loren Thompson , a defense analyst with the Lexington Institute in
Arlington, Virginia.  Also standing to gain are ship and submarine makers
Northrop Grumman and  General Dynamics Corp. , based in Falls
Church, Virginia, said  James McAleese , a consultant to defense
companies.  McKeon’s remarks about Chinese capabilities come two days
before the  U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission  is
scheduled on Nov. 17 to release its 2010 annual report that says
China’s non-nuclear missiles have “the capability to attack”
and close down five of six major U.S. Air Force bases in South
Korea and Japan.  China’s improved inventory of short- and medium-range
missiles provides a “dramatic increase” in its ability to
inhibit’’ U.S. military operations in the western Pacific, a
draft of the report says.  McKeon said Republicans also plan oversight of Obama’s
policy on release of detainees from Guantanamo Bay and his
intent to close the facility.  Engine, F-35 Support  McKeon told reporters after his speech that he supports
 General Electric Co. ’s F-136 back-up engine for the F-35
fighter, including continued funding for it in fiscal 2012.  The House in its defense bill this year, which McKeon
supported, added $485 million for continued development.  The Bush administration, starting in fiscal 2007, and the
Obama administration have opposed continued funding, calling the
program wasteful.  Rolls-Royce Group Plc , based in London, is a
partner of Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE on the project.  Separately, McKeon said he doesn’t favor additional cuts to
Lockheed’s F-35 stealth fighter -- the No. 1 weapons program at
$382 billion. He said he’s been involved in this program since
“Day One,” more than 10 years ago, when prototypes were built
in his district.  “My concern is that I’ve seen us cut back one program
after another,” including the B-2 bomber built by Northrop
Grumman in his district that went from a planned 130 to the
current 21 aircraft, and Lockheed’s F-22, which was stopped at
188 planes from a planned 450.  “I just think the F-35 will be the next one. My concern is
we end up back with a ‘bow and arrow’ -- I’m hoping not,”
McKeon said.  McKeon criticized the frequency of changes required by the
military during the F-35 program’s development.  “There’s been so many changes on it, and then they blame
the manufacturer,” he said. “We need to change how we buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  