-- China Tightens Ownership Curbs for Foreign Homebuyers to Rein In Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-15T09:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/china-tightens-ownership-curbs-for-foreign-homebuyers-to-rein-in-prices.html
China ordered first-time foreign
homebuyers to show proof they don’t own other properties in the
country as it steps up measures to curb gains in the real estate
market, the housing ministry and  currency  regulator said.  Foreigners will have to provide home ownership statements
before their purchases, along with proof of at least a year’s
employment in China, the  State Administration of Foreign
exchange  and the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
said. Overseas companies are only allowed to buy offices in
cities where they are registered, it said.  China’s central bank raised bank reserve requirements last
week to tame inflation and restrain foreign capital after the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing monetary policy.
China also has tightened rules on down payments, suspended
mortgages for third homes, and last month raised interest rates
for the first time in three years.  “This is certainly bad news for the property sector,”
said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “The government may also impose rules to curb
speculative money that may flow into the property sector.”  The Nov. 4 statement, released on the two government
websites today, didn’t say when the order will be effective.  Earlier measures to ease gains in the real estate market
couldn’t contain the increase in home prices, Premier Wen Jiabao
said in Macau yesterday, according to comments broadcast by the
Hong Kong-based Cable Television.  Foreign Buying  The requirement for home ownership statements is the first
for the nation, Du said. In the past, foreigners have been able
to buy multiple properties in different cities because the
ownership records were maintained locally, he said.  The latest measure is “in line with the belief that
foreigners are responsible for driving up property prices,”
 David Ji , head of Greater China research at DTZ Holdings Plc in
Hong Kong. “Maybe it’s a signal that all previous measures did
not work.”  China will introduce new rules on currency provisioning and
tighten management of banks’ foreign-debt quotas, the foreign
exchange regulator said in a  statement  on Nov. 9, forcing
lenders to hold more foreign exchange and strengthen auditing of
overseas fund raising to curb hot-money inflows that may inflate
asset bubbles.  China’s  property prices  rose 8.6 percent in October from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in 10 months, the statistics
bureau said last week. The Royal Bank of Canada said after the
release of the data that the government would want further
easing of property prices and the “policy bias” is in favor of
more interest rate increases.  Policy makers may introduce more measures in the fourth
quarter amid signs of a price recovery, according to Nomura
Securities Co. The likely policies include a property tax and
the enforcement of the so-called land added-value levy in the
“overheated cities,” the brokerage said in a Nov. 4 report.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  