-- China's Airbus, Boeing Challenger Sees `Hundreds' of C919 Orders This Week
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-15T10:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/china-s-airbus-boeing-challenger-sees-hundreds-of-c919-orders-this-week.html
Aviation Industry Corp. of China 
expects “hundreds” of orders for the nation’s first single-
aisle passenger jet at this week’s Zhuhai air show, bolstering
efforts to compete with Airbus SAS and Boeing Co.  Customers for the C919 will likely include domestic
airlines and overseas leasing companies,  Zhang Xinguo , vice
president of state-controlled AVIC, said today at a press
conference in Zhuhai, southern China. “During this air show, I
believe hundreds” of orders will be announced, he said.  China’s big three state-owned carriers have all said they
will support government efforts to develop domestic planemakers,
damping prospects for overseas suppliers in a market  Boeing 
expects to be worth $480 billion through 2029.  General Electric
Co. ’s leasing arm ordered regional jets from AVIC-backed
planemaker Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China at the 2008 show
to boost its presence in the country.  “In the long term, definitely, Airbus and Boeing’s market
share will be diluted,” said Julius Yeo, a Frost & Sullivan
aerospace analyst. Government financing may help Comac sell
planes at home and overseas, he said.  Chinese planes will likely be of a similar standard to
Airbus and Boeing models because of the maturity of the local
industry and technology transfers to suppliers making parts for
overseas planes, he said. Comac may struggle to provide good
aftermarket support, he said.  737, A320 Competition  The C919 competes with Boeing’s 737 and Airbus’s A320, the
planemakers’ most popular models. Airbus this month announced an
order from China for 102 planes, including 50 A320s. China
Southern Airlines Co., Air China Ltd. and China Eastern Airlines
Corp., the nation’s biggest carriers, were all part of the
order. Boeing has this year won 737 orders from Air China, Okay
Airways Co. and China Southern’s Xiamen Airlines.  China may need 4,330 new planes through 2029, as rising
incomes and economic growth boosts air travel, according to
Chicago-based  Boeing . Nationwide airline passenger numbers rose
18 percent from a year earlier in the first nine months to 200.7
million, according to the Civil Aviation Administration of
China.  The C919 will likely win certification from local
regulators in 2016, while the ARJ21 is scheduled to be approved
in the fourth quarter of next year, Zhao Yuerang, Comac’s
director general, airworthiness management department, said at a
separate event in the city today.  GE Order  GE’s plane-leasing unit ordered as many as 25 70-seat
 ARJ21s  at the Zhuhai show two years ago. The growth of China’s
air-travel market may also tempt overseas lessors to order the
C919, which is due to make its maiden flight in 2014 and enter
service in 2016, Zhang said.  “They might see the potential development in the Chinese
aviation industry,” he said. “They also would like to co-
operate and get deeply involved with Chinese industries.”  The ARJ21 will enter service in 2012, Zhang said. The plane
was expected to begin commercial flights in 2009, Miao Wei, vice
minister of industry and information, said two years ago.  “The schedule will be carefully planned, but when you get
into the real, practical aspects, sometimes there are
uncertainties,” Zhang said.  The planemaker has sold 240 ARJ21s, Liu Lihua, head of the
Ministry of Industry and Information said today at the show’s
opening ceremony in the southern city of Zhuhai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  