-- China Offers No Path to Revaluation Before 2012: Gordon G. Chang
-- B y   G o r d o n   G .   C h a n g
-- 2010-11-15T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/china-offers-no-chance-of-revaluation-by-2012-commentary-by-gordon-chang.html
The Group of 20 meeting in Seoul was
a debacle in many respects. But it had a big winner: China.  This was the summit where the world was supposed to come
together to unwind global imbalances. There are many of them at
the moment, but the most important is China’s persistent trade
surplus. This has led to the accumulation of foreign-exchange
reserves of $2.65 trillion, a stash more than twice as large as
any other country’s. The government in Beijing recycled its
reserves into foreign markets, and this resulted in the excess
liquidity that contributed to the global slump in 2008.  Chinese officials say they aren’t pursuing trade surpluses
-- a point that Premier  Wen Jiabao  made in an  interview  with
CNN’s  Fareed Zakaria  in September -- yet the nation continues to
beat expectations with its trade numbers. In October, the
surplus widened 13 percent compared with a year earlier.  The surprisingly large surplus seemed to give impetus to
U.S. efforts to get the Chinese to release their iron grip on
the value of the yuan. An obviously undervalued currency is, to
a large extent, contributing to the surpluses. Yet the G-20
ultimately shied away from adopting meaningful measures to get
China to float the yuan.  China adopted many tactics to deflect criticism at the
meeting in Seoul, but one of the more effective was a pledge --
another one of them -- to spur domestic consumption as a means
of increasing imports. President  Hu Jintao  last week outlined
 specific steps  to get China’s citizens into the shops. He said
the central government, over the next five years, would try to
raise the minimum wage, increase consumer credit, adjust income
distribution, and develop infrastructure, among other things.  Empty Promises  Hu’s list, though vague and lacking ambition, was a start.
Yet Chinese leaders for at least a half decade have been
promising to shift away from investment and exports and toward
consumption, whose role in the economy has dropped from China’s
historical average of about 60 percent to about 30 percent, one
of the lowest rates in the world.  Statistics from the recent quarters show a similar decline.
Closely watched urban consumption is increasing this year less
than 1.5 percent in quarter-on-quarter terms, down from more
than 2 percent in 2008 and 2009. So at a time when the economy
is still expanding at a fast pace -- gross domestic product in
the third quarter grew 9.6 percent -- consumption’s contribution
to growth is stalling.  Common Sense  Analysts love to say that China is making the transition to
a consumer-led economy. But such assertions aren’t consistent
with the facts or common sense. The steps that the central
government is taking to create trade surpluses -- such as
holding down the value of its currency -- inevitably discourage
consumption. The government’s stimulus program, which focuses on
building infrastructure and industrial production, is also, by
definition, anti-consumption.  The overriding reality is that consumption can’t become
significant until Chinese officials, in fact and not just in
words, abandon the current investment-led strategy. We need to
recognize that low consumption is the inevitable result of
China’s growth model, not merely a remediable feature of it, so
consumption’s role won’t increase much until the government
takes painful measures to change its approach.  What steps are needed? China will have to let the yuan
float, permit banks to compete for deposits by offering market
interest rates, allow labor to organize and demand higher wages,
and provide a better safety net, especially in health care.  Risk-Averse Leaders  Model-changing is inherently risky, and Chinese leaders are
especially risk-averse these days. Before a major transition,
when the so-called Fourth Generation leaders are scheduled to
give way to the Fifth at the end of 2012, China’s political
system won’t be able to implement any radical plans.  The period of political paralysis won’t end when the
 Communist Party  unveils China’s next supremo at the 18th Party
Congress. It generally takes a new leader at least two years to
consolidate his position. So the wrenching transition to a
consumption-based economy is on hold until the middle of the
decade. In the meantime, we can expect Chinese leaders to do all
they can to maintain their control over the yuan’s value.  Will they be successful? In Seoul, Chinese officials
managed to damp criticism of their distortive currency policies,
so the pressure to liberalize is off for now.  After his 80-minute meeting with U.S. President  Barack Obama  last week, Hu said,  in comments  relayed by Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu , the reform of his country’s
currency required “a very sound external environment.”  We should realize that in the unusually benign post-Cold
War period China didn’t undertake many of the changes that Hu
has now promised to implement in the coming years. In those
years, the external environment will be anything but sound, so
we shouldn’t expect fundamental changes that he has eschewed in
far less difficult circumstances.  ( Gordon G. Chang  is the author of the book “The Coming
Collapse of China.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Gordon Chang at  gchang@gordonchang.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  