-- Christie Cap May Result in Repeat of New Jersey's April School-Budget Rout
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-15T21:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/christie-cap-may-result-in-repeat-of-new-jersey-s-april-school-budget-rout.html
Tax-weary voters in  New Jersey  may
show their frustration next year by rejecting municipal budgets,
as they did in April when they defeated 59 percent of school
spending plans, according to Republican lawmakers.  Senator  Steven Oroho , a Franklin Republican, said anti-tax
sentiment may mean a similar pattern of defeat for local budgets
that would raise property taxes by more than the 2 percent
maximum. Governor  Chris Christie ’s cap on property-levy growth
says voters must approve plans to exceed that limit.  “New Jersey voters have had enough and they are going to
be voting these budgets down,” Oroho, a tax-cap supporter on
the budget committee, said today in an interview in Trenton.
“It’s a huge and fundamental shift. It will give them direct
control over spending.”  For the first time, the property-tax  cap  will give voters a
direct say over fiscal policy in many of the state’s 566 towns
and 21 counties. Oroho said it’s unclear whether local
governments will be able to change labor contracts to reduce a
defeated budget plan. In April, voters statewide rejected
school-spending proposals at the highest rate in more than 30
years after Christie appealed for help in curbing teacher pay.  Tax Growth, Toolkit  New Jersey’s schools and local governments rely on property
taxes as the  prime source  of revenue to support $42.8 billion in
spending annually, according to the state’s  Community Affairs
Department . Levies on residences  averaged  $7,281 last year, up
about 70 percent in the past decade, according to state data.  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, declined to
speculate on whether voters are likely to defeat spending plans
in those communities where they must pass at the polls.  “This is what we intended, giving voters a say and some
control over budgets and what they are willing, or not willing,
to pay,” Drewniak said today by e-mail. “A consequence could
well be a high level of voter participation, which is always a
good thing.”  Christie, who took office in January, has called on the
Democrat-led Legislature to pass his “toolkit” of 33 measures
designed to help towns cut government costs. That initiative is
centered on letting local governments opt out of civil service
regulations and cap arbitration awards.  While saying he also expects many local spending plans to
be defeated, Republican Senator  Kevin O’Toole  of Cedar Grove,
another budget-panel member who backed tax-caps, said it’s too
early to project how many may fail. He said the Assembly and
 Senate  can reduce that risk by passing Christie’s toolkit.  “The public is now going to be fully engaged,” O’Toole
said in an interview. “The budgets have never been subject to a
vote like this. It’s a new day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 