-- Cisco Unveils Software, Devices That Help Cut Costs
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2010-11-15T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/cisco-introduces-virtualization-products-that-help-cut-costs.html
Cisco Systems Inc. , the largest
computer-networking equipment maker, is introducing products
that let a company’s employees use software that runs from data
centers, rather than only on their personal computers.  The Virtualization Experience Infrastructure, which
includes software and devices, may boost productivity since
workers can tap into corporate programs from computers and
smartphones outside the office, Cisco said today in a statement.
The San Jose, California-based company and virtualization
providers  Citrix Systems Inc. ,  VMware Inc.  and Wyse Technology
Inc. will demonstrate the products on a Webcast later today.  A growing number of companies are using desktop
virtualization programs to cut costs. Since little computing
occurs on each employees’ device, companies can make do with
their existing PCs or move to cheaper devices like Web-connected
office phones made by  Cisco  and others that don’t run Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows operating system or have powerful processors.  Cisco, whose core products include routers and switches,
has expanded its portfolio of end-user devices. The company also
is unveiling two “zero-client” devices that let certain
screen-equipped Cisco phones display virtualized software
similar to a PC.  “In some cases, the phone can become a replacement for the
PC,” said  Manny Rivelo , Cisco’s senior vice president of
systems and architectures. Call centers and retail stores, where
staffers don’t need the power of a full PC, would benefit from
such devices, he said  Cisco fell 20 cents to $19.95 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . On Nov. 11, it slid 16 percent, the
most in 12 years, after its sales and profit forecast fell short
of analysts’  estimates . The stock has lost 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  