-- Citigroup Hires 200 Bankers to Target Small Business
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-11-15T16:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/citigroup-hires-200-bankers-as-small-firms-become-bigger-target.html
  Citigroup Inc . Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit, who for the past two years has championed
the U.S. bank’s “globality,” may be getting a new mantra:
locality.  Citigroup, which claims 2,500 of the world’s 3,000 largest
corporations as clients, now says it also is targeting U.S.
companies with less than $20 million of annual sales, and plans
to hire about 200 bankers by the end of 2011 to court them. That
would bring the number of small-business bankers to about 500,
or one for every two North American branches.  “It’s a renewed focus for us,” Raj Seshadri, 45, head of
 small-business banking  for New York-based Citigroup, said in an
interview. “We feel we can help business owners and the
economic recovery, and there’s money to be made for our
shareholders.”  Citigroup employed about 258,000 people as of Sept. 30.
Expanding the bank’s focus to include doctors, restaurants and
cabinet makers alongside Coca-Cola Co. and wealthy individuals
won’t be easy, says Randy Dennis, president of  Little Rock ,
Arkansas-based  DD&F Consulting Group , which advises banks with
less than $15 billion of assets on risk management and business
strategies.  “You’re going to have inventory loans, you’re going to
have floorplan financing for different types of dealerships,
you’re going to have receivables lending, you’re going to have
lines of credit for businesses to make payroll,” Dennis said.
“It’s totally different, and it requires a great deal of
monitoring.”  Big Banks, Small Firms  The four largest U.S. banks, which also include  Bank of
America Corp ., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co., have
been criticized by some entrepreneurs for tightening credit to
small businesses after taking a combined $140 billion of federal
bailout money. A record 41 percent of small business owners say
they can’t get adequate financing, an increase from 22 percent
two years ago, according to a  July report  from the National
Small Business Association.  President  Barack Obama  in September signed the Small
Business Jobs Act, creating a $30 billion program to help
community banks make more loans to small companies. “When our
small businesses don’t do well, America doesn’t do well,” Obama
said last month after touring Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based
American Cord & Webbing Co., which makes cords and fasteners.  Bulk of Lending  Banks with less than $10 billion in assets make 56 percent
of the country’s small-business loans, according to the
 Independent Community Bankers of America . Larger banks are now
trying to muscle in as losses stay high on home loans and
commercial mortgages, and new regulations limit fees and
interest rates on credit and debit cards.  Bank of America, the biggest  U.S. bank  with $2.34 trillion
of assets, plans to hire 1,000 employees in the next year to
cater to companies with sales of $3 million or less, Chief
Executive Officer Brian Moynihan, 51, said last month.  Citigroup, which had to get a $45 billion bailout in 2008,
was still 12 percent owned by taxpayers as of Oct 1. The bank
has about  $2 trillion  of assets overall. Wells Fargo, ranked
fourth by assets, says it’s the nation’s biggest lender to small
firms.  Small businesses are attractive customers because they use
credit lines that pay “nice fat fees” and make deposits “at
little to no interest rate,” said Ken Thomas, an independent
bank consultant in Miami. They’re wealthier and more
sophisticated than typical retail-banking customers, he said.  “It’s much easier to deal with somebody with six figures
than Grandma or somebody in foreclosure,” Thomas said.  Default Rates  That’s not to say small-business lending is less risky.
While bank regulators don’t compile default rates, the biggest
lenders reported charge-offs of 4 percent to 14 percent tied to
small businesses.  Unlike in real-estate lending, the collateral on most
small-business loans “could be loaded up on dollies and moved
out,” said DD&F’s Dennis. “Or they could have bogus
receivables,” he said. “If the economic malaise continues,
then there are going to be a lot of situations out there where
small businesses do stupid things to survive.”  Bank’s Commitment  “We believe small business lending is important,” Pandit,
53, said in a speech last month in  Brooklyn . Small businesses
are “at the heart of” America’s economy, he said.  It’s a point he didn’t make a year ago, when he gave
investors an overview of the company and mostly discussed the
firm’s ability to serve “the largest multinational firms in the
world” alongside affluent consumers. He didn’t mention small
businesses.  “We don’t really have a very big small-business portfolio
in the U.S.,” Pandit’s chief financial officer,  John Gerspach ,
said in January.  Citigroup has since increased its lending to small
businesses, Seshadri said, declining to disclose the total
amount of outstanding credit to them.  This year through Sept. 30, the company’s Citibank unit has
made about $4.5 billion of new small-business loans in the U.S.,
about the same amount as for all of 2009, she said. The figure
includes loans, commitments, credit lines and credit-card lines,
as well as financing for small companies that supply goods and
services to Citigroup’s corporate clients, she said. She
declined to say how much small-business credit was retired or
refinanced.  Physics Degree  Seshadri, who has a doctorate degree in physics from  Harvard University  and previously worked as a consultant at
McKinsey & Co., joined Citigroup in 2008 as global head of
strategy, according to a biography provided by the bank. She was
appointed in January to run small-business banking within the
company’s North American consumer division, headed by Manuel Medina-Mora.  Citigroup’s 1,000 North American branches, concentrated in
the northeastern U.S.,  Florida ,  Texas ,  Illinois  and  California ,
are in dense urban areas with the largest number of small
businesses, Seshadri said.  “Geographically they’ve got it, and if they can hire the
right people, it could be a home run,” DD&F’s Dennis said.  Pandit’s small-business push probably won’t make a material
difference in Citigroup’s overall profitability, said Kevin
Mulvaney, a former Bank of Boston executive who’s now a small-
business consultant in Norwell,  Massachusetts . The North
American consumer division produced $231 million of profit
during the first nine months of this year, or 2.5 percent of the
company’s total.  The effort is more likely to help drum up political
goodwill, said Mulvaney, who’s also a lecturer in Babson
College’s entrepreneurship division.  “This banking industry is desperate for positive
publicity,” he said. “The politics in the U.S. are such that
the only credit a bank is getting is for showing small
businesses that they’re there to support them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 