-- Clinton Says Afghan Night Raids Remain a `Key Component' of U.S. Strategy
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-15T18:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/clinton-says-afghan-night-raids-remain-a-key-component-of-u-s-strategy.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said night raids by U.S. forces in Afghanistan remain a “key
component” of larger military operations and are conducted “in
full partnership” with Afghan forces.  Clinton made her comments a day after the Washington Post
published an interview that quoted Afghan President  Hamid Karzai 
as saying the U.S. must reduce its presence on the country’s
roads and in civilian homes, particularly night raids conducted
by special operations forces.  “The use of intelligence-driven, precision-target
operations against high-value insurgents and their networks is a
key component of our comprehensive military operations,”
Clinton said. “These operations are conducted in full
partnership with the government of Afghanistan,” she said.
“There’s no question they’re having a significant impact on the
insurgent leadership and the networks that we operate.”  Karzai has spoken critically of the U.S. administration in
the past, attributing election fraud to Westerners and
criticizing U.S. and NATO operations, such as air raids and
house searches that have killed Afghan civilians. President
 Barack Obama  plans a step-by-step transfer of power in
Afghanistan in a bid to end U.S. combat operations by 2014,
administration officials told the  New York Times  today.  In the Washington Post interview, Karzai said U.S. forces
must “reduce the intrusiveness into the daily Afghan life.”  Clinton said the U.S. was “very sensitive” to Karzai’s
concerns and has made revisions to tactical directives on night
operations.  ‘Best Interests’  “These operations are in the best interests of the Afghan
people, the Afghan government and the ISAF troops who are
working with their Afghan counterparts to secure the country,”
Clinton said, referring to NATO’s  International Security
Assistance Force . “Based on conditions on the ground, we
support President Karzai’s stated goal of transitioning
responsibility for all security to an Afghan lead by the end of
2014.”  NATO’s ISAF oversees 130,432 troops in Afghanistan.  Separately, NATO Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen 
said today that while he doesn’t “agree with everything
President Karzai has stated on all issues,” the Afghan leader’s
comments reflect the alliance’s strategy to hand over power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  