-- Clinton Says U.S. Will Work Daily to Restart Mideast Peace Talks
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-11-15T20:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/clinton-working-to-revive-mideast-talks-as-israel-weighs-settlement-freeze.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Israel’s consideration of a settlement freeze was a
“promising development” and that she will be working daily to
restart stalled Middle East peace talks.  The U.S. has proposed that Israel freeze West Bank
settlement construction for 90 days in exchange for 20 warplanes
and a pledge to block any independent attempt by Palestinians to
declare statehood in the United Nations, according to diplomats
familiar with the deal. Peace talks stalled after a previous
settlement moratorium ended on Sept. 26.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  presented the
plan to his Cabinet yesterday and said on Army Radio that a
final proposal was still being put together by Israeli and U.S.
negotiators.  “This is a very promising development and a serious effort
by Prime Minister Netanyahu,” Clinton said today. “We’re in
very close touch with both the Israelis and the Palestinians,
working intensively to create the conditions for the resumption
of negotiations.”  Acceptance of the plan by Israeli and Palestinian officials
would keep alive at least temporarily President  Barack Obama ’s initiative to prod the two sides toward a
comprehensive peace agreement. It would still leave them far
apart on fundamental issues, said analysts including  Jonathan Spyer , a political scientist at Israel’s Interdisciplinary
Center Herzliya, near Tel Aviv.  Keep Talks On Track  “The Americans will want to do everything they can to keep
the talks on track,” Spyer said. “But it is a losing game, and
everyone knows that.”  After the settlement moratorium ended, Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he would resume talks
only once all settlement construction was frozen.  Clinton said she has been personally involved in the talks
on a number of tracks, including an eight-hour meeting with
Netanyahu last week. Clinton said she has met with senior
Egyptian officials about supporting the peace process and spoken
with Palestinian Authority Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad  about
building institutions of a future Palestinian state.  “We’re going to keep meeting every single day to bring
about the swift resumption of negotiations on all the final
status negotiations,” Clinton said. “We believe it is only
through negotiations that we believe the final status issues can
be resolved.”  ‘Significant Difficulty’  Netanyahu will be able to win approval of the U.S. proposal
“with significant difficulty,”  Gerald Steinberg , a political
scientist at Bar-Ilan University outside Tel Aviv. While he may
suffer “a couple of resignations” from the Cabinet over the
issue, “his government won’t collapse,” Steinberg said.  Palestinian officials, while not rejecting the proposal
outright, criticized it because it doesn’t include a ban on
building in east Jerusalem.  Even with that limitation, Abbas is likely in the end to
agree to resume direct talks should the Israelis embrace the
U.S. plan, said  Mkhaimar Abusada , a political scientist at
Gaza’s Al-Azhar University.  Abbas, he said, agreed previously to negotiate with
Netanyahu without a freeze on east Jerusalem building when the
two leaders met in the U.S. to kick off direct talks in early
September.  No Other Options  “Abbas and the Palestinians basically do not have other
options than the U.S.,” Abusada said. “Palestinians do not
want to be blamed by the U.S. for not proceeding with the
negotiations. They want the blame put on the Netanyahu
government.”  In return for renewing the moratorium, Israel would get
U.S. backing in the United Nations as well as 20 advanced
warplanes, the diplomats familiar with the deal said. The U.S.
would also commit to refrain from seeking any further halt to
settlement construction after the 90 days were up, the diplomats
said.  Palestinian Authority spokesman  Ghassan Khatib  said any
freeze on settlement building would have to extend beyond the
three months if the negotiations also did.  The renewed freeze would apply to any new construction
begun since the previous 10-month moratorium ended Sept. 26, the
diplomats said.  While Netanyahu faced criticism yesterday from some members
of his own Likud party, including Vice Premier  Silvan Shalom , he
is counting on support from other Likud members as well as Labor
Party ministers to get the proposal approved.  The ultra-Orthodox Shas said it would likely abstain in any
vote on the U.S. plan as long as building continued in all areas
of Jerusalem, nullifying a potential source of opposition to
Netanyahu, Israel Radio said.  Arrive at Breakthrough  “We are talking here about an effort to put behind us the
arguments about the building in settlements and to move on to
fundamental issues, namely how to arrive at a breakthrough with
the Palestinians, the deepening of our relations with the U.S.,
and strengthening the security of the state of Israel,” Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak , whose Labor Party supports negotiations
with the Palestinians, told Israel’s Army Radio today.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the  Fourth Geneva Convention  governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to any
country before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 