-- Comcast Executives Press Federal Officials to Decide on NBC Deal
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-15T16:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/comcast-executives-press-federal-officials-to-decide-on-nbc-deal.html
Comcast Corp.  is pressing federal
officials to conclude their review of its proposed merger with
 General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal, according to filings
made public today.  Comcast Executive Vice President  David Cohen  met Nov. 11
with  Edward Lazarus , chief of staff at the Federal
Communications Commission, according to a  disclosure filing .
Cohen “emphasized” that the companies’ “applications are now
ripe for consideration,” the document noted.  The FCC and Justice Department are reviewing the $28
billion deal. The purchase would give Comcast, the largest U.S.
cable company, control of the NBC television network, broadcast
stations, cable channels such as MSNBC and USA Network, a movie
studio and a share of the online site Hulu LLC. The deal was
announced Dec. 3, 2009.  Cohen’s meeting was one of at least four that NBC and
Comcast executives held in Washington last week with officials
at the FCC, which hasn’t said when it may rule on the purchase.  Also on Nov. 11, Comcast Vice President Kathryn Zachem  met
with John Flynn , senior counsel for transactions to FCC Chairman
 Julius Genachowski , according to a filing with the agency.  A day earlier, NBC Vice President of Regulatory Affairs
Margaret Tobey  met with FCC staff , another filing noted.  On Nov. 8 Zachem met with officials to discuss “why there
is no need” for restrictions on how the combined company
markets online video, according  to a filing .  Final Approval  It’s “most likely” the government will scrutinize the
deal into early 2011,  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-based
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote in an Oct. 15 note to
clients.  The merger might receive final regulatory approval by the
end of the year, Comcast Chief Executive Officer  Brian Roberts 
told investors Oct. 27.  Jen Howard , a spokeswoman for the FCC, declined to comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the Comcast-NBC Universal combination as
it is currently proposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 