-- Companies Safer Than Sovereigns as Crisis Cracks `Old Order': Euro Credit
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-11-15T10:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/companies-safer-than-sovereigns-as-crisis-cracks-old-order-euro-credit.html
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has
turned the region’s credit markets upside down, with companies
now the safest ever relative to governments.  “In the old order, sovereigns were tighter than
corporates,” said  Greg Venizelos , a credit strategist in London
at BNP Paribas SA, the world’s largest bank by assets. “There’s
been a repricing and corporates are now better credit quality
than sovereigns in the periphery.”  Thirty-three companies in an index of credit-default swap
prices are less risky than governments, including six each in
Spain and Italy. The index of 125 European companies dropped
last week to a record 76 basis points lower than an index of
sovereigns from Greece to Germany.  Credit-default swaps, which investors use to insure against
losses or speculate on creditworthiness, show how non-financial
companies have shrugged off the worst effects of the budget-
deficit crisis that’s roiled nations. Companies with diversified
or stable revenue and strong balance sheets have become the new
havens amid concern Europe’s so-called peripheral countries will
need bailouts.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on investment-grade
companies has risen 42 percent this year to 105 basis points,
meaning it costs 105,000 euros ($143,000) annually to insure 10
million euros of debt for five years, according to data provider
CMA. That’s near the lowest level since May.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of contracts on
15 governments including Italy and Spain climbed more than 150
percent this year and 30 percent in the past three weeks to a
record 178 basis points on Nov. 11, and was at 168.5 today.  Company swaps fell to the lowest ever relative to the
sovereign index on Nov. 8, CMA prices show.  Spanish Companies  In Spain, credit-default swaps on all six companies
included in Markit Group Ltd.’s corporate index, including the
country’s biggest lender Banco Santander SA and phone company
Telefonica SA, trade tighter than their government. Contracts on
Banco Santander were at 194 basis points today and Telefonica
swaps cost 143.5 basis points, compared with 263 for Spain, near
the record-high 279 reached last week, according to CMA.  Swaps on 13 of the 25 French companies in the index trade
tighter than their sovereign, including oil refiner Total SA and
supermarket operator Carrefour SA. Derivatives tied to French
government bonds climbed to 83 basis points, near the highest
since July, compared with 59 basis points for Paris-based Total
and 72 for Carrefour.  Telecom Italia  Of the eight Italian borrowers in the index, only Telecom
Italia SpA and Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA have default-
swap prices that are wider than the government’s 190 basis-point
level, CMA data show. Contracts on Rome-based Finmeccanica SpA,
the country’s biggest defense company, trade the lowest, at
128.5 basis points.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company or country fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Government bonds are also tumbling on concern European
nations will struggle to reduce budget deficits and as
politicians debate whether a new mechanism to handle future
crises should force investors to share losses. Irish Central
Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said last week that loan losses at
the country’s banks, including foreign-owned lenders, total at
least 85 billion euros.  Irish Bonds  Irish 10-year government bonds fell for 13 straight days
before recovering on Nov. 12 and also climbing today. The
 difference  between Irish yields and benchmark German rates
widened to a record 652 on Nov. 11, before narrowing, while the
Portuguese-German spread expanded to an all-time high 484 basis
points on Nov. 11.  The yield gaps compare with the record 973 basis-point
premium on Greek 10-year notes on May 7, before the European
Union crafted a 750 billion-euro rescue package for the nation.  Companies with lower credit risk than their governments
tend to have low debt levels and revenue sources outside their
home countries, according to  Philip Gisdakis , a credit
strategist at UniCredit SpA. Utilities such as Spain’s Iberdrola
SA or Italy’s Enel SpA are perceived as “real safe havens”
because they’re essential businesses that would survive a
government debt restructuring, he said.  “Even if the country would be in default, you’d say that
there’s an intrinsic interest in keeping these companies
alive,” said Munich-based Gisdakis. “The market sees the
sovereigns as quite risky and companies as safer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  