-- Coty Said to Be Near Deal to Buy OPI for as Much as $1 Billion
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-11-15T16:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/coty-said-to-be-close-to-agreement-to-buy-opi-for-as-much-as-1-billion.html
Coty Inc., the seller of perfumes by
Sarah Jessica Parker and Vera Wang, is close to a deal to buy
nail-care company  OPI Products Inc.  for as much as $1 billion,
said two people with knowledge of the situation.  The two closely held companies are in exclusive talks and
may reach an agreement as soon as this week, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.
OPI may sell for $900 million to $1 billion, one person said. A
deal could still fall through in the final stages, or another
company could make a bid.  "This branches them out into a different category," said
 Rommel Dionisio , a New York-based analyst for Wedbush Securities
Inc. who covers competitor  Estee Lauder Cos.  "It’s further
showing Coty’s emergence onto the scene as a major player."  Coty, which calls itself the world’s  largest fragrance
company , is the likeliest buyer for OPI, people familiar with
the matter said last month. Private-equity firms Bain Capital
LLC and Advent International Corp. were among the companies that
also made bids, the people said.  Cysette Burset, a spokeswoman for Coty, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment, nor did Harris Shepard, a
representative for OPI.  Coty has previously used acquisitions to build its
business, announcing Nov. 12 that it agreed to buy Dr. Scheller
Cosmetics AG from Russia’s OAO Concern Kalina. Coty also
purchased Unilever Cosmetics International in 2005 for 632.6
million euros ($860.6 million).  OPI’s Business  OPI has annual sales of about $300 million and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about
$80 million, the people said last month. The North Hollywood,
California-based company is seeking 11 to 12 times its earnings
for the sale, they said.  OPI sells polish used in nail salons, hand-and-foot care
products and body lotion. President and Chief Executive Officer
George Schaeffer founded the company in 1981, according to OPI’s
 website .  Coty distributes perfumes such as “Lovely” from actress
Parker and “Princess” from designer Wang. The New York-based
company also sells cosmetics and skin-care products.  A purchase of OPI would be at least the second acquisition
of a nail-care company this year. In April,  L’Oreal SA  agreed to
buy Essie Cosmetics to expand in the nail color market in the
U.S. Terms weren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  