-- Cubs Ballpark Plan Questioned by Quinn as Illinois Senate to Weigh Bonds
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-15T21:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/cubs-ballpark-plan-questioned-by-quinn-as-illinois-senate-to-weigh-bonds.html
Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn  said he
is dubious about a request from Major League Baseball’s Chicago
Cubs for the state to sell $300 million of tax-exempt bonds to
finance renovations of  Wrigley Field .  “I’m skeptical of the whole proposal,” Quinn told
reporters today at the McCormick Place Convention Center in
Chicago. “They haven’t shown it to me. Apparently they don’t
think I’m as important as some others, and I am important in
this matter because I’m a goalie for the people of Illinois to
make sure they get their priorities addressed.”  The state Senate is to consider authorizing the bond sale
tomorrow.  Illinois faces a current-year budget deficit of at least
$13 billion and an unfunded pension liability of at least $79
billion. The state’s  unemployment rate , 9.9 percent in
September, hasn’t been less than 9.5 percent since the first
quarter of last year.  Thomas Ricketts , the Cubs’ chairman, approached legislative
leaders and the Illinois Sports Facilities Authority with the
proposal to update the privately owned ballpark. Ricketts wants
to repay the bonds by tapping future growth in a Chicago and
Cook County amusement tax.  Burdening the Future  Chicago Mayor  Richard Daley  called the proposal “well-
intentioned,” adding that it has “some serious problems.”  Daley, who announced in September he wouldn’t seek re-
election after 21 years in office, said he wouldn’t want to
“burden the next mayor” by committing future tax revenue when
the city faces a $654.7 million budget deficit.  “I think we have to really talk about how you finance it
without jeopardizing, whether it’s $5 million, $7 million, $8
million of future growth to the city of Chicago,” Daley said in
response to questions at a news conference.  Chicago’s mayoral primary is in February. Daley is to leave
office in May.  Ricketts told the Chicago Tribune editorial board today
that if lawmakers don’t approve the plan, he doesn’t have an
alternative idea for renovating the 96-year-old ballpark.  Quinn said no one from the Cubs talked to him before his
Nov. 2 election.  “These are private owners of a baseball team,” Quinn
said. “They spent almost a billion dollars buying it. They knew
what they were buying. And then to be coming to the people of
Illinois for assistance now, after an election, I think it isn’t
a top priority.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  