-- Cushman & Wakefield Names Underhill CEO of the Americas as Santora Moves
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-11-15T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/cushman-wakefield-names-underhill-ceo-of-the-americas-as-santora-moves.html
Cushman & Wakefield Inc., the
largest closely held commercial property services firm, named
 James M. Underhill  chief executive officer of the Americas to
help the company increase its market share in large U.S. cities.  Underhill, previously executive vice president and leader
for the mid-Atlantic and New England regions, replaces  John Santora , who became CEO of Cushman’s client solutions group in
June, the company said today in a statement. Underhill, who has
been with Cushman for five years, will report to  Glenn Rufrano ,
president and CEO of the New York-based company.  The company is “cautiously optimistic” about the economy
and plans to expand its leasing, consulting and office and
industrial service businesses over the next five years,
Underhill said in an interview. Cushman also plans to expand in
cities including Washington, where Underhill will be based.  “To capitalize on market growth, you do need to make
investments and be committed to growth today, so you have your
team and assets in place when that uptick does occur,” he said.  The amount of U.S. office space leased this year through
September was up 25 percent from a year earlier, according to
Cushman. The average office vacancy rate fell to 14.7 percent in
the third quarter from 14.8 percent in the previous three
months, and occupancies rose in half of 30 cities tracked,
Cushman said Oct. 14. The figures are for central business
districts in New York, Boston, San Francisco and other cities.  In his previous position, Underhill oversaw services
including tenant representation, investment sales, project
finance and property and construction management, Cushman
said. He has a master’s degree in business administration from
Harvard Business School in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and has
taught at Harvard College.  Cushman has 141 offices in North and South America, its
largest operating region, the company said. The company has a
total of 230 offices in 60 countries and employs 13,000 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 Dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 