-- Cyfrowy Polsat to Buy Private TV Network Telewizja Polsatfor $1.3 Billion
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-11-15T08:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/cyfrowy-polsat-to-acquire-shareholder-s-polish-tv-network-for-1-3-billion.html
Cyfrowy Polsat SA , Poland’s biggest
satellite television broadcaster, agreed to buy Telewizja Polsat
SA, also controlled by billionaire  Zygmunt Solorz-Zak , for 3.75
billion zloty ($1.3 billion).  Cyfrowy will pay 2.6 billion zloty in cash and the rest in
the form of 80 million new shares valued at 14.37 zloty each,
the Warsaw-based company said in a regulatory statement today.  Telewizja Polsat and TVN, controlled by TVN SA, are rivals
for the top position among private television networks in
Poland. When the deal closes in March next year the new entity
will be the biggest Polish media company, based on sales of 2.4
billion zloty as of June 2010, Cyfrowy Polsat said in an e-
mailed statement.  The deal is conditional on Cyfrowy, which today reported
221.5 million zloty of net income for nine months ended Sept.
30, organizing as much as 2.6 billion zloty of debt financing.  “Solorz is putting his entire television business into
Cyfrowy so he can concentrate on telecoms,” which could benefit
the company by allowing it to offer better Internet services,
 Leszek Iwaszko , an analyst at KBC Securities, said by phone.  Solorz’s other investments include insulin producer Bioton
SA, power generating company ZE PAK SA and telecommunications
operator Sferia SA.  The sale gives Telewizja an enterprise value, or equity
plus debt, of 11.8 times this year’s estimated earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 305 million
zloty, Cyfrowy said in an e-mailed statement. Iwaszko said that
valuation is “close to” TVN’s.  Cyfrowy gained as much as 3.6 percent to 14.6 zloty and
traded at 14.52 zloty at 9:30 a.m. in the Polish capital,
outperforming a 0.6 percent drop in the benchmark WIG20 index.  To help fund the transaction Cyfrowy won’t pay a  dividend 
from 2010 profit, the PAP newswire quoted Cyfrowy Chief
Executive Officer  Dominik Libicki  as saying.  -- Editors:  Nathaniel Espino ,  Peter Branton   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  