-- Dalian Exchange Joins Zhengzhou, Shanghai in `Abnormal' Trading Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-15T12:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/dalian-exchange-joins-zhengzhou-shanghai-in-abnormal-trading-crackdown.html
China’s Dalian Commodity Exchange
said that it will curb “abnormal” trading to prevent the price
manipulation and other activities that disrupt an orderly market,
according to a  website  statement.  The exchange may void any trade, including instances in
which the buyer and seller are the same entity; if they are
between related accounts; or if they are frequently placed and
canceled, the statement said. Under certain circumstances, the
exchange will force contracts to be settled before they expire.  Dalian becomes the third bourse following the Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange and Shanghai Futures Exchange to announce
steps to curb speculation in commodities since Oct. 26. Dalian
offers contracts in soybeans, corn, palm oil, soybean oil,
soybean meal and polyethylene.  Rubber, cotton and rice prices in China gained to records
last week as tightening supplies increased their investment
appeal, before slumping amid concern that the central bank or
government may further tighten monetary policy. Farm-commodity
futures in China including cotton extended declines today.  Cotton dropped as much as 7.3 percent in Zhengzhou before
ending 4 percent lower at 28,120 yuan ($4,229) per metric ton,
17 percent less than a record set on Nov. 10. Sugar fell as much
as 7.5 percent, or the exchange-set limit, to 6,377 yuan ($960)
a ton in Zhengzhou. The most-active sugar contract reached an
all-time high of 7,521 yuan on Nov. 9.  Limit Speculation  Natural-rubber in Shanghai decreased by the maximum allowed
before paring losses to end 5.7 percent lower at 33,750 yuan a
ton. Soybeans for September delivery dropped 1 percent to close
at 4,538 yuan a ton in Dalian, while palm oil slipped 1.2
percent to 9,044 yuan.  The government will “install mechanisms” to curb
speculation in essential commodities, Zhou Wangjun, deputy
director of pricing at the National Development & Reform
Commission, said in on-line interview Nov. 10.  China has sold sugar, cotton, corn, aluminum and zinc from
stockpiles this year in an effort to ease supply shortages and
curb the rate of price gains.  Consumer prices  in China gained at
the fastest pace in two years in October, rising 4.4 percent.
The government’s full-year inflation target is 3 percent.  -- Feiwen Rong . Editors:  Jake Lloyd-Smith ,  James Poole   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  