-- DAX Index Advances; MAN SE, Carmakers Lead Rising Shares in Frankfurt
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-15T16:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/dax-index-declines-shares-of-salzgitter-retreat-as-man-se-advances.html
German stocks  advanced as investors
awaited more information on whether Ireland will seek assistance
to deal with its debt and a report showed U.S. retail sales rose
more-than-forecast in October.  MAN SE  posted the biggest advance in the benchmark DAX
Index after  Scania AB  said it and MAN are “investigating” a
possible combination related mainly to commercial vehicles.
 Bayer AG  jumped 3.9 percent on its Xarelto sales outlook.
 Daimler AG  and  Volkswagen AG  led European carmakers higher.  The  DAX  rose 0.8 percent to 6,790.17 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt, erasing earlier declines. The gauge retreated 0.3
percent last week amid concern efforts by indebted European
governments to reduce their deficits may derail the economic
recovery. The broader HDAX Index gained 0.8 percent today.  “Attractive macro-economic and corporate data coupled with
the QE2 program are catalysts for equities,” said  Matthias Jasper , head of equities at WGZ Bank AG in Dusseldorf. “I don’t
think the Irish story is ready to explode yet,”  About 71 percent of the 28 companies on the DAX that have
announced quarterly results since Oct. 7 have beaten analyst
estimates for per-share income, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  U.S. purchases rose 1.2 percent, the biggest gain since
March, following a 0.7 percent September increase that was
larger than previously estimated, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median estimate of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.7 percent advance.  Ireland  Germany is pressing Ireland to seek aid before tomorrow’s
meeting of European finance ministers to calm market volatility
and win agreement on making investors help pay for future
bailouts, according to a German government official who declined
to be identified because the talks are private. Irish Enterprise
Minister Batt O’Keeffe said a bailout has not been discussed and
rejected the assertion that there is a “crisis.”  MAN SE, Europe’s third-largest truckmaker, jumped 6.2
percent to 87.55 euros, the highest price in more than two
years.  “For some time Scania and MAN have investigated different
projects in the industrial area,” Scania said today in a
statement. “This process has shown that a full realization of
potential synergies requires a closer cooperation by combining
the two companies, while maintaining the unique brand values of
the respective companies.”  A combined MAN-Scania would overtake  Daimler AG ’s
Mercedes-Benz as the largest manufacturer of medium- and heavy-
duty trucks in western Europe with a market share of 27 percent,
compared with 23 percent for Mercedes, according to 2009 figures
from Daimler.  Bayer, Daimler  Bayer AG surged 3.9 percent to 56.13 euros. The drugmaker’s
blood-thinner Xarelto may generate peak sales of more than 2
billion euros ($2.73 billion) a year, Frank Misselwitz, head of
the drug and chemical maker’s cardiovascular unit, said today in
a telephone interview. Misselwitz called the estimate
“conservative.”  Daimler, the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars,
climbed 2 percent to 50.89 euros, while Volkswagen preferred
shares surged 2.3 percent to 116.60 euros. European carmakers
posted the best performance among 19 industry groups in the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 