-- Debt-Commission Plan Would Protect U.S. Rating, Moody's Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-11-15T22:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/debt-commission-plan-would-protect-u-s-rating-moody-s-says.html
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said
a permanent extension of the tax cuts first enacted under former
President  George W. Bush  won’t lead to a downgrade of the
nation’s credit rating.  “We have a Aaa outlook for the U.S. that is stable and we
are not contemplating changing anything anytime soon, that is
the bottom line,”  Steven Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s
in New York, said in an interview today. An Aaa rating is the
highest credit rating Moody’s gives and signals “minimal credit
risk,” according to the New York-based company’s website.  Treasuries and stocks slid earlier after reports that
Moody’s said a permanent extension of Bush’s tax cuts would have
a negative implication for the U.S. sovereign debt rating.  “A permanent extension of the tax cuts without doing
something to offset it would make it more difficult to avoid the
continual upward trend in the deficit,” Hess said. “There are
many facets to the country’s credit rating,” and any ratings
action would result only if a spiraling, unaddressed deficit
that took place “over the next decade.”  Implementing a plan from leaders of President  Barack Obama ’s commission to reduce the federal deficit would safeguard
the nation’s credit rating, Hess wrote in a report.  The co-chairmen of the commission on Nov. 10 proposed a
$3.8 trillion deficit-cutting plan to trim Social Security and
Medicare costs, reduce income-tax rates, increase the gasoline
tax and eliminate tax breaks, including the mortgage-interest
deduction, among other measures. It would reduce the annual
deficit from $1.3 trillion this year to about $400 billion by
2015 and lead to reducing the $13.7 trillion national debt.  Low Probability  “Measures to stabilize and ultimately reduce the debt
trajectory would be desirable since continuous increases would
eventually put pressure on the Aaa rating,” Hess wrote.
“Actual adoption of a plan to reduce deficits and debt ratios,
regardless of its composition, is the important thing for the
credit.”  The potential for implementation of the plan is “low,”
according to the report, citing aversions in Congress as its
release created instant opposition from Democrats, some
Republicans and groups such as the Mortgage Bankers Association
and the Aerospace Industries Association.  Democratic House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  called the targeting
of Social Security and Medicare “simply unacceptable,” and
Republican Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas expressed
opposition to proposals to raise taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  