-- EuroSibEnergo Seeks $1.5 Billion in Hong Kong IPO, to Pay Debt
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-11-15T13:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/deripaska-s-eurosibenergo-seeks-1-5-billion-in-hong-kong-inital-offering.html
OAO EuroSibEnergo, Russian
billionaire  Oleg Deripaska’s  power utility, said it’s seeking to
raise $1.5 billion in an initial public offering in Hong Kong.  The sale will take place in December, Deripaska told
reporters in Tokyo yesterday. EuroSibEnergo plans to sell a 25
percent stake by year-end, a person familiar with the matter
said on Nov. 10, declining to be identified as the information
wasn’t public.  EuroSibEnergo plans to use the proceeds from the IPO to
repay part of a $1.41 billion Sberbank loan and to finance the
company’s development, said a person familiar with the plans
because talks with investors are confidential. Elena Rollins, a
spokeswoman for  EN+ Group , the holding company that owns
EuroSibEnergo, declined to comment.  The offering would follow the sale of shares in January of
 United Co. Rusal , also controlled by Deripaska, as Russian
businesses venture abroad for funding. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  in Hong Kong has gained 27 percent since reaching this
year’s low on May 25.  “The market is getting better, and Hong Kong would be an
attractive place for Russian and other Central Asian companies
seeking to raise funds,”  Yin Xiaodong , an analyst with Citic
Securities Co., said by telephone.  Investable wealth in Russia fell 19 percent to 3.4 trillion
rubles ($110 billion) last year, when the economy shrank the
most since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union, Citigroup Inc.
said on April 8.  Hong Kong Markets  EuroSibEnergo sells more than half its electricity to Rusal
and is Russia’s second-largest hydropower producer after OAO
RusHydro. Deripaska owns EuroSibEnergo via the same En+ Group
holding company that holds his 48 percent stake in Rusal.  Rusal, the world’s biggest producer of aluminum, raised
about $2.2 billion in the first IPO in China by a Russian
company. Hong Kong is the best way for Russia to tap into Asia’s
economic growth, Sergey Gritsay, Russia’s Consul General in Hong
Kong, said at an investment conference in the city today.  Several major Russian companies will raise funds in Hong
Kong after Rusal, Gritsay said, without elaborating.  Rosneft Oil Co. , Russia’s biggest oil producer, has no plan
to sell shares in Hong Kong currently, Finance Director Anton
Kozhinov said at the conference.  “We are not considering listing Rosneft shares on the Hong
Kong stock exchange in the immediate future, but I would not
rule out these plans for a more distant future,” Kozhinov said.
“We probably need to see more cases of placing shares out of
Russia before Rosneft would get to this stock exchange.”  Lukoil in Asia  OAO Gazprom , Russia’s gas export monopoly, has “little
reason” to list in Asia now as market liquidity is still mainly
in London,  Peter Bakaev , head of capital markets, said at the
conference.  OAO Lukoil  is considering the possibility, according
to  Andrey Gaidamaka , vice president of strategic development at
Russia’s second-largest oil producer.  “We are currently considering a few Asian exchanges, and
are doing cost-benefit analysis to see if it is possible to
increase our liquidity,” Gaidamaka said.  Lukoil rose 1.6 percent to 1,759 rubles at 4:31 p.m. in
Moscow. Rosneft advanced 0.8 percent to 218.46 rubles, and
Gazprom gained 0.7 percent to 172.79 rubles.  In Hong Kong this year, companies have raised more than $40
billion through initial share sales, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said at the conference today.  More than 80 businesses have applied to list their shares
in Hong Kong over the coming months, Ronald Arculli, chairman of
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., said on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Yokohama, Japan, via the Moscow newsroom at
   lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 