-- Dollar Strengthens to Six-Week High Versus Euro on Sovereign-Debt Concern
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-15T22:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/dollar-gains-to-almost-six-week-high-versus-euro-on-sovereign-debt-concern.html
The dollar rose to a six-week high
against the euro and climbed versus the yen as concern that some
European countries will struggle to repay debt and surging
Treasury yields boosted demand for the U.S. currency.  The greenback touched the strongest in five weeks versus
the yen as U.S. 10-year note yields reached a three-month high.
The euro fell versus the dollar on speculation Ireland may need
a bailout as futures traders reduced bets for the third straight
week that the common currency would gain on the greenback. A
group of economists called on the Federal Reserve to scrap buys
of $600 billion in U.S. bonds under quantitative easing.  “The market is not just hoping for a bailout, they’re
pushing for a bailout,” said  Matthew Strauss , senior currency
strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s
largest lender. “Even if there is a bailout, that’s not the end
of the European problems and it won’t change the broader picture
of dire fiscal concerns that will remain well in to 2011.”  The dollar strengthened 0.8 percent to $1.3587 at 5 p.m. in
New York, from $1.3691 on Nov. 12. It touched $1.3564, its
strongest level since Sept. 30. The greenback gained 0.7 percent
to 83.07 yen, from 82.53 yen on Nov. 12. It reached 83.27 yen,
the highest level since Oct. 6. The yen slipped 0.1 percent to
112.88 per euro, compared with 113.02.  Strauss said he sees the euro stabilizing at $1.35 in the
near term.  Euro Bets Lowered  Futures traders decreased their bets that the euro will
gain against the dollar, figures released today by the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 23,283 on Nov. 9,
compared with 38,610 a week earlier.  Benchmark 10-year Treasury note  yields  climbed 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 2.96 percent, the highest
level since Aug. 5. Two-year note yields rose three basis points
to 0.54 percent, the highest since Sept. 13, and 30-year bond
yields increased 13 basis points to touch 4.42 percent, the
highest since May 14.  “Yields are supportive of dollar-yen,” said  Brian Dolan ,
chief strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading
firm Gain Capital in Bedminster, New Jersey. “At this stage
83.20 is where Japanese exporters have their buy orders placed,
but the move up in U.S. yields suggests more upside to dollar
against the yen.”  The Fed said on Nov. 3 it will purchase an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus to
try to reduce the 9.6 percent unemployment rate and keep
inflation from slowing.  ‘Currency Debasement’  “The planned asset purchases risk currency debasement and
inflation, and we do not think they will achieve the Fed’s
objective of promoting employment,” a group including former
Republican government officials and economists wrote in an open
letter dated today to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The document will be published tomorrow in the Wall Street
Journal and New York Times, said Jennifer Pollom, a spokeswoman
for Economics 21, a Washington research group whose logo is on
the letterhead.  Former Bank of England policy maker  David Blanchflower  said
the letter is “dangerous politics” and displays “very little
understanding” of the economy. Blanchflower, a professor at
Dartmouth College spoke in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “In Business” with  Margaret Brennan .  EU-Ireland Talks  European Union-Irish negotiations will intensify tomorrow
at a meeting of euro-area finance ministers in Brussels. Ireland
could use EU aid to bail out its cash-strapped banks, the
European Central Bank said today, stepping up pressure on the
Irish government to prevent an escalation of the debt crisis
that threatens the region’s economy.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said the euro is the glue
that holds Europe together, signaling that an Irish bailout may
be the price of preserving European unity.  The shared currency may fall to $1.31 if sovereign-debt
problems escalate and will likely trade at $1.38 in six months
if risk remains constant,  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of
currency research at Nomura in New York, wrote in a note.  “The euro has been on a roller-coaster ride over the last
year,” Nordvig wrote. “There has been significant upside
pressure on euro-dollar from the Fed’s initiation of QE2.
Meanwhile, peripheral tensions within the euro zone have risen
again, putting notable downward pressure on the euro.”  The U.S. currency rose against most of its 16 major
counterparts as Commerce Department data showed U.S.  retail
sales  gained the most in seven months in October. Purchases rose
1.2 percent, more than forecast, the report showed.  Top Performers  The Canadian, Australian and New Zealand dollars were among
the top five performers versus the dollar among its major
counterparts, along with the Mexican peso and Brazil’s real, as
commodity prices climbed.  “The commodity dollars are all up today, with Canada
leaping after the strong U.S. retail sales,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group
LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “There is going to be a
resolution sooner rather than later on the Irish financial
affairs, and like Greece it will fade in to the background.”  The Reuters-Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials rose for
the first time in four days, gaining 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  