-- Dollar Advances to Five-Week High Versus Yen on Evidence of U.S. Recovery
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-11-15T13:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/dollar-gains-to-5-week-high-versus-yen-before-u-s-data-signaling-recovery.html
The dollar climbed above 83 yen for
the first time in more than five weeks as rising bond yields and
signs U.S. economic growth is gathering pace boosted demand for
the greenback.  The greenback rose versus most of its major counterparts as
government data showed U.S. retail sales gained the most in
seven months in October and a report Nov. 17 was forecast to
show consumer prices increased. The euro fell versus the dollar
on concern Ireland may need a bailout. The pound slipped versus
the dollar as U.K. home sellers cut asking prices by the most
since 2007.  “As a basic backdrop, positive U.S. economic data support
the dollar,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in London. “Until we get a clear
decision on Ireland, we’ll continue to see downward pressure on
the euro.”  The dollar gained 0.5 percent to 82.94 yen at 8:37 a.m. in
New York, from 82.53 yen on Nov. 12, after reaching 83.25 yen,
the highest level since Oct. 6. The euro fell 0.3 percent to
$1.3645, from $1.3691, after dropping 2.4 percent last week in
its biggest five-day decline since August. The yen fell 0.1
percent to 113.21 per euro, compared with 113.02.  U.S. retail purchases rose 1.2 percent, the biggest gain
since March, following a 0.7 percent September increase that was
larger than previously estimated, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median estimate of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.7 percent advance.  Consumer prices increased 0.3 percent last month after
rising 0.1 percent in September, a report from the Labor
Department is expected to show on Nov. 17.  U.S. Yields Rise  Benchmark 10-year Treasury note  yields  increased 0.07
percentage point to 2.86 percent after reaching 2.84 percent,
the highest level since Aug. 6.  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said the central bank may need to tighten monetary policy even
with the U.S. unemployment rate elevated to avoid a surge in
inflation similar to the acceleration in the 1970s.  “At some point in the not-too-distant future, we are
likely to face an economy growing in a self-sustaining way while
the unemployment rate is still relatively high by historical
standards,” Lacker said yesterday in a speech in Richmond,
Virginia. “The decisions we make at that time will be the true
test of whether we’ve learned our lessons.”  The Fed said on Nov. 3 it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus to
try to reduce the 9.6 percent unemployment rate and keep
inflation from slowing.  Drop in Pound  Sterling dropped 0.3 percent to $1.6070 as Rightmove Plc,
the operator of Britain’s biggest property website, said the
average asking prices for homes in England and Wales fell 3.2
percent this month to 229,379 pounds ($371,000). That’s the
biggest monthly drop since December 2007.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.5 percent to 78.461 today. It reached
78.562 earlier today, the highest level on almost six weeks.  The yen dropped 0.9 percent to 82.01 versus the Australian
dollar and fell 0.9 percent against the New Zealand currency as
evidence of strength in the Asia-Pacific region reduced demand
for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  Japan’s gross domestic product expanded at an annualized
3.9 percent in the third quarter, the Cabinet Office said. The
median forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 2.5 percent increase. New Zealand’s retail sales, adjusted
for inflation, increased 0.7 percent in the third quarter.  ‘Concrete Steps’  Asia-Pacific leaders meeting yesterday in Japan pledged to
take “concrete steps” toward creating a regional free-trade
agreement without setting a target for achieving that goal.
Their meeting followed a Nov. 11-12 Group of 20 summit in Seoul
that “opposed protectionist trade actions” while failing to
agree on a remedy for trade and investment distortions.  European discussions in Brussels on financial support for
Ireland tomorrow may boost the euro against the dollar,
according to Citigroup Inc.  “Markets are likely to view an aid package for Ireland as
euro-positive since it would likely remove the risk of an Irish
default for the time being,” foreign-exchange strategists
 Steven Englander  in New York and  Todd Elmer  in Singapore wrote
in an investor note today. “Even if European authorities
provided blanket assistance, the overall fiscal stance would be
better than that of the U.S. Dips approaching recent lows in
euro-dollar may represent buying opportunities.”  An Irish finance ministry spokesman said via e-mail
yesterday that “ongoing contacts continue at official level
with international colleagues in light of current market
conditions.” The nation “has made no application for external
support,” and the government is “fully funded till well into
2011,” the spokesman said.  The  yield  difference, or spread, between Irish 10-year
securities and comparable benchmark German bunds reached the
highest ever last week before narrowing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  