-- Dollar Trades Near Six-Week High Versus Euro Amid Sovereign-Debt Concerns
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-16T02:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/dollar-trades-near-six-week-high-versus-euro-amid-sovereign-debt-concerns.html
The dollar traded near a six-week
high against the yen before a report that economists said will
show U.S. industrial production expanded last month, adding to
signs the nation’s recovery is gathering pace.  The euro was close to the weakest level versus the
greenback since September as Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen 
signaled his government will talk with European finance
ministers today on ways to help his country’s banking system.
South Korea’s won rose for the first time in three days after
the central bank today raised its benchmark interest rate by
0.25 percentage point to 2.5 percent.  “U.S. economic recovery signs are causing the dollar to be
bought back,” said  Daisaku Ueno , president in Tokyo at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest
currency margin company. “Ireland’s issue is gaining attention
again and the euro is being sold as an excuse to unwind dollar-
short positions.” A short position is a bet an asset will fall.  The dollar traded at 83.12 yen as of 11:30 a.m. in Tokyo
from 83.07 yen in New York yesterday, when it advanced to 83.27
yen, the highest level since Oct. 6. The euro was at $1.3601
from $1.3587, after weakening to $1.3562, its lowest level since
Sept. 30. The euro was 113.04 yen from 112.88 yen. The won
gained 0.2 percent to 1,129.21 per dollar.  Industrial Production  U.S. industrial production increased 0.3 percent last month
after dropping 0.2 percent in September, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before today’s report. Retail sales rose
1.2 percent in October, the most in seven months, Commerce
Department data showed yesterday.  Treasury 10-year  yields  climbed 17 basis points yesterday,
or 0.17 percentage point, to 2.96 percent, the highest level
since Aug. 5. They fell four basis points to 2.92 percent today.  “Dollar-yen continues to charge higher, led by the move in
10-year Treasury yields as extreme long Treasury and short
dollar positions unwind,” analysts led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker ,
London-based global head of currency strategy at BNP Paribas SA,
wrote in a note yesterday. “The continued reduction in risk
should continue to drive dollar-yen higher.”  Speculative  long positions  in 10-year Treasury note futures,
or bets prices will rise, outnumbered short positions by 58,661
contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade. Net-long positions rose
by 20,332 contracts, or 53 percent, from a week earlier, the
Washington-based commission said in its Commitments of Traders
report yesterday.  The Federal Reserve said on Nov. 3 it will purchase an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June, expanding
record stimulus to try to reduce the 9.6 percent unemployment
rate and avoid deflation.  QE Criticism  “The planned asset purchases risk currency debasement and
inflation, and we do not think they will achieve the Fed’s
objective of promoting employment,” a group including former
Republican government officials and economists wrote in an open
letter dated yesterday to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The document will be published today in the Wall Street
Journal and the New York Times, said Jennifer Pollom, a
spokeswoman for Economics 21, a Washington research group whose
logo is on the letterhead.  The euro has fallen 7.6 percent this year against its 10
developed-nation counterparts, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes show. The dollar has lost 2.2 percent, and the
yen has gained 11 percent.  European Union-Irish negotiations are expected to intensify
today at a meeting of euro-area finance ministers in Brussels.
Ireland may use EU aid to bail out its cash-strapped banks, the
European Central Bank said yesterday, stepping up pressure on
the Irish government to prevent an escalation of the debt crisis
that threatens the region’s economy.  ‘Unlikely to Solve’  “Conventional measures are unlikely to solve Ireland’s
problems,” said  Kengo Suzuki , manager of the foreign bond
department in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co. “As people seek a
reason to buy back the dollar, the euro is under selling
pressure.”  The International Monetary Fund reduced the weighting of
the dollar and the yen and increased that of the euro in its
Special Drawing Rights valuation basket after its regular five-
year review.  The greenback’s weighting declined to 41.9 percent compared
with 44 percent after a 2005 review, the fund said in its
statement dated Nov. 15. The euro’s share rose to 37.4 percent
from 34 percent. The yen’s fell to 9.4 percent from 11 percent,
while the pound was little changed at 11.3 percent. SDRs are the
Washington-based lender’s unit of account.  The new valuations will be effective Jan. 1, the fund said  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 