-- DreamWorks’ ‘Megamind’ Is No. 1 Film for 2nd Weekend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-11-15T22:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/dreamworks-megamind-repeats-as-top-weekend-movie-with-30-million-sales.html
The animated comedy “Megamind” led
ticket sales at theaters in the U.S. and Canada for a second
weekend, generating $29.1 million for  DreamWorks Animation Inc. 
and distributor Paramount Pictures.  “Unstoppable,” an action film starring  Denzel Washington ,
opened in second place with $22.7 million, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.
The science-fiction thriller “Skyline” opened with $11.7
million.  “Megamind,” featuring  Brad Pitt  and  Will Ferrell , is the
third film from Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg ’s
DreamWorks Animation to open in first place this year. The
results have helped put Paramount, owned by Viacom Inc., in
second place among distributors this year with $1.5 billion in
domestic ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo.  “It was a little bit of a stretch to think that an action
film could top such a family friendly market right now,” said
 Jeff Bock , box-office analyst for Los Angeles-based researcher
Exhibitor Relations Co. “Now that we’re in the holiday season,
family films and, more specifically, animated films rarely drop
from weekend to weekend very significantly.”  DreamWorks Animation’s previous 2010 releases were “How to
Train Your Dragon,” with $217.6 million in domestic sales, and
“Shrek Forever After,” with $238.4 million, according to  Box
Office Mojo .  ‘Unstoppable’  In “Megamind,” a criminal genius voiced by Ferrell
finally outwits superhero Metro Man, played by Pitt. In the wake
of his victory, Megamind must decide how to respond to the
arrival of a another, rival villain. The film has taken in $88.8
million since it was released on Nov. 5.  In “Unstoppable,” Washington plays a veteran engineer and
 Chris Pine  portrays an inexperienced conductor. They team up in
an effort to halt a runaway train carrying flammable materials.
The movie, from News Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox, was directed
by  Tony Scott .  Warner Bros.’ “Due Date” dropped to third place from
second with $15.4 million. The movie stars  Robert Downey Jr . as
a man trying to get home in time for the birth of his first
child. After missing his flight, he hitches a ride with an
aspiring actor played by “The Hangover” co-star Zach
Galifianakis.  ‘Morning Glory’  “Skyline,” from Universal Pictures, was fourth. In the
movie, a group of friends awaken one morning to find that
humanity is under attack from an otherworldly force. The film
stars Eric Balfour and Scottie Thompson.  The romantic comedy “Morning Glory,” from Paramount,
finished fifth with $9.2 million in receipts. It stars  Rachel McAdams  as the producer of a morning television show.  Harrison Ford  and  Diane Keaton  play the show’s egotistical co-anchors.  “The adult market, they don’t necessarily rush out to see
a film,” said Bock. “It’s hard to say that this is a ‘fail’
right away. We’ll know more in week four or five, depending on
how it holds up over the Thanksgiving holiday.”  The weekend’s top 12 films grossed $111.7 million, down 14
percent from a year earlier, according to Hollywood.com. This
year’s total increased to $9.14 billion, up 3.3 percent from a
year earlier. Total attendance is down 1.9 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Nov.
12 to Nov. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 