-- E.ON Focus on Grids in $20 Billion Sale to Lure Funds
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-15T16:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/e-on-s-focus-on-grids-in-21-billion-sell-off-likely-to-lure-pension-funds.html
E.ON AG  is likely to focus on
selling power grids as it divests 15 billion euros ($20 billion)
of assets, luring pension funds hunting for the steady,
inflation-protected returns electricity lines offer.  E.ON “turned quite negative on regulated assets -- there
are probably a whole lot of grids under review,” said  Christian Kleindienst , an analyst at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “Grids need
a high level of investment so selling them can help reduce the
amount of spending E.ON will have to do in years to come.”  E.ON wants to grow  outside of Europe , where utilities face
stagnant demand and levies from governments seeking to plug
deficits. Dusseldorf-based E.ON has networks in Germany, the
U.K., Sweden and eastern Europe. Rules guaranteeing inflation-
linked rates for power line operators have lured pension plans,
insurers and infrastructure investment funds to seek grid assets
in the region.  “Definitely transmission assets we have a high degree of
interest in,” Canada Pension Plan Investment Board Chief
Executive Officer  David Denison  said in a Nov. 10 telephone
interview. “Those are stable, predictable return streams.”  E.ON closed up 0.4 percent, or 9 cents, at 22.75 euros in
Frankfurt trading at 5:30 p.m. local time. So far this year the
stock has declined 22 percent. That compares with a 27 percent
drop for smaller competitor RWE AG and a 14 percent increase for
Germany’s benchmark DAX Index, which  includes  both companies.  ‘Inflation Hedge’  E.ON, the world’s largest utility by  sales , wants to raise
15 billion euros through asset disposals by the end of 2013,
Chief Executive Officer  Johannes Teyssen  said Nov. 10, without
specifying which businesses the company will sell. The utility
is considering selling its U.K. power grid,  Bernhard Reutersberg , the company’s board member for regional units,
distribution and retail, said the same day.  Power grids “often provide an inflation hedge and steady
cash flow so they’re very attractive for long-term investors,”
 Ulrik Weuder , head of investments and structuring at ATP,
Denmark’s biggest pension, said in an interview. “We are happy
to increase our exposure to infrastructure and power grids in
general.”  The U.K. asset could fetch E.ON about 5 billion euros and
more than 50 percent of the sales target is likely to be power
transmission and distribution assets, according to Kleindienst
at UniCredit. E.ON is also likely to sell its 3.5 percent stake
in  OAO Gazprom , Russia’s natural gas export monopoly, according
to the analyst. The holding is valued at about $4.8 billion
based on the Nov. 12 closing share price.  “Regulated assets are generally easy to sell because it’s
not a contentious valuation process,” Nomura Securities analyst
 John Musk  said in an interview. “We know there are interested
buyers: pension funds and infrastructure funds.”  U.K. Grid  Denison declined to comment on whether the pension fund is
interested in E.ON’s U.K. grid. The fund was mentioned as a
possible buyer by the London-based Sunday Times last week.
Weuder wouldn’t comment on whether ATP will consider bidding for
E.ON assets.  E.ON, which agreed to sell its German high-voltage network
in 2009, would follow Paris-based EDF’s 5.8 billion pound ($9.3
billion), including debt, sale of its U.K. power lines to a
group led by  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd. earlier this month.  A group made up of the infrastructure arms of Allianz SE,
Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sought to buy
Swedish utility Vattenfall AB’s power network in Germany. They
were beat out by Belgian grid company Elia System Operator NV,
which teamed up with Australia’s Industry Funds Management Ltd.,
and acquired the 9,700 kilometers (6,000 miles) of electricity
lines for 810 million euros in May.  Regional Utilities  “Limited value creation potential and the high investments
needed in distribution networks will lead us to reconsider our
individual distribution positions,” E.ON’s Reutersberg said.  E.ON distributes power and gas in Germany with six regional
utilities and a regional grid company, in which its stakes range
between 53 percent and 100 percent, according to the company’s
Strategy and Key Figures  presentation , last updated in June.  German municipal authorities, looking to take more control
of energy supply, may seek to buy stakes in the distribution
assets, Kleindienst said.  E.ON is deciding what to do with its stake in Gazprom. “We
assess it as a non-strategic asset and we will decide whenever
we decide what to do with it,” Teyssen said Nov. 10, declining
to comment further.  Follow Iberdrola  Carsten Thomsen-Bendixen, a spokesman for Dusseldorf-based
E.ON, declined to comment on what assets E.ON may sell.  Former CEO  Wulf Bernotat  set a target in March 2009 of
raising more than 10 billion euros from asset sales through 2010
after the acquisition of  Endesa SA  plants in Spain, Italy and
France as well as a Russian utility saddled the company with
debt. He exceeded that target after agreeing to sell the
company’s U.S. utility business to PPL Corp. in April. E.ON,
which still owns wind turbines in the U.S., has sold about 13
billion euros of assets in the last two years.  It’s unlikely E.ON will follow competitors Iberdrola SA and
Enel SpA and sell shares in its renewable energy unit as that
would mean relinquishing some control of the division, Chief
Financial Officer  Marcus Schenck  said Nov. 10.  E.ON may sell stakes in individual renewable energy
projects, Teyssen said. “Soon after commissioning we might look
at the potential to divest stakes,” he said. “We would usually
keep the operatorship, earning adequate margins without
committing  substantial capital  anymore.”  E.ON wants to raise its output of electricity from
renewable sources, including hydropower, 12 percent to 28
terawatt-hours in 2013, according to a Nov. 10 presentation the
utility posted on its website. That volume is enough to supply
more than six million four-person German households for a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 