-- Galleon, Panalpina, Madoff, Oracle in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-15T11:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/health-care-panalpina-anheuser-oracle-hong-kong-divorces-in-court-news.html
The defendant called “Tipper X” in
the Galleon Group insider-trading case and a co-defendant agreed
to cooperate with the government’s probe after pleading guilty,
U.S. prosecutors said.  Tom Hardin, the former Lanexa Global Management trader
referred to in court papers as “Tipper X,” pleaded guilty Dec.
21 in federal court in New York to conspiracy and securities
fraud, according to a plea agreement and criminal information
unsealed yesterday.  Franz Tudor, a former Galleon trader, pleaded guilty on
Oct. 29, 2009, to conspiracy and securities fraud, according to
his plea agreement, which was also unsealed Nov. 12.  Both men face as long as 25 years in prison, prosecutors in
the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in
court papers. Prosecutors will submit letters to the judge who
sentences the men, asking for leniency based on the level of
cooperation both provided in the government’s probe, according
to the plea agreements.  Larry Krantz, a lawyer for Hardin, declined to comment.
Edgardo Ramos, a lawyer for Tudor, didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  More than 20 people have been charged in two overlapping
insider trading cases involving Galleon Group founder Raj
Rajaratnam. Hardin and Tudor are the 13th and 14th people to
plead guilty, with most of those agreeing to cooperate with
prosecutors and testify against others.  Hardin, a former managing director at hedge fund investment
adviser Lanexa, also was sued yesterday by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The SEC said in an e-mailed statement
that insider trading involving two takeovers and an earnings
announcement produced profits at Lanexa of more than $950,000.  In separate complaints, the SEC said it sued Hardin, Lanexa
and Tudor, who had also been a trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC,
for insider trading involving acquisitions producing profits of
about $715,000.  The criminal cases are U.S. v. Thomas Hardin, U.S. v. Franz
Tudor, 09-cr-01057, and U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
civil case is SEC v. Galleon, 09-cv-08811, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits  Nobel Economists Ask to Help U.S. in Health-Care Suit  A group of 35 economists, including three Nobel laureates,
asked a U.S. judge for permission to file a brief backing the
Obama administration’s bid to end a lawsuit challenging its
health-care overhaul.  Nobel Prize-winning economists Kenneth Arrow, George
Akerlof and Eric Maskin are among the scholars who filed papers
Nov. 12 asking U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson in Pensacola,
Florida, to allow them to submit a brief they say will give the
court “insight.”  Nineteen states have joined in the lawsuit brought by
Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum on March 23, which
claimed the health-care legislation signed by President Barack
Obama earlier that day is overbroad and unconstitutional.  “Everyone gets sick, suffers an injury at some point in
their life or must address the vicissitudes of aging and seek
medical care,” the economists’ lawyer, Richard Rosen, wrote in
the Nov. 12 filing. “Those medical costs typically arise at
unpredictable times and, when they occur, often exceed the
ability to pay of all but the very wealthiest of Americans.”  The states, in court papers, have claimed the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, unlawfully forces
individuals to buy health insurance and compels states to
participate in a “greatly expanded and fundamentally
transformed Medicaid program.”  The U.S. has asked Vinson to throw out the lawsuit, arguing
that it was filed prematurely because the bulk of the act
doesn’t take effect until 2014. The administration has also said
the states don’t identify any injury sustained by them or by
individuals compelled to obtain coverage.  A parallel challenge to the legislation, filed by Virginia
Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli, is pending in federal court
in Richmond.  Joining Florida in its lawsuit are Alabama, Alaska,
Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan,
Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Washington.  Vinson has scheduled oral arguments for Dec. 16.  A spokeswoman for McCollum, Sandi Copes, said the attorney
general will “wait to see whether the court grants these
motions.”  The Florida case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, 3:10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Florida (Pensacola).  Swiss Shipper Finds Resistance Futile in Bribe Probe  Swiss freight forwarder,  Panalpina World Transport Holding
Ltd. , faced potentially crippling penalties when U.S.
prosecutors began investigating the bribes it paid to government
officials around the world.  The freight company could battle the probe and risk an
indictment, or clean up its practices and help prosecutors
unearth its wrongdoing. Panalpina, like Siemens AG., which was
in a similar situation, chose cooperation. On Nov. 4, the
Justice Department rewarded Panalpina, letting it avoid
prosecution by paying $81.5 million, admitting “a culture of
corruption,” and strengthening compliance programs.  Surrender by companies such as Panalpina and Siemens is now
the norm under the 33-year-old Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
Bloomberg News’ David Voreacos reports. No company has risked an
FCPA court fight in two decades out of fear that a conviction
could lead to a loss of public contracts and higher penalties,
lawyers said. After resolving two or three cases a year, the
U.S. settled 47 corporate cases since 2005 without trial,
reaping $3.3 billion for the U.S. treasury.  “Publicly traded companies cooperate in FCPA matters
because they can’t afford the potential consequences of fighting
with the government,” said Kirk Ogrosky, a partner at  Arnold &
Porter LLP  who supervised Justice Department fraud cases.
“After 33 years, there is shockingly little court precedent to
rely on.”  Settlements this year involved  BAE Systems Plc , Europe’s
largest defense company, which agreed to pay $400 million;
 Daimler AG , maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, which will pay $185
million; and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s largest oil
company, which agreed Nov. 4 to pay $48.1 million.  In December 2008,  Siemens , Europe’s largest engineering
company, agreed to pay $800 million to the U.S. and $814 million
to German authorities. The company said it spent another $1
billion on lawyers and accountants and on strengthening internal
controls.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Anheuser-Busch Sues Major League Baseball Over Deal  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the maker of Budweiser beer,
claimed in a lawsuit that Major League Baseball Properties Inc.
broke an exclusive sponsorship agreement to try to get more
money.  MLBP, which manages trademarks for the 30 teams in Major
League Baseball, demanded that Anheuser-Busch renegotiate a
renewal agreement signed in April and pay “an exponentially
higher rights fee,” according to a complaint filed Nov. 12 in
Manhattan federal court.  “The MLBP sponsorship is critical to Anheuser-Busch’s
marketing efforts” for Budweiser and other brands, the brewer
said in its complaint. “These rights enable Anheuser-Busch to
reach millions of customers and prospective customers on a daily
basis during baseball season.”  Anheuser-Busch, based in Leuven, Belgium, seeks a court
declaration enforcing the deal and preventing MLBP from
negotiating with any other brewers for sponsorship rights. The
lawsuit doesn’t request money damages.  Matt Bourne, a spokesman for Major League Baseball, didn’t
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the suit.  Anheuser-Busch is one of 18 sponsors of Major League
Baseball listed on its website,  MLB.com . Other sponsors include
 Nike Inc. , MasterCard Inc. and PepsiCo Inc.  The case is Anheuser-Busch Inc. v. Major League Baseball
Properties Inc., 10-cv-8513, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Madoff Bankruptcy Trustee Sues Swindler’s Ex-Employees  The trustee overseeing the bankruptcy of Bernard Madoff’s
investment firm sued four of the con man’s former employees,
seeking to recover at least $48 million in allegedly fraudulent
transfers.  The trustee, New York attorney Irving Picard, sued Enrica
Cotellessa-Pitz, Madoff’s former controller; Daniel Bonventre,
former head of operations; and employees Annette Bongiorno and
Jo Ann Crupi.  In the suits, filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan
Nov. 8, Picard claims the four were paid millions of dollars to
help sustain the Madoff fraud. Madoff, 72, is serving 150 years
in prison after pleading guilty to orchestrating history’s
biggest Ponzi scheme at New York-based Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The new suits follow 19 others filed by Picard seeking to
recover more than $15.5 billion from parties related to Madoff,
including his friends and family, and from so-called feeder
funds, which directed most or all of their clients’ money to
Madoff.  The cases are Picard v. Cotellessa-Pitz, 10-4213; Picard v.
Bonventre, 10-4214; Picard v. Bongiorno, 10-4215; and Picard v.
Crupi, 10-4216, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Oracle May Not Show Apotheker Testimony, Lawyer Says  Oracle Corp.  may not show jurors testimony by former  SAP AG 
Chief Executive Officer Leo Apotheker during a trial over
illegal software downloads made by a now-defunct SAP unit, David
Boies, Oracle’s trial lawyer, said.  A videotaped deposition of Apotheker, now CEO at  Hewlett-
Packard Co. , is currently all Oracle has to show jurors at the
trial in federal court in Oakland, California. Oracle hasn’t
located Apotheker to serve him a subpoena to testify in person
at the trial.  Boies said Nov. 12 in an interview at the courthouse that
Oracle may not show the videotape.  “Maybe we’ll just let the jury know that they’ve hidden
him,” Boies said. “I think it may be better for the jury to
know that, here’s this guy who was at the center of all this”
and he hasn’t been found.  Oracle, the  second-largest  maker of software for business
applications behind SAP, sued its competitor in 2007. Oracle
claims the TomorrowNow unit of Walldorf, Germany-based SAP made
hundreds of thousands of downloads and several thousand copies
of Oracle’s software to avoid paying licensing fees and to steal
customers. Redwood City, California-based Oracle seeks $2
billion in damages for infringement.  SAP , saying Oracle’s damage estimates are grossly
exaggerated, has said it owes about $40 million.  “Oracle’s heightened interest in Mr. Apotheker as a live
witness came only after his appointment as HP’s CEO, a PR
sideshow that has little to do with the real issues of this case
-- the actual damages from the limited operations of
TomorrowNow,” Bill Wohl, an SAP spokesman, said Nov. 12 in an
e-mailed statement.  HP has said Apotheker had “limited knowledge of and role
in the matter” of TomorrowNow’s downloads and Oracle had an
opportunity to question him during his sworn deposition in
October 2008. Mylene Mangalindan, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto,
California-based HP, has said Oracle’s subpoena of Apotheker was
“no more than an effort to harass him and interfere with his
duties and responsibilities as HP’s CEO.”  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Oppenheimer Loses Finra Auction-Rate Securities Arbitration  Oppenheimer & Co. Inc.  lost a Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority arbitration case involving auction-rate securities and
must repurchase $650,000 of the bonds from an investor,
according to a ruling.  The claimants in the case, Jordan H. Moffett and Margot A.
Trombley, were also awarded expert-witness fees but not punitive
damages, according to documents making the award. The claimants
alleged fraud, negligence, breach of contract, breach of
fiduciary duty and selling them unsuitable investments,
according to the document.  After the then-$330 billion auction-rate securities market
collapsed starting in February 2008, investors across the U.S.
were stuck holding instruments that had been sold as cash
equivalents.  “My clients had to fight to get their money back,” said
Todd Higgins, a New York attorney with  Crosby & Higgins LLP , who
represented Moffett and Trombley.  Oppenheimer, a unit of New York-based Oppenheimer Holdings
Inc., disagrees with the decision and intends to appeal, said
Brian Maddox, a spokesman for the company.  Auction-rate securities are long-term debt with interest
rates that reset at periodic auctions.  Hong Kong Court Upholds Equal Assets Split in Divorce  Hong Kong’s highest court ruled that a city businessman
must pay his former wife half his wealth, upholding a 2008
decision that asset splits in divorces should be based on a
principle of equal division.  “To confine a non-working wife’s award to the sum needed
to meet her ‘reasonable requirements’ and to permit the husband
to keep the remaining assets is patently unfair and
discriminatory,” Justice Roberto Ribeiro of the  Court of Final
Appeal  wrote in a 52-page judgment upholding an award of HK$2.68
million ($346,000) to the ex-wife.  The businessman, whose identity can’t be reported, sought
to reverse a 2008 Hong Kong Court of Appeal ruling that adopted
the principle of equal asset splitting. Prior to the decision,
judges in the former British colony had wider discretion on how
to distribute assets based on individual needs. A  2001 ruling in
the U.K.  required judges use an equal split as a starting point.  “There is still a discretionary aspect but the 50-50
approach means judges will have to be very careful about how
they depart from that,” said Sharon Ser, a partner at Facey &
Co.  The case is FACV16/2008, LKW and DD, in Hong Kong Court of
Final Appeal.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  SEC Suit Against Human Genome Sciences Doctor Most Popular The
SEC lawsuit against a  Human Genome Sciences Inc.  consultant who
allegedly tipped hedge fund FrontPoint Partners LLC employees on
the results of trials involving the hepatitis-C drug Albuferon,
was the most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system
last week.  Dr. Yves Benhamou, 50, of France, was charged Nov. 2 by
U.S. prosecutors with insider-trading. Benhamou, whose expertise
is hepatitis and liver diseases, was arrested in Boston on two
charges filed in federal court in Manhattan.  Benhamou held dual roles, acting as a paid consultant to at
least six hedge funds while working as an adviser to Human
Genome, a developer of gene-based drugs, and serving on its
steering committee for Albuferon trials, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission alleged in a lawsuit filed Nov. 2. Benhamou
is no longer a Human Genome consultant and the company has
“cooperated fully” with the SEC, Jerry Parrot, a company
spokesman, said.  The SEC case is SEC v. Benhamou, 10-CV-8266, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal
case is U.S. v. Benhamou, 10-MAG-2424, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 