-- Healthscope Plans $167 Million Debt Sale to Repay TPG, Carlyle Buyout Loan
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-15T08:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/healthscope-plans-167-million-debt-sale-to-repay-tpg-carlyle-buyout-loan.html
Healthscope Group , the Australian
hospital operator bought by TPG Capital and Carlyle Group for
A$2.7 billion ($2.66 billion), is seeking to sell A$170 million
of bonds to repay an acquisition bridge loan.  Healthscope, based in Melbourne, will pay interest of at
least 11 percent on the subordinated 5 1/2 year notes, according
to an e-mailed statement today from Cato Counsel, a public
relations firm working for the company. The bonds will be
marketed to retail investors and used to repay a subordinated
bridge loan that funded part of the leveraged buyout, the
release said.  The bonds “provide investors with an opportunity to invest
along with TPG and Carlyle in a business with strong market
positions and high free cash flow generation, which has
attractive opportunities for further growth,” Healthscope
Chairman and Managing Director Robert Cooke said in the
statement.  Carlyle, based in Washington, and TPG of Fort Worth, Texas,
agreed in July to acquire Healthscope for A$2.7 billion
including debt, in the biggest buyout in Australia in eight
years. That gave them ownership of a business with 44 private
hospitals, more than 520 pathology collection centers and 73
medical centers and skin cancer clinics nationwide, which posted
revenue of A$1.9 billion in the year to Sept. 30, according to
today’s statement.  The ASX-listed bonds will rank behind a A$1.55 billion
senior loan facility, of which A$1.2 billion has currently been
drawn, Healthscope said in a separate document today. They will
be repaid ahead of A$1.5 billion of capital invested by funds
advised by Carlyle and TPG, which includes equity and
shareholder loans, according to the document.  Healthscope may sell an additional A$45 million of notes,
and expects to offer the securities to investors from Nov. 24,
it said.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd ., Credit Suisse
Group AG, Macquarie Group Ltd., UBS AG and Westpac Banking Corp.
are helping manage the bond sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 