-- HeartWare, Medtronic Heart-Failure Devices Add Tools to Slow U.S. Epidemic
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-11-15T21:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/heartware-medtronic-heart-failure-devices-may-help-stem-seniors-epidemic.html
A device that synchronizes heart
rhythm and a tiny pump that takes over when the beat falters are
giving doctors fresh tools to fight heart failure, a disorder
reaching epidemic levels among the elderly in the U.S.  The 5-ounce implantable pump from  HeartWare International
Inc. , of Framingham, Massachusetts, extended the lives of
patients in a study showing it could help those with few options
beyond a transplant. That report sent the company’s shares up
the most in 20 months in Nasdaq trading, and dropped the stock
of Thoratec Corp., a competitor. The synchronization unit, from
 Medtronic Inc.  in Minneapolis, slowed the disease in a study
that may boost its use in the disorder’s early stages.  Heart failure, a progressive disease, strikes 1 in 5
Americans older than 40. It occurs when a damaged organ can’t
supply enough oxygen-rich blood to keep other organs, such as
the lungs, working. There are few treatments, and no cure. The
data reported yesterday at the  American Heart Association 
meeting in Chicago is part of a research push to find new ways
to shoulder a failing heart’s workload.  “Heart failure has seen a new day,” said  Clyde Yancy ,
medical director of the Baylor Heart & Vascular Institute, in
Dallas, at a news conference yesterday. “After this meeting is
said and done, we’ll be armed with new strategies we didn’t have
before, and current strategies with expanded indications.”  Shares Rising  HeartWare rose $13.92, or 19 percent, to $86.18 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the most
since shares began trading in February 2009. Thoratec, the
Pleasanton, California-based maker of a larger pump, dropped
$6.21, or 20 percent, to $24.74, its biggest percentage decline
 since  Feb. 1, 2006.  Medtronic increased 3 cents to $34.66 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Those shares have declined 12
percent in the past 12 months.  New ideas are needed as an aging population combines with
medical care that extends the lives of heart-attack victims to
boost the number of Americans affected. About 550,000 new cases
are expected a year, according to the  National Heart Lung and
Blood Institute.  About  22 million  worldwide have the condition.  Breakthroughs are expected to be reported this week at the
annual heart meeting for patients at every stage of the disease,
including medications to ease debilitating symptoms and reduce
complications in people with mild disease.  Pfizer’s Inspra  Pfizer Inc.’s Inspra, for instance, slashed by one-third
deaths from cardiovascular causes and hospitalizations in
patients with mild disease, easing concerns about the drug’s
safety that have limited its use. The drug, also sold in generic
form, helps prevent salt retention that can cause the body to
retain fluids. Reducing fluid build-up eases shortness of
breath, reduces fatigue and lessens swelling.  For patients with mild to moderate disease,  Medtronic
Inc .’s device to synchronize the heart’s pumping action helped
slow physical decline, according to research reported at the
heart meeting yesterday. The device adds cardiac
resynchronization, or CRT, to a defibrillator, a device that
shocks the heart to restore normal heartbeat.  The system, called CRT-D, reduced by 25 percent the risk of
death or hospitalization from mild-to-moderate  heart failure ,
compared with use of a standard defibrillator, the study found.  The device, costing about $35,000, is approved for use in
people with severe heart failure. Medtronic, the world’s biggest
maker of heart devices, plans to seek U.S. approval to expand
use of its CRT-D devices in those with milder symptoms in the
coming months, said Catherine Peloquin, a spokeswoman, in a Nov.
13 telephone interview.  Sales Decline  Sales of Medtronic’s heart rhythm devices fell 8.3 percent
in the first quarter ended July 30. The latest study could
“drive some incremental sales,” said  Rick Wise , an analyst at
Leerink Swann in New York in a Nov. 8 interview.  HeartWare’s 5-ounce pump aims to help patients with more
advanced disease while causing less surgical trauma during
implantation than similar devices that are larger. Smaller pumps
may use less power once in place, said Mark Slaughter, a
University of Louisville surgeon and one of the researchers who
studied the use of the pump.  Ninety-two percent of patients given the HeartWare pump,
called the HVAD, were alive, had undergone a heart transplant or
were improved enough to have the pump removed, researchers said
today at the medical  meeting  in Chicago. The device, sold in
Europe, isn’t yet approved in the U.S.  New Technology  “We are facing an increasing number of people with heart
failure and there’s nothing we can do medically,” said Soon
Park, a cardiovascular surgeon at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,
Minnesota, in a telephone interview. “This new technology is
exciting.”  Rising heart failure rates and the spurt in innovation to
treat the illness may come together to make it an increasingly
expensive disease to treat. The disorder cost $39.3 billion to
treat this year.  HeartWare’s pump costs $86,000, according to Christopher
Taylor, a company spokesman. It would compete with a heart pump
from Pleasanton, California-based  Thoratec Corp ., the Heartmate
II, which weighs twice as much. Thoratec’s product had $230
million in 2009 sales. The HeartWare pump has been sold in
Europe since early 2009, and generated $24 million in revenue
last year.  The company said it plans to file by year’s end for U.S.
approval to use its HVAD pump in heart failure patients who are
awaiting transplants.  Wrong Direction  “It’s one of the few conditions in medicine where
everything is going in the wrong direction: more patients, more
hospitalizations, more expense, more deaths,” said  Robert Bonow , professor of cardiology at Northwestern University
Medical School in Chicago.  Still, doctors are embracing implantable pumps, which churn
out 5 liters of blood a minute, matching a healthy heart, the
Mayo Clinic’s Park said.  Four years ago, the clinic implanted about one pump a
quarter, Park said. Last year, surgeons at the Rochester,
Minnesota medical center put in three a month, and they are
close to doubling that number this year, he said.  Ron Lekavich, a 72-year-old music teacher from Orland Park,
Illinois, was diagnosed with heart failure in 2004. Lekavich’s
health had declined to the point where he could no longer drive,
walk up and down stairs or even dress himself.  Doctors’ Advice  Told he had six months to live, he took the advice of
doctors at the  University of Chicago  to be implanted with a
HeartMate II device in 2009.  “My neighbors thought I wouldn’t be coming home from the
surgery,” he said in an interview.  After more than a year on the device, Lekavich has resumed
teaching music students, helped a friend fix a flat tire and
recently played nine holes of golf. “I was hitting the ball
straight and even got a hole in one,” he said.  It may be years until doctors know how well the devices
hold up, Park said. Blood clots may form that could impede their
function or they could eventually damage the red blood cells
flowing through them, he said. In the meantime, they are the
only option for many patients, he said.  Robert Califf , a cardiologist and vice chancellor for
clinical research at Duke University Medical Center in Durham,
North Carolina, said that despite the recent success with some
devices, a cure is still needed.  “We are delaying the inevitable here,” Califf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net 
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  