-- ECB's Constancio Says Ireland Could Use Fund for Bank System
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-15T11:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/ecb-s-constancio-says-ireland-could-use-fund-for-bank-system.html
European Central Bank Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  said Ireland would be able to tap the European
Union’s rescue fund to bail out its banks as pressure mounts on
the country to stop its crisis infecting the rest of the region.  “The problems of the Irish banking sector are not only
problems of liquidity but also in some cases problems of
capital,” Constancio said at an event in Vienna today. “For
that purpose of course the European Financial Stability Facility
would be adequate. According to the regulations of that
facility, it cannot lend directly to banks. The facility lends
to governments, but then the government of course may use the
money for that purpose.”  Irish bonds rose after the comments as European leaders
push the government to accept a bailout and help it draw a line
under its financial crisis. While Ireland says it doesn’t need
to raise money until mid-2011, its banks, weakened by a
property-market collapse, have grown increasingly reliant on the
ECB for funding. The finance ministry said late yesterday that
officials are in talks with their EU counterparts.  The premium that investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds over the benchmark German bonds fell to 548 basis points
today compared with a record 652 on Nov. 11.  Ireland’s Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  may ask European
counterparts at a meeting in Brussels tomorrow to consider
allowing the nation’s banks tap the EU’s emergency fund, the
Irish Independent newspaper said today, without citing anyone. A
request for aid may total about 80 billion euros ($110 billion)
between 2011 and 2013, according to Barclays Capital.  External Help  Allaying investor concerns about Irish finances would help
advance Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s plan to require investors to
help pay for future rescues, a German government official said.  EU leaders remain divided on Merkel’s proposal, the timing
of a bailout for Ireland and whether the ECB should keep buying
bonds of debt-laden countries. ECB official  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said today that market conditions have been
hurt by Ireland’s refusal to make a “final decision” on how to
fix its crisis.  Ireland’s woes are the latest stage of a European sovereign
debt crisis sparked by Greece last year. Constancio also said
today that Greece, bailed out by the EU and the International
Monetary Fund, may have to introduce additional measures to meet
its budget targets for next year. Earlier, the EU’s statistics
office revised Greece’s 2009 budget shortfall to 15.4 percent
of gross domestic product from 13.6 percent, surpassing
Ireland’s 14.4 percent shortfall.  The ECB is one of the pivotal players in any bailout of a
euro region country along with the European Commission and,
potentially, the IMF. Constancio said that it’s up to the Irish
government to file a request for external help.  “The financing needs are not only related to the
government because there the state is financed until 2011, but
it’s also the problem of the banks that of course are at the
centre of the problems in Ireland,” he said. “Those are
considerations that have to be pondered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Groendahl  in Vienna on  bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  