-- ECB Sees EU Aid for Irish Banks, Fueling Bailout Bets
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2010-11-15T17:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/ecb-says-ireland-may-use-emergency-aid-for-banks-fueling-bets-on-bailout.html
Ireland could use European Union aid
to bail out cash-strapped banks, the European Central Bank said,
stepping up pressure on the Irish government to give up its
resistance to a rescue package designed to prevent the debt
crisis from engulfing the euro economy.  As Ireland insisted it doesn’t need handouts for its public
budget, ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said it would be
able to use the emergency fund set up to support euro-area
governments to recapitalize banks reeling from the bursting of
the real-estate bubble.  “The problems of the Irish banking sector are not only
problems of liquidity but also in some cases problems of
capital,” Constancio said in Vienna today. While the EU  rescue
fund  can’t lend directly to banks, the Irish government can
“use the money for that purpose,” he said.  Irish bonds rallied as investors bet a bailout is imminent
from the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) fund created in May to
stabilize the 16-nation euro economy. Germany is leading a drive
to remedy Ireland’s debt woes before other countries succumb to
the speculation that claimed Greece as the first victim.  EU-Irish aid negotiations are running in parallel with
discussions in Dublin over whether to pump more cash into banks
to push their capital above regulatory targets, said a person
with direct knowledge of the deliberations who declined to be
identified because a decision hasn’t yet been reached. A Finance
Ministry spokesman declined to comment.  Brussels Rescue?  Expectations of a rescue as soon as tomorrow’s meeting of
euro-area finance ministers made Irish bonds Europe’s best
performers today. The  premium  that investors demand to hold
Irish 10-year bonds over benchmark German bunds fell to 538
basis points compared with a record 652 basis points on Nov. 11.  Portugal, with the euro region’s third-highest borrowing
costs, now sees a “high” risk that it will need a rescue,
Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos told the Financial
Times.  “This has to do with the euro zone and the stability of
the eurozone, and that is why contagion in this framework is
more likely,” the FT cited him as saying.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, is pressing for a quick
resolution to a crisis it helped exacerbate when Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  on Oct. 29 won an EU pledge to consider her demand
that bondholders share the costs of future EU bailouts.  Merkel Backpedals  Thirteen straight daily drops in Irish bond prices forced
Merkel to backpedal. She signed up to a five-country declaration
on Nov. 12 that exempts bonds now on the market from a
restructuring that could be imposed under a permanent rescue
mechanism to be created by 2013.  “The Germans realized that they made a huge mistake
talking about restructuring without the situation being stable
enough,” said  Henrik Enderlein , a political economist at the
Hertie School of Governance in Berlin. “They want to end the
market turmoil, which has been bad for the markets and also for
Merkel’s domestic image.”  Merkel’s bid to penalize bondholders for betting against
fiscally unsound governments prompted objections from ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who will chair tomorrow’s euro-area meeting
in Brussels.  ‘It Won’t Be Easy’  “It won’t be easy” for Merkel to push through the debt-
restructuring proposal, Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  of deficit-wracked Spain said Nov. 12.  Juncker said in an interview with Bloomberg today that he
doesn’t expect an agreement with Ireland at tomorrow’s meeting.  Merkel steered clear of Ireland in a speech to members of
her  Christian Democratic Union  party in Karlsruhe, Germany,
today, saying the job ahead is to “anchor a new stability
culture in Europe.” She pledged to find a way to make sure
“markets have to bear the consequences of their actions.”  A split on the ECB council has added to market tensions,
with the Trichet-backed program of buying bonds of deficit-hit
states lacking the support of  Axel Weber , head of Germany’s
central bank. Another ECB council member, Spain’s  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez , blamed Ireland for equivocating over EU aid.  “The situation in the markets in recent weeks has been
very negative due in some way to the lack of a final decision by
Ireland,” Ordonez told reporters in Madrid today. “It’s not me
who should take a decision about Ireland, it’s Ireland that
should take the right decision at the right moment.”  EU Divisions  As divisions festered in European capitals and among
central bankers over how to deal with the crisis, the EU
reported today that Greece, the country that triggered the debt
crisis, had a bigger budget deficit than initially thought.  Eurostat, the EU statistics agency, put out revised figures
showing Greece’s 2009 deficit was 15.4 percent of gross domestic
product, higher than an earlier estimate of 13.6 percent.  To meet a savings target for 2011, Greece may need “new
policies which were not asked for or contemplated before,”
Constancio said. He spoke after Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s party escaped losses in regional elections that
might have triggered early national balloting.  Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  will submit
a final 2011 budget draft on Nov. 18 with updated targets.
Sporadic strikes have greeted the country’s austerity measures,
which have the goal of bringing the shortfall under the EU’s
ceiling of 3 percent of GDP in 2014.  ‘Fiscal Journey’  “The fiscal journey ahead looks even harder than
previously recognized,”  David Mackie , chief European economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, wrote in a note to investors.  As ministers head to Brussels, the immediate focus is
Ireland, with the country’s top two banks --  Bank of Ireland Plc 
and  Allied Irish Banks Plc  -- growing increasingly reliant on
the ECB for funding. ECB loans to Irish banks rose 7.3 percent
to 130 billion euros in October from the previous month,
Ireland’s central bank said on Nov. 1.  While the government doesn’t need to raise money to finance
its operations until mid-2011, Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
may use the meeting to seek aid for the banks, the Irish
Independent newspaper said today, without citing anyone.  Ireland’s five-member  ISEQ Financial Index  of banking
stocks is now worth 2 percent of the peak valuation reached in
February 2007. Officials put the cost of cleaning up the banking
system as high as 50 billion euros, equal to about a third of
Ireland’s economic output. Irish and international banks’ loan
losses in the country may total at least 85 billion euros,
central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said on Nov. 11.  Irish banks “have issues,” Justice Minister  Dermot Ahern 
said. Speaking to reporters in Dublin, he said contacts with the
European Central Bank and the European Commission regarding the
euro “are ongoing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Groendahl  in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  