-- EDF Puts U.S. Nuclear Expansion Plans on Hold, Increases French Production
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-11-15T14:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/edf-puts-u-s-nuclear-expansion-plans-on-hold-increases-french-production.html
Electricite de France SA , the
biggest operator of nuclear reactors, put on hold a plan to
develop atomic plants in the U.S. while domestic plant
availability improved at the lower-end of a targeted pace.  EDF is reviewing its business in the U.S. and supply
contracts for developing a reactor,  Thomas Piquemal , chief
financial officer, said today on a conference call. “When we
have a better visibility on the regulatory environment and price
evolution, we will be in a better position to see whether we go
ahead with U.S. projects.”  EDF agreed last month to pay about $249 million partly to
buy out  Constellation Energy Group Inc . from a venture to
develop EPR reactors in the U.S., including one in Maryland.
Slumping power prices has cut the value of three U.S. atomic
plants that the two utilities own together and forecasts of
sustained low prices prompted Constellation to withdraw from
talks on a government loan guarantee for the Maryland reactor.  The Paris-based company will search for a new “industrial
partner” for the venture it had with Constellation and push for
a loan guarantee for the reactor, Piquemal said. The utility in
July took a provision of 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) on its
holding in Constellation amid a “less favorable” outlook for
power prices and the planned reactor at Calvert Cliffs,
Maryland.  Sales Rise  The accord with Constellation “won’t lead to any more
provisions,” Piquemal said, adding that EDF will provide
details when it releases full-year earnings.  The company today reported  sales  in the nine months through
Sept. 30 rose to 52.9 billion euros from 48.4 billion euros a
year earlier. The state-controlled utility kept its full-year
growth target for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization of 3 percent to 5 percent and for a stable
dividend. EDF said the net debt-to-Ebitda ratio will be
“close” to 2.5 percent, the lower end of a 2.5 percent to 3
percent range because of higher-than-expected proceeds from
asset sales, including from the sale of its U.K. grid.  EDF plans to provide medium-term financial targets next
year when full-year results are published. An update on U.K.
operations will be given Dec. 17.  French nuclear output rose 9.2 terawatt-hours to 299
terawatt-hours, “consistent with the nuclear output objective
for the year” of 405 terawatt-hours to 415 terawatt-hours, the
operator of France’s 58  nuclear reactors  said.  Piquemal said the company targets a full-year nuclear plant
availability rate of “close to” 78.5 percent, at the “low end
of the target” because of unplanned halts in October. He said
in May that the company wanted an improvement of “at least”
1.5 percentage points this year from last year’s 78 percent.  Situation Improving  Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  pledged to raise
French nuclear output in 2010 to boost profitability and reach a
target of making 85 percent of the reactors available for
electricity production by 2015.  “Management reiterated its medium-term guidance for 85
percent availability but highlighted that there shouldn’t
necessarily be an annual linear progression,” Citigroup analyst
Sofia Savvantidou said in a note to clients today. There could
be “downward pressure” on the bank’s forecast of EDF reaching
80.3 percent next year, she wrote.  “The situation in France is improving,” Piquemal said.
EDF has 10 reactors halted, compared with 16 at the same time
last year, he said.  EDF plans to halt nine French reactors in 2011 for in-depth
inspections, 50 percent more than the average in recent years.
These halts take about 100 days and will shave 1.5 percent off
the availability, Piquemal said.  EDF is in talks with Areva SA on strengthening their
industrial partnership, Piquemal said. “An eventual increase in
our stake in Areva can only be done in light of this industrial
partnership.”  The French state holds an 84.8 percent stake in EDF, which
has a 2.4 percent stake in Areva.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  