-- Medtronic, HeartWare Devices Tackle Epidemic of Heart Failure
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2010-11-15T22:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/medtronic-heartware-devices-tackle-epidemic-of-heart-failure.html
HeartWare International Inc.  had a
record gain in Nasdaq trading after its implantable pump
extended the lives of heart-failure patients in a study.
Potential competitor  Thoratec Corp.  fell.  HeartWare, based in Framingham, Massachusetts, rose $13.92,
or 19 percent, to $86.18 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading, the biggest single-day jump  since 
shares began trading in February 2009. The shares have more than
doubled in the past 12 months. Thoratec fell $6.21, or 20
percent, to $24.74 for its biggest  decline  in almost five years.  The study reported yesterday at the  American Heart
Association  meeting in Chicago is part of research to find new
ways to shoulder the workload for a failing heart. With U.S.
clearance for the pump, called the HVAD, HeartWare would compete
in a developing $4 billion market against the 10-ounce HeartMate
II, made by Pleasanton, California-based  Thoratec . The heart
meeting report may make HeartWare an attractive takeover target,
according to  Duane Nash , of Wedbush Securities.  “We believe that the overwhelmingly positive data
presented yesterday will make it very difficult for the large
medical device companies to ignore,” Nash, a San Francisco-
based analyst, said today in a note to clients. “The HVAD now
appears to be the best way for a large player to enter one of
the few remaining cardiac device growth opportunities.”  HeartWare’s 5-ounce pump showed a 92 percent survival rate
in 639 patients after six months compared with an average of 90
percent survival in a national registry of patients who mostly
received  Thoratec ’s HeartMate II. The difference wasn’t
statistically significant.  U.S., European Approval  Versions of the HeartMate II had $230 million in 2009
 sales , the company has reported. HeartWare received approval to
sell its HVAD pump in Europe in early 2009, and last year
reported $24 million in revenue. The company said it plans to
file by year’s end for U.S. approval to use its pump in heart
failure patients who are awaiting transplants.  Heart failure, a progressive disease, strikes 1 in 5
Americans older than 40. It occurs when a damaged organ can’t
supply enough oxygen-rich blood to keep other organs, such as
the lungs, working. There are few treatments, and no cure. New
ideas are needed as an aging population combines with medical
care that extends the lives of heart-attack victims to boost the
number of Americans affected.  About 550,000 new cases are expected a year, according to
the  National Heart Lung and Blood Institute.  About  22 million 
people worldwide have the condition.  The bigger U.S. market for devices to help people with
heart failure may exceed $4.5 billion, said  Larry Biegelsen , a
Wells Fargo Securities analyst in New York. ‘  Thoratec’s device was cleared in January 2010 in the U.S.
as a permanent therapy for heart-failure patients.  Gerhard Burbach , the company’s chief executive officer, said in January
that Thoratec is working on a smaller pump, HeartMate III.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Edney  in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 