-- Lehman's Archstone May Go Public Again, CEO Says
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-11-15T21:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/lehman-s-archstone-may-go-public-again-three-years-after-buyout-ceo-says.html
Archstone, the apartment-complex
owner acquired three years ago in a $22 billion leveraged buyout
led by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , may go public again, Chief
Executive Officer  Scot Sellers  said.  “There’s no reason we couldn’t be public again,” Sellers
said at the REITWorld conference today hosted by the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts in New York. “At
some point we’ll think that’s an attractive way to monetize our
investment.”  Archstone, Lehman’s largest real estate asset, has won
court approval for two bailouts from its bankers since 2009 amid
the real estate slump. It has ownership interests in hundreds of
apartment developments from Washington and New York to Los
Angeles and San Francisco.  There’s no timeline for going public and the decision rests
with the owners, Sellers said in an interview at the conference.  “It’s easier to access capital publicly than it is
privately,” he said. “It was the reverse in 2007.”  Lehman, which is liquidating in bankruptcy over five years,
won court approval in May for a second attempt to salvage its
investment in Archstone. The restructuring agreement allowed the
company to join  Barclays Plc  and  Bank of America Corp . in
converting $5.2 billion in Archstone loans to preferred equity,
according to court documents.  Archstone needs to convert $237 million more of its debt
into equity to improve its financial prospects, Lehman said in a
Nov. 2 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  “For a while management has felt that this was a very
logical way to ultimately realize value for the company,”
Sellers said of selling shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  