-- Loehmann’s, C-Bass, Lehman, MGM, Madoff: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-15T16:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/lehman-mgm-tribune-advanta-terrestar-madoff-joseph-beth-bankruptcy.html
Discount retailer Loehmann’s Inc.,
unable to complete an exchange offer in October, filed a Chapter
11 petition today in  New York  with agreement on a plan to swap
$110 million in secured notes for the new equity.  The reorganization will be financed in part with a new $25
million investment from current owner Istithmar World PJSC and
Whippoorwill Associates Inc., the owner of 70 percent of the
notes. Istithmar, an investment firm owned by the government of
Dubai, will provide 64 percent of the $25 million to purchase
new convertible preferred stock.  Loehmann’s said the plan will be filed “shortly,” with an
emergence from Chapter 11 to occur in the first quarter of 2011,
the company said in a statement. Loehmann’s has 48 stores in 13
states and the District of Columbia.  In addition to the notes, secured debt includes $30.5
million outstanding on a $45 million revolving credit with
Crystal Financial LLC. Crystal has agreed to provide a $45
million revolving credit for the Chapter 11 case.  Loehmann’s blamed financial problems on “declining sales”
and a “highly leveraged corporate structure,” court papers
say. Sales in 2009 were $422 million. The operating loss for the
quarter ended July 31 was $12 million.  Assets were listed at $204.5 million with liabilities
totaling $232.7 million. Trade suppliers are owed $15 million, a
court paper says.  Although Whippoorwill supported the failed exchange offer,
another large noteholder, Plainfield Asset Management LLC,
didn’t go along. Whippoorwill, which initially had 33.9 percent
of the notes, purchased Plainfield’s holding, raising its share
to 70 percent. Istithmar in turn agreed to purchase half of the
notes previously owned by Plainfield.  The agreement between Whippoorwill and Istithmar to support
the reorganization plan was dated yesterday. The plan will
reduce debt by $115 million.  The failed exchange offer would have swapped the existing
notes for new notes with a different maturity. Although 92.4
percent of the notes were tendered, 97 percent were required for
the restructuring to take place out of court.  The new restructuring agreement says that the treatment of
unsecured creditors in Chapter 11 is still to be negotiated.
Unsecured creditors are to receive cash or notes.  Loehmann’s said last week that it closed eight stores in
November and had considered closing as many as 15. Loehmann’s
has no plans to close more stores while in Chapter 11, company
spokeswoman Lekha Rao said in an interview.  Loehmann’s emerged from a 14-month Chapter 11
reorganization with a confirmed plan in September 2000. At the
time, it was operating 44 stores in 17 states. It was acquired
by Istithmar in July 2006 in a $300 million transaction.  The case is In re Loehmann’s Holdings Inc., 10-16077, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Filings  C-Bass Files to Liquidate Remaining Assets in Chapter 11  Credit-Based Asset Servicing & Securitization LLC, better
known as C-Bass, filed a Chapter 11 petition on Nov. 12 in New
York to liquidate and distribute the remaining assets.  In its heyday before the collapse of the subprime market,
C-Bass was a leading originator, issuer, servicer and
securitizer of high-yield residential mortgages. The New York-
based company is 91 percent-owned by affiliates of  MGIC
Investment Corp . and  Radian Group Inc ., which are both mortgage
insurers and reinsurers. The remainder of the equity is held by
current and former executives.  C-Bass has been undergoing continual restructurings and
asset liquidations since 2007. At the time of the Chapter 11
filing, it still owed $170 million on the senior credit facility
with JPMorgan Chase Bank NA as agent. At the peak, the facility
provided about $1.9 billion in first-lien credit.  C-Bass said in a court filing that the remaining debt is
“well in excess of the current fair market value” of the
lenders’ collateral. The remaining assets consist of subordinate
tranches of residential mortgage-backed securities, management
rights on collateralized bond obligations, some loans and owned
property, and potential lawsuits against third parties.  C-Bass made an agreement with the lenders in September
containing a timetable for liquidating the remaining assets and
requiring the lenders to vote in favor of a Chapter 11 plan with
specified provisions. The agreement gives C-Bass the right to
use $8.2 million of the lenders’ collateral to finance the
remaining liquidation.  The list of 30 largest creditors shows more than $800
million still outstanding on repurchase agreements, more than
$365 million on trust preferred securities, and almost $128
million on subordinated debt. C-Bass filed a motion asking for
authority to abandon the trust preferred securities to the owner
trustees.  C-Bass filed a motion to sell the collateral-management
business to FIG LLC for $2.4 million. The business is run by C-
Bass Investment Management LLC, a registered investment adviser.
It provides collateral-management services for 17
collateralized-bond obligations.  C-Bass proposed holding a hearing on Nov. 19 for approval
of sale procedures. If the bankruptcy judge goes along, other
bids would be due Dec. 13, followed by an auction on Dec. 14 and
a hearing to approve the sale on Dec. 22.  To read other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The case is In re Credit-Based Asset Servicing &
Securitization LLC, 10-16040, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Joseph-Beth Booksellers Files to Close Some Stores  Joseph-Beth Booksellers LLC , a nine-store book retailer,
filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on Nov. 11 in Lexington,  Kentucky , with plans to close four locations.  The Cincinnati-based company blamed bankruptcy on the
under-performance of newer stores. Books represent 55 percent of
sales, a court filing says. Some stores have an attached café
called Bronte.  Debt includes $7.5 million owing on a revolving credit with
Webster Business Credit Corp. Book supplier  Ingram Book Group
Inc.  has a junior lien securing a debt of $3.5 million. Ingram
is a junior lender on the revolving credit and had given Webster
a $4 million letter of credit to protect the senior lender
against loss.  The company filed in Chapter 11 when the lender wouldn’t
make larger advances and inventory for Christmas would be
inadequate without more financing.  Webster is offering to provide an $8 million revolving
credit to support the Chapter 11 effort. The stores are in Ohio,
Kentucky,  North Carolina , Virginia, and Tennessee.  The case is In re JB Booksellers Inc., 10-53593, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Kentucky (Lexington).  Updates  Judge Strikes Claim of Kuntz, Frequent Lehman Critic    Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . succeeded in extinguishing
the claims of an individual who’s been a thorn in its side for
two years.  William Kuntz III has appeared at “many if not most
monthly omnibus hearings,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James M. Peck 
said in his Nov. 10 opinion striking all of Kuntz’s claims.  Peck noted that Kuntz filed about 50 pleadings and made 18
objections. In addition, he offered “his mostly unflattering
views regarding the work of the retained professionals,” Peck
said in his opinion.  Kuntz, from Nantucket, Massachusetts, filed several claims
for about $18,000, contending a Lehman subsidiary should be
liable to him for zero-coupon notes he held that were
obligations of liquidated supermarket chain Grand Union.  Dismissing the claims, Peck said Kuntz produced no
documents to support the claim. Peck said it was proper to
dismiss the claims because “the Court is unable to discern any
merit whatsoever to Mr. Kuntz’s theory of liability.”  Peck said Kuntz is a “seasoned pro se litigation veteran”
and “has been more active in the Lehman case than any other
individual creditor.” The judge said that Lehman’s objective in
dismissing Kuntz’s claims “cannot be purely economic.”  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Changes in MGM Plan Not Material, Judge Rules Nov. 12  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. secured a critical ruling
permitting a quick exit from Chapter 11 when the bankruptcy
judge ruled on Nov. 12 that changes made to the plan after
creditors voted weren’t material and don’t require re-
solicitation.  MGM filed a so-called prepackaged reorganization on Nov. 3
and prevailed on the bankruptcy judge to schedule a Dec. 2
confirmation hearing for approval of the plan. Creditors voted
before the Chapter 11 petition was filed.  After the vote was taken, MGM negotiated a settlement with
Carl Icahn that entailed changing corporate governance rules and
dropping a combination with Cypress Entertainment Group Inc. and
Garoge Inc. The changes necessitated modifications in the plan.
The bankruptcy judge ruled last week that the changes weren’t
material. Were it otherwise, creditors would have been required
to vote again.  The judge directed MGM to file the revised plan and details
on the corporate arrangements by Nov. 23.  At the Nov. 12 hearing, the judge also approved an
agreement for $500 million in financing to support the exit from
Chapter 11. For Bloomberg coverage of the hearing and approval
of other so-called first day motions, click here.  MGM’s plan will swap $4.89 billion of debt under a credit
agreement for most of the equity. The plan pays general
unsecured claims in full while existing stockholders receive
nothing.  MGM’s assets include 4,100 feature films and 10,800
television episodes. The assets at Sept. 30 were $2.67 billion
with total liabilities listed for $5.77 billion, without
adjustments required by generally accepted accounting
principles. MGM owns 62.5 percent of United Artists
Entertainment LLC, which isn’t in bankruptcy.  Los Angeles-based MGM was acquired in April 2005 in a $4.8
billion transaction by a group including  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Providence Equity Partners Inc.,  Sony Corp . and TPG Capital.  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc., 10-
15774, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  Bankruptcy Judge to Rule Who is Innkeepers Adversary  The bankruptcy judge will be deciding who will be the
primary adversary for  Innkeepers USA Trust , a real estate
investment trust.  Since Innkeepers filed under Chapter 11 in July, the chief
antagonist has been Midland Loan Services Inc., the servicer for
$825 million in mortgage debt on 45 of Innkeepers’ properties.
Although Midland was selected by holders of a majority of the
debt, LNR Partners LLC claims it has the right to replace
Midland as servicer for Innkeepers’ largest creditor.  LNR filed suit in October in state court in New York to
remove Midland as servicer. The state-court judge denied
immediate relief and scheduled a Nov. 12 hearing to consider
removing Midland. Before the hearing was held, Midland removed
the lawsuit to federal court on Nov. 10 and requested that it be
transferred to the bankruptcy judge as a dispute related to the
Innkeepers Chapter 11 reorganization.  Court filings don’t say whether having LNR as servicer
would result in a different strategy in the Innkeepers case.
With Midland leading the attack, the bankruptcy judge in August
refused to allow Innkeepers to lock in an agreement where the
new equity would have been split between  Apollo Investment
Corp ., the current owner, and Lehman Ali Inc., a subsidiary of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Lehman is Innkeepers’ other primary creditor, with $238
million in floating-rate mortgages on 20 properties.  Innkeepers, based in Palm Beach, Florida, has 72 extended-
stay and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20
states. For details on Innkeepers’ rejected plan and Midland’s
competing proposal, click here for the Aug. 31 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Apollo acquired the company in July 2007 in a $1.35 billion
transaction. The Innkeepers petition listed assets of $1.5
billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Zazzali Files Lawsuit After DBSI Plan Confirmation  James R. Zazzali, in his new roles in the liquidation of
DBSI Inc., didn’t waste time in filing lawsuits following the
late-October confirmation of the Chapter 11 plan.  Zazzali, former chief justice of the New Jersey Supreme
Court, is suing former executives and pre-bankruptcy lawyers for
DBSI, which the examiner said was an “elaborate shell game”
that operated like a Ponzi scheme before the Chapter 11 filing
in November 2008. The examiner’s report resulted in Zazzali’s
appointment as Chapter 11 trustee in September 2009.  The liquidating plan for DBSI, once a seller and servicer
of fractional interests in commercial real estate, created two
trusts to bring lawsuits after confirmation. Zazzali, who is
trustee for both trusts, is filing 850 lawsuits in bankruptcy
court against 1,300 defendants to collect preferences and
fraudulent transfers, according to Brian J. McMahon, a lawyer
with Gibbons PC which represents Zazzali as trustee.  In addition, Zazzali filed two lawsuits this month in U.S.
District Court in Delaware against former insiders, including
Douglas L. Swenson, DBSI’s founder and president. Another suit
is against DBSI’s former lawyers,  Moffatt Thomas Barrett Rock &
Fields Chartered , a firm with four offices in Idaho.  The suit against the insiders claims the officers
constructed a “massive scheme of corporate looting” where
“positive cash flow came only from new investor money.” The
other suit says the Moffatt firm gave “knowing aid and
assistance” in a scheme where more than $80 million was
misappropriated. A call to the Moffatt firm for comment wasn’t
immediately returned.  DBSI’s disclosure statement predicted an 18.5 percent
recovery for many creditors.  DBSI filed under Chapter 11 in November 2008 along with
almost 150 affiliates. More filed later. Based in Meridian,
Idaho, the company claimed it managed real estate valued at more
than $2.65 billion and raised $1.5 billion in capital over 29
years.  The case is In re DBSI Inc., 08-12687, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Boston Generating Dispute with Algonquin Back in Bankruptcy  Whether Boston Generating LLC can reject a contract to
supply transportation for natural gas is back in the bankruptcy
court thanks to a Nov. 12 ruling by U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  in Manhattan.  Early this month Cote ruled that the bankruptcy court had
the right to preside over the sale of Boston Generating, the
owner of five electric generating plants in the Boston area. At
the same time, she said the district court was required to rule
on whether Boston Generating could terminate a transportation
contract with Algonquin Gas Transmission LLC, a subsidiary of  Spectra Energy Corp .  In her ruling on Nov. 12, Cote said the rejection issue
could return to bankruptcy court because both sides agree that
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission must decide if it’s in
the public interest to terminate the contract. If FERC gives
approval, the bankruptcy court can rule on rejection.  If there isn’t a higher bid at auction,  Constellation
Energy Group Inc . will buy the facilities for $1.1 billion.
Competing bids were initially due Nov. 1. Final bids are due
tomorrow in advance of the Nov. 15 auction. The hearing for
approval of the sale will take place Nov. 17.  Cote withdrew the reference of the motion to reject the
contract because FERC has exclusive jurisdiction over rates
charged by gas pipelines. Withdrawal of the reference is the
technical term for a procedure when a particular dispute is
required by bankruptcy law to be decided in district court
rather than in bankruptcy court.  In her first opinion this month, Cote said there was no
need to withdraw the motion to approve the sale because federal
law requires that FERC must also approve the sale.  The bankruptcy case is In re Boston Generating LLC, 10-
14419, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Tribune Committee Asks Authority for Preference Suits  The creditors’ committee for Tribune Co. filed a motion
last week for permission to file additional lawsuits against Sam Zell, JPMorgan Chase Bank NA and what the panel calls “former
and likely future owners” of the publisher.  At a Nov. 29 hearing, the committee wants the bankruptcy
judge to expand authority given in October to file suits
insuring no fraudulent transfer claims will be lost by the
expiration of time limits under the statute of limitations in
bankruptcy. In the new motion, the committee wants authority to
bring additional claims for preferences.  The committee says it will file suits without moving the
cases forward since some of the competing Chapter 11 plans will
settle the claims.  Four plans are competing to reorganize Tribune. For a
discussion of the three plans filed by creditors, click here for
the Nov. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For details on Tribune’s
own plan filed, click here for the Oct. 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Tribune withdrew a prior version of a reorganization in
August following the examiner’s report finding a likelihood the
second phase of the leveraged buyout in December 2007 could be
attacked successfully as a constructively fraudulent transfer.
The examiner found less likelihood that the first phase of the
transaction in June 2007 could be attacked successfully.  The second part of the buyout entailed the issuance of $2.1
billion on the senior credit and a $1.6 billion bridge loan. For
a summary of some of the examiner’s conclusions, click here for
the July 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Tribune’s abandoned
plan would have forced through a settlement some creditors
opposed.  The $13.7 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was led by Zell.  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  Advanta Files Plan Opposed by Creditors’ Committee    Advanta Corp ., the holding company for a failed bank,
proposed a Chapter 11 plan earlier this month where holders of
$140.6 million in unsecured notes could be paid in full while
general unsecured creditors, with up to $180.6 million in
claims, could see as much as 71.3 percent.  The creditors’ committee isn’t on board with the plan. The
hearing for approval of the disclosure statement is set for Dec.
16.  Where Advanta contends the differences with the committee
are not “economic” in nature, the creditors’ panel said in a
court filing that the plan will depress recoveries.  The committee doesn’t want the plan to contain releases in
favor of top managers for conduct after the Chapter 11 filing in
November 2009. The committee also believes the plan isn’t
structured to avoid a so-called change in control.  The committee points out that a change of control will help
validate $51.8 million in benefit and severance claims filed by
Chief Executive Dennis Alter and President William Rosoff. The
committee filed a motion for permission to perform an
investigation as the basis for an objection to the executives’
claims.  Advanta has a motion on file, to be heard in bankruptcy
court on Nov. 24, for 60-day extension of the exclusive right to
file a plan until March 4.  The disclosure accompanying the plan shows Advanta as
having $105.8 million cash. Assets for distribution eventually
are projected to increase to $157.8 million to $179.8 million.  Holders of the so-called investment note claims and ready-
reserve claims should get between 64.4 percent and full payment
on their $140.6 million in claims. The initial distribution to
them should be 30 percent, the disclosure statement says.  General unsecured claims against Advanta, estimated to
range between $20.8 million and $180.6 million, should see a
return between 37.7 percent and 71.3 percent.  Holders of subordinated notes, with $96.5 million in
claims, might receive nothing as a consequence of the
subordination agreement. In the best case, they’ll take home
29.5 percent.  Creditors of affiliates are treated separately and will
receive different recoveries, mostly smaller.  Soon after the Chapter 11 filing in November 2009, Spring
House, Pennsylvania-based Advanta said it intended to distribute
the last $100 million cash in a manner “that benefits
stakeholders fairly.”  Advanta’s bank subsidiary ceased issuing new credit cards
and stopped allowing new charges on existing cards in May 2009.
It was taken over by regulators in March 2010.  The holding company’s petition listed assets of $363
million against debt totaling $331 million in September 2009.
Originally, Advanta listed debt as including $138 million in
senior retail investment notes and $89 million in subordinated
notes. Debt owing to trade creditors was listed as $5 million.  The case is In re Advanta Corp., 09-13931, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  TerreStar Committee Opposing Quick Sale to EchoStar  The newly appointed creditors’ committee for TerreStar
Networks Inc. is joining with other creditors in opposition to
approval of financing and a so-called plan support agreement
which would commit TerreStar to pursue a plan giving control to
EchoStar Corp., the largest secured creditor.  The committee said the financing from EchoStar and the so-
called PSA are “inequitable to all interested parties except
EchoStar.” Noting how the proposed plan would give unsecured
creditors a “pittance,” the committee says the agreements
would “chill any serious competitive offer” to buy TerreStar
while giving “complete control over the entire Chapter 11
process” to EchoStar.  The objections will be hashed out at a hearing in
bankruptcy court tomorrow.  TerreStar filed the proposed plan and explanatory
disclosure statement earlier this month. Approval of the
disclosure statement is set for consideration at a Dec. 12
hearing. To read about objections from other creditors and
details on the plan, click here for the Nov. 10 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  TerreStar, based in Reston, Virginia, provides mobile
satellite coverage throughout the U.S. and Canada where
traditional mobile networks are unavailable. EchoStar, a
television equipment and satellite services company, is offering
financing for the Chapter 11 case.  EchoStar, based in Englewood, Colorado, and New York hedge
fund Harbinger Capital Partners LLC are  TerreStar Corp .’s
largest shareholders, according to Bloomberg data.  TerreStar Networks listed assets of $1.4 billion and debt
totaling $1.64 billion. In addition to $944 million in 15
percent senior secured pay-in-kind notes and $179 million in 6.5
percent exchangeable pay-in-kind notes, debt includes $86
million on a purchase money credit agreement. The purchase money
debt would remain in place under the TerreStar plan.  The case is In re TerreStar Networks Inc., 10-15446, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Sues Former Workers for $48 Million  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Inc. filed lawsuits last week in bankruptcy court to
recover $48 million in fraudulent transfer to four of the firm’s
employees. The defendants are Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz, Madoff’s
former controller; Daniel Bonventre, former head of operations;
and employees Annette Bongiorno and Jo Ann Crupi.  To read Bloomberg coverage of the suits, click here.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with the
appointment of a trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Daily Podcast  Ambac, Innkeepers, Madoff, and Pro Se Bankrupts: Audio  The rationale for the settlement between  Ambac Financial
Group Inc . and the Wisconsin insurance commissioner, the
possibility of settlement for Innkeepers USA Trust, a possibly
worthless $1 billion judgment won by the trustee for Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities Inc., and discrimination against
individuals who represent themselves are analyzed in the
bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Briefly Noted  Blockbuster Quarterly Operating Loss is $17.5 Million    Blockbuster Inc ., the bankrupt movie-rental chain, reported
a $53.5 million net loss for the quarter ended Oct. 3. Sales
fell 19 percent from a year earlier to $737 million. The
quarterly operating loss widened to $17.5 million from $10.2
million.  Before the Chapter 11 filing on Sept. 23, Blockbuster
negotiated a reorganization plan with holders of 80 percent of
the senior notes. The plan would give the new stock to holders
of the $630 million in 11.75 percent senior-secured notes.
General unsecured creditors would have warrants for 3 percent of
the stock. Holders of the $300 million in 9 percent subordinated
notes wouldn’t receive anything.  Blockbuster, based in Dallas, has 5,600 stores, including
3,300 in the U.S., with the remainder abroad. Among the U.S.
stores, 3,000 are owned and the rest are franchised.  The petition listed assets of $1.02 billion against debt of
$1.47 billion. Blockbuster estimated that it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The case is In re Blockbuster Inc., 10-14997, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Watch List  Bain’s Guitar Center ‘Unsustainable,’ Says Moody’s  Guitar Center Holdings Inc., parent company of the largest
musical instrument retailer in the U.S., has a “capital
structure that is unsustainable over the medium term,” in the
judgment of Moody’s Investors Service.  In its Nov. 12 report, Moody’s noted that Guitar Center
must begin paying cash interest in April on senior unsecured
notes where interest currently is being paid with more notes.
Moody’s calculates that the company can’t “fully cover its
interest expense through internally generated cash flow.”  Moody’s doesn’t believe Guitar Center can increase sales
and profits enough to avoid a “distressed exchange.” The
crunch may not come until 2013, when some of the notes must be
redeemed in April of that year. The revolving credit expires in
October 2013.  Moody’s lowered the corporate rating by one notch to Caa2.
The $628 million secured term loan slipped one grade to Caa1.  In early 2007, Guitar Center used a Chapter 11 sale to
purchase the assets of Dennis Bamber Inc., also known as The
Woodwind & The Brasswind. Guitar Center paid $29.5 million plus
$2 million in debt assumption. Bamber had been the third-largest
musical instrument retailer in the U.S.  Guitar Center, based in Westlake Village,  California , has
about $2 billion a year in revenue, Moody’s said. It is
controlled by Bain Capital LLC, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Downgrade  Terra-Gen’s Coso Geothermal Downgraded to Mid-Junk  Coso Geothermal Power Holdings LLC, a special purpose
company that sold and leased back four geothermal projects, lost
investment-grade status in August 2009 and was downgraded
another three notches on Nov. 12 by Moody’s Investors Service.
The pass-through certificates are now rated B1.  Moody’s noted that electric generation for the year ended
in September was 26 percent below projections, even after
capital improvements made possible from equity investments by
the sponsor.  The project has three generation facilities in California
with a rated capacity of 302 megawatts and one in Nevada with
17.7 megawatts of so-called nameplate capacity.  Coso is owned by Terra-Gen Power LLC.  Bank Failures  Three Bank Failures Bring Year’s Total to 146  Three bank failures on Nov. 5 in Georgia and Arizona
brought the year’s total to 146, six more than the number taken
over by regulators in all of 2009.  The failed banks had combined assets of $1 billion and will
cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. $204.4 million.  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The 140 bank failures in 2009 were five times more than
2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  Advance Sheets  Interest Rate on Tax Loans Can’t Be Reduced, 5th Circuit Says  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans came down on the
side of lenders who make loans so homeowners can pay real estate
taxes.  The opinion on Nov. 11 involved a lender named Tax Ease
Funding LP that made an $11,600 loan to a homeowner to pay
outstanding real estate taxes. In return the lender received a
transfer under Texas law of the taxing authority’s tax lien.  Where the interest rate on the loan from Tax Ease was 14.8
percent, the individuals persuaded the bankruptcy judge to
confirm a Chapter 13 plan where the interest rate was reduced to
5 percent.  The lender appealed the reduction of the interest rate and
won in the district court. It won again in the 5th Circuit Court
of Appeals in New Orleans in an opinion written by Senior
Circuit Judge Thomas M. Reavley.  The case turned on Section 511 of the Bankruptcy Code which
says that a bankruptcy court cannot alter the interest rate on a
“tax claim.”  The bankruptcy judge reasoned that the lender couldn’t have
a tax claim because the taxes were paid. Reavley disagreed.
Looking at state law, he concluded that the lender still had a
claim for taxes. The result could be different in other states.  Reavley held that the Chapter 13 plan had to call for
interest at the original contract rate. Chief Circuit Judge
Edith H. Jones was on the panel.  The case is Tax Ease Funding LP v. Thompson (In re Kizzee-
Jordan), 09-20777, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 