-- El Paso Sells Pipeline, LNG Terminal Stakes to Affiliate for $1.13 Billion
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-11-15T21:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/el-paso-sells-pipeline-lng-terminal-stakes-to-affiliate-for-1-13-billion.html
El Paso Corp. , owner of the longest
U.S. natural-gas pipeline network, agreed to sell stakes in two
interstate pipeline systems and a liquefied natural gas terminal
in Georgia to an affiliate for $1.13 billion.  The transaction would give  El Paso Pipeline Partners LP 
full ownership of terminal-owner Southern LNG Co. and El Paso
Elba Express Co. as well as a 60 percent stake in Southern
Natural Gas Co., the partnership said in a statement today.  Elba Express and Southern Natural Gas are pipeline systems
serving the southeast. Southern LNG owns the Elba Island
terminal near Savannah, Georgia, which can handle as much as 1.8
billion cubic feet of gas a day from tankers that deliver it in
liquefied form.  “It’s a little bit bigger transaction than expected,”
 Carl Kirst , a Houston-based analyst for BMO Capital Markets,
said today in an interview. He rates the shares at
“outperform” and owns none. “It’s a good transaction price
for El Paso, but not so steep that the partnership doesn’t find
it immediately cash accretive.”  The deal, expected to close this month, is its third and
largest purchase this year from El Paso Corp., bringing the
total to more than $2.4 billion, El Paso Pipeline Partners said.
El Paso Corp., based in Houston, owns 52 percent of the pipeline
partnership and controls it through ownership of its general
partner.  El Paso Pipelines is paying for the deal with $415 million
in cash and may finance the rest of it through a combination of
debt and equity offerings and a promissory note to El Paso Corp.  Adding Cash Flow  The purchase will immediately add to the partnership’s cash
flow,  Jim Yardley , chief executive officer of El Paso Pipelines,
said in the statement. The partnership’s management will
recommend raising the quarterly cash payout to unit holders to
44 cents from 41 cents, according to the statement.  El Paso has said it would sell assets to the partnership to
raise cash for expansion.  El Paso Corp. rose 27 cents, or 2 percent, to $13.73 at 4
p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. El
Paso Pipeline Partners’ units fell 20 cents to $34.48.  Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. served as a financial adviser
to the general partner’s board and gave an opinion on the
fairness of the transaction’s terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  