-- EMC Makes $2.25 Billion Isilon Deal to Ward Off NetApp, IBM
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-11-15T18:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/emc-to-acquire-isilon-for-2-25-billion-to-gain-video-storage-equipment.html
EMC Corp. ’s $2.25 billion purchase
of  Isilon Systems Inc.  pushes it deeper into the $19 billion
external-storage market and gives it more ammunition against
rivals NetApp Inc. and International Business Machines Corp.  Isilon, which EMC agreed to buy today for $33.85 a share in
cash, sells so-called scale-out network-attached storage --
systems that can be quickly added to boost space for data, video
and digital images. The price was 29 percent higher than what
the Seattle-based company’s stock closed at on Nov. 12.  With Isilon, EMC expects to generate $1 billion in annual
sales from the market by the second half of 2012, more than
triple what it currently gets alone. The purchase also would
help EMC catch up with competitors’ technology in the scale-out
market, said  Sid Parakh , an analyst at McAdams Wright Ragen.  Isilon has “a good set of products,” the Seattle-based
analyst said. “While EMC has some products in this segment and
plans to launch more there, they lag both NetApp and Isilon.”  The deal won’t have a material effect on this year’s
earnings, Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based EMC said today on a
call with analysts. Buying Isilon will add to earnings,
excluding some costs, the following year, EMC said. It expects
to close the deal this year.  Isilon  gained $7.49, or 28 percent, to $33.78 at 1:25 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  EMC  fell 9 cents
to $21.63 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Search for Buyers  Isilon shares had already risen almost fourfold this year
before today, spurred by takeover speculation. The company hired
 Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners to find bidders, two people
familiar with the situation told Bloomberg News last month.  Storage businesses have become increasingly attractive
takeover candidates as large technology companies fill out their
product lines. In September, Hewlett-Packard Co. snapped up
data-storage maker 3Par Inc. following a bidding war with Dell
Inc. The companies are using the acquisitions to bolster their
data-center offerings, letting them sell servers, software and
storage under one roof.  EMC also faces a threat from NetApp, which has targeted the
scale-out market, said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets in New York. He has an “outperform” rating on EMC’s
shares.  “This is a nice step towards defending EMC’s turf,” he
said in a report to clients.  DNA Sequencing  EMC  will combine Isilon’s products with its Atmos line to
help handle applications that generate massive amounts of
information. That includes DNA research, online streaming of
movies and tracking earthquakes, EMC said.  While Isilon is first in the scale-out segment of the
industry, EMC leads the total market for external storage
computers. IBM and  NetApp  rank second and third, according to
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.  The purchase price is 154 times earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, compared with the median
multiple of 16 times Ebitda for similar deals in the past five
years, according to Bloomberg data.  Isilon, which has about 500  employees , has agreed not to
solicit bids from other companies, though it can still consider
them, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. If Isilon terminates the deal, it will pay EMC a
$100 million fee, according to the filing.  (EMC held a conference call to discuss the deal today. Go
to  http://www.emc.com/about/investor-relations/index.htm  for a
replay.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  