-- Emerging Stocks Fall for Fourth Day on Report of Chinese Bank Lending Curb
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-15T10:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/emerging-stocks-fall-for-fourth-day-on-report-of-chinese-bank-lending-curb.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fourth day, the longest stretch of losses since August, as a
report that China’s largest banks stopped new loans to property
developers heightened concern global economic growth will slow.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined 0.6 percent to
1,114.37 at 10:03 a.m. in London, heading for the lowest close
in two weeks. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  sank 1.8
percent, while raw-materials stocks including Moscow-based OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel dropped on speculation demand from China may
weaken. Asian currencies fell, sending the  Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Asia Dollar Index  to its biggest three-day slide since May.  “The Chinese government tells the banks ‘please don’t lend
to the sector,’ and you get a micro level of tightening, even
though there is no movement in interest rates,”  Adrian Mowat ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief Asian and emerging-market
strategist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  China’s four biggest government-controlled banks won’t
issue any new loans to property developers for the rest of the
year, the state-run China Real Estate Business newspaper
reported, increasing concern that growth in the world’s fastest-
expanding major economy will slow because of a clampdown on
lending and tighter monetary policy. Malaysia’s ringgit and the
South Korean won weakened on concern the governments will take
steps to reduce capital inflows.  Europe Debt  The  MSCI emerging index  has retreated 3.5 percent in four
days as investors speculated Chinese policy makers will increase
efforts to stem growth after inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in 25 months in October. Ireland added to concern
the global economic recovery may falter after saying it’s
holding talks with European officials about “market
conditions” as Germany pushes it to accept a bailout and help
reverse a bond sell-off among Europe’s indebted nations.  The emerging-market benchmark index is still up 13 percent
this year, compared with a 5.6 percent gain for the  MSCI World
Index  of advanced countries.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises index of Hong Kong-traded
shares fell to the lowest level since Oct. 29.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  China Construction Bank Corp. 
declined at least 1.2 percent after China Real Estate Business
said the banks had suspended loans to property developers after
having met their allotted quotas for such lending. An ICBC press
officer denied the China Real Estate Business newspaper report.  Shanghai Rally  The  Shanghai Composite Index  of shares traded in mainland
China rose 1 percent, rebounding from a 5.2 percent slump on
Nov. 12. Gauges of drugmakers and consumer companies jumped more
than 2 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended the
industries.  Malaysia’s ringgit depreciated 0.7 percent after the
central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged and
warned of the risk of excessive capital inflows. Bank Negara
Malaysia said “greater vigilance” is needed as the influx of
funds brings risks to macroeconomic and financial stability in
emerging-market economies.  The South Korean won declined 0.4 percent to its weakest
level this month after the government said it will introduce
measures to damp volatility in capital flows. Steps being
considered to curb the flow of funds include reviving a bond tax
on overseas investors and strengthening rules covering currency
derivatives at foreign banks, Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun
said at a parliamentary session in Seoul today.  Shares of Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s biggest mining company,
declined for a fifth day, falling 0.7 percent. Copper retreated
1 percent and nickel declined 2 percent in London trading.
Russia’s benchmark Micex Index slipped 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  