-- Theodore W. Kheel, Labor Mediator, Arbitrator in New York, Dies at Age 96
-- B y   M a r k   S c h o i f e t
-- 2010-11-15T14:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/theodore-w-kheel-labor-mediator-arbitrator-in-new-york-dies-at-age-96.html
Theodore Kheel, a New York labor
mediator who helped resolve more than 30,000 disputes, including
an East Coast longshoremen’s strike in 1962 and the city’s 114-
day newspaper union walkout the next year, has died. He was 96.  Kheel died on Nov. 12, the New York Times reported. His
death was confirmed yesterday by Edward Nebb, a family
spokesman, the Times said.  Kheel also mediated an end to a national railroad strike in
1964 and helped avert another one in 1967, according to the
Cornell University  Industrial and Labor Relations School . He
served as adviser to every mayor from William O’Dwyer (1946-
1950) to  Abraham Beame  (1974-1977), as well as Presidents  John F. Kennedy ,  Lyndon Johnson  and  Gerald Ford .  Known as a voice of reason amid a cacophony of opposing
views, Kheel protected management rights while demanding
fairness for workers. He would ask both sides to tell him, in
front of their opponents, exactly what they wanted so he could
identify the key issues. BusinessWeek, now Bloomberg
Businessweek, called him “the master locksmith of deadlock
bargaining.”  “The mediator is a friend of enemies,” Kheel told the New
York Times in 2004, when he was 90. “Your goal is agreement.
It’s a form of enlightenment, really, a religious ethic.”  He sometimes practiced psychology to reach an accord. Even
when talks dragged on as deadlines loomed, Kheel would leave the
negotiating table and have dinner at some well-known New York
restaurant.  World Trade Center  Kheel spent more than 50 years advocating the use of mass
transit instead of automobiles. In 1957, decades before anyone
had heard of global warming, he wrote a 17-page report on why
mass transportation should be subsidized and not financed by
passenger fares. Eight years later he proposed doubling the 50-
cent toll on New York bridges and tunnels, drawing the ire of
the city’s planning czar,  Robert Moses .  In 2007, he called for congestion pricing on motor vehicles
entering the busiest streets, a plan used in London and proposed
by New York’s Mayor Michael Bloomberg.  For Kheel, the Port Authority of New and New Jersey, a bi-
state agency, was public enemy No. 1. Attempting to force the
authority to address the city’s traffic problems by subsidizing
mass transit, he attacked its policies in newspapers, testified
at state hearings and met with the governors of both states.  Punta Cana  In a 1969 article in New York magazine titled “How the
Port Authority Is Strangling New York,” Kheel argued against
the agency’s planned development of the Twin Towers.  “The World Trade Center is a striking example of socialism
at its worst -- a state agency needlessly and inefficiently
intervening in a market already well served by private
capital,” he wrote.  Aside from Robert Moses, Kheel didn’t get along with New
York Mayor  Edward Koch , who ended the lawyer’s 33-year run as
the city’s chief arbiter of labor disputes in 1982.  Kheel embodied the rare combination of environmentalist and
real estate developer. He co-developed the  Punta Cana  Resort and
Club in the Dominican Republic in 1971, helping create a 1,500-
acre ecological reserve. In 1999 he worked with Cornell, his
alma mater, to establish the Punta Cana Center of Sustainability
and Biodiversity. It conducts research, offers educational
programs on environmental issues and is affiliated with more
than 10 universities.  “I want development and I want to protect the
environment,” Kheel said. “I want them both.”  Labor Peacemaker  Theodore Woodrow Kheel , who was known as Ted, was born on
May 9, 1914, in Brooklyn and raised in Manhattan. Awarded a
scholarship to Cornell, he studied under an accelerated program
that let him earn his bachelor’s and law degrees in six years.  While an undergraduate, he met his future wife, Ann
Sunstein. They married the day after he took his bar exam in
1937, and remained together until her death in 2003. They had
five daughters, a son, 11 grandchildren and six great-
grandchildren.  Kheel initially went into private law practice, and then
took a position with the  National Labor Relations Board  in
Washington. During World War II he worked at the National War
Labor Board. Hired as principal mediation officer, he had risen
to executive director by 1944, overseeing 2,500 staff members
handling 150 disputes a week.  After the war, Kheel returned to New York and was recruited
by O’Dwyer to serve in the city’s new Labor Relations Division.
The mayor allowed Kheel to continue his private law practice.  Conflict Resolution  In 1949, Kheel was appointed to a part-time position as the
impartial chairman of a section of the city’s public transit
agency. The committee rendered 30,000 labor decisions through
1982. He also became a partner in the law firm Battle, Fowler,
Jaffin and Kheel.  Kheel, who was white, became involved in issues facing
African-Americans. He was president of the New York Urban League
in 1955 and headed its  national organization  for four years. He
also served as a peacemaker in a racially charged Brooklyn
teachers’ union dispute in 1968.  Kheel was a driving force in forming several groups whose
aim is solving disputes, including the Institute for Mediation
and Conflict Resolution. The  Earth Pledge Foundation  came about
after he attended the United Nations Conference on Environment
and Development (the Earth Summit) in Rio de Janeiro in 1992.  In 1994, in conjunction with Price, Waterhouse, Kheel
formed the Foundation for Prevention and Early Resolution of
Conflicts Inc., or PERC. Two years later, Cornell announced the
formation of the Cornell/PERC Institute at the university’s
Industrial and Labor Relations School. The school houses the
 Kheel Center  for Labor-Management Documentation and Archives.  ‘The Gates’  Kheel published  “The Keys to Conflict Resolution”  in 1999
and represented the artists Christo and Jean-Claude in their
legal battle with the city to erect  “The Gates”  installation
in Central Park in 2005.  From that collaboration, he donated $1 million to found a
non-profit organization called Nurture New York’s Nature. Under
the symbol of an orange gate, the foundation funds environmental
projects, such as studying the possibility of a free mass
transit system.  “In my dream, all who use mass transit, whether it be the
commuter rails, the subways or the buses, would be able to do so
for free,” Kheel said in February 2007, 50 years after he first
raised the issue. “If this is a dream, it is not one beyond
reach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Schoifet  in New York at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 