-- Herbal Supplements May Pose Risk for People on Clotting Drugs
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-11-15T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/herbal-supplements-may-pose-risk-for-people-on-clotting-drugs-study-says.html
Patients on anti-clotting drugs who
take  herbal  and  dietary supplements  may be putting themselves at
risk without their doctors’ knowledge, researchers said.  More than two-thirds of 100 patients surveyed said they
used over-the-counter products such as multivitamins,
glucosamine and fish oil while taking the anti-clotting drug
warfarin, also sold as Coumadin by New York-based  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. , according to a study presented today. Sixty-three
percent didn’t talk to their doctor or pharmacist before
starting the supplements, said researchers releasing the results
at the American Heart Association’s  annual meeting  in Chicago.  Previous studies have found that herbal and dietary
supplements can change the effectiveness of anti-clotting
medicines, increasing the risk of strokes or bleeding, study
author Jennifer Strohecker said. Today’s findings show that
doctors and patients need to communicate about the use of
supplements to prevent dangerous interactions, she said.  “One of the biggest issues is that people do not view
supplements as drugs,” said Strohecker, a clinical pharmacist
at  Intermountain Healthcare  in Salt Lake City, in a Nov. 9
telephone interview. Patients don’t think to tell their doctors
they are taking supplements when the doctor asks if they’re
using any new medications, she said.  U.S. sales of anticoagulants including warfarin were $276.6
million in 2009, according to  IMS Health , a Norwalk,
Connecticut-based research firm. Sales this year reached $134.7
million through June, according to IMS.  Regular Monitoring  Warfarin, developed as a rat poison, has been a standard
anti-clotting treatment since it was approved in 1954. The drug
requires regular blood tests to ensure a safe, effective dose.
Strohecker said warfarin is responsible for the most emergency
room visits by older patients due to drug-related complications.  Dietary supplements include minerals, vitamins and herbs
used in a quest for greater health, according to the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration . Among the most  popular products  are
Echinacea, garlic,  ginkgo biloba , ginseng and St. John’s wort,
according to the American Academy of Family Physicians.  Health supplements are sold over the counter in retail
stores and aren’t regulated as drugs.  A study presented in May at the annual meeting of the Heart
Rhythm Society in Denver, Colorado, found that people taking
warfarin may have a higher risk of excessive bleeding or blood
clots when using supplements containing gingko, garlic and fish
oil. The researchers, including Strohecker, found that cranberry
and glucosamine, for example, make the medication more potent,
while ginseng and green tea extract make it too weak and
ineffective at preventing clots in blood vessels.  Survey Results  In today’s study, 100 patients taking warfarin were
surveyed. One-third of those taking the medicine said doctors
asked about herbal supplement use, and 92 percent said they
would tell their physicians if asked. Almost half said they
didn’t consider the supplements to be drugs.  The most common health aids taken by those in the study
were multivitamins and high-dose vitamins, glucosamine and
chondroitin for the joints, and fish oil and  coenzyme Q10  for
the heart, Strohecker said.  Consumer education and improved doctor-patient
communication are needed to reduce risk, she said, as well as
statements on supplements warning they may interact with certain
medicines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  