-- Merkel Tells Her Party Europe Can't Afford to Let the Euro Fail Over Debt
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-11-15T17:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/merkel-defends-debt-crisis-mechanism-prepares-cdu-for-trials-to-come-.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
the euro is the glue that holds Europe together, signaling that
an Irish bailout may be the price of preserving European unity.  Merkel is “trying to send a clear message that Germany is
pro-European, that they are ready to help out Ireland, Portugal
and other countries if necessary and they will not put the euro
at risk,”  Henrik Enderlein , a political economist at the Hertie
School of Governance in Berlin, said by phone. She “wants the
Irish to take the bailout now to make it clear to everyone that
the situation is safe, that markets should calm down.”  Merkel elevated the euro to a matter of life and death for
European unity as the European Union statistics office said the
euro area’s budget deficit swelled to more than double EU limits
last year, led by Greece and Ireland. Merkel, without mentioning
Ireland, said that Germany’s task is to “anchor a new stability
culture in Europe” to prevent a repeat of the debt crisis.  “If the euro fails, then Europe fails,” Merkel said today
in a speech to a convention of her Christian Democratic Union
party in Karlsruhe, southwestern Germany. The 16-nation euro-
area’s collapse would signal the end of Europe’s “uniting
idea” that gave the continent peace and prosperity after World
War II, she said.  The chancellor’s reminder of the euro’s importance may be a
signal that an Irish bailout would not be a disaster for Europe,
said  Gerd Langguth , a professor of political science at the
University of Bonn and a Merkel biographer.  ‘Trials to Come’  “She’s preparing her party for the trials and tribulations
to come and saying let’s get on with it,” Langguth said in an
interview in Karlsruhe. “If Ireland needs financial help, then
so be it. That doesn’t spell the end of the long march for
European integration.”  Merkel spoke as euro-area finance ministers prepare to meet
in Brussels tomorrow amid growing pressure on Ireland to tap the
euro-area bailout fund to calm markets. As well as Ireland,
ministers are due to discuss a permanent crisis-resolution
mechanism being drawn up by mid-December to replace the rescue
fund after its mandate runs out in 2013.  Changes to EU treaties to stem a euro crisis, dismissed by
some as a “utopian” idea, can and must be made to backstop the
single currency, Merkel said, defending her call to make
investors pay for future debt crises. It was market “excesses”
that caused the crisis, and “markets have to bear the
consequences of their actions.”  Debt Mechanism Agreement  Merkel’s coalition has “agreed a set of mechanism
proposals that include private investors as a core element,
involving if necessary taking a haircut,” or loss on their
investment,  Leo Dautzenberg , finance spokesman for Merkel’s CDU,
said in an interview in Karlsruhe. “Wall Street investors have
also got to shoulder their liabilities. We can’t push everything
on to taxpayers.”  Merkel has publicly clashed with European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  over the permanent mechanism, with
Trichet saying that requiring investors to take losses in a
sovereign rescue would undermine confidence.  Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  said
Nov. 12 that Spain opposes Merkel’s plan so “it won’t be easy”
for her to win agreement for the proposal. Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said Nov. 8 that such a move “could
potentially drive investors from the euro zone, especially from
the peripheral countries.”  Merkel’s insistence on making bondholders pay was presented
in a “confusing” way that “no one was able to digest” and
had a “very negative effect on markets,” said Enderlein.
“They got it wrong and they’re trying to fix it.”  Merkel’s message to delegates in Karlsruhe “was cryptic, a
massive hint,” said  Kurt Lauk , who heads a business lobby
within the CDU.  “What was clear to all is that Germany backs the euro and
is ready to help with further rescue measures,” Lauk said in an
interview. “The implicit part of her message was that the
troubles are far from over, more is on the way and we’d better
get ready for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Karlsruhe, Germany at  tczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Karlsruhe, Germany at  bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at  jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 