-- Mindich's Eton Park Sold Goldman Sachs Stake Last Quarter, Bought Potash
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-11-15T22:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/eton-park-sold-2-million-shares-in-goldman-sachs-last-quarter.html
Eric Mindich ’s Eton Park Capital
Management LP and  John Paulson ’s hedge fund sold their stakes in
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. during the third quarter.  Eton Park previously held 2 million shares of New York-
based  Goldman Sachs , according to a filing today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Paulson & Co. sold 1.1
million shares of the bank, a separate filing shows.  Mindich, 43, is a former Goldman Sachs partner who began
New York-based Eton Park in 2004 with $3.5 billion, one of the
biggest startups in the hedge-fund industry. Paulson, who
oversees New York’s Paulson & Co., became a billionaire by
betting against the U.S. mortgage markets during the credit
crisis that started with the subprime collapse.  Eton Park held onto its 15 million shares in Morgan
Stanley, 21.1 million shares of  Bank of America Corp.  and 60.5
million shares of Citigroup Inc. according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Eton Park bought 7.75 million shares of Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. valued at $1.12 billion, the filing shows. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, in August
made a $130-a-share hostile takeover offer for Saskatoon-based
 Potash , the biggest fertilizer company. The bid was rejected by
Potash as too low, and this month was blocked by the Canadian
government. Shares of Potash have jumped 22 percent since Aug.
16, the day before BHP’s unsolicited offer.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show their
U.S.-listed stocks, options and convertible bonds. The filings
don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  