-- Greece's Off-Market Swaps Added $7.2 Billion to Its Debt, Eurostat Reports
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-11-15T16:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/eurostat-says-off-market-swaps-added-eu5-3-billion-to-greek-debt.html
Greece hid 5.3 billion euros ($7.2
billion) of debt by using off-market swaps, the biggest of which
were with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according to Eurostat, the
European Union’s statistics office.  Greece entered into a “large” number of off-market swaps
from 2001 through 2007, the Luxembourg-based agency said in a
 statement  today. The swap agreements, which led to higher debt,
were analyzed “in detail,” Eurostat said. A spokesman said a
follow-up report on Greek data including swaps is due in “weeks
to come,” declining to elaborate on how the derivative data
were compiled.  Repeated revisions of Greece’s figures, beginning last
year, spurred a surge in borrowing costs that pushed the country
to the brink of default and triggered a region-wide debt crisis.
The use of off-market derivatives, which Greece hadn’t
previously reported as debt, helped push borrowings to 126.8
percent of gross domestic product in 2009, the highest in the
region, Eurostat said.  “I’m sure we haven’t seen the end of Greece’s issues,”
said  Bill Blain , a strategist at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP,
an investment bank in London. “The numbers are bad and there’s
still a lack of transparency. This isn’t something that’s solved
overnight.”  Eurostat, which first requested to see the swap contracts
in February, said today’s revisions give “an essentially
reliable picture” in line with its accounting rules.
“Methodological visits found no evidence of other significant
omissions,” according to the statement.  Upfront Payments  Off-market swaps allowed Greece to receive payments
upfront, a practice that Eurostat has said other countries
including Italy, Germany, Poland and Belgium also used in the
past. The difference was that when Eurostat asked the other
countries about the contracts in 2008, they provided the data
and adjusted their debt figures, the agency has said.  The Goldman Sachs swaps reduced the country’s foreign-
denominated debt in euro terms by 2.37 billion euros in 2001 and
lowered debt as a proportion of GDP to 103.7 percent from 105.3
percent, according to a Feb. 21  statement  by the New York-based
firm.  “The point remains that if a sample was used in the case
of Greece’s swaps, this might not be the final figure,” said
 Gustavo Piga , author of “Derivatives and Public Debt
Management,” and a professor at Tor Vergata University in Rome.
“They need to bring out everything now. What is important is
full transparency.”  Premium Little Changed  The yield premium investors demand to hold 10-year Greek
bonds over similar-maturity German bunds was little changed
today at 887 basis points, down from a high of 973.1 in May,
when the country received a 110 billion-euro EU-led rescue.  Last month, the European Central Bank refused to disclose
internal documents showing how Greece used derivatives to hide
its government debt because of the “acute” risk of roiling
markets, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said.  The ECB turned down a request and an appeal by Bloomberg
News to release two documents officials drafted for the bank’s
executive board in Frankfurt this year. The notes outline how
Greece used the swaps to hide its borrowings.  Officials for the ECB didn’t have an immediate comment.  Greece’s proper recording of government swaps contributed
to the revisions released today, said  Andreas Georgiou ,
president of the Hellenic Statistical Authority, said today in
an interview in Athens.  Between mid-October and mid-November Eurostat and Greece
verified the quality of the primary data sources, a process that
was “instrumental in assuring us and Eurostat that we have
fundamentally gotten the numbers right,” Georgiou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 