-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Farm Economy Heads for Record High on Demand
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-11-15T06:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/europe-commodity-day-ahead-farm-economy-heads-for-record-high-on-demand.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE EVENTS:  
Metal Prices: ($/ton)  Last   %Chg
Aluminum        2,374   -1.3
Copper          8,494   -1.4
Lead            2,420   -4.0
Zinc            2,290   -4.3
Nickel         22,450   -1.0
Tin            25,700   -1.7  Other Markets:  Last   %Chg      %YTD
 U.S. Dollar Index      78.244  +0.2      +0.5
Crude Oil            $84.75   -0.2      +6.8
Gold               1,364.70   -0.3      +20
 MSCI World Index    1,234.83   -0.1      +5.1 *T  TOP STORY:  Farm Economy Heading for Record Driving Surge in U.S. Cropland  The best second-half for commodities in a generation is
pushing U.S. farm incomes and agricultural land prices toward
record highs.  EXCLUSIVES:  China Needs to Import 20 Million Bales of Cotton, Olam CEO Says  China, the biggest cotton importer, may buy 20 million
bales this year to meet rising demand, sustaining price gains,
Olam International Ltd. said. The amount would be a record.  Vale Targeting Full Nickel Production at Goro Mine by 2013  Vale SA, the world’s second-largest nickel producer, will
reach full production at its Goro nickel project in 2013, as it
ramps up to capacity after cost overruns and delays.  Thai Sugar Exports May Drop as Local Demand Gains, Prasert Says  Sugar exports from Thailand, the second-largest shipper,
may fall 5 percent in 2011 as local buyers are allotted a higher
share of output, the Office of the Cane and Sugar Board said.  Codelco Plans to Raise Japan Copper Surcharge by 31% in 2011  Codelco, the world’s biggest copper producer, will increase
the surcharge on cathode sales to Japan next year by 31 percent,
the second straight annual gain, said three industry officials
familiar with the matter.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines on Concerns China May Tighten Monetary Policy  Copper in London declined amid growing concerns that China,
the largest user, may take more measures to cool its economy.
Futures in New York and Shanghai swung between gains and losses
as some investors expect supply to lag behind demand.  China Lead Demand Growth May Slow to 11% on Lower Auto Sales  China’s lead consumption is expected to grow at 11 percent
in 2010, down from 16.5 percent last year, as demand from auto
production and telecommunications slows, according to Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co.  Nickel Outlook Strong on Demand, Projects Risky, Macquarie Says  The outlook for the nickel market is “strong” on the back
of growing stainless steel consumption, currently limited supply
and the risk attached to new projects, Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  Rusal Aluminum Sale Price to Rise in 4th Quarter, Deripaska Says  United Co. Rusal , the largest aluminum company, estimates
its aluminum price in the fourth quarter will rise on greater
demand from Asia, Chief Executive Officer Oleg Deripaska said.  MINING:  China to Speed Up Exports of Rare-Earth Metals, Japan Says  China, the world’s largest producer of rare-earth metals,
will speed up exports of the minerals after delays disrupted
supply, according to Japan’s Trade Minister Akihiro Ohata.  BHP Resumes Buyback After Scrapping $40 Billion Potash Bid  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
resumed a share buyback after abandoning its hostile $40 billion
takeover offer for Canada’s Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. in
the face of government opposition.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Spot Gold Falls as Much as 0.4%, Reversing Earlier Gains  Gold for immediate delivery dropped as much as 0.4 percent
to $1,363.50 an ounce, reversing earlier gains.  India Gold Imports Rise 65% in October, Financial Express Says  India’s gold imports rose 65 percent in October to 43
metric tons from 26 tons a year earlier driven by festival
demand even as prices rose, the Financial Express said, citing
data from the Bombay Bullion Association.  AGRICULTURE:  Argentina in Talks Over Corn Exports to China, Ministry Says  Argentina, the world’s second-largest corn exporter, is in
talks with China on a so-called sanitary protocol that would
allow it to export the grain to the Asian nation, according to
the Ministry of Agriculture.  Rubber Declines for Second Day Amid Concern China to Hike Rates  Rubber in Tokyo tumbled for a second day after climbing to
a record last week on concern that China, the largest user, may
increase borrowing costs to curb inflation, reducing demand for
the commodity used to make tires and gloves.  Rice Harvest in Philippines to Trail Demand by 3.2 Million Tons  Rough-rice production in the Philippines, the world’s
biggest buyer, will trail demand by 3.2 million metric tons next
year, a government official said.  Palm Oil Drops for a Second Day, Tracking Losses in Soybean Oil  Palm oil dropped for a second day, tracking losses in rival
soybean oil, on speculation China may increase borrowing costs,
likely cooling demand for commodities.  ECONOMIES:  Ireland in Talks With EU Officials as Merkel Pushes for Bailout  Ireland is in talks with European officials about “market
conditions” as Germany pushes it to accept a bailout and help
reverse a bond sell-off across the euro-region’s periphery.  China to Exceed U.S. by 2020, Standard Chartered Says  China will overtake the U.S. to become the world’s largest
economy by 2020, helped by faster expansion and an appreciation
of its currency, according to Standard Chartered Plc.  China’s 4 Big Banks to Halt Property Loans, Newspaper Reports  China’s four biggest state banks will not issue any new
loans to property developers for the remainder of the year, the
state-run China Real Estate Business reported, citing
unidentified executives at the banks.  OTHER MARKETS:  Yuan Bets Reined In After ‘Masterful Job’ at G-20: China Credit  Investors are paring bets on yuan gains after China
deflected U.S. criticism of its currency policy at a Group of 20
summit, saying money-printing by the Federal Reserve may
destabilize the global financial system.  Oil Trades Near $85, Paring Earlier Gains, as Dollar Rebounds  Oil traded near $85 a barrel as a rebound in the dollar
tempered earlier gains driven by speculation Asia’s recovery
will stoke fuel demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  