-- European Stocks Climb Amid Increase in Takeover Activity; MAN, Axa Advance
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-15T17:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/european-stock-futures-drop-on-concern-ireland-may-struggle-to-tackle-debt.html
European stocks  climbed for the
first time in four days as increasing takeover activity and
faster-than-projected growth in U.S. retail sales boosted
optimism in the economic recovery.  MAN SE rallied 6.2 percent after Scania AB said it’s
considering merging with the German truckmaker. Axa SA advanced
2.3 percent as the insurer made a joint bid with AMP Ltd. for
Axa Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd. Invensys Plc jumped the most in
18 months after a report the producer of control panels for
washing machines may be bought by China’s CSR Corp.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.8 percent to
272.36 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, rebounding from the
biggest weekly drop in six weeks. The gauge had earlier swung
between gains and losses at least nine times as investors
awaited more information on whether Ireland will seek assistance
to deal with its debt burden.  “We expect equities to trade strongly, potentially very
strongly, through 2011,”  Ian Richards  and  Graham Bishop ,
strategists at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, wrote
in a report today. “The economic rehabilitation of advanced
economies looks set to continue, albeit slowly, while the
developing economies should again provide the growth engine,
albeit with rising inflation pressures.”  Irish Aid Speculation  Irish 10-year bonds rose, driving the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt instead of German bunds to the lowest
level in a week, on signs the government is getting closer to
accepting aid to resolve its fiscal crisis.  Germany is pressing Ireland to seek aid before tomorrow’s
meeting of European finance ministers to calm market volatility
and win agreement on making investors help pay for future
bailouts, according to a German government official who declined
to be identified because the talks are private. Irish Enterprise
Minister  Batt O’Keeffe  said a bailout has not been discussed and
rejected the assertion that there is a “crisis.”  “European sovereign debt issues remain unresolved,” wrote
RBS’s Richards and Bishop. “Yet the market has started to
properly differentiate between liquidity and solvency, and
medium-term solvency drags are unlikely to have a sustainable
influence on global equity performance next year.”  National benchmark indexes gained in all 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  increased 0.4 percent,
while France’s CAC 40 added 0.9 percent. Germany’s DAX and
Ireland’s ISEQ rose 0.8 percent.  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., a report showed  retail sales  climbed in
October by the most in seven months. Purchases rose 1.2 percent,
exceeding the highest forecast among economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, after a 0.7 percent September increase that was
larger than previously estimated, according to Commerce
Department figures.  MAN surged 6.2 percent to 87.55 euros after Scania, the
Swedish truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen AG, said it’s
considering merging with MAN to create Europe’s largest maker of
commercial vehicles. Scania rose 1.4 percent to 148 kronor,
while Volkswagen advanced 2.3 percent to 116.60 euros.  Axa  SA gained 2.3 percent to 13.54 euros after France’s
biggest insurer and Australian asset manager AMP bid at least
A$13.3 billion ($13.1 billion) for Axa Asia Pacific in
Australia’s largest financial services takeover in two years.  Invensys jumped 9.1 percent to 347.9 pence, the biggest
increase since May 2009. The Daily Telegraph said the company
may be bought by Chinese railcar maker CSR, citing an interview
with Invensys Chief Executive Officer  Ulf Henriksson .  Invensys Report  Henriksson believes CSR “has the possibility of acquiring
Invensys,” though he would prefer the Chinese company to take a
minority stake, the newspaper said. Invensys said in a statement
it has not received an approach nor held discussions regarding a
possible offer for the company or about a partner taking a
minority stake.  Premier Oil Plc  advanced 3.5 percent to 1,860 pence after
the Observer newspaper reported Korea National Oil Corp. may
make a bid for U.K. oil producer. A spokesman for the London-
based company said it hasn’t received an approach from KNOC.  Remy Cointreau SA climbed 1.6 percent to 53 euros after the
maker of Remy Martin cognac said it hired Credit Agricole-CIB to
find a buyer for its unprofitable champagne division.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
gained 1.8 percent to 2,406 pence after resuming a share buyback
program and abandoning its bid for Canada’s Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. in the face of government opposition.  Securitas AB, the world’s second-largest security services
company, soared 5.1 percent to 76.9 kronor, the biggest gain
since April last year, after profit beat analysts’ estimates.  Lonmin Plc  increased 4 percent to 1,838 pence after the
world’s third-largest platinum producer also reported full-year
earnings that beat estimates and reinstated its dividend.  Bayer AG gained 3.9 percent to 56.13 euros as its blood
thinner Xarelto prevented strokes in patients with an erratic
heartbeat better than standard therapy with warfarin in a study,
without raising the risk of bleeding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 