-- European Exports Increase for Second Month in Face of Strengthening Euro
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/european-exports-increase-for-second-month-in-face-of-strengthening-euro.html
European exports increased for a
second month in September, indicating euro-region companies
withstood the impact of a strengthening single currency on their
foreign sales.  Exports from the economy of the 16 nations that use the
euro rose a seasonally adjusted 0.6 percent from August, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
Imports fell 2.5 percent and there was a  trade surplus  of 2.4
billion euros ($3.3 billion) after a trade gap of 1.7 billion
euros the previous month.  Exporters may struggle to maintain sales growth as a
strengthening euro makes European goods more expensive, just as
austerity measures to rein in  budget deficits  undermine growth
at home. The currency has risen about 14 percent from a four-
year low in June and French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde 
said last week that the appreciation is hurting French
companies.  “With volatile currencies, it’s the euro that has been
appreciating; it’s the euro that’s expensive,” Lagarde said on
Nov. 10. “It means that French companies are in a difficult
situation. It means the French economy faces difficulty.”  The euro  rose 2.3 percent last month after a 7.5 percent
surge in September, its biggest monthly jump since December
2008. The currency was at $1.3638 shortly before the data were
published, compared with $1.3691 on Nov. 12.  Largest Market  Euro-area exports to the U.S. rose 16 percent in the eight
months through August from the same period a year earlier,
today’s report showed. Shipments to the U.K., the euro area’s
largest market, increased 11 percent, while sales to China
surged 40 percent. Detailed data are published with a one-month
lag.  Euro-area  economic growth  slowed to 0.4 percent in the
third quarter from 1 percent in the previous three months, the
statistics office said on Nov. 12. The European Central Bank
said a day earlier that recent economic data “are consistent
with our assessment that the underlying momentum of the recovery
remains positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  