-- Exxon Says Armed Attackers Boarded Offshore Platform in Nigeria Yesterday
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-11-15T17:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/exxon-says-offshore-platform-in-nigeria-attacked-yesterday.html
Exxon Mobil Corp .’s Nigerian unit
said armed attackers boarded one of its offshore platforms on
the country’s southeast coast yesterday amid increasing violence
in the oil-rich region.  Exxon didn’t say whether anyone had been hurt or what
damage had been done. “Relevant government and security
agencies have been informed and appropriate response measures
are under way,” the company said in an e-mailed statement
today. Nigerian oil workers’ union, Pengassan, said eight of its
members, who are employed by Exxon, were abducted from the
company’s Oso gas and condensate platform yesterday.  At the time of the attack there were 74 people aboard the
platform, Pengassan said in an e-mailed statement today. “We
have not been able to establish contact with the abductors,” it
said in the statement. “Pengassan calls on the government to
ensure they are found and released immediately.”  The southern Niger River delta, home to Nigeria’s oil and
gas industry, has seen a new surge of violence since a
government amnesty in 2009 led to the disarming of thousands of
fighters and a period of relative quiet. Seven foreign workers
were abducted in an attack on Afren Plc’s offshore Okoro field
on Nov. 7, about a week after an Eni SpA pipeline was sabotaged
in a separate attack.  Exxon Mobil holds a 40 percent stake in a venture it
operates for majority partner, state-owned Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp. The venture produces 720,000 barrels a day of
crude, condensate and natural gas liquids from 90 offshore
platforms in the country, according to its  website .  Armed Groups  Attacks by armed groups in the delta region cut Nigeria’s
oil production by more than 28 percent from 2006 to 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Though the violence declined following last year’s amnesty,
the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, the main
militant group in the region, refused to disarm, saying its
demands for local control of oil revenue weren’t met. MEND
claimed responsibility for the attack on Afren.  Another armed group, which identified itself as the Niger
Delta Liberation Force under the leadership of General John
Togo, said in an e-mailed statement to reporters yesterday it
was “no longer part of the fraudulent amnesty” and will target
oil installations in fresh attacks.  “This time, we will operate on both land and sea,” the
group said. “Oil installations are our target.”  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
Largest source of U.S. oil imports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Lagos at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net 
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  