-- Facebook Adds E-Mail, Stepping Up Rivalry With Google
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-11-16T19:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/facebook-introduces-e-mail-service-for-users-of-its-social-networking-site.html
(Corrects Garlinghouse’s title in last paragraph in story
that ran Nov. 15.)  Facebook Inc.  introduced an e-mail
service for users of its social-networking site, stepping up
competition with Google Inc., Yahoo! Inc. and Microsoft Corp.  Facebook is giving all users an “@facebook.com” e-mail
address,  Mark Zuckerberg , the company’s chief executive officer,
said today at an event in San Francisco. The new service will
include text messaging and instant messaging as well as
traditional e-mail.  By adding e-mail, Palo Alto, California-based Facebook
provides an alternative to Google’s Gmail, the fastest-growing
Web mail service in the past year. It also steps up pressure on
 Microsoft  and Yahoo, which are vying for the attention of Web
users, who rely more on social sites for information and staying
in touch with friends.  “This is not an e-mail killer,” Zuckerberg said. “Maybe
we can help push the way people do messaging more towards this
simple, real time, immediate, personal experience.”  Gmail had 193.3 million global users in September, an
increase of 21 percent from a year earlier, according to Reston,
Virginia-based data tracker  ComScore Inc.  Gmail still trails
Microsoft’s Windows Live Hotmail’s 361.7 million users and
Yahoo’s 273.1 million. Both of those services saw declines in
visitors in September from the year-ago period.  Tailoring Messages  With Facebook’s new product, users can send messages to
their friends that will appear as mobile-phone text messages, e-
mails or instant messages, based on the preferences they set for
each friend. Before, users would get alerts in their outside e-
mail when friends posted a photo or commented on their Facebook
wall.  Facebook users can now attach Microsoft Office documents to
their messages on the social network, Microsoft said in a blog
post today.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
may be able to filter out spam messages better than other Web
mail rivals by using friend data,  Danny Sullivan  who runs the
website Search Engine Land, said in an interview.  “The idea of a white list of people that are just friends
with you -- that sounds great,” said Sullivan. “That may put
pressure on Google” to improve its system for ranking messages
that are important to users.  Google Outage  Gmail experienced an outage today around the time of the
Facebook announcement. The disruption was resolved in about 10
minutes, Google spokeswoman Victoria Katsarou said in an e-mail.  Yahoo  took steps last month to make its service more
appealing to Web users enamored of social networks. It
introduced a version of e-mail that integrates posts from
microblogging site  Twitter Inc.  and delivers information at
faster speeds. The service, still in a test phase, also improves
searches, spam protection and the viewing of photos.  AOL Inc. , the one-time market leader in e-mail, previewed
changes to its Web mail yesterday. The new features let users
see images, maps and other attachments contained in a message in
a panel on the side of the screen. AOL was fifth in Web e-mail
in September with 30.7 million users, a drop of 18 percent from
a year earlier.  “E-mail remains one of the killer apps on the Internet,”
said  Brad Garlinghouse , executive vice president at AOL, who ran
Yahoo’s e-mail until going to AOL last year. “We are
recognizing we’re not just in the e-mail business, we’re in the
communication business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas Macmillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 