-- Facebook Passes EBay in Value, Becoming No. 3 U.S. Web Company
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/facebook-passes-ebay-in-value-becoming-no-3-u-s-web-company.html
Facebook Inc.’s estimated worth is
now bigger than  EBay Inc. ’s valuation, making it the third-
largest U.S. Internet business and underscoring the growing
allure of social media for investors.  Facebook’s stock is trading at more than $16 on
 SecondMarket Inc. , an exchange for shares of privately held
companies, said a person familiar with the latest pricing data.
That would put its worth at about $41 billion, more than EBay’s
$39.3 billion valuation on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Facebook
only trails  Amazon.com Inc. , worth $74.4 billion, and  Google
Inc. , valued at $192.9 billion, among U.S. Internet companies.  “There is certainly good cause for Facebook to have a
tremendous valuation,” said  Augie Ray , an analyst at Forrester
Research Inc. in San Francisco. “It has in fairly short order
-- just a couple of years -- gone from being a very niche site
to one where the majority of Americans spend a great deal of
their online time.”  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking site,
previously vaulted past other Internet pioneers, such as Web
portal  Yahoo! Inc.  and travel site  Expedia Inc.  By providing a
platform for people to share everything from baby photos to what
they had for lunch, Facebook has attracted more than 500 million
users and a horde of advertisers hoping to reach them. It’s also
a way for people to stay in touch with friends and form new
connections.  IPO Signals?  The valuation doesn’t indicate what Facebook will be worth
in an initial public offering, which could be years away, said
 Lise Buyer , founder of Class V Group, an IPO consulting firm in
Portola Valley, California.  “It could be a bargain at $41 billion -- we won’t know
until it trades on the public markets,” she said.  The value of Facebook on New York-based SecondMarket has
more than tripled in the past year, according to the person, who
declined to be identified because SecondMarket doesn’t publicly
release trading data.  SharesPost Inc. , another private exchange,
estimated Facebook was worth $40.9 billion last week. That’s up
almost 50 percent in the past month, according to the Santa
Monica, California-based company.  Valuations of closely held companies are less precise than
those of their public counterparts because trading is limited to
a smaller pool of investors and fewer shares are available.
Facebook also doesn’t disclose financial information.  ‘Fundamentally Speculative’  “We understand there is a great deal of interest and
curiosity in our past and potential financial performance,”
said  Jonathan Thaw , a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook. “However, external attempts to forecast revenue or
value the company are fundamentally speculative and should be
treated as such. We’re focused on building our business to be
successful over the long term.”  The company expects sales of at least $1.4 billion in 2010,
up from about $800 million last year, two people familiar with
the matter said earlier this year. Facebook may not have an
initial public offering until 2012 or later, giving it time to
focus on growth, the people said.  EBay, while still expanding, depends on its online
marketplace -- a more mature area than the social-networking
industry, said  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in
San Francisco. Analysts estimate that EBay’s revenue will grow 5
percent this year to $9.14 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Alan Marks , a spokesman for San Jose, California-based
EBay, declined to comment.  Advertiser Growth  Facebook makes money from ads and a credits program, which
lets people buy virtual items in online games. The company has
attracted such advertisers as  Coca-Cola Co. , JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Adidas AG. It also has maintained ad prices, even as its
user growth creates a surge of space for commercial messages,
Facebook said in August.  “As an advertising platform, Facebook has been proven,”
said  Mark Mahaney , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in San
Francisco.  Facebook’s users have increased by more than two-thirds
since September 2009, when it had 300 million members. In March,
the company surpassed Google as the most visited Web site in the
U.S., according to research firm Hitwise.  At  AdParlor Inc. , which helps companies advertise on
Facebook, some customers are spending $20,000 a day on the
social-networking site.  Facebook lets companies craft campaigns to reach specific
customers by age, location, hobbies and other attributes, making
it more appealing to marketers. They’re also eager to reach all
those millions of users, said Hussein Fazal, chief executive
officer of Toronto-based  AdParlor .  “It’s getting more attention,” Fazal said. “It’s the
sheer amount of volume on the site.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  