-- Fed Urged by Asness, Taylor, Holtz-Eakin to End Asset Buying
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-15T18:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/fed-urged-by-taylor-22-detractors-to-end-asset-buying-over-inflation-risk.html
A group including former Republican
government officials and economists urged Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to halt his expansion of monetary
stimulus, saying it risks an inflation surge.  “The planned asset purchases risk currency debasement and
inflation, and we do not think they will achieve the Fed’s
objective of promoting employment,” said the letter, signed by
23 people including  Cliff Asness , who runs AQR Capital
Management LLC, one of the world’s biggest hedge funds; Stanford
University Professor  John Taylor , creator of a monetary-policy
formula used by the Fed; and  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former
Congressional Budget Office director.  The letter increases pressure on Bernanke, whose Nov. 3
decision to buy $600 billion of Treasuries in a bid to reduce
unemployment has been criticized by Republican politicians and
officials in Germany, China and Brazil. Bernanke was defended
today by allies including Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  and Princeton University Professor  Alan Blinder .  “We disagree with the view that inflation needs to be
pushed higher, and worry that another round of asset purchases,
with interest rates still near zero over a year into the
recovery, will distort financial markets and greatly complicate
future Fed efforts to normalize monetary policy,” the letter
said.  The missive will be published in tomorrow’s editions of the
Wall Street Journal and New York Times, said Jennifer Pollom, a
spokeswoman for Economics 21, a Washington research group whose
logo is on the letterhead. Two signers,  Kevin Hassett  and  Amity Shlaes , are columnists for Bloomberg News.  ‘Bad Idea’  The letter is an effort to “stop a bad idea,” Columbia
University Professor  Charles Calomiris , a signer of the letter,
said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Fischer, who advised Bernanke on his dissertation at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1970s, said today
on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday with Tom Keene”
that the Fed is taking “a standard monetary policy action.”
Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman, said in a Wall Street
Journal opinion article that Fed critics are “the economic
equivalent of the Flat Earth Society.”  David Blanchflower , an economics professor at Dartmouth
College in Hanover, New Hampshire, and a former Bank of England
policy maker, said the criticism “shows very little
understanding of how monetary policy makers behave.”  “The Fed is the only show in town,” Blanchflower, a
Bloomberg News columnist, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.” The letter is “dangerous
politics, playing with an economy that is fragile,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  