-- Fed Nominee Diamond Takes on Alfalfa Bill After Getting a Boost From Nobel
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-15T16:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/fed-nominee-diamond-takes-on-alfalfa-bill-after-getting-a-boost-from-nobel.html
Nobel laureate  Peter Diamond  faced
Republican opposition in his first chance to be approved for a
seat on the Federal Reserve Board. Now he may run afoul of a
dead Democrat called Alfalfa Bill.  Diamond, whose nomination will come before the  Senate
Banking Committee  tomorrow for a second time, is a professor
from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was grilled
about his monetary-policy qualifications in July, before he won
the Nobel Prize in economics. This time he’s at risk of being
tripped up by a provision that no two board members may be from
the same Federal Reserve district.  President  Barack Obama , like some of his predecessors, has
interpreted that clause loosely. The White House says Diamond,
who was born in New York and lives in Massachusetts, is from the
Fed’s Chicago region because the Boston district is taken by
another governor. The designation hasn’t been publicized and
isn’t mentioned in Senate nomination papers.  “It’s tough not to confirm somebody who just won the Nobel
Prize,” said  Vincent Reinhart , a former Fed monetary-affairs
director who is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute in Washington. “But it’s the Senate. The Senate can
drag out anything.”  Geography’s role in Diamond’s Fed bid is the legacy of a
1913 proposal by William Henry David Murray, a representative
from Oklahoma whose nickname was Alfalfa Bill. Murray was known
for his advocacy of the pasture crop and for the motto,
“Civilization begins and ends with the plow.”  Made His Mark  Murray, who later became governor of Oklahoma and died in
1956, also made his mark in the debate over the creation of the
central bank and his desire that its overseers reflect America’s
economic diversity.  “This board, if selected east of Washington, would know
little and care less about the agricultural and other interests
in the Western and Southern states,” Murray said in a Sept. 16,
1913, speech on the House floor.  Republican and Democratic administrations alike have taken
liberties with the requirement that presidents nominate members
of the board, “not more than one of whom shall be selected from
any one Federal Reserve district.” Still, senators could invoke
the clause to block Diamond’s nomination, said  Mark Calabria , a
former aide to Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby .  Shelby, the senior Republican on the Banking Committee,
questioned Diamond’s qualifications in July. Even after Diamond
shared the Nobel on Oct. 11 with two other economists, Shelby
said in a statement that the Nobel committee “does not
determine who is qualified to serve” on the U.S. central bank.  Geographic Diversity  “The law requires geographic diversity among members of
the Board of Governors to ensure that no one region gains too
much influence,” Shelby said in a statement last week to
Bloomberg News. “We should follow the law.”  Diamond’s nomination papers sent to the Senate don’t
mention Chicago and instead say he’s “of Massachusetts,”
according to Republican aides who declined to be identified. He
can’t represent the Boston district, which is taken by Fed
Governor  Daniel Tarullo . Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  has San
Francisco and  Kevin Warsh  New York. The three each spent large
parts of their lives in their designated districts. There are 12
Fed districts in all.  Matt Vogel , a White House spokesman, said Diamond has
taught and lectured at Northwestern University in Evanston,
Illinois, received its Erwin Plein Nemmers Prize in Economics
and presented “numerous seminars” at Northwestern and the
University of Chicago.  “We believe that his addition to the Board of Governors in
Washington is in the national interest,” he said in an e-mail.  Red Sox Fan  Diamond’s MIT resume lists one Northwestern lecture and
says he’s been a professor at MIT since 1966. He’s an “avid”
fan of the Boston Red Sox baseball team, according to an MIT
press release from February, and threw the ceremonial first
pitch before a game at Fenway Park in April. Diamond didn’t
respond to a voice-mail message last week seeking comment.  The Fed addressed the requirement in an Oct. 28 letter to
Bloomberg News responding to a Freedom of Information Act
request. “The home district of each member of the Board is
determined by the President,” Robert Frierson, the Fed board’s
deputy secretary, said.  Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat, expects Diamond to be approved again by
the panel this week and by the full chamber “as quickly as
possible thereafter,” Sean Oblack, a Dodd spokesman, said in a
statement to Bloomberg News last week.  ‘Sufficient Basis’  “The White House concluded that his connections to the
Chicago area provided a sufficient basis for his designation as
a member of the Board from this district, and Chairman Dodd is
confident he will represent well the views of that district,”
Oblack said.  Calabria, now director of financial regulation studies at
the Cato Institute in Washington, said Diamond’s Chicago
connection is “flimsy,” though “that section of the law has
been ignored so many times in the past.”  Diamond, 70, was initially approved in committee for one of
seven Fed board seats on July 28, along with Yellen and  Sarah Bloom Raskin . The 16-7 vote for Diamond represented the slimmest
majority among the three candidates, with all of the opposition
coming from Republicans. The following week, at least one
unidentified member triggered a procedural rule that sent his
bid back to the White House. Obama renominated Diamond on Sept.
13.  Adding Diamond to the Fed may buttress Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s efforts to reduce unemployment after his Nov. 3
decision to buy an additional $600 billion in Treasuries ran
into criticism from Republican politicians and foreign
governments. Today, a group of 23 people including economists
and money managers issued an open letter urging Bernanke to halt
the program.  U.S. presidents have stretched Alfalfa Bill’s provision in
various ways to get their candidates onto the Fed board, and
senators have acquiesced.  Nixon’s Choice  In 1973,  Richard Nixon  designated Robert Holland, a senior
Fed staffer in Washington for 12 years, as from the Kansas City
District, where he was born and went to college. In 1997,  Bill Clinton  decided  Roger Ferguson  would be from Boston. Ferguson
grew up in Washington, attended Harvard University in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and worked in New York.  In 2002,  George W. Bush  placed Bernanke, then a Fed
governor, in the Atlanta district, where he was born, even
though he grew up in another Fed region, went to college in a
third and worked and lived in three others.  “The president has ignored the regional restriction for
many years,” said  Allan Meltzer , a Fed historian and professor
at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. “There is no
standard by which someone is said to be a resident. Since we
claim to be a government of laws, we should define residency or
repeal the restriction.”  Senator  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat who’s set to
succeed Dodd as head of the Banking Committee in January, said
“there is value in having a broad cross-section of
representatives on the Fed.”  Even so, “Peter Diamond is an enormously qualified
individual,” Johnson said in a statement to Bloomberg News.
“We’ll have to wait and see if objections will be raised or if
we can finally fill this spot and move on to other matters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  