-- FedEx, PG&E Seek Electric-Car Subsidy for Corporate Fleets
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-11-15T19:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/fedex-pg-e-seek-electric-car-credit-to-boost-u-s-fleet-to-200-000-by-15.html
Executives from companies including
 FedEx Corp .,  PG&E Corp.  and  Nissan Motor Co.  called for U.S. tax
credits to help increase the number of electric vehicles in
corporate and government fleets to 200,000 by 2015 from 1,000.  Expanding electric-vehicle use is “the single most
important initiative” available to reduce U.S. reliance on
foreign oil imports, FedEx Chief Executive Officer  Fred Smith 
said today at a news conference in Washington.  The Electrification Coalition, a Washington-based group of
21 company executives that formed a year ago to advocate for
electric vehicles, released a  report  requesting the tax credits
for corporations that make purchases for fleets, and to extend
assistance through 2018 for building charging stations.  Coalition members are promoting their agenda ahead of a new
Congress that will take office in January, with Republicans
replacing Democrats in control of the House.  General Electric
Co.  announced Nov. 11 that it plans to buy as many as 25,000
rechargeable cars, almost half from  General Motors Co.   “I would almost guarantee you we will be successful in the
next two years” in advancing the electric-vehicle agenda,
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said at
the news conference.  GE’s announcement, along with advocacy by Smith and retired
General  P.X. Kelley , who also attended today’s news conference,
will help persuade House Republicans that electric cars are here
to stay, said Brendan Bell, Washington representative for the
 Union of Concerned Scientists  in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  “If you are a Republican and you’re hearing from multiple
CEOs of Fortune 500 companies and a former Joint Chiefs of Staff
member that electric vehicles are good for America, it’s pretty
hard to come up with an argument that they are wrong,” he said.  Coalition Members  Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx is the second-largest U.S.
package shipping company, after United Parcel Service Inc. San
Francisco-based PG&E is the owner of California’s largest
utility. Nissan, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, is based in
Yokohama.  The coalition also includes executives from  Siemens AG , a
Munich, Germany-based company that provides information
technology and service support for charging stations;  NRG Energy
Inc. , the second-largest power producer in Texas, Rockwood
Holdings Inc., the world’s largest producer of lithium products,
and AeroVironment, a maker of car-battery chargers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  