-- Argentina Says Paris Club Accepts Proposal to Hold Debt Talks Without IMF
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-16T01:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/fernandez-says-paris-club-accepts-proposal-to-hold-debt-talks-without-imf.html
The Paris Club of creditor nations
accepted Argentina’s request to hold talks on restructuring its
estimated $6.7 billion of debt without the oversight of the
International Monetary Fund, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said.  Fernandez said in a nationwide broadcast from Buenos Aires
that she hopes to have the defaulted debt renegotiated by 2011.
Argentina won’t have to pay fees as the talks won’t involve
banks, companies or advisors, the president said.  The Paris Club “has accepted Argentina’s position to
negotiate its debt without IMF intervention,” Fernandez said.
“The negotiating should be realistic, which means it should
involve a payment plan that will allow us to sustain the
country’s economic activity and  grow  with social inclusion.”  Argentina owes the Paris Club, an informal association of
creditors that includes the U.S., Germany and Japan, about $6.7
billion in defaulted debt. In June, the government of South
America’s second-biggest economy restructured $12.2 billion in
bonds that were held out from a 2005 exchange. The country
defaulted on $95 billion in bonds in late 2001.  Fernandez on Sept. 2, 2008 had announced plans to tap
central bank  reserves  to pay down Argentina’s debt to the
creditor group. The government had to shelve the plan once the
global financial crisis took hold following the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. less than two weeks later.  ‘Positive Event’  Argentina’s credit rating was raised by Standard & Poor’s
in September, saying the country’s “strong” economic expansion
is helping it make debt payments.  S&P raised Argentina’s foreign and local debt ratings one
level to B, in line with Bolivia and Honduras and five steps
below investment grade. The increase matches a move made by
Fitch Ratings in July.  An agreement with the Paris Club is not “a rating change
trigger, but it’s definitely a positive event in the sense that
Argentina will continue to normalize its relationship with the
international community,” said  Sebastian Briozzo , a Latin
America director at S&P, in a telephone interview in Buenos
Aires, before today’s announcement.  “If that issue is solved, it will be very positive in
terms of allowing Argentina to receive more funds from foreign
direct investment,” Briozzo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  