-- Fiat May Sell Ferrari Stake, Magneti, Marchionne Tells Analysts
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-11-15T17:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/fiat-might-sell-ferrari-stake-magneti-marelli-marchionne-tells-analysts.html
Fiat SpA  may sell its auto-parts
division Magneti Marelli SpA and a stake in sports-car maker
Ferrari SpA before consolidating Chrysler Group LLC, Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told analysts.  “Marchionne identified a Ferrari initial public offering
and Magneti Marelli disposal as potential sources of cash,
without giving a timeframe,”  Eric Hauser , a Credit Suisse
analyst based in London, said in an interview, citing comments
by the CEO at a Nov. 12 meeting with analysts in Turin, Italy.  Fiat  jumped  to the highest price in 2 1/2 years in Milan.
Marchionne was meeting analysts to explain the advantages of
spinning off truck and tractor divisions to focus on carmaking.
Fiat values Ferrari at 2.4 billion euros ($3.3 billion), based
on the price it paid last quarter to boost its holding. The CEO
said in September that he has no immediate plan to list Ferrari.  Marchionne will hold more meetings in London at the end of
this month after briefing analysts in the U.S. and Italy last
week, said a Fiat spokesman, who declined to comment on
Marchionne’s remarks to analysts in Turin.  Fiat  rose  39 cents, or 3 percent, to 13.37 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close of trading in Milan, the highest intraday price
since June 4, 2008. The Turin-based company, Italy’s largest
manufacturer, is the biggest gainer in the Bloomberg EMEA Auto
Manufacturers Index today.  ‘Clear Message’  “We left Turin with the clear message that Fiat and
Chrysler will become one company,” Morgan Stanley analyst
 Stuart Pearson  wrote in a note. “A Ferrari initial public
offering and potential Marelli disposal may need to come first,
according to management,” said Pearson, who has an
“overweight” rating on Fiat. Morgan Stanley added Fiat to its
“best ideas” list today.  Fiat, which acquired a 20 percent stake in Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based Chrysler last year, has said it will raise the
holding to 25 percent by the first quarter of 2011 and to 35
percent by the end of next year. Marchionne plans to take the
U.S. automaker public in the second half of 2011.  “Chrysler consolidation may require crystallizing value in
Ferrari and Magneti Marelli,” said UBS AG analyst  Philippe Houchois , who advises buying Fiat shares.  Magneti Marelli, whose products range from lighting to
engine-control systems, is aiming to expand in Russia, where it
wants to become “a leading player,” CEO  Eugenio Razelli  said
last week, as the company opened a lighting plant in the
country.  Iveco,  CNH  Global  “Magneti Marelli will be a much tougher asset to dispose
of as 50 percent of sales are to Fiat,” said Credit Suisse’s
Hauser, who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. “I guess
they’ll float Chrysler first and then work out how to finance
the exercise of options to get to over 50 percent in Chrysler,
between 2013 and 2016.”  The carving out of operations including Iveco and  CNH
Global NV  into Fiat Industrial SpA will give Marchionne two
entities to facilitate future alliances. Fiat plans to list Fiat
Industrial shares on the Milan exchange Jan. 3.  The future of the Ferrari and Alfa Romeo luxury brands,
which are part of Fiat’s automotive unit, has been the subject
of speculation in the past months. At the Paris Motor Show in
September,  Volkswagen AG  supervisory board Chairman Ferdinand
Piech told reporters that said he’s monitoring Alfa Romeo in the
event Fiat wants to sell. Piech is also interested in acquiring
Ferrari, Germany’s Manager Magazin reported last week.  Marchionne and Volkswagen AG CEO  Martin Winterkorn  said
last week in Turin that a sale of Fiat’s Alfa Romeo and Ferrari
brands to the German carmaker is only a “dream.”  At the Nov. 12 analyst meeting, Marchionne reiterated that
Alfa Romeo is only for sale at “ a very high price,” Morgan
Stanley’s Pearson said.  Fiat owns 90 percent of Maranello, Italy-based Ferrari
after paying Mubadala Development Co. 122 million euros for its
5 percent stake in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  