-- FTSE 100 Benchmark Advances as U.S. October Retail Sales Beat Forecasts
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-15T16:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/ftse-100-benchmark-extends-last-week-s-decline-bhp-falls-invensys-jumps.html
U.K. stocks advanced as investors
awaited more information on whether Ireland will seek assistance
to deal with its debt and a report showed U.S. retail sales rose
more-than-forecast in October.  Invensys Plc  led gains after the Daily Telegraph reported
the company may be bought.  Lonmin Plc  rose 4 percent after
posting a profit for the fiscal year.  Rolls-Royce Group Plc 
retreated 2.3 percent, extending its decline so far this month
to 8 percent.  The benchmark  FTSE 100  Index rose 23.54, or 0.4 percent, to
5,820.41 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge lost 1.3
percent last week amid concern that efforts by indebted European
governments to reduce their deficits may derail the economic
recovery. The  FTSE All-Share Index  also gained 0.4 percent
today, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  added 0.7 percent.  “I don’t think the Irish story is ready to explode yet,”
said Matthias Jasper, head of equities at WGZ Bank AG in
Dusseldorf. “Attractive macro-economic and corporate data
coupled with the QE2 program are catalysts for equities.”  Germany is pressing Ireland to seek aid before tomorrow’s
meeting of European finance ministers to calm market volatility
and win agreement on making investors help pay for future
bailouts, according to a German government official who declined
to be identified because the talks are private. Irish Enterprise
Minister Batt O’Keeffe said a bailout has not been discussed and
rejected the assertion that there is a “crisis.”  Retail Sales  U.S. purchases rose 1.2 percent, the biggest gain since
March, following a 0.7 percent September increase that was
larger than previously estimated, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median estimate of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.7 percent advance.  Invensys Plc jumped 9.1 percent to 347.9 pence, the highest
price since March. The U.K. maker of controls that help run
 Whirlpool Corp . washing machines said the company may be bought
by Chinese railcar maker CSR Corp., the Daily Telegraph reported
on Nov. 13, citing an interview with Chief Executive  Ulf Henriksson .  The company said today it has not received an approach or
held discussions regarding a possible offer for the company or
about a strategic partner taking a minority stake.  The stock was raised to “accumulate” from “reduce” at
Charles Stanley Group Plc.  Lonmin Plc  gained 4 percent to 1,838 pence, the first
advance in four days. The world’s third-largest platinum
producer posted underlying earnings of $0.70 a share in the
fiscal year ended Sept. 30 compared with a loss of $0.59 cents a
year earlier. The company declared a 15 cent annual dividend.  Serco, Majestic Wine  Serco Group Plc  climbed 1.5 percent to 571.5 pence. The
provider of outsourcing services to the U.K. and other
governments said it has continued to perform strongly in the
second half and is on track to deliver on its financial
guidelines for 2010.  Majestic Wine Plc  increased 6.4 percent to 385 pence, the
highest close in more than three years. The owner of the U.K.’s
largest chain of wine warehouses said first-half profit climbed
18 percent as it added more customers.  Rolls-Royce lost 2.3 percent to 597 pence, trimming a 4.6
percent advance on Nov. 12. Qantas Airways Ltd. and other
operators of jets that use Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines may
have to change as many as 29 of the powerplants because of
possible oil leaks of the type that may have caused a mid-air
explosion on Nov. 4, the Sydney Morning Herald reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 