-- GAM Holding Says Client Inflows Slowed in Third Quarter on Equity Caution
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2010-11-15T09:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/gam-holding-says-client-inflows-slowed-in-third-quarter-on-equity-caution.html
GAM Holding Ltd. , the money manager
that split from Julius Baer Group Ltd., said third-quarter net
inflows were “slower” as equity investments remained “muted”
and clients withdrew money from funds of hedge funds.  GAM fell as much as 3.5 percent in Zurich trading after
reporting a 1.8 percent gain in assets under management to 118.7
billion francs ($120.9 billion) in the three months through
September. First-half net inflows were 5.6 billion francs.  GAM said it has bought back 3.1 percent of the company’s
stock at an average price of 14.79 francs a share, after
announcing plans in August to repurchase as much as 10 percent.
The Zurich-based firm, which split with Baer’s private bank
after clients withdrew more than 25 billion francs in the second
half of 2008, expects to have bought back half of the planned
total by its  annual general meeting  on April 19.  “The slowdown in net new money may be the reason behind
the stock getting hit today but the share buyback continues to
support the price,” said  Mathias Bueeler , an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets in Zurich, who has a “buy”  recommendation  on
the stock. “GAM is well positioned to benefit when inflows into
higher margin products resume.”  GAM dropped 2.6 percent to 15.2 francs by 10:21 a.m. in
Zurich, paring this year’s gain to 21 percent. That gave the
company a market value of 3.1 billion francs.  Hedge Fund Outflows  GAM’s Swiss & Global Asset Management unit, which sells
Baer-branded funds, managed 81.9 billion francs in client assets
at the end of September, company said today in a  statement . The
unit attracted net new money inflows of 7.4 billion francs in
the first half and targets new funds of 8 percent to 12 percent
of total assets through 2012.  The rest of the business, known only as GAM and which has
almost half its assets invested in hedge fund products, targets
inflows of 6 percent to 10 percent each year. The business had
53.8 billion francs under management at the end of September and
said inflows were mostly into its fixed income and single
manager hedge fund and Asian equity products.  “Funds of hedge funds and managed portfolios continued to
experience net outflows, mainly from the third-party private
client segment, driven in part by a shift in client preferences
toward single manager and onshore products,” GAM said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  