-- General Atlantic-Backed Infotech Enterprises Plans to Buy European Rival
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-11-15T07:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/general-atlantic-backed-infotech-enterprises-plans-to-buy-european-rival.html
Infotech Enterprises Ltd.,  an Indian
software services provider partly owned by General Atlantic LLC,
plans to buy a rival in North America or Europe to add clients.  “We see equal demand from both the regions,”  B.V.R. Mohan Reddy,  chairman and managing director, said in an e-mail
interview, without elaborating. The Hyderabad-based company,
which acquired Paragould, Arkansas-based Wellsco Inc. in August,
plans to buy an engineering services provider, Reddy said.  Two purchases, including the acquisition of  Daxcon
Engineering Inc.  in January, helped the company boost sales by
25 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30. The buyouts will
help Infotech maintain revenue growth in the next two years,
according to Angel Broking Ltd.  “IEL is witnessing deal discussions, which are larger in
size and typically demanding 100-200 people instead of 30-40
billable resources a few quarters back,”  Srishti Anand,  an
analyst at Angel Broking, wrote on a October 14 report.  Infotech’s  shares , which have gained 2.1 percent compared
with a 16 percent increase in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
benchmark Sensitive Index, fell 0.4 percent to 156.7 rupees at
12:28 p.m. in Mumbai.  Some of the company’s new projects from clients including
Hamilton Sundstrand Corp. and  Westinghouse Electric Co. , are
expected to yield “strong” revenue for Infotech, according to
Anand, who has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  Revenue is forecast to grow 25.7 percent to 1.2 billion
rupees ($26.7 million) this fiscal year, Reddy said. North
America accounts for 55 percent of the sales while Europe
contributes 37.5 percent.  Infotech is 14.7 percent  owned  by private equity firm
General Atlantic, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  