-- General Motors Said to Boost IPO Price By 14% as Demand Grows
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-11-16T05:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/general-motors-may-sell-shares-for-up-to-33-each-in-ipo-as-demand-grows.html
General Motors Co.  may sell shares
in its initial public offering for as much as 14 percent more
than originally planned, making it the second-largest U.S. IPO
on record, according to four people familiar with the deal.  GM, 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury, will probably
set a price of $32 to $33, said one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the discussions are private. The
automaker, which had  filed  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on Nov. 3 to offer 365 million shares for $26 to $29
each, would raise $12 billion selling shares at the new high end
of the price range on Nov. 17.  GM  also plans to sell $4 billion of preferred stock, up
from $3 billion, one of the people said. Demand has been so
strong for both offerings that the Detroit-based company and the
U.S. Treasury discussed increasing the number of common shares
sold, according to three of the people. GM reported a third-
quarter  profit  of $2.16 billion last week.  “The Detroit automakers are finally right-sized and
smart,” said  Frank Ingarra , co-portfolio manager at Novato,
California-based Hennessy Advisors Inc., which oversees $900
million, including  Ford Motor Co.  shares. “They finally got
some tough, good management in there finding better ways to do
things.”  Treasury’s Stake  GM , led by Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson , may file an
amended registration statement today that includes the new price
range, one of the people said. Noreen Pratscher, a GM
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The increased price would help the U.S. government recoup
more of the public’s $49.5 billion investment in the company.
The Treasury needs to sell  GM’s  stock for an average of $43.67 a
share -- 51 percent higher than the top end of the original
range and 32 percent more than the $33 level -- to break even,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At $33 a share, the IPO would raise $8.7 billion for the
Treasury, compared to $7.6 billion at $29 a share, based on GM’s
regulatory filings and data compiled by Bloomberg. The entire
common stock offering would raise as much as $13.9 billion at
$33 a share if the overallotment option for underwriters to sell
more stock is exercised, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the Treasury prefers to sell fewer shares at higher
prices so it can more easily recoup its investment,  GM  may seek
to sell as many shares as possible to cut the government’s
stake, according to  Maryann Keller , founder of a self-named
consulting firm in Stamford, Connecticut. The automaker’s banks
want a larger offering to increase their fees, she said.  ‘An Art’  “Pricing an IPO is as much an art as it is a science,”
 Steven Rattner , former head of President  Barack Obama’s 
Automotive Task Force, said during a speech in Detroit
yesterday. “It’s clear this offering will be a huge success. It
will price higher rather than lower.”  Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co., among GM’s lead
investment banks, have urged the U.S. Treasury to offer more
shares than the 419.8 million that would be sold if the current
overallotment option is exercised, one of the people said.  Mary Claire Delaney , a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, and  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman at JPMorgan, declined to comment.  Without exercising the option to sell additional shares,
the Treasury Department’s stake would fall to 43 percent from 61
percent, GM has said in filings. If the current overallotment
option were used, the stake would drop to 41 percent, GM said.  Company executives are continuing to promote the IPO to
potential investors this week in the U.S. Midwest and Europe.  The Kuwait Investment Authority may buy a stake of 1
percent or less, one of the people said.  Bader al-Saad , managing
director of the sovereign wealth fund, told reporters on Nov. 6
that it was considering an investment in GM. SAIC Motor Corp.,
GM’s partner in China, will probably be among the buyers, three
people familiar with the plans said last week.  Second-Largest IPO  The offering, which would be the second-largest in U.S.
history at the new price behind  Visa Inc.’s  $19.7 billion IPO in
March 2008, comes 16 months after  GM  emerged from bankruptcy.  The automaker has posted  earnings  of $4.77 billion so far
this year. That tops the $4.46 billion profit by Toyota City,
Japan-based  Toyota Motor Corp. , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  GM, which lost $82 billion from 2005 to 2008, was  valued  at
an average of 10.3 times profit from 2000 through 2004, monthly
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford 
traded at an average of 13 times earnings in the same period.  Ford  gained 70 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $17 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, the highest closing
price since Jan. 8, 2004. The shares have advanced 70 percent
this year, including a 39 percent jump since Oct. 1, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  At $33 a share,  GM  would have a market capitalization of
$49.5 billion, based on 1.5 billion shares that will be
outstanding after the IPO, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That would value GM at 7.8 times this year’s earnings,
based on net income in the first nine months of 2010.  Ford 
trades at  8.2 times  analysts’ estimates for 2010 profit, the
data show.  General Motors Corp. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after the failure of New York-based
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 froze credit
markets and helped spur the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  Morgan Stanley , JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc. are leading the offering, according to regulatory
filings. Barclays Plc,  Credit Suisse Group AG , Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Canada are among the
firms also listed on the prospectus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 