-- Gentiva, DaVita, Sun Healthcare Face Risk From Medicare Cuts, Moody's Says
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-11-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/gentiva-davita-sun-healthcare-face-risk-from-medicare-cuts-moody-s-says.html
Home health-care companies, nursing
facilities and medical-equipment makers are facing more than $70
billion in federal reimbursement cuts, raising risks for bond-
holders,  Moody’s Investors Service  said in a report.  Medicare pays more than $300 billion a year to medical
services and equipment providers, making them susceptible to
rate cuts, the New York-based credit-rating service said today.
The health law signed into law in March trims federal payments
to home-nursing agencies by $40 billion over a decade starting
in 2014, and earlier laws will cut $28 billion for makers of
home-health and oxygen equipment, Moody’s said.  Those cuts, and others potentially coming down the line,
may lower revenue and raise borrowing costs on for-profit
companies, making debt less attractive, Moody’s said. Among
those affected may be  Gentiva Health Services Inc . of Atlanta,
the top home-care provider;  DaVita Inc.  of Denver, the biggest
dialysis provider; and the nursing-home chain  Sun Healthcare
Group Inc.  of Irvine, California, rating service said.  “There are more cuts to come, and sectors that are
continuing to earn high profit margins, or grow very quickly,
will be the most targeted in the future.” said  Jessica Gladstone , an analyst for Moody’s, in a telephone interview.
“Health-care reform didn’t really solve a lot of the problems
we have in terms of budget deficits,”  For-profit companies rated by  Moody’s  had more than $83
billion in debt outstanding as of June 30, Gladstone said.
Seventy percent of those businesses get at least a third of
their annual revenue from Medicare, the program for the elderly
and disabled, and Medicaid, the insurer for the poor, the credit
agency said in its report.  Gentiva Sales  Gentiva , which operates 350 home-care agencies, generated
87 percent of its sales last year from the two programs, Moody’s
said. DaVita generated 65 percent. For  Sun Healthcare , owner of
more than 200 nursing homes and post-acute care centers, the
figure was 70 percent.  A 10 percent cut in Medicare payments, for example, would
reduce Gentiva’s revenue by 8.2 percent a year,  DaVita’s  by 5.7
percent, and Sun Healthcare’s by 3 percent, Moody’s estimated.  Scott Cianciulli , a Gentiva spokesman, and Kelsey Rood, a
DaVita spokeswoman, declined to comment on the outlook. Messages
weren’t returned by Sun Healthcare’s media office.  Peter T. Grauer , the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News, is a DaVita director.  Spurring Consolidation  Funding cuts are likely to spur consolidation in the
hardest-hit industries, or push smaller players out of business,
Gladstone said. That may help larger companies such as Gentiva,
which bought hospice operator Odyssey HealthCare Inc. in August
for about $1 billion, she said.  With reimbursement rates likely to change, growth carries
risks as well, the analyst said.  “Companies need to be a little bit more mindful about just
taking on leverage and assuming they’ll be able to pay it off by
assuming current payment rates,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  