-- GM's Offering Leads Biggest Week for U.S. IPOs Since Lehman
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-11-15T18:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/gm-s-offering-leads-biggest-week-for-u-s-ipos-since-collapse-of-lehman.html
General Motors Co.’s  initial public
offering and sales from four private equity-backed companies are
leading the biggest week for U.S. IPOs since before the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Ten companies plan to raise a combined $12.5 billion this
week, the most since San Francisco-based  Visa Inc.’s  $19.7
billion sale in March 2008, the largest IPO in U.S. history,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. GM, 61 percent owned by the
U.S. Treasury, may sell $10.6 billion of shares Nov. 17 to help
repay its bailout. Carlyle Group and Golden Gate Capital are
among the buyout firms taking companies public in offerings that
may raise $1.5 billion, prospectuses for those deals said.  While American taxpayers will have a 34 percent loss on the
Treasury’s sale of GM shares at the maximum $29-a-share offer
price, Carlyle and Golden Gate Capital may more than double the
return on their investments in  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. 
and Aeroflex Holding Corp., data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
sales come after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , the benchmark
gauge for American equity, rose to a two-year high this month.  “The week is large enough to explicitly define the
temperature of the IPO market,” said  Lawrence Creatura , a
Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors
Inc., which oversees $340 billion. “It appears to be a fertile
time to try to issue equity. The appetite for equity and risk
has increased.”  GM’s Share Sale  GM will sell 365 million shares, or a 24 percent stake, at
$26 to $29 each, according to a  filing  with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The Detroit-based company is also offering
$3 billion of preferred shares that will become common stock.  The automaker will likely sell the shares at the high end
of the IPO’s price range or above, two people familiar with the
deal said last week.  Steven Rattner , the former head of the U.S.
government’s Automotive Task Force, said today that he expects
the offering to be priced above the forecast range.  “There is definitely a greater level of confidence in the
ability of the carmakers to perform,” Rattner told reporters at
an Automotive Press Association event in Detroit.  GM’s  underwriters will probably exercise the overallotment
option to sell 54.8 million more shares, people familiar with
the IPO said last week. That would help the U.S. Treasury recoup
more of the public’s $49.5 billion investment in the company.  The automaker may refile its registration statement with
the SEC as early as today to increase the price range for the
offering, according to CNBC, citing sources it didn’t identify.  Earnings Results  The initial offering, which would be the third-largest in
U.S. history, comes 16 months after  GM  emerged from bankruptcy.
The company reported third-quarter net income of $2.16 billion
last week, bringing the automaker’s  earnings  this year to $4.77
billion. That tops the $4.46 billion profit by Toyota City,
Japan-based  Toyota Motor Corp. , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Treasury needs to sell  GM’s  stock for an average of
$43.67 a share, or 51 percent more than the high end of the
offering range, to break even, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At $29 a share,  GM  would have a market capitalization of
$43.5 billion. That would value GM at 6.84 times this year’s
earnings, based on net income in the first nine months of 2010.
Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co.  trades at  7.9 times 
analysts’ estimates for 2010 profit, the data show.  Relative Value  GM, which lost $82 billion from 2005 to 2008, was  valued  at
an average of 10.3 times profit from 2000 through 2004, monthly
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ford  traded at an average of 13
times earnings in the same period.  General Motors Corp. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after the failure of New York-based
Lehman in September 2008 froze credit markets and helped spur
the worst recession since the Great Depression.  “The government wants to get the deal off,” said Darren
Fabric, Chicago-based managing director at IPOX Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $3 billion. “They don’t want to
give too much away, because they want to get a lot for the
taxpayers, but they’re not selling the whole thing, so it’s OK
it goes up afterwards, because the taxpayers will benefit.”  The first U.S. offering of the week will be from  Booz Allen 
tomorrow. The consulting firm acquired by Washington-based
Carlyle in 2008 is selling 14 million Class A shares at $17 to
$19. The midpoint is 233 percent more than the average per-share
price of $5.40 paid by existing owners, an SEC  filing  said.  Private Equity IPOs  Carlyle, the world’s second-largest private equity firm,
doesn’t plan to sell its holdings and will retain control of a
71 percent stake in the McLean, Virginia-based company.  Aeroflex , owned by San Francisco-based Golden Gate Capital,
Veritas Capital of New York and a buyout fund run by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  in New York, will offer 17.25 million shares at
$13.50 to $15.50 on Nov. 18, its SEC filing said.  The maker of semiconductors and testing equipment hasn’t
posted a  profit  since it was taken private in August 2007. IPO
buyers are being asked to spend 141 percent more than the
average price that current investors paid for their stakes, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  LPL Investment Holdings Inc. , the Boston-based brokerage
and investment advisory firm owned by TPG Capital and Hellman &
Friedman LLC, is offering 15.6 million shares at $27 to $30 each
on Nov. 17. At the midpoint, the IPO would give  LPL  a market
capitalization of $3.05 billion. Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG and
Hellman & Friedman of San Francisco bought about 60 percent of
LPL in 2005.  ‘Open Right Now’  Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the world’s biggest casino
company, will sell 31.3 million shares for $15 to $17 each on
Nov. 18, its filing said. The Las Vegas-based company will
change its name to Caesars Entertainment Corp. before the IPO.  Leon Black’s  New York-based Apollo Global Management LLC
and  David Bonderman’s  TPG took Harrah’s private for $30.7
billion, including debt and transaction costs, in January 2008.  While 21 companies completed U.S. IPOs in October, the most
since December 2007, and 10 have sold shares in November, this
week’s offerings come after the  S&P 500  posted the biggest
weekly drop in three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a very, very full calendar,” said  Uri Landesman ,
president of New York-based hedge fund Platinum Partners LLP.
“Both underwriters and companies are understanding that this
window that’s open right now for public offerings could close at
any time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 