-- Gome Electrical Profit Rises 49% to $217 Million in First Three Quarters
-- B y   T a t i a n a   L a u   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2010-11-15T16:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/gome-electrical-profit-rises-49-to-217-million-in-first-three-quarters.html
Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd. , the China retailer seeking to end a dispute with its
jailed founder over management control, said same-store sales
increased 21.5 percent in the first nine months of the year.  Sales per square meter jumped 21.8 percent to 13,745 yuan
($2,070) and overall revenue gained 19 percent to 37.3 billion
yuan on rising consumer demand, Gome said in a Hong Kong stock
exchange filing yesterday.  Net income  rose to 1.44 billion yuan,
from 964.6 million yuan in the same period last year,  Gome  said.  Improving relations between billionaire founder  Huang Guangyu  and Chairman  Chen Xiao  may further boost Gome’s
earnings, said  Charlie Chen , a Hong Kong-based analyst for BNP
Paribas SA. Gome has advanced 17 percent in Hong Kong trading
since agreeing on Nov. 10 to appoint Huang’s representatives to
the board, easing concerns over his threat to cut ties between
his 400 privately owned stores and the listed company.  “Revenue growth should be pretty healthy in the next six
months,” BNP Paribas’s Chen, who recommends buying Gome’s
shares, said in a phone interview. “The current management has
done a pretty good job in expanding the margins. I don’t see a
lot of bumps, but the only concern I have is the situation
between the management and the chairman.”  Gome  rose 0.3 percent to HK$3.19 in Hong Kong trading
yesterday, before the announcement. The stock has  gained  13
percent this year, compared with a 9.9 percent advance for the
benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Prison Sentence  Operating profit increased 61 percent to 1.87 billion yuan,
Gome said in its statement.  Suning Appliance Co. , China’s biggest electronics retailer,
said profit rose 21 percent in the third quarter to 854 million
yuan.  Suning  overtook Gome to become China’s biggest
electronics retailer by sales in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While shareholders earlier rejected proposal by Huang to
remove Chen, they agreed to cancel a mandate to sell new  shares 
that could have diluted his stake. Huang, who’s serving a 14-
year prison sentence in Beijing, owns the Gome brand and remains
the Hong Kong-traded retailer’s largest  shareholder .  Gome is suing Huang in Hong Kong for breach of trust and
over share repurchases. Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures
Commission accused Huang, also known as Wong Kwong Yu, and wife
 Lisa Du Juan  of stock-market fraud in August last year.  Huang is serving a 14-year sentence after being convicted
in a Beijing court in May of bribery, insider trading and
illegally buying foreign currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marco Lui  in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  