-- Google Says China, Turkey Internet Curbs Act as Trade Barriers
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-11-15T17:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/google-says-china-turkey-web-censorship-unnecessarily-restricts-trade.html
Google Inc ., owner of the world’s
most popular Internet search engine, urged the U.S. to combat
Internet censorship abroad as an unfair trade barrier.  China, Vietnam, Iran and Turkey are among countries that
have shut off of search engines, blogging platforms or social-
media websites such as  Facebook , Google said in a white paper
released today. Those actions are harming the ability of U.S.
companies to profit, Google said.  “Governments around the world are restricting, censoring,
and disrupting the free flow of online information in record
numbers,” according to Google’s paper, which was posted today
on its  blog . “These actions unnecessarily restrict trade, and
left unchecked, they will almost certainly get worse.”  Google  disclosed in January that Chinese hackers had
targeted its mail servers and announced that the company would
no longer censor search results in the country. Google then
began redirecting all searches in China to a site in Hong Kong.  China is the world’s biggest Internet market with  384
million Web users  at the end of 2009, according to the China
Internet Network Information Center, a government agency that
registers online domain names.  The Google paper outlines a series of rules under the World
Trade Organization that might apply to Internet censorship. WTO
rules call for reasonable, objective and impartial rules, and
say that “exceptional measures” must be narrowly applied.  “The WTO negotiators set clear limits on the ability of
members to invoke such exceptions,” the Google paper said.  Google also asked U.S. negotiators to strengthen
protections for Internet freedom in pending agreements with
South Korea, in the Doha Round of global trade talks and in a
broader Asian measure known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 