-- Greek Deficit Tops EU Ranking, Putting Pressure on Papandreou
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-15T12:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/greek-deficit-tops-eu-ranking-putting-pressure-on-papandreou.html
Greece’s budget deficit was revised
to the highest in the euro region, putting pressure on Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  to adopt more austerity measures to
meet pledges included in the bailout package that allowed the
country to avoid default.  Greece’s shortfall last year was revised to 15.4 percent of
gross domestic product from 13.6 percent, surpassing Ireland at
14.4 percent, Eurostat, the EU’s Luxembourg-based statistics
office said today. The shortfall this year will be 9.4 percent
of GDP, more than the 8.1 percent the government announced in
May, the Greek Finance Ministry said today in a separate
statement.  “The target for next year should be kept,” European
Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said in Vienna
today. “The necessary policies should be adjusted to maintain
that target.”  Greece had targeted spending cuts and revenue increases in
its draft budget to bring the gap to 7 percent in 2011, beating
the 7.6 percent target initially agreed to in May in return for
the 110 billion-euro ($150 billion) European Union-led rescue.
Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou will submit his final
2011 budget plan on Nov. 18 with updated targets. His ministry
today reiterated a pledge to bring the shortfall within the EU’s
3 percent ceiling in 2014.  Difficult ‘Journey’  “The fiscal journey ahead looks even harder than
previously recognized,”  David Mackie , chief European economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, wrote in a note to investors.
“The deficit reduction will now need to be 1.6 percentage
points greater over the coming few years.”  Repeated revisions of Greece’s deficit figures, beginning
after Papandreou revealed last year that the gap was twice a
previous forecast, spurred a surge in borrowing costs that
pushed the country to the brink of default and triggered a
region-wide debt crisis. The  yield premium  investors demand to
hold Greek 10-year bonds over similar-maturity German bunds was
little changed at 887 basis points, down from a high of 973.1 in
May.  Yields on  10-year  Greek bonds remain the highest in the
euro region, at 11.5 percent. That compares with 8.32 percent
for Ireland, 6.92 percent for Portugal, 4.58 percent for Spain
and 4.18 percent for Italy.  Papandreou said on Nov. 13 that the government would avoid
burdening wage-earners and pensioners with more spending cuts
and tax increases, and would stick to measures initially pledged
to the EU and International Monetary Fund.  EU Rescue  Papandreou agreed in May to austerity measures worth about
14 percent of GDP over four years in exchange for the EU-IMF
loan program that lasts for three years. The budget deficit
shrank 30 percent in the first 10 months of 2010, as the
government cut wages and pensions. The measures have deepened
the country’s two-year recession.  The economy contracted 1.1 percent in the third quarter
from the previous three months, the largest contraction in the
EU, and unemployment reached a record high of more than 12
percent in August.  Eurostat also revised Greece’s 2009 debt to 126.8 percent
of GDP, surpassing Italy as the region’s most-indebted country.
The debt will jump to 144 percent this year, the Finance
Ministry said today. That would be the highest for any country
since the start of the euro.  Credit Downgrade  Eurostat last revised the Greek deficit figures higher in
April, sparking a downgrade of Greece’s credit standing by
Moody’s Investors Service and forcing Papandreou the next day to
formally seek the EU-IMF emergency loans to avoid default.
Eurostat said today that its concerns about the country’s
economic statistics were now resolved and that it was confident
the numbers were now accurate.  The 2009 deficit figures were changed to include public
corporations, increasing the deficit by 0.7 percent of GDP, as
well liabilities from social security funds and local
government, which added another 0.9 percent of GDP. Debt was
boosted by 5.5 billion euros from off-market swaps Greece
initially used to try to lower the debt and deficit. Another
18.2 billion euros of debt, worth 7.8 percent of GDP, from
public companies was also added to the national accounts,
Eurostat said.  The European Commission issued a report in January
questioning the accuracy of Greece’s economic data, leading to
an overhaul of the national statistics agency that gave the EU
more oversight. Eurostat said today that “all of the issues
identified” had been resolved.  Greece’s widening deficit and questions about the accuracy
of its economic data have undermined the credibility and
enforcement of the EU’s budget rules, which call for euro
members to keep their shortfall at less than 3 percent of GDP.
To prepare the revisions, Eurostat exercised for the first time
new audit powers it was granted after the EU learned Greece had
used secret financial transactions to reduce debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  