-- Greece's Deficit Revised to Largest in EU as Debt Tops Italy's
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-15T10:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/greece-s-deficit-revised-to-largest-in-eu-as-debt-tops-italy.html
Greece had the euro region’s largest
budget deficit and public debt last year after a revision by
European Union authorities who said their concerns about the
country’s economic statistics were now resolved.  Greece’s budget shortfall last year was revised to 15.4
percent of gross domestic product from 13.6 percent, surpassing
Ireland’s 14.4 percent shortfall, Eurostat, the EU’s Luxembourg-
based statistics office, said in a report today. The debt was
revised to 126.8 percent of GDP, overtaking Italy at 116
percent.  Revisions to Greece’s deficit figures, beginning after
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  revealed last year that the gap
was twice a previous forecast, spurred a surge in borrowing
costs that pushed the country to the brink of default and
triggered a region-wide debt crisis. Eurostat last revised the
figure higher in April, sparking a downgrade of Greece’s credit
standing by Moody’s Investors Service and forcing Papandreou the
next day to formally seek a bailout from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund to avoid default.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds over similar-maturity bunds rose 6 basis points to 8.94
basis points. Yields on  10-year  Greek bonds remain the highest 
in the euro region, at 11.5 percent. That compares with 8.32 
percent for Ireland, 6.92 percent for Portugal, 4.58 percent 
for Spain and 4.18 percent for Italy.  Future Targets  The revisions mean that Greece won’t achieve the deficit
targets it agreed to in return for the 110 billion euros ($150
billion) in EU-IMF emergency loans. Greece’s government has
targeted spending cuts and revenue increases to bring the budget
gap to 7 percent of GDP in 2011 from 7.8 percent this year.  The Greek Finance Ministry said today that after the
revisions the budget deficit would be 9.4 percent of GDP this
year and debt will reach 144 percent of GDP. The ministry today
reiterated its pledged to bring the shortfall within the EU’s 3
percent ceiling in 2014.  The European Commission issued a report in January
questioning the accuracy of Greece’s economic data, leading to
an overhaul of the national statistics agency that gave the EU
more oversight. Eurostat lifted its “reservation” today on
Greek data, saying it was now satisfied that the numbers were
accurate.  “Eurostat and the Hellenic Statistical Authority have
addressed all of the issues identified in the last reservation
during a series of” meetings, Eurostat said in the press
release.  Statistics Questioned  Greece’s widening deficit and questions about the accuracy
of its economic data have undermined the credibility and
enforcement of the EU’s budget rules, which call for euro
members to keep their shortfall at less than 3 percent of GDP.
To prepare the revisions, Eurostat exercised for the first time
new audit powers it was granted after the EU learned Greece had
used secret financial transactions to conceal debt.  Papandreou agreed in May to austerity measures worth about
14 percent of GDP over four years in exchange for the EU-IMF
loan program that lasts for three years. The budget deficit
shrank 30 percent in the first 10 months of 2010, as the
government cut wages and pensions to counter tax evasion, an
inefficient tax collection process and a shrinking economy.  The austerity measures are deepening a two-year recession
in the country. The economy shrank 1.1 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, the largest contraction
in the EU and unemployment reached a record high of more than 12
percent in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  