-- Guinea's Conde Says He Won Presidential Election, Wants Results Released
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-15T16:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/guinea-s-conde-says-he-won-presidential-election-wants-results-released.html
Alpha Conde , a long-time opposition
leader in Guinea, the world’s biggest bauxite exporter, claimed
victory in a presidential run-off election, triggering riots by
the supporters of his rival, Cello Dalein Diallo, who later also
said he had won.  Conde, 72, made the comments to radio stations today,
Makale Traore, campaign director for Conde’s Rally of the
Guinean People, said by phone from the capital, Conakry. The
electoral commission is expected to announce provisional results
at 6 p.m. local time, Agence France-Presse reported.  Supporters of Conde’s opponent, former Prime Minister
 Diallo , clashed with police, Mamadou Bah Baadikko, a spokesman
for Diallo, said by phone. At least one person died and dozens
were injured in riots after Conde’s announcement, AFP
said, citing the police. Diallo later distributed a statement in
Conakry also claiming victory.  Diallo , 58, was leading with 50.6 percent of the votes,
compared with Conde’s 49.4 percent, on results from 25 of 38
districts, according to Bloomberg calculations of figures given
by Therno Saidou Bayo, a spokesman for the commission, late
yesterday.  “Based on an analysis of results collected from delegates
at polling stations candidate Cellou Dalein Diallo” has won,
his party said in the statement.  Conde has won several of the other districts, Traore said.
Diallo’s party will not accept the final outcome if results in
two disputed districts, Kouroussa and Siguiri, that were won by
Conde, are taken into account, Baadikko said.  The vote may mark the country’s first democratic transfer
of power since it won independence in 1958. It was held almost
two years after the December 2008 death of President Lansana
Conte, who ruled the country for 24 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 