-- Guinea's Diallo Maintains Lead in Presidential Vote as Counting Continues
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 2010-11-15T07:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/guinea-s-diallo-maintains-lead-in-presidential-vote-as-counting-continues.html
Guinean presidential candidate
 Cellou Dalein Diallo  maintained his lead in a Nov. 7 runoff
election, as electoral authorities said analyzing complaints by
the two candidates was slowing the announcement of results.  Diallo had 50.6 percent of the votes, compared with 49.4
percent for his rival,  Alpha Conde , according to Bloomberg
calculations of figures given by Therno Saidou Bayo, a spokesman
for the commission, in  Conakry  late yesterday. Results from 25
of Guinea’s 38 electoral districts have now been released. Votes
from 18 overseas embassies are also included in the tally.  “We are working on the last complaints formulated by both
candidates,” General Siaka Toumany Sangare, the commission’s
president, told reporters in the city. The commission expects to
complete the results today, he said, without elaborating.  Both candidates have lodged “significant numbers of
complaints” against the results, Sangare said on Nov. 12. Diallo
yesterday renewed complaints of fraud in the election and said
he wouldn’t accept provisional results if they are announced
today, Agence France-Presse reported.  This month’s election marks the first democratic transfer
of power in the world’s top bauxite-exporting country since it
gained independence from France in 1958. The vote comes almost
two years after the military took control, following the
December 2008 death of President  Lansana Conte , who had ruled
the West African nation for 24 years.  Observers from the African Union said on Nov. 8 voting was
held in a “serene and peaceful atmosphere,” while the Economic
Community of West African States said deficiencies of electoral
materials in some areas didn’t compromise the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 