-- Gulfstream to Add 1,000 Jobs, $500 Million to Meet Jet Demand
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-11-15T21:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/gulfstream-to-add-1-000-jobs-500-million-to-meet-jet-demand.html
Gulfstream, the business-jet making
unit of  General Dynamics Corp. , said today it would spend $500
million and add 1,000 jobs in Savannah, Georgia, to meet a
growing market for large-cabin aircraft.  The investment, to be spread over seven years, will pay for
building plants for large-cabin planes like the G650 along with
maintenance capacity for all models,  Joe Lombardo , president of
Gulfstream, said in a telephone interview. New hires in
technology and engineering will be followed by manufacturing and
service jobs, Lombardo said.  “We are already seeing more demand for our large-cabin,
long-range aircraft and are having a pretty good year so far,”
he said. Sales for the G650, which typically carries 8
passengers and as many as 16, will be driven by international
demand, he said.  Gulfstream’s planned expansion and recruitment program
comes a month after a survey commissioned by avionics maker
 Honeywell International Inc.  said the recovery in the global
business-jet market may occur in late 2011 and accelerate in
2012, a year later than a previous estimate.  Honeywell’s forecast that large-cabin aircraft like the
G650 will “pace the recovery, and the mid-cabin and smaller
planes will follow,” is “pretty accurate,” Lombardo said.  Gulfstream, which announced a five-week production furlough
in July 2009, is seeing a recovery aided by China as well as the
Middle East and Brazil, Lombardo said. “Asia Pacific is a
strong market right now and will continue to be that way,” he
said.  North American Market  Still, “we have not given up on North America,” Lombardo
said, pointing to orders from major corporations that recently
purchased Gulfstream aircraft. He declined to name the
customers.  For the quarter that ended in September, Gulfstream booked
“more orders than we had in any quarter since the downturn
began in 2009,” Lombardo said in a statement. Service centers
are seeing more volume because flying hours are rising, he said.  Orders for the G650 have held steady at 200, he said.  Gulfstream’s expansion has been aided by the company’s
ability to “still generate enough cash” even in a “tough
economy,” Lombardo said.  General Dynamics , based in Falls Church, Virginia, reported
cash of $1.84 billion as of Sept. 30. The shares rose 5 cents to
$66.55 today at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. They have fallen 2.4 percent this year.  ‘Excellent News’  “Gulfstream’s expansion is excellent news,” Georgia
Governor  Sonny Perdue  said in an e-mail. Other companies also
have announced “major new locations and expansions here
recently,” he said.  The companies adding employment in Georgia include  Systemax
Inc ., a Port Washington, New York-based maker of electronics
that has announced 400 jobs in the state, and the U.S. unit of
solar-power equipment maker  Mage Solar Gmbh  of Ravensburg,
Germany, which plans to hire 350 people, said Heidi Green,
commissioner of Georgia’s Department of Economic Development.  The state is providing incentives to Gulfstream of about
$34 million, including tax credits and benefits, in exchange for
job training, Green said in a phone interview. Gulfstream’s
planned hiring is a 15 percent increase over its current levels,
she said.  Falling Deliveries  The October forecast by Honeywell relied on a survey of
1,200 corporate flight departments worldwide. The Morris
Township, New Jersey-based company said global deliveries of
business jets probably will fall to 675 to 700 planes in 2010
and stay at fewer than 700 next year, down from 849 in 2009.  The slump has hurt Textron Inc.’s plane-making unit,
Cessna, which announced in September that it would slash 700
more jobs after cutting half its 16,000-person workforce since
2008.  Gulfstream’s fleet of larger-cabin jets has seen demand
recover faster than makers of smaller-cabin planes like Cessna,
which faces increased competition from other manufacturers,
Lombardo said.  Bombardier Inc., based in Montreal and the largest maker of
business jets, unveiled two long-range models on Oct. 16 to take
on newer planes from Gulfstream.  “It’s not surprising to us that the competition would want
to get into the segment where the G650 is going to be, because
it’s a growth market,” Lombardo said. “We don’t feel it’s
going to hurt our ability to sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  