-- Washington Gun Owners' Appeal Seeks to Weaken City's Firearms Restrictions
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-15T21:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/gun-owners-in-washington-seek-to-weaken-city-s-restrictions-in-u-s-appeal.html
Gun owners in Washington told a
federal appeals court that the city’s firearm registration
process and a ban on some assault rifles violate their
constitutional rights.  The lawyer for Dick Heller, the plaintiff in a U.S. Supreme
Court case in 2008 that expanded Second Amendment rights, argued
to the three-judge panel today that the District of Columbia’s
regulations are so burdensome that gun owners are deprived of
their constitutional rights. The rules are inconsistent with
high court rulings, including Heller’s earlier case, he said.  The lawsuit, dubbed Heller II by gun rights advocates, seeks
to overturn restrictions the city imposed after Heller’s Supreme
Court victory ended Washington’s almost total ban on guns.  “The district responded to the Supreme Court’s decision in
D.C. v. Heller by passing the most radically restrictive gun law
nationwide,” Heller’s lawyer, Stephen Halbrook told the three-
judge panel today.  If the appeals court side with Heller again, gun rights
activists in other jurisdictions would have an influential
ruling to build on, Halbroook in an interview.  Fingerprints, Photos  Washington requires residents who want to keep a gun at
home to be fingerprinted and photographed by police, provide a
five-year work history, and note their intended use of the
weapon. Residents must register every firearm they own every
three years. Applicants must allow police to run ballistic tests
on each gun they register. Firearms defined by the city as
assault weapons and magazines that hold more than 10 bullets are
banned.  Halbrook told the judges the Supreme Court determined the
 Second Amendment  right to own a gun is a fundamental right,
limiting the scope of government restrictions.  The solicitor general for the District of Columbia, Todd
Kim, replied that the city has authority to keep tabs on who
owns guns within its borders and to keep out certain types of
weapons.  “Our constitution guarantees a right to keep and bear
arms, but not to keep guns secret from the government or possess
military style weapons and high capacity magazines,” Kim said
in court.  Heller filed the current challenge in July 2008, just 12
days after Washington lawmakers passed emergency legislation to
comply with the high court ruling in the first Heller case. A
federal trial judge dismissed the case in March after finding
that the city’s regulations were an appropriate balance between
public safety and an individual’s right to own a gun.  The case is Heller v. District of Columbia 10-07036, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 