-- Michael Douglas Ex-Wife's `Wall Street' Suit Is Tossed Over Venue Issue
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-11-15T21:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/michael-douglas-ex-wife-s-wall-street-suit-is-tossed-over-venue-issue.html
A New York judge dismissed a suit
brought by the ex-wife of actor  Michael Douglas  for half his
earnings as the avaricious Gordon Gekko in “Wall Street: Money
Never Sleeps,” ruling that California was the proper venue.  Diandra Douglas sued in New York state court in June,
arguing she was entitled to share in the proceeds from the 2010
sequel to the 1987 “Wall Street” film. She cited the former
couple’s 1998 settlement agreement giving her the right to 50
percent of the proceeds from films, television and stage work
Michael Douglas did during their marriage -- and, she says,
anything related to those projects.  The California court “has greater familiarity than this
court with both the law of community property and the facts of
the underlying divorce,” state  Supreme Court  Justice Matthew F.
Cooper wrote in a Nov. 9 decision made public today.  “California, not New York, is the proper forum for this
lawsuit,” Cooper wrote, though he considered that Diandra
Douglas resides in New York.  Michael and Diandra Douglas were divorced in California in
2000 after 23 years of marriage.  The actor’s attorney argued at an August hearing that the
agreement didn’t include new movies such as “Wall Street: Money
Never Sleeps,” which opened in September. Douglas gave his wife
what was she was entitled to receive under his contract 12 years
ago, the attorney said.  California Court  In the decision, Cooper also quotes from the couple’s 1998
document stating that the California court “specifically
retains jurisdiction to resolve any dispute.”  “I think it’s a fantastic decision and certainly we never
believed for a moment that she had any basis to obtain the
relief she sought,” Michael Douglas’s  attorney , Marilyn
Chinitz, said in a telephone interview. Nancy Chemtob, who
represents Diandra Douglas, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  Michael and Diandra Douglas have one child, Cameron, who
was sentenced to five years in prison in April for drug dealing.
Michael Douglas is now married to  Catherine Zeta-Jones .  The case is Douglas v. Douglas, 350044/2010, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 