-- Microsoft Introduces New Games Site on MSN With Windows Live, Bing Games
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-11-15T21:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/microsoft-introduces-new-games-site-with-windows-live-bing.html
Microsoft Corp.  is creating a
social-games hub in partnership with CrowdStar International
Ltd., the second-largest maker of such titles on Facebook.  Microsoft is overhauling the MSN Games site to let players
compete with each other across Web properties including Bing
Games and Windows Live Messenger, the companies said today in a
statement. Players using the Microsoft Game Hub will be able to
see each others’ scores across the Microsoft platforms and
Facebook Inc.’s social network.  Microsoft Game Hub will compete against a crowded field of
companies moving to capitalize on consumer interest in games
that can be played for a few minutes at a time. Yahoo! Inc.,
Facebook and Apple Inc. have established social-gaming platforms
over the past few years.  Games on Facebook gained popularity in the U.S. last year,
leading  Electronic Arts Inc.  to purchase Playfish Inc., the
maker of “Pet Society” and “Restaurant City,” for as much as
$400 million.  Walt Disney Co.  agreed to buy Playdom Inc.,
another supplier of games on Facebook, for $563.2 million in
July.  MSN Games, a unit of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft,
offers more than 1,000 titles, including “Bejeweled,” “Mah
Jong Tiles” and “Spades.”  In February, San Francisco-based Zynga Game Network Inc.,
the largest maker of social games on Facebook, began letting
users of Microsoft’s game site play “FarmVille.”  Developer Rankings  Closely held CrowdStar, whose offerings include the virtual
fish-care game “Happy Aquarium,” is the third-largest
developer overall behind Zynga and Phrases on Facebook’s social
network, with more than 50 million monthly active users,
according to the latest ranking from AppData.com, a website that
tracks application use on Facebook.  Under the partnership, CrowdStar’s games will be featured
first on Bing Games before rolling out to other Microsoft sites,
the companies said.  Games on social networks such as Facebook and MySpace are
free of charge. The makers generate revenue by selling virtual
goods.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software company, fell 7
cents to $26.20 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
 trading . The shares have dropped 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 Cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  