-- Banks Spur High-Grade Loan Trading With Market Poised to Double
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2010-11-15T10:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/high-grade-loan-trading-to-double-in-2010-as-banks-chase-lower-risk-assets.html
BP Plc and Telefonica SA loans rose
as banks boosted their holdings from secondary trading, spurring
a market for high-grade debt that may double this year to as
much as 20 billion euros ($27 billion).  Loans to Spanish phone company Telefonica rose 25 basis
points to 98.75 cents on the euro, according to WestLB AG.
Traders are offering BP loans at 99 cents on the dollar, a
percentage point higher than where the debt was allocated in
October. BP faces $40 billion of projected costs to clean up the
Gulf of Mexico after the worst accidental oil spill in history.  Banks stung by $1.8 trillion of losses in the credit crisis
are trading high-grade debt as a way to gain access to safer
assets, pushing up the loan prices of companies including
London-based BP, Telefonica and Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, the
world’s largest beer maker. Unlike in the bigger market for
leveraged loans, trading tends to be limited to banks rather
than funds.  “Everyone wants exposure to high-grade European corporates
right now,” said Paul Martin, director of credit trading for
Europe, Asia-Pacific and Australasia at WestLB in London. “It’s
a flight to quality. When the bottom fell out of the leveraged
loan market, the emphasis came back onto safer and more
conservative lending and higher-grade assets.”  About 12.4 billion euros of investment-grade deals were
traded in the first nine months of the year, according to data
from WestLB and Markit Group Ltd. That’s expected to increase to
15 billion euros to 20 billion euros for the full year, based on
current trading levels, compared with about 10 billion euros
last year, said Martin.  ‘Desperate’  High-grade loan trading has been slow to develop because in
the past the debt was usually held to maturity by arranging
banks. This year, new investment-grade loan volume at less than
half its 2007 peak of $615 billion is pushing would-be lenders
excluded from syndications into the secondary market.  “All the second-tier and third-tier banks that would
normally buy into a general syndication aren’t getting a look in
even though they’ve got money to invest,” said  Stephen Faldo ,
head of secondary loans at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in
London. “They’re all desperate so they will try to get into
those deals in secondary.”  The market for high-grade trading is still dwarfed by
trading of leveraged, or high-yield, loans, usually sold to
hedge funds and collateralized loan obligations. In Europe,
about 40 billion euros traded in the first three quarters of
2010 and $300 billion was traded in the U.S.  Tracking CDS  Actively-traded loans, including to Anheuser-Busch, France
Telecom SA and Spanish water utility Iberdrola SA, have risen by
an average of 93 basis points since the start of the year to an
average mid-price of 99.1 percent of face value, according to
data from WestLB. Deals that pay an interest margin of 100 basis
points or more have attracted the most interest, Faldo said.  Banks that trade loans are also more sensitive to the value
of their investments implied by borrowers’ credit-default swaps.
Contracts insuring Telefonica’s debt against default are quoted
at 143.5 basis points, compared with 152 at the end of
September, according to prices from data provider CMA at 9:08
a.m. in London. Swaps protecting BP’s creditors against non-
payment are priced at 124.8 basis points, compared with 165.2 on
Sept. 30. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
improving perceptions of credit quality.  “The syndicated loan is much more of a moving beast than
the block of cement it would have been in the past. It’s a lot
easier to trade,” said Martin. “Investment-grade trading is
here to stay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 