-- Miller Sees U.S. Stocks Up 15% in Next 12 Months
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-11-15T17:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/miller-sees-u-s-stocks-gaining-15-over-next-12-months-on-fed-s-stimulus.html
Legg Mason Inc.’s  Bill Miller  said
U.S. stocks may rise 15 percent in the next 12 months as the
Federal Reserve continues efforts to inflate asset prices and
boost the economy.  “The Fed wants the stock market to go up, and they will do
what’s necessary to get it to whatever level it takes for the
wealth effect of higher stock prices to stimulate growth,”
Miller wrote in a letter to shareholders released today.  Miller, famed for beating the  S&P 500  for a record 15
straight years through 2005, trailed the U.S. benchmark for the
next three years as he underestimated the severity of the
financial crisis and bets on banks and real-estate companies
backfired. He outperformed peers in 2009 as the stock market
rebounded from a 12-year low.  Declines in top holdings such as power producer AES Corp.
have hurt returns in 2010. Miller’s $4.1 billion Legg Mason
Capital Management  Value Trust  fund was up 3.8 percent this year
through Nov. 12, compared with a 9.4 percent return for the S&P
500, including reinvested dividends. In the past five years, the
fund declined at an average annual rate of 7.7 percent.  The Federal Reserve on Nov. 3 announced plans to buy $600
billion in U.S. Treasuries in a round of unconventional monetary
stimulus known as quantitative easing. The Fed left unchanged
its pledge to keep interest rates low for an “extended
period.”  Fed Critics  The Fed’s plan has prompted criticism from leaders in
China, Germany and Brazil, who have said it will depress the
value of the dollar and has the potential to fuel speculative
money flows. It has also spurred U.S. investors and economists,
including hedge-fund manager Cliff Asness and Stanford
University Professor John Taylor, to urge Fed Chairman Ben
Bernanke to halt the stimulus, saying it risks an increase in
inflation.  Miller said the most likely negative impact of the Fed’s
purchases is higher commodity prices, which could slow economic
growth and blunt the impact of the stimulus.  “This is not an endorsement of the policy, just a
statement that I think the Fed has the tools to change the
aggregate portfolio preferences toward riskier assets, and that
it intends to use them.”  Miller, who has managed the Value Trust fund since its
inception in 1982, remained a long-term optimist on the U.S.
market even amid the slump that dragged stocks down 39 percent
in 2008. He stuck to his bullish bets on an economic recovery
last year, rejecting the idea of a “new normal” characterized
by below-average U.S. economic growth and high unemployment as
outlined by Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Chief Executive
Officer Mohamed El-Erian.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 