-- IMF Lowers Dollar, Yen Weights in Its SDR Valuation Basket, Increases Euro
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-16T05:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/imf-lowers-dollar-yen-weights-in-its-sdr-valuation-basket-increases-euro.html
The International Monetary Fund cut
the weighting of the dollar and the yen and increased that of
the euro in its Special Drawing Rights valuation basket based on
the currencies’ share of global trade.  The value of the SDR, which the IMF created in 1969 to
supplement its member countries official reserves, will continue
to be derived from a basket of currencies comprised of the
dollar, euro, yen and pound, the fund said in an e-mailed
statement. UBS AG, the world’s second-largest foreign-exchange
trader, said in June the IMF may include the Australian and
Canadian dollars in the SDR basket this year. Commodity currency
“bulls” will be disappointed at their exclusion, UBS said
today in a note to clients.  “There’s a long-term trend towards less U.S. dollars and
more euro in terms of where central banks are putting their
reserves, and this is consistent with that,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia 
in Sydney. “There was some talk of the IMF putting in other
currencies like the Aussie, but they’ve kept to the big four.”  The greenback’s weighting was cut to 41.9 percent compared
with 44 percent after a 2005 review, the fund said in its
statement dated yesterday. The euro’s share rose to 37.4 percent
from 34 percent. The yen’s fell to 9.4 percent from 11 percent,
while the pound was little changed at 11.3 percent. SDRs are the
Washington-based lender’s unit of account.  The new valuations will be effective Jan. 1, the IMF said.  Chinese Yuan  China’s yuan should “immediately” be included in the SDR
basket given its importance to the world economy,  Guo Shuqing ,
Chairman of China Construction Bank Corp., said today in Beijing.  The dollar’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves has
been declining. The proportion dropped to 62.1 percent in the
second quarter from 65.2 percent in the three months ended March
2009, the IMF said Sept. 30. The allocation to euro rose to 27.8
percent in the third quarter of 2009 from 25.8 percent in early
2009 before slipping to 26.5 percent in the three months ended
June 30 amid concern about Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Reserve allocations to other currencies -- which UBS has
said consists largely of the Australian and Canadian dollars --
increased to 3.8 percent in the second quarter from 2.1 percent
at the start of 2009, according to IMF data.  The changes in weights are a “technical adjustment” and
are based on a criterion that’s been in place for a decade, said
 Bill Murray , an IMF spokesman.  “There was never any plan to revise the currencies at the
latest five-year review,” Murray said in response to e-mailed
questions. The aim was “to revise the relative weights of the
currencies within the existing basket based principally to
reflect changes in trade flows since the last review.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 