-- IMF Says More Time Is Needed to Gauge Iceland Debt-Relief Impact
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-11-15T14:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/imf-says-more-time-needed-to-gauge-iceland-debt-relief-impact-on-finances.html
The International Monetary Fund said
it needs more time to gauge the impact on Iceland’s finances of
plans to forgive mortgage obligations as the government responds
to last month’s protests demanding debt relief.  “Broad agreement has been reached on policies that can
deliver program objectives but more time is needed to assess the
impact of new measures under consideration to facilitate
household debt restructuring,” the IMF said in a statement
yesterday. “Discussions for the review will continue in the
next few weeks, with the aim of bringing the review for approval
to the Fund’s Executive Board in late 2010 or early 2011.”  Iceland ’s lawmakers, banks and other groups started talks
last week on the extent of relief to be given to households
after a team of experts put forward 11 proposals including
forgiving as much as 15.5 percent of mortgage debt. A mission
sent by the IMF, which is leading a $4.6 billion loan to rebuild
Iceland’s economy, was in Reykjavik from Nov. 2 until yesterday
to discuss a fourth review of the bailout program.  “Iceland’s post-crisis stabilization is continuing,
supported by a steady implementation of program policies,” the
IMF said.  The island’s fourth IMF review would release a $163 million
tranche. The central bank needs the funds to bolster currency
reserves, which stood at 471.9 billion kronur ($4.2 billion) at
the end of October.  CDS Easing  The cost of insuring against an Icelandic government
default has dropped this year from a February high. Credit
default swaps on five-year debt eased to 273 basis points
yesterday from 674.6 on Feb. 1, according to data available on
Bloomberg.  Debt-relief proposals put forward by a panel with
representatives from the government, opposition, pension funds
and banks include limiting mortgage obligations to 110 percent
of property values or a step-by-step reduction of obligations to
90 percent of asset values. The government could also take over
mortgages from lenders -- though this measure wouldn’t include
mortgages issued by the state-backed Housing Financing Fund --
and then reduce those debts through arbitration.  Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir ’s Social Democrat,
Left-Green government is trying to assist families hit by last
year’s 20 percent drop in real, disposable incomes and prevent
the 39 percent of households whose mortgage debts exceed the
value of their properties from losing their homes. The
initiative follows protests last month in which as many as 8,000
Icelanders demonstrated outside the parliament demanding debt
relief.  ‘Limited’ Effect  Sigurdardottir in October extended by five months a
moratorium on foreclosures. Her government has also put forward
a bill allowing bankrupts to walk away from their debts after
two years. A June court ban on foreign-currency indexed lending
will probably have a “limited” effect on bank capital, the IMF
said yesterday.  Central bank Governor  Mar Gudmundsson  said in a Nov. 8
interview that political discussions about debt relief
“constantly implicitly promising something more” have
“somewhat impaired” the incentive of households to enter
existing restructuring programs.  The IMF said yesterday that “accelerating household and
corporate debt restructuring in a fiscally affordable way is
critical to Iceland’s economic recovery and for sustainable
growth over the medium term.”  Iceland’s banks were state-controlled successors to the
failed lenders that brought down the economy two years ago and
still owe creditors about $86 billion. The resolution committees
of  Kaupthing Bank hf  and  Glitnir Bank hf  agreed on behalf of
creditors to take stakes in their successors, Arion Bank hf and
Islandsbanki hf, to cover part of their claims.  The government holds an 81.33 percent stake in NBI hf, the
successor to  Landsbanki Islands hf . The remaining stake is
controlled by Landsbanki’s resolution committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  