-- Vodafone Told to Set Aside $554 Million in India Tax
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 2010-11-15T11:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/india-top-court-asks-vodafone-to-deposit-25-billion-rupees.html
Vodafone Group Plc , the world’s
biggest mobile-phone company by sales, was ordered by India’s
Supreme Court to pay a deposit while it challenges a tax bill
for the country’s largest cross-border deal.  A Supreme Court panel headed by Chief Justice  S.H. Kapadia 
told Vodafone today it has to set aside 25 billion rupees ($554
million) with the court within three weeks and submit bank
guarantees for 85 billion rupees in eight weeks. India is
seeking 112 billion rupees on Vodafone’s purchase of  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. ’s local mobile-phone unit three years ago.  The order means the company will likely reflect the deposit
in future financial statements since  Vodafone  didn’t set aside
provisions for the payment, analysts said. A verdict against
Vodafone in the trial may undermine the country’s appeal for
foreign investors, said  Paul Marsch , an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in London.  “There’s a bigger issue regarding the clarity of the tax
regime and the regulator regime that foreign companies operate
under in the Indian market,” Marsch said before the
announcement. “There’s no precedent for this situation.”  Vodafone said it will provide the deposit and bank
guarantee, adding that it is “confident that there is no tax
liability resulting from this transaction and all the tax and
legal advice it has received remains consistent with this
view.”  The stock dropped as much as 1.2 percent to 171.9 pence in
London trading and was down 0.1 percent as of 11:32 a.m.  Buying Hutchison India  The deposit will be returned with interest if Vodafone wins
the legal dispute, according to the court. The next hearing in
the case will be on Feb. 24.  “It is not standard practice, especially at the Supreme
Court level, although there’s nothing that prevents something
like this from being done,” according to  Akil Hirani , managing
partner at Mumbai-based law firm Majmudar & Co. “Deposits in
court are common in areas of banking, property, and so on, and
now obviously you are seeing it happen in the tax space also.”  Vodafone is challenging a ruling that it owes taxes for the
2007 purchase of Hutchison’s Indian mobile-phone unit for about
$11 billion. The court said Sept. 27 the company has to put up a
deposit before judges will consider a request to bar the tax
department from further collection efforts pending an appeal.  India is examining the tax implications for other mergers
and acquisitions, S.S.N. Moorthy, chairman of the Central Board
of Direct Taxes, said in New Delhi Oct. 26.  Offshore Transaction  Vodafone doesn’t owe the Indian government taxes because
the transaction was conducted offshore, with Vodafone’s Dutch
subsidiary, Vodafone International Holdings BV, acquiring CGP
Ltd., a Cayman Islands holding company controlled by Hong Kong-
based Hutchison, the company said.  The Dutch government is likely to step in and seek talks
with the Indian government to discuss the tax issue under a
formal tax treaty that will run parallel to the ongoing court
process, Vodafone spokesman  Ben Padovan  said today via phone.  The Bombay High Court ruled Sept. 8 that Indian authorities
have the jurisdiction to seek taxes from Vodafone because the
underlying assets were in India. While Hutchison profited from
the sale, the Indian tax department has pursued Vodafone, saying
that in this case the company should have withheld the tax from
its payment to Hutchison.  Hutchison reiterated today that the transaction should not
be subject to tax in India.  ‘Raging Success’  When Vodafone announced its acquisition of Hutchison Essar
shares, the British phone company’s chief executive officer at
the time,  Arun Sarin , said he planned to make the India
telecommunications venture a “raging success.” Instead, the
company in May took a $3.3 billion charge for the Indian unit,
citing “intense price competition.”  Vodafone competes against 14 operators in the world’s
second-largest market for mobile phone customers. Vodafone Essar
Ltd., Vodafone’s India unit, is the nation’s third-largest
operator, after Bharti Airtel Ltd. and Reliance Communications
Ltd., with 114 million customers and a 17 percent share of the
market at the end of August, according to data from India’s
telecommunications regulator.  -- With assistance from  Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi and Jonathan
Browning in London. Editor:  Anand Krishnamoorthy ,  Terje Langeland ,  Young-Sam Cho .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  