-- India Inflation Slows to a Nine-Month Low, Reducing Interest Rate Pressure
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-15T07:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/inflation-in-india-slows-to-lowest-in-nine-months-easing-pressure-on-rate.html
India’s  inflation  slowed in October
to the lowest level in nine months, reducing pressure on the
central bank to extend Asia’s fastest round of interest-rate
increases this year.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 8.58 percent from
a year earlier after an 8.62 percent increase in September,
according to a commerce ministry statement in New Delhi today.
The median forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for an 8.5 percent gain.  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , who raised rates on Nov. 2 for
the sixth time this year, said the central bank may refrain from
boosting them for three months, partly to ward off the risk of
inflation-stoking capital inflows from overseas. The Reserve
Bank of India also wants to assess the impact of the monetary
tightening on consumer demand. The government said on Nov. 12
factory output growth dropped to a 16-month low in September.  “We see an interest-rate pause for now,”  Indranil Pan ,
chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, said
before the report. “They will resume raising rates next year if
inflation does not drop fast enough.”  India’s central bank is aiming to cool inflation to 6
percent by March 31.  Stocks, Rupee  Stocks, bonds and the rupee were little changed after the
report. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  rose 0.1
percent to 20,184.24 as of 12:10 p.m. in Mumbai. The rupee fell
0.7 percent to 45.1 against the dollar on concern that weakening
industrial output will moderate capital flows into the nation’s
assets. The yield on the 12-year government bond was unchanged
at 8.06 percent.  So far this year, the interest-rate differential between
India and advanced countries spurred an unprecedented $10
billion inflow into rupee debt, strengthening the currency by
4.2 percent against the dollar since Sept. 1. Overseas funds
also invested a record $28.5 billion into Indian stocks since
Jan. 1 on prospects of faster economic expansion in the South
Asian nation, driving the stock index to near a record.  Rate Differential  The Reserve Bank’s benchmark  repurchase rate  is 6.25
percent. By comparison, the U.S. Federal Reserve’s target for
overnight interbank loans is zero to 0.25 percent, where it has
been since December 2008. The Fed Nov. 3 left unchanged its
pledge to keep rates low for an “extended period” and said it
will buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June.  The Bank of Japan last month unveiled a 5 trillion-yen ($61
billion) fund that will buy government and corporate debt, as
well as invest in real-estate investment trusts and exchange-
traded funds to spur growth.  Shubhada Rao , chief economist at Yes Bank in Mumbai, said
India’s central bank may pause its rate-increase cycle for an
“extended” period as counterparts abroad ease their monetary
policies.  “Also, there has been some moderation in industrial output
and food inflation has also fallen in recent weeks,” Rao said.
“Therefore, we think rates have seen their peak in India.”  India’s  industrial output  rose 4.4 percent in September
after growing 6.9 percent in August, the statistics office said
on Nov. 12.  Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the nation’s second biggest
producer, and rival JSW Steel Ltd., said they cut prices of flat
products, used to make cars, by as much as 2 percent for
November.  India’s  food inflation  slowed to a one-year low of 12.3
percent in the week ended Oct. 30. Food prices in India are
declining after the country received the heaviest rainfall in
three years in the June to September monsoon season, helping
spur farm production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 