-- Inventories at U.S. Companies Increase 0.9%, More Than Forecast
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-15T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/inventories-at-u-s-companies-increase-0-9-more-than-forecast.html
Inventories  in the U.S. rose more
than forecast in September as companies stocked shelves ahead of
the holiday season.  The 0.9 percent increase matched the rise in August that was
larger than previously estimated, the Commerce Department said
today in Washington. Sales rose 0.5 percent, led by retailers.  Companies had enough goods on hand to supply 1.27 month’s
worth of sales at September’s pace, the same as in the prior
month. Inventory replenishment, a major driver in the early part
of the economic recovery, is continuing at a stronger-than-
forecast pace, indicating stockpiling will need to cool in coming
months, adding less to growth.  “As we see inventory investment decelerate in coming
quarters, the impact on GDP will be negative,”  Sal Guatieri , a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said before
the report. At the same time, “inventory levels remain fairly
lean and companies will need to continue restocking shelves and
warehouses.”  Economists  forecast  inventories would rise 0.8 percent,
according to the median of 50 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from gains of 0.2 percent to 1 percent.
The August gain in stockpiles was previously estimated at 0.6
percent.  Other reports today showed retail sales climbed more than
forecast in October and manufacturing in the New York region
unexpectedly shrank this month.  Sales Climb  Retail purchases  rose 1.2 percent, exceeding the highest
estimate among economists surveyed, after a 0.7 percent September
increase that was larger than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s so-called Empire
State  Index  fell to minus 11.1 from 15.7 in October, the branch
of the central bank said. Readings less than zero signal
contractions in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers
New York, northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s report not
previously released, increased 0.8 percent in September, matching
the gain in sales. Auto dealers and building material stores led
the advance.  Factory inventories rose 0.7 percent and wholesale
stockpiles increased 1.5 percent. The gains in stockpiles
exceeded the advance in sales in both categories, indicating that
manufacturers and distributors may need to cool the pace of
inventory rebuilding in coming months.  Economic Growth  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2 percent annual pace
in the third quarter, up from a 1.7 percent gain in the second
quarter, according to figures from the Commerce Department last
month.  Gains in inventories contributed 1.44 percentage point to
growth in the third quarter after a 0.82 point contribution in
the second quarter.  Macy’s Inc . is among retailers adding to stockpiles in
anticipation spending will pick up during the holidays. The
second-biggest U.S. department-store chain last week reported
third-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  “We have focused on building fresh inventories in
opportunity areas to help drive our fourth-quarter sales,” Chief
Financial Officer  Karen Hoguet  said on a conference call. “While
higher than it has been, the inventory level is still well below
our comp-store sales trend.”  Carmakers are also building inventories as demand picks up.
General Motors Co. and  Ford Motor Co . reported U.S. sales
increases that topped analysts’ estimates, making October the
best month for vehicle deliveries in more than a year.  “That’s a good harbinger of the economy starting to move
forward,”  Ken Czubay , Ford’s U.S. sales chief, said on a
conference call. “It’s good to see the industry nudging
forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  