-- Ireland Pushed by ECB’s Ordonez to Make ‘Final Decision’ on Aid
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-11-15T10:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/ireland-pushed-by-ecb-s-ordonez-for-decision-on-aid-before-ministers-meet.html
Ireland was prodded by European
Central Bank council member  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  to
make a “final decision” on its fiscal crisis to calm markets
as finance ministers prepare to discuss an aid plan.  “The situation in the markets in recent weeks has been
very negative due in some way to the lack of a final decision by
Ireland,” Ordonez told reporters today in Madrid. “It’s not me
who should take a decision about Ireland, it’s Ireland that
should take the right decision at the right moment.”  The comments by Spain’s central bank governor underscore
pressure on Ireland to accept a bailout and help reverse a bond
sell-off among the euro-region’s deficit-laden nations. Germany
has pressed for Ireland to take aid before tomorrow’s ministers’
meeting in Brussels, according to a German government official.  Allaying investor concerns about Irish finances would help
advance Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s plan to require investors to
help pay for future rescues, a German government official said.
 European  leaders remain divided on Merkel’s proposal, the timing
of a bailout for Ireland and whether the ECB should keep buying
bonds of debt-laden countries.  “As long as European governments go back and forth, the
markets won’t settle down,” said  Marco Annunziata , chief
economist at UniCredit Group in London. “We’re likely to see
markets getting more nervous and worried about what is going on
in Europe.”  The yield on Ireland’s 10-year notes fell 10 basis points
to 8.263 percent at 10:30 a.m. in London. It has jumped more
than 200 points in the past month. The euro weakened 0.4 percent
to $1.3637.  Irish Banks  While Ireland says it doesn’t need to raise money until
mid-2011, its banks, weakened by a property-market collapse,
have grown increasingly reliant on the ECB as the country’s
borrowing costs rise. Borrowing from the ECB by lenders in
Ireland rose 7.3 percent to 130 billion euros as of Oct. 29,
about 80 percent of gross domestic product.  A request for aid may total about 80 billion euros ($110
billion) between 2011 and 2013, according to Barclays Capital.
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said today on France
Info radio no aid request has been made.  Ireland’s Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  may ask European
counterparts in Brussels to consider allowing the nation’s banks
tap the EU’s emergency fund, the Irish Independent said today ,
without citing anyone. The government is also considering
bringing forward the announcement of next year’s budget,
scheduled to be unveiled Dec. 7, by a week, the Dublin-based
newspaper said.  Deposit Outflows  Allied Irish Banks Plc , the second-largest bank, is due to
release a trading statement this week, where it may give details
on its funding situation. Dublin-based  Bank of Ireland Plc  said
last week its loan-to-deposit ratio rose to about 160 percent
from 145 percent on June 30 after outflows from its capital-
markets unit.  The premium that investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds over the benchmark German bonds was 556 basis points,
compared to 563 points on Nov. 12 and a record 646 Nov. 11.  Irish officials had said as recently as yesterday lunchtime
that a bailout wasn’t being considered. Seeking aid hasn’t been
discussed by Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s Cabinet,
Enterprise Minister  Batt O’Keeffe  told broadcaster RTE, denying
that there is a “crisis.”  Ireland is not going to give up its “hard-won”
sovereignty, O’Keeffe said on RTE. The ruling Fianna Fail party
grew out of the armed movement that opposed the treaty with
Britain dividing Ireland in the 1920s.  Bond Slump  Bonds in Ireland, Portugal and Greece have plummeted since
EU leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to draft a permanent crisis
mechanism to replace the euro-rescue fund set up in May once its
mandate expires in 2013. That prompted European finance chiefs
to issue a statement at a Group of 20 summit in Seoul last week
saying the plan being debated to have investors cover future
bailout costs would have “no impact” on existing debt.  Ordonez said in the speech that “it should be hoped that
an appropriate reaction on the part of the Irish authorities,”
along with the statement from the G-20, will “help to calm the
markets.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
the group of euro finance ministers, said Nov. 12 there was “no
immediate reason” to think Ireland will seek cash and that
officials wouldn’t meet before the monthly talks in Brussels.  Jumping Yields  Yields on bonds of Spain and Portugal also jumped amid
concern that fallout from Ireland would spread. The  extra yield 
that investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-year bonds instead
of German bunds climbed to a record 484 basis points on Nov. 11.
Foreign Minister  Luis Amado  told Expresso magazine day earlier
that the country’s membership of the euro could be at stake if
the country fails to grapple with its deficit.  Greece’s spread was little changed at 887 basis points
today. Revised figures from the EU’s statistics office today
showed that Greece had the euro region’s largest budget deficit
last year. It was changed to 15.4 percent of GDP from 13.6
percent. That surpassed Ireland’s 14.4 percent shortfall.  An Irish decision to seek financial help “is a purely
political decision on the back of an assessment of the broader
risk of the spread levels to economic and financial stability,”
said  Erik Nielsen , chief European economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in London.  Bailout Cost  Bailing out Ireland’s financial system could cost as much
as 50 billion euros under a “stress case” scenario compiled by
the Finance Ministry and central bank. The country’s gross
funding need for 2011 will be 23.5 billion euros, falling to
18.6 billion euros in 2014, the nation’s debt agency says.  “While the sovereign is fully funded through the first
half of next year, consideration also has to be given to the
banking situation,”  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at Goodbody
Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in an interview.  The International Monetary Fund stands ready to help
Ireland if needed, Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said
Nov. 13 in Yokohama, Japan.  “So far I haven’t received any kind of request,” he
said. “If at one point in time, tomorrow, in two months or two
years, the Irish want support from the IMF, we will be ready.”  In a Nov. 12 conference call of ECB officials, Ireland was
pressed to seek outside help within days, a person briefed on
the discussions said on condition of anonymity. Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  has called for ending the ECB’s emergency
bond-buying program, which has benefited deficit-laden countries
such as Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  Balance Sheet Damage  The risk for the ECB is that buying those bonds could
eventually hurt the central bank’s balance sheet, damaging its
independence.  Irish officials have indicated they hope the 2011 budget
will placate markets as they try to cut a budget deficit which
will be about 12 percent of gross domestic product this year, or
32 percent when the costs of the banking rescue are included.
Lenihan’s plan includes 6 billion euros of spending cuts and tax
increases next year.  “The ecofin meeting is crucial to resolving this,”
O’Leary said. “There is every reason to be a standoff. It’s a
big decision for Ireland to seek aid, with big consequences. On
the other hand, Europe wants to nip the situation in the bud.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dara Doyle  at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at  jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher in London at  jfraher@bloomberg.net  