-- Ireland Said to Weigh Pumping Capital Into Banks to Halt Crisis
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-15T17:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/ireland-said-to-weigh-pumping-cash-into-national-banks-to-halt-debt-crisis.html
Ireland may pump more cash into the
country’s banks to push capital above regulatory targets set in
March in a bid to allay concern about rising loan losses, said a
person with direct knowledge of the situation.  The plan is among those being considered by officials as
they try to slow a crisis that’s sent the yield on Irish
government debt to a record, said the person, who declined to be
identified because a decision hasn’t yet been reached. A Finance
Ministry spokesman declined to comment.  Concern that loan losses may increase is hampering banks’
ability to raise cash. One solution may be to “over-
capitalize” Irish banks, Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan 
said last week. Lenders were in March ordered to have an equity
Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 7 percent by the year’s end.  “Capital is firmly back on the radar,”  Eamonn Hughes , an
analyst at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in a note to
clients today. “Higher Irish bond yields and a weakening
economy” are being “compounded by the market’s lack of comfort
with a 7 percent core equity trough for the Irish banks.”  The Irish government, which has said repeatedly in recent
days it doesn’t need a bailout, was publicly pushed by ECB
council members today to make a decision on aid to calm markets.
While the government says it’s fully funded until the middle of
2011, the country’s lenders are reliant on emergency funding
from the European Central Bank. Ireland’s government meets
tomorrow, before EU finance ministers gather in Brussels,
Justice Minister  Dermot Ahern  told reporters today.  The person declined to say whether the EU’s bailout fund or
the National Pensions Reserve Fund, which injected 7 billion
euros into Bank of Ireland Plc and Allied Irish Banks Plc last
year, could be tapped to inject further capital into the
lenders. The NPRF, which had 17.9 billion euros at the end of
September, already owns 36 percent of Bank of Ireland and 19
percent of Allied Irish.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said today Ireland
could use the European Financial Stability Facility to help prop
up its banking system.  The regulator in March directed  Bank of Ireland  and  Allied
Irish , the country’s two biggest lenders, to raise a combined 10
billion euros ($10.4 billion) by the end of the year to meet the
new regulatory target. In September, the regulator ordered
Allied Irish to raise 3 billion euros more than its original 7.4
billion-euro target after writedowns on loans the lender is
transferring to the government soared.  Dublin-based Bank of Ireland, the country’s biggest lender
by market value, said last week it experienced “deposit
outflows over a five- to six-week period in late August and
early September.” The bank lost 10 billion euros in deposits in
the period,  Ciaran Callaghan , an analyst at Dublin-based NCB
Stockbrokers, estimated today.  Allied Irish had similar outflows since June, the Sunday
Times reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  Catherine Burke , a spokeswoman for the Dublin-based
lender, declined to comment on the report.  “Over-capitalizing the banks would also help build
confidence,” Honohan said in a speech on Nov. 10. “But this is
not something which the state can be lightly asked to do, given
the pressures on its finances.”  Bank of Ireland fell 2.9 percent to 39.6 cents in Dublin
trading while Allied Irish jumped 5.7 percent to 40.7 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 