-- Cowen Says Ireland to Discuss Banks With EU Tomorrow
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-11-15T19:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/ireland-is-working-on-bank-stability-not-seeking-european-aid-cowen-says.html
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  signaled
that his government will discuss measures to help the Irish
banking system with European finance ministers tomorrow as he
resists pressure to ask for a bailout of the country’s finances.  “We have to discuss these matters with partners as to how
best to underpin financial and banking stability within the euro
area,” Cowen said in an interview with Irish broadcaster RTE in
Dublin today. Cowen stressed the government is making no aid
application “for the funding of the state” and said he doesn’t
expect any concrete agreement to come out of tomorrow’s talks.  As European officials push Ireland to request aid, Cowen’s
language marks a shift from last week, when the government said
there were no talks underway with European authorities. While
the government still says it has enough cash to last it until
mid-2011, Justice Minister  Dermot Ahern  said today the country’s
cash-strapped lenders “have issues” and contacts with the
European Central Bank and the European Commission are “ongoing.”  “The issue, as you know, has been in what way can we bring
stability into the markets so that the costs of money overall
will start to reduce,” Cowen said. If the current level “were
to become the norm, would make it difficult for the banks to
function as engines of recovery.”  Ireland’s banks have been left weakened by a property-
market collapse and grown increasingly reliant on ECB funding.
ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said today Ireland could use
European Union aid to bail out its cash-strapped banks.  Debt Woes  Irish bonds rallied as investors bet a bailout is imminent
from the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) fund created in May to
stabilize the 16-nation euro economy. Germany is leading a drive
to remedy Ireland’s debt woes before other countries succumb to
the speculation that claimed Greece as the first victim. The
yield on country’s 10-year debt fell 26 basis points to 8.15
percent, pushing the spread over benchmark German bunds to 540
basis points. That’s down from a record 652 basis points on Nov.
11.  EU-Irish aid negotiations are running in parallel with
discussions in Dublin over whether to pump more cash into banks
to push their capital above regulatory targets, said a person
with direct knowledge of the deliberations who declined to be
identified because a decision hasn’t yet been reached. A Finance
Ministry spokesman declined to comment.  Cowen indicated he doesn’t expect a concrete agreement
tomorrow night in Brussels, echoing comments by Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker .  Budget Plan  “There’ll be further discussions there and, I’m sure,
there’ll be discussions thereafter as well,” Cowen said.  Ireland is due to publish details of a four-year plan to
reduce its budget deficit and its 2011 budget within the next
month. Cowen said that the plans will help provide confidence in
Ireland.  It will “provide further evidence that the government and
the Irish nation and the country is determined to work our way
through these issues,” he said.  Irish bonds have plunged on concern on concern about the
rising cost of rescuing Anglo Irish Bank Corp., the bank it
nationalized last year. Officials put the cost of cleaning up
the banking system as high as 50 billion euros, equal to about a
third of Ireland’s economic output.  Cowen nevertheless rejected the suggestion that Ireland
will be unable to fund its obligations.  “One of the great pejorative terms that continue to be
used is this thing of bailout which suggests that the country is
in some way seeking not to meet its obligations, to meet its own
debts,” Cowen said. “That is not the case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 