-- Ireland's Resistance to EU Bailout May Rest on Crumbling Banks
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-15T13:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/irish-soverenignty-is-linked-to-biggest-banks-as-eu-pushes-bailout-package.html
Ireland’s sovereignty depends on the
nation’s biggest banks as the European Union presses the
government to accept a bailout.  While the government says it won’t need to raise money in
the bond market until the middle of 2011, Irish lenders are
depleting the collateral they need to get the emergency funding
from the European Central Bank on which they depend. Corporate
clients have pulled deposits from lenders including the
country’s biggest,  Bank of Ireland Plc .  With its lenders frozen out of Europe’s money markets and
with their deposits shrinking, the Irish government may be
forced to seek the bailout ministers have so far resisted.
European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said today
Ireland could use the European Financial Stability Facility to
help prop up its banking system to restore investor confidence.  “It’s totally clear that they absolutely must accept
external support sooner or later,” said  Christoph Weil , an
economist at  Commerzbank AG  in Frankfurt. Confidence in “the
banking system is collapsing, and they can’t stop it by
themselves.”  Bank of Ireland , the country’s biggest lender by market
value, said Nov. 12 it suffered “deposit outflows over a five-
to six-week period in late August and early September.” It
didn’t provide a figure. The lender lost 10 billion euros ($14
billion) in deposits in the period,  Ciaran Callaghan , an analyst
at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers, estimated today.  ‘Forced to Appeal’  Allied Irish Banks Plc  had similar outflows since June, the
Sunday Times reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  Catherine Burke , a spokeswoman for the Dublin-based
lender, declined to comment on the report.  The five-member  ISEQ Financial Index  has fallen 98 percent
from its peak in February 2007. Bank of Ireland and Allied Irish
account for about 80 percent of the benchmark by weighting.  If “evidence of a deposit flight in Ireland” accelerates,
“then the prospect of additional support to the banking system
could swamp the government’s comfortable cash position,”  Paul Mortimer-Lee , London-based global head of market economics at
BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a note today. “Equally, if the losses
on the banks were to be revised up again, then with banks in a
poor position to raise private capital, the government may be
forced to appeal to the European Commission for support.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is pushing
Ireland to accept EU funds to stop a bond market sell-off across
the region’s periphery.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  may ask his EU counterparts
in Brussels tomorrow to consider allowing the nation’s banks tap
the EU’s emergency fund, the Irish Independent said, without
citing anyone.  Bank ‘Burden’  Irish officials estimate the cost of rescuing the country’s
banks could total as much as 50 billion euros, equivalent to
about a third of gross domestic product. Irish and international
banks’ loan losses in the country may total at least 85 billion
euros, central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said on Nov. 11.  “Banks are a burden on the sovereign’s back,” NCB’s
Callaghan said. “If the banks were able to get access to a
contingent facility from Europe, it would be of some relief to
the sovereign.”  Ireland was the first to introduce a bank guarantee in
September 2008 as the country’s financial system came close to
collapse in the wake of the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The government took over  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  in 2009,
and is preparing to take a majority stake in Allied Irish after
it struggled to raise enough cash to reach new capital targets.  Available Collateral  The cost of the bailout rose as the National Asset
Management Agency, the body set up last year to take over
lenders’ risky commercial real-estate loans, applied deeper-
than-expected discounts to the loans it was taking over.  Frozen out of wholesale markets, Irish lenders have become
more and more reliant on ECB funding. The amount of ECB loans to
Irish banks rose 7.3 percent to 130 billion euros in October
from the previous month, Ireland’s Central Bank said on Nov. 1.
The data include both international and domestic banks operating
in Ireland.  At the end of June, Bank of Ireland had 41 billion euros of
collateral it could pledge with monetary authorities, including
the ECB, in return for funding, the lender said in its half-year
report in August. Today, the bank may only have about 12 billion
euros of net collateral available after it turned to the ECB for
loans, according to NCB’S Callaghan.  Allied Irish had 49 billion euros gross collateral at the
end of June, according to the lender’s interim report, published
in August. Of that, 24 billion euros was still available to be
pledged for ECB funding at the end of June. Allied Irish is
slated to publish a trading update this week.  “The problem for the Irish state is that banking guarantee
two years ago inextricably merged the country’s banking problems
with the sovereign,” said  Brian Lucey , associate professor of
finance at  Trinity College, Dublin . “It’s an omelette that is
impossible to un-scramble at this stage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 