-- Irish 10-Year Goverment Bonds Rise as ECB Says Nation May Use Aid to Help
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-11-15T17:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/irish-10-year-goverment-bond-spread-near-one-week-low-amid-european-talks.html
Irish 10-year bonds rose on signs
the government is getting closer to accepting aid to resolve its
fiscal crisis.  The gain narrowed the yield spread over German bunds to the
least in a week. Ireland may pump more cash into its banks to
push their capital above regulatory targets in a bid to allay
concern about rising loan losses, said a person with direct
knowledge of the situation. The government earlier said it’s in
talks with European officials about “market conditions.”  “The Irish are trying to give the impression they can get
through this by themselves, which seems increasingly unlikely,”
said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at
RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for money managers. “The
markets are wary that they could change tack, so don’t want to
short their bonds at this juncture.”  The yield on the Irish 10-year bond fell 21 basis points to
8.15 percent as of 5 p.m. in London, the lowest since Nov. 9.
The 5 percent security due October 2020 rose 1.16, or 11.60
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,364) face amount, to 79.095. The yield
difference, or  spread , over bunds narrowed 25 basis points to
538 basis points, or 5.38 percentage points, according to
Bloomberg generic data.  German bund yields rose five basis points to 2.57 percent
after reaching 2.58 percent, the most since Oct. 28, while the
yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury climbed six basis points to
2.85 percent, following a 16 basis-points advance at the end of
last week.  ‘No Support’  The  Europe Stoxx 600 Index  of shares gained 0.8 percent,
while the Irish Overall Index added 0.6 percent. The euro fell
0.6 percent to $1.3614, near the lowest level since Sept. 30,
and was 0.2 percent weaker at 112.82 yen.  European Central Bank council member  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said the country needs to make a “final decision” on
its fiscal crisis to calm markets, and ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said Ireland could use the European Financial
Stability Facility to help prop up its banking system to restore
investor confidence.  “Ongoing contacts continue at official level with
international colleagues in light of current market
conditions,” an Irish Finance Ministry spokesman said in an e-
mail yesterday. “Ireland has made no application for external
support.”  In a conference call of ECB officials on Nov. 12, Ireland
was pressed to seek outside help within days, a person said on
condition of anonymity. Ireland is “fully funded till well into
2011,” the Irish Finance Ministry spokesman said yesterday.  The Greek-German yield spread was little changed at 888
basis points after Eurostat said Greece had the euro region’s
largest budget deficit and public debt last year. Its 2009
budget shortfall was revised to 15.4 percent of gross domestic
product from 13.6 percent, surpassing Ireland’s 14.4 percent
shortfall.  Trade Surplus  While Ireland is fully funded until the middle of next
year, the yield on Irish 10-year bonds soared to a record 652
basis points above bunds on Nov. 11.  Portugal ’s yield spread
over Germany climbed to a record 484 basis points on the same
day. It has completed this year’s bond sales.  Greece received a 110 billion-euro three-year bailout from
the International Monetary Fund and the European Union in April.
The 750 billion-euro stability facility was created the
following month to provide umbrella protection to other euro-
region countries, initially causing yield spreads to plunge.  Irish bonds led spreads wider over the last month on
concern that the cost of supporting Ireland’s banks will
overwhelm government finances. Portuguese yields climbed as
political wrangling keeps the nation from agreeing to measures
that will reduce its budget deficit.  Germany is pressing Ireland to seek aid before a meeting of
European finance ministers tomorrow to calm market volatility
and win agreement on making investors help pay for future
bailouts, a German government official said yesterday.  Merkel Plan  Unless investor concerns about an Irish default are
allayed, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s plan requiring investors to
take write-offs in sovereign rescues as part of a crisis-
resolution mechanism to take effect in 2013 will be jeopardized,
said the official, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private.  Irish and Portuguese bonds rallied on Nov. 12 when European
finance ministers said that any burden sharing would not apply
to outstanding debt.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc advised investors to buy two-year
notes issued by so-called peripheral euro-area nations because
the debt will mature before the EFSF backstop expires.  “The EFSF guarantees financing until mid-2013 with no
European pressure to restructure over this period,” London-
based strategists  Charles Diebel  and David Page wrote today in
an investor report. “We therefore advocate taking long
positions in two-year peripheral debt versus the equivalent
German bond.”  Credit-Default Swaps  The head of the euro area’s financial backstop plans to
attend tomorrow’s meeting of European finance ministers, a
spokesman said as Ireland considers whether to request aid.  Klaus Regling , chief executive officer of the EFSF, will
take part in the euro area ministerial meeting in Brussels, said
EFSF spokesman Christof Roche. Regling regularly participates in
such gatherings, said Roche.  Irish bonds lost 12.5 percent this year, while Portuguese
debt handed investors a loss of 9 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bonds returned 8 percent and U.S.
Treasuries 7.8 percent, the indexes show.  Credit-default swaps on Ireland declined 7.5 basis points
to 529, reversing an earlier increase, according to data
provider CMA. Swaps on Portugal decreased 3 basis points to 433,
Italy fell 3 to 185 and Spain was one lower at 260.  European exports increased for a second month in September,
indicating euro-region companies withstood the impact of a
strengthening single currency on their foreign sales.  The 16-nation euro region posted a 2.4 billion-euro  trade
surplus  in September, compared with a deficit of 1.7 billion
euros a month earlier, beating the 1 billion-euro median
estimate of three economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Italy sold 1.76 billion euros of floating 2017 notes in
exchange for securities maturing between September 2011 and July
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  