-- Iron Baron's Descendant Hires Chemists to Reinvent Chianti: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2010-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/iron-baron-s-descendant-hires-chemists-to-reinvent-chianti-john-mariani.html
Swirling a glass of his just-
released, 100 percent sangiovese 2007 Colledila,  Baron Francesco
Ricasoli  shrugs and dismisses the wines that elevated Tuscany’s
status as Italy’s center of cult labels.  “Super Tuscans were wines of the 1990s,” he says at a
media lunch in New York. “Now they are no longer very
important.”  The baron, the 32nd generation of a family that dates back
to the days when St. Francis of Assisi was preaching to animals,
is great, great, great, great grandson of Bettino Ricasoli, the
“Iron Baron” who created the original blend for Chianti
Classico.  He took over the business in 1993, working to identify the
best clones of the sangiovese grape and teaming up with chemists
at the  University of Siena  to study each parcel of vines on his
property, which now number 250 out of 1,200 hectares.  “The idea that a single vineyard will produce an estate’s
best wine flies in the face of modern viticulture,” he says.
“In 2009 we made 180 different vinifications of grapes to come
up with what we feel is the finest cru for each of our wines.”  Reserved and mild-mannered, looking more like a
technologist than a grand aristocrat like his neighbor Marchese
 Piero Antinori , Ricasoli is a quiet revolutionary. The fact that
he used the French term “cru” for a wine blend and held his
seminar at New York’s very French Restaurant Daniel seemed to
send a signal that his wines were not the chiantis of his
ancestors. Then again, the family crest’s motto is in French:
“Rien sans peine” -- nothing without pain.  New Blend  His 2007 Colledila (which means “the hill on the other
side”) is all sangiovese, a departure from the once-mandated
Chianti Classico-blend of sangiovese, malvasia and trebbiano
grapes.  “Chianti Classico was always there sitting on the
shelves,” Ricasoli recalls. “And always sold within a specific
price range.”  Ricasoli’s own Castello di Brolio Chianti Classico, long
the estate’s workhorse label, has been completely refigured for
the 21st century, since Italian wine laws in the 1990s allowed a
percentage of “foreign grapes” to be added to the blend.
Castello di Brolio now comes from an array of replanted
vineyards, with a predominance of sangiovese and equal parts
cabernet sauvignon and merlot.  Ricasoli isn’t alone in Tuscany in making sangiovese-only
wines, or configuring new blends for Chianti Classico, but the
baron’s remark about the fading of the Super Tuscans, the
showpiece sangiovese blends of the 1990s, shows a shift back to
historical roots and an intensified study of Tuscan terroir.  Changing Flavor  “We find great variation in the different vineyards,” he
says. “What is more, we’re finding that the so-called foreign
varietals like merlot are becoming ‘Chianti-cized,’ each year
developing flavors that are very different from what people
expect.”  My tasting of three of Ricasoli’s 2007 vintages revealed
the thrust of what he contended. In the case of Casalferro
($65), once promoted as a Super Tuscan blend, I would never have
pegged it as 100 percent merlot. It was much richer and far more
complex than any Italian merlot I’ve tasted (the varietal covers
only about 4 percent of Italy’s total wine acreage). While its
fullness and body recall the French merlots of St. Emilion and
Pomerol, Casalferro 2007 is far more open and ready to enjoy.  The 100 percent sangiovese Colledila ($65), had a
typically lovely bouquet, herbaceousness and tightness upon
first sip. After a morsel of bread and butter, it quickly
loosened up and indicated the evolutionary taste of Chianti
Classico that Ricasoli is aiming for: bigger, brighter, with
good acidity.  Tropical Notes  The Castello di Brolio ($65) had a deep color, with almost
tropical notes in the nose, beneath which was the complexity
added by the tannins of cabernet and the smoothing action of
merlot.  Given the richness of the wines, I asked Ricasoli what
their alcohol level was, thinking he might be deliberately
edging them into the range of California voluptuary wines.  “They are 13.5 to 14 percent,” he said, “but we’re
working to get that down.” Alcohol, he feels, can work against
the balance of fruit and acid that gives his wines elegance.  In a world full of blockbuster wines, that’s very good to
hear.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 