-- Israeli Inflation Rate Climbs for Second Month on Costlier Food, Housing
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-11-15T18:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/israeli-inflation-rate-climbs-for-second-month-as-commodity-prices-rise.html
Israeli inflation  accelerated for a
second month in October as food and housing prices increased.  The inflation rate rose to 2.5 percent from 2.4 percent in
September, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said
today. The median forecast of 14 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg was 2.5 percent. In the month, prices increased 0.3
percent.  Inflation is expected to accelerate to about 2.8 percent
during the next 12 months, the Bank of Israel said in the
minutes of its Oct. 25 rate meeting, citing its latest poll of
forecasters. The government target is for annual inflation of 1
percent to 3 percent. Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer 
said today expectations that inflation will rise are a “matter
of concern.”  "Vegetable prices rose because of unseasonably hot weather
in August, which damaged yields.’’  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-
based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a telephone
interview. “Higher commodity prices contributed, pushing up the
price of packaged products.”  Fresh-produce prices rose by about 20.9 percent on the
year, the bureau said.  Home rental costs rose 4.5 percent in the past 12 months,
while falling 1.1 percent on the month, the bureau said. Housing
purchase prices, which are reported at the same time as
inflation though they aren’t included in the index, have climbed
by about 20 percent on the year and 1.9 percent on the month,
the bureau said.  ‘Financing Is Cheap’  “People are still going out and buying houses because
financing is cheap and interest rates are still low,” Katz
said. “That’s the reason that ownership prices have risen more
than rents.”  Fischer is likely to leave the key  interest rate  unchanged
for a second consecutive month at the next rates meeting on Nov.
22, according to 10 of the 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
at the end of October and in the first half of November. Fischer
increased the benchmark interest rate by a quarter-point to 2
percent in September, citing the surge in housing prices.  “The inflation rate is close to the middle of the target
range but the expectations are that it will rise over the next
12 months,” Fischer said in a conference call with foreign
journalists earlier in the day. “We will have to react at some
point but it is not a concern that we have to deal with
immediately.”  The benchmark  TA-25 stock index  has gained about 15 percent
during the past 12 months, led by  Avner Oil Exploration LP  and
Delek Drilling-LP, two of the partners in gas fields off
Israel’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 