-- Israel's Fischer Says Criticism of Bernanke QE2 `Misplaced'
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-11-15T12:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/israel-s-fischer-says-criticism-of-fed-s-monetary-stimulus-is-misplaced-.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said criticism of the U.S. Federal Reserve for its
latest round of monetary stimulus is “fundamentally
misplaced.”  “I see this as a move which is healthy for the global
economy, while creating some problems for us and the rest of the
world,” Fischer said in a conference call with reporters today.
“I do not see it as the U.S. shirking its responsibilities. I
think its main responsibility is to get itself back to health
and growth as rapidly as possible.”  The Federal Reserve pledged Nov. 3 to  buy  $600 billion of
Treasuries through June after cutting the benchmark rate to near
zero and earlier purchases of $1.7 trillion of securities failed
to bring down an unemployment rate that’s stuck near a 26-year
high. China, Brazil, South Africa and Germany have said the
injection of cash into the system announced by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may flood emerging markets and weaken the dollar.  “I would much rather have the main engine of the growth of
the world economy, the largest economy in the world, growing at
a reasonable rate,” said Fischer. “I much prefer ‘Situation
A,’ with U.S. growth and a slightly weaker dollar, to ‘Situation
B,’ slower U.S. growth and a stronger dollar.”  Fischer also said that there has been “this tremendous
focus on QE2, on the fact that the Fed is undertaking an
expansionary policy, very strong criticism of the Fed, of
Bernanke. I think this is fundamentally misplaced.”  Dollar Strengthen  As the U.S. economy starts growing, the dollar will
strengthen, Fischer said.  “The dollar weakening is something which I think is a
result of the weakness in the U.S. economy and the quantitative
easing,” Fischer said. “It’s something that would go away as
the quantitative easing takes hold and the U.S. economy begins
to return to growth.”  The dollar has weakened against the euro, reaching $1.4282,
its highest in almost nine months, on Nov. 4, one day after the
Fed announced its second round of asset purchases.  Fischer said that if consumer prices start to increase the
Fed will have “lots of ammunition” to take liquidity out of
the system.  “Has it got the assets to sell?” Fischer said. “Yes, it
just bought them, it can sell them. Does it have the guts to do
that when the time comes? I think so.”  Fischer, 67, was a professor at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology and served as Bernanke’s adviser on his graduate
thesis.  From 1988 to 1990, Fischer was chief economist at the
Washington-based World Bank. At the International Monetary Fund
during the 1990s, he worked to resolve financial crises in
Mexico, Russia and Southeast Asia. From 2002 to 2005, Fischer
was vice chairman of Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  