-- Mitsubishi UFJ Posts Higher Profit; to Buy RBS Project Assets
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-11-15T09:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/mitsubishi-ufj-agrees-to-buy-rbs-s-project-finance-assets-for-6-billion.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. ,
Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank, said profit more than
doubled and announced plans to buy project-finance assets from
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc valued at about 3.8 billion
pounds ($6.1 billion).  Net income for the six months ended Sept. 30 rose to 357
billion yen ($4.3 billion) from 141 billion yen a year earlier,
the Tokyo-based lender said in a statement today. It raised a
full-year  profit  target to 500 billion yen from 400 billion yen.  First-half profit at Japan’s biggest banks, including
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial Group
Inc., was boosted by a drop in bad-debt costs as corporate
bankruptcies declined. With domestic demand for loans sagging,
Mitsubishi UFJ Chief Executive Officer  Katsunori Nagayasu  and
his rivals are under pressure to expand overseas.  “It’s hard to write a rosy and bright story about Japanese
megabanks’ profit growth in the next few years,”  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd.,
said before today’s announcement. “Going abroad for future
sustainable growth would take years before the banks start
reaping decent returns.”  Mitsubishi UFJ agreed to buy RBS assets including loans for
electricity, natural-resource and infrastructure projects in
Europe, the Middle East and Africa, the two lenders said in
statements today. RBS is selling assets receiving a taxpayer-
funded bailout in 2008.  London Headcount  Nagayasu told reporters in Tokyo today that the purchase
will help his bank double its project financing workforce in
London. He declined to comment on the purchase price. The banks
said they will sign an agreement by the year’s end.  The purchase adds to Mitsubishi UFJ’s cross-border
acquisitions including UnionBanCal Corp. in 2008 and this year’s
takeover of two smaller U.S. lenders. Smaller rival Mizuho said
on Nov. 12 that it will buy a stake in  BlackRock Inc. , the
world’s biggest asset manager, for $500 million.  The drop in bad-loan costs made up for declining interest
income in the fiscal first half, today’s earnings statement from
Mitsubishi UFJ showed.  Net interest income, a measure of how much the bank earns
from lending, slid to 1 trillion yen in the six months from 1.1
trillion yen a year earlier. Bad-loan expenses including
provisions decreased to 186.7 billion yen from 444.2 billion yen,
helped by 15 months of falling corporate bankruptcies.  Share Slump  The  Topix Banks Index  has slid 13 percent this year, more
than twice the pace of Japan’s benchmark stock  gauge .  Mitsubishi
UFJ  has lost 14 percent, and slipped 0.3 percent to 391 yen at
the close today before the earnings were published.  Bank lending  has declined for 11 months even as the Bank of
Japan eases monetary policy. Slowing exports, a stronger yen and
falling prices are dissuading companies from investing, and
businesses are sitting on near-record amounts of cash.  While a government report today showed Japan’s  economy 
expanded at an annual 3.9 percent pace last quarter, the gains
were led by consumer incentives that have since ended. Growth is
likely to slow to 0.3 percent this quarter, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Sumitomo Mitsui Chief Executive Officer  Teisuke Kitayama 
and Mizuho President  Takashi Tsukamoto  both said after their Nov.
12 earnings reports that an economic slowdown will weigh on
their businesses in the second half.  “Megabanks are facing high hurdles to overcome these
severe macroeconomic conditions and strengthen their bottom
lines next year,” Yamanaka of MF Global said.  Basel Risk  Another risk for Japan’s largest banks is the prospect that
they may have to raise additional capital ahead of stricter
Basel banking rules, said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  “That’s the biggest reason behind them struggling to boost
their stock prices,” said Akino, who oversees about $450
million. “There are too many uncertain elements for them to
picture a convincing outlook for their underlying businesses.”  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations last week endorsed rules
that require global banks to hold more capital, while postponing
a decision on extra measures for lenders deemed too big to fail.
The Financial Stability Board said it will identify the firms
that should be subject to stricter rules by the middle of next
year. National regulators will be able to select standards from
a menu of alternatives, the board said.  Mitsubishi UFJ, Sumitomo Mitsui and Mizuho raised a
combined 4.5 trillion yen from share sales in the past two years
to bolster capital ahead of the stricter global requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 