-- Liverpool Coach Roy Hodgson May Lose His Job, Daily Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-11-15T10:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/liverpool-coach-roy-hodgson-may-lose-his-job-daily-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Hodgson in Danger  Liverpool coach  Roy Hodgson ’s job is on the line after a 2-
0 defeat at Stoke two days ago, the  Daily Mail  reported.  A loss at home to West Ham next weekend could signal the
end of his four-month reign, according to the Mail.  Hodgson said Liverpool fans, some of whom called for  Kenny Dalglish  to return as coach, will have to brace themselves for
more defeats this season, the Mail reported.  Scouting Mission  Hodgson traveled to France yesterday to watch Rennes
midfielder Yann M’Vila play in a match at Auxerre, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  The 20-year-old M’Vila, who would cost 15 million pounds
($24.1 million), is set to play for France against England at
Wembley Stadium in two days, according to the Mail.  Carroll’s Concern  Newcastle striker  Andy Carroll  says he’ll be
“devastated” if he can’t play against France,  the Sun 
reported.  Carroll, 21, was in line for his first senior England
game before suffering a groin injury at the end of a 0-0 draw
with Fulham, the Sun said.  West Ham’s  Carlton Cole  was called up as cover for both
Carroll and  Gabby Agbonlahor , injured in Aston Villa’s 2-2 draw
with Manchester United, the Sun added.  Reo-Coker Waits  Aston Villa midfielder  Nigel Reo-Coker  is holding out for
a better contract, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Reo-Coker, whose current deal expires in July, wants to
sign an extension but is asking for the same terms as teammates
such as Agbonlahor, according to the Mirror.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 