-- J.C. Penney Credit Swaps Drop as Consumer Retail Sales Beat Expectations
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-15T21:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/j-c-penney-credit-swaps-drop-as-consumer-retail-sales-beat-expectations.html
Credit-default swaps on U.S. retail
companies fell as the government said  sales  in October rose by
the most in seven months, brightening the outlook for holiday
shopping.  Consumer  purchases  rose 1.2 percent, exceeding the highest
 forecast  among economists in a Bloomberg survey, according to
data from the Commerce Department today in Washington.  “For retailers, we’re going to concentrate on the strength
of Christmas and Thanksgiving,” said  Mikhail Foux , a New York-
based credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. “That’s the story for
the next couple weeks.”  Contracts on Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney Co. dropped 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 238.5 basis points,
CMA data show. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 2.3 basis points
to a mid-price of 91.4 as of 2:21 p.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, ended Nov. 1 at 94.4
basis points. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Caterpillar Contracts  Contracts protecting debt issued by  Caterpillar Inc.  added
6 basis points to 81.6 and those on its financial unit,
Caterpillar Financial Services Corp., climbed 4.5 basis points
to 94.4, CMA data show. The world’s largest maker of
construction and mining equipment agreed to buy Bucyrus
International Inc. for $7.6 billion to add shovels, draglines
and drills to its product range.  The deal is valued at $8.6 billion including net debt,
Caterpillar said today in a statement.  “This is a relatively small transaction, so it’s less of a
material impact,” Foux said. An increase in the credit-default
swaps is “what you typically see in a situation like this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
FO US <equity> CN
JCP US <Equity> CN
 Z US <equity> CN 