-- Japan's Economy Grows at 3.9% Annual Pace, More Than Estimates
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-11-15T05:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/japan-economy-expanded-at-3-9-pace-in-third-quarter-faster-than-forecast.html
Japan’s  economy  grew more than
forecast in the third quarter as consumer spending increased,
shielding the expansion from a stronger yen and export slowdown
likely to have a greater impact this quarter.  Gross domestic product  rose an annualized 3.9 percent in
the three months ended Sept. 30, following a revised 1.8 percent
expansion in the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said in
Tokyo today. In nominal terms, the economy grew 2.9 percent.  Consumption , accounting for about 60 percent of GDP, led
the gain as households stepped up purchases of fuel-efficient
cars ahead of the expiration of a subsidy program and as smokers
stocked up before an Oct. 1 tobacco-tax rise. The yen’s climb to
a 15-year high will probably damp growth this quarter as
companies from  Sharp Corp.  to  Nikon Corp.  cut profit forecasts.  “Japan can’t be wild with joy over the stronger-than-
expected GDP figure,” said  Susumu Kato , chief economist for
Japan in Tokyo at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA. “There will be
a huge payback in the fourth quarter as the waning effects of
the government’s incentive programs and the impact of the yen’s
gain should materialize.”  Japan’s currency weakened after the release, with the yen
trading at 82.72 per dollar at 1:48 p.m. in Tokyo from 82.47
before the report was published. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
rose 0.9 percent to 9,811.91.  Outlook for GDP  The median forecast of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 2.5 percent increase in GDP last quarter. Growth
may slow to a 0.3 percent in October to December, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists taken before today’s data,
with seven of 15 of them predicting GDP will shrink.  “The economy could have slowed in the third quarter” if
the one-off factors bolstering household spending were stripped
out, said  Kohei Okazaki , an economist at Nomura Securities Co.
in Tokyo. “The economic trend is shifting downward.”  Household outlays rose 1.1 percent from the previous three
months. In addition to the stimulus boost, the nation’s hottest
summer in more than a century also fueled demand for air
conditioners. The gains in spending at home helped counter
slower growth in overseas demand.  Net exports , or shipments less
imports, were unchanged in the third quarter, after overseas
sales grew at half the pace they did in the previous three-month
period.  ‘Temporary Increase’  Growth was supported by “a temporary increase in consumer
spending,” Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said in a statement in
Tokyo today. “We’ll probably see weakness in exports and
consumption because production slowdowns in Asia and payback
for” surging car and tobacco sales at home, the minister said.  Companies plan to step up investment in plant and equipment,
today’s report showed.  Business spending  gained 0.8 percent in
the third quarter. A separate report today showed industrial
production fell a revised 1.6 percent in September, smaller than
the 1.9 percent drop initially reported.  Even with the faster growth, Japan’s quarterly $1.372
trillion GDP lagged behind China’s $1.415 trillion, figures from
the Cabinet Office show, the second straight period Japan’s
output was smaller than China’s on a quarterly basis. Japan was
still the world’s second-largest economy in the January through
September period, with GDP totaling $3.967 trillion versus
China’s $3.947 trillion, the government said.  The fallout from the stimulus expiry and the stronger yen
may compel the central bank to loosen credit even after it cut
rates to  near zero  last month and introduced a 5 trillion-yen
($61 billion) asset purchase program.  “An expansion of the fund could be in the cards if the yen
strengthens further,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at
RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “The trend of weaker dollar
and stronger yen probably will continue for some time” amid
speculation of easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve, she said.  Stimulus Funding  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s Cabinet last month endorsed a
5.1 trillion yen stimulus package and has extended its incentive
program to buy energy-saving household appliances by three
months to end on March 31. Funding for those measures may be
held up in the opposition-controlled upper house of parliament.  The yen climbed to 80.22 against the dollar on Nov. 1, the
highest level since April 1995. Japan’s effort to stem the local
currency’s advance by intervening in currency markets on Sept.
15 failed to stop the strengthening.      The currency’s advance
may also be worsening deflation by making imports cheaper.
Today’s report showed the GDP deflator fell 2 percent from a
year earlier, larger than the 1.8 percent decline reported in
the second quarter.  Cutting Forecasts  Nikon, a Japanese maker of cameras, lenses and chip-making
equipment, cut its full-year operating profit and revenue
forecasts on Nov. 4, citing a stronger yen. Sharp, Japan’s
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, also cut its annual
profit forecast by 40 percent last month, blaming the yen’s
appreciation and falling prices of panels.  Toyota Motor Corp. President  Akio Toyoda  said in October he
felt an “an extreme sense of crisis” because of the strong yen.  Government reports in the past month show  industrial
production  slumped by more than double the pace economists
forecast in September and  exports  increased least this year. The
central bank also lowered its economic assessment this month,
describing the expansion as “pausing.”  “The macro-economy should avoid a double-dip,” said
 Kyohei Morita , chief economist at Barclays Capital in Tokyo.
“Capital spending will likely continue to increase, albeit at a
gradual pace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  