-- Johnson & Johnson Hid Antibiotic’s Risk, Lawyer Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2010-11-16T00:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/johnson-johnson-hid-risks-of-antibiotic-levaquin-lawyer-says-in-trial.html
Johnson & Johnson knew its
antibiotic Levaquin increased the risk of tendon damage and
failed to properly warn patients or doctors, a lawyer said today
at the start of a trial in Minnesota.  John Schedin, 82, who said he ruptured the Achilles tendons
in both feet after taking the drug, sued the company and its
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceutical unit in 2008. The companies
downplayed the risks of Levaquin even after receiving adverse
reports from Europe in 2001, Schedin’s lawyer, Mikal Watts, said
in his opening statement at trial today.  “The decision they made was to add a single line to the
14-page package insert somewhere on page four or five,” Watts
told the Minneapolis jury. “They did not tell the doctors that
the use of Levaquin concomitant with corticosteroids will cause
an Achilles tendon to rupture.”  Schedin’s case is the first trial on more than 2,600 claims
in U.S. courts against Johnson & Johnson that Levaquin caused
tendon damage in patients taking the drug and the company failed
to adequately disclose the risk. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in 2008 required an upgraded warning on tendon
damage posed by Levaquin and similar drugs.  The plaintiffs claim the warning should have been enhanced
earlier and remains inadequate. They also claim Johnson &
Johnson and Ortho-McNeil-Janssen boosted sales by downplaying
risks.  ‘Blockbuster Drug’  “Their marketing people were so successful, it became a
blockbuster drug,” Watts said. Schedin is seeking unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages.  The companies deny any failure to warn or that Levaquin
caused Schedin’s tendon ruptures.  “The warning has been in the label since December 1996,”
when the drug first came on the market, defense attorney John
Dames said in his opening statement. “It’s not hidden. It’s
right there where you would expect it to be, in the warnings
section.”  The drug has been prescribed more than 430 million times
worldwide, company lawyers said in a filing today. Levaquin’s
sales for the last nine months were $957 million.  “Levaquin is probably one of the best antibiotics ever
made or distributed in this country or in the world,” Dames
said. “You get better, faster.”  The FDA in 2008 required Johnson & Johnson and makers of
other drugs in the class of antibiotics called fluoriquinolones
to include a “black box” or enhanced warning on the risk of
tendon ruptures. The risk was higher in patients older than 60,
those taking steroids, or who have had kidney, heart or lung
transplants, the FDA said.  Schedin, then 76, was prescribed Levaquin and a steroid for
an upper respiratory infection in 2005, according to his
complaint.  ‘Vigorous and Active’  “Prior to his Levaquin-induced bilateral Achilles tendon
rupture, he was vigorous and active for his age,” his lawyers
said in a Nov. 14 filing. “He has never fully recovered and is
now severely restricted in his activities.”  His doctor would have prescribed another antibiotic if he
knew “about the risks associated with Levaquin, especially when
taken together with steroids.” Schedin said in court papers.  Schedin’s doctor “testified that he was aware of this risk
of tendon rupture when he prescribed Levaquin,” defense lawyers
said in court papers today.  Johnson & Johnson added a warning about the steroid effect
to the Levaquin label in 2001, Dames, the defense lawyer, said
today. The company changed the label on “its own initiative,
not at the prodding of the FDA or other regulatory agencies,”
he said.  ‘Increased Risk’  Schedin’s lawyers claim the 2001 label was inadequate and
remains so, despite the 2008 warning change. “Even today,
defendants still have not warned doctors about the increased
risk of Levaquin concerning tendon disorders,” compared with
other drugs in its class, the lawyers said in the Nov. 14
filing.  Ortho-McNeil “properly warned of the risks of tendon
injury” and “acted responsibly by providing appropriate and
timely information about Levaquin,” company spokesman Michael
Heinley said in an e-mail today.  The lawsuit is Schedin v. Johnson & Johnson, 08-cv-05743,
combined for trial in In Re: Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis, Minnesota, at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 