-- JPMorgan Says European Stocks May `Overshoot' in 2011; RBS Sees 20% Gains
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-11-15T14:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/jpmorgan-says-stocks-may-overshoot-in-2011-rbs-sees-20-gains.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised
investors to buy European equities for the coming 6 to 12
months, while Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc forecast stocks
may rise “potentially very strongly” in 2011.  We are “very bullish on equities on a rolling 6-12 months
horizon, with the potential for a ’99 type of extreme upward
move not to be dismissed,” JPMorgan strategists  Mislav Matejka 
and  Emmanuel Cau  wrote in a report today, adding that returns on
a 5- to 10-year period will be “poor.” RBS strategists  Ian Richards  and  Graham Bishop  in London forecast gains of 20
percent for European stocks.  “Rarely has the valuation of the equity market appeared so
anomalous in the context of other asset classes,” Richards and
Bishop wrote. “But another dose of liquidity, normalising
inflation expectations, and a corporate sector that is at last
showing signs of using the exceptionally low cost of debt to
drive shareholder return, all bode well for an aggressive
valuation re-appraisal.”  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  has climbed 17 percent
since May as the U.S. Federal Reserve boosted its asset-
purchases plan to stimulate growth, offsetting concern that
Greece and Ireland may struggle to reduce their budget deficits.
The index is still trading at 12 times its companies’ estimated
earnings, down from a ratio of almost 16 at the end of 2009.  ‘Appear Cheaper’  “In the short term, we still see stocks as the asset class
offering the best risk-reward,” the JPMorgan strategists wrote.
“They are at the right stage of the earnings upcycle, asset
reflation favours equities, they are relatively underowned and
appear cheaper than other assets.”  While valuations appear “attractive” in the short term
relative to profits and compared with bonds, when analyzed
against historical earnings cycles, they are starting to look
“stretched,” Matejka and Cau wrote. The “Grand Experiment”
of quantitative easing may end result in a bear market for both
bonds and equities after an initial rebound in stocks, the
strategists wrote, as policymakers’ credibility declines.  The  Stoxx 600  surged 36 percent in 1999, capping five years
of gains, as investors bet new technologies would boost
earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 