-- Juncker Says No Bailout for Ireland Is Imminent as It Hasn't Requested Aid
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-11-15T17:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/juncker-says-no-bailout-for-ireland-is-imminent-as-it-hasn-t-requested-aid.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean- Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said he doesn’t expect imminent agreement on a
bailout for Ireland because Dublin hasn’t asked for support.  “I don’t think we’re nearing an agreement because Ireland
didn’t put forward a request,” Juncker told Bloomberg
Television in an interview in Frankfurt today. “The Irish think
that they can keep the problems they’re facing under their
control. They are not near the point where they would ask for
external help.”  Ireland’s government is under increasing pressure to tap
the European Union’s emergency bailout fund as it struggles to
cut its budget deficit and investors grow concerned about the
state of the country’s banks. While Ireland says it doesn’t need
to raise money until mid-2011, the finance ministry said late
yesterday that officials are in talks with their EU
counterparts.  Juncker, who will head a meeting of finance ministers in
Brussels tomorrow evening, said euro nations are ready to
support Ireland if the government files a request for aid.  “If they consider the day has come, they want to ask for
support, we’ll be ready,” Juncker said. “We should abstain
from putting pressure on the Irish. It’s up to the Irish and
others should abstain from giving public recommendations.”  Bond Spreads  Irish bonds led euro-area spreads wider over the past month
on concern that the cost of supporting the banking system will
overwhelm government finances and force the country to seek a
bailout. The Irish spread over German bunds was at 537 basis
points today, down from 563 basis points on Nov. 12. Portugal’s
spread was at 414 basis points, down from 423 basis points.  Juncker said there are “major differences” between the
Irish and Portuguese situations and that there are “too many
rumors” in the market eroding confidence.  “I do think that the Irish are quite aware that if they
misbehave this could easily bring others in major
difficulties,” he said. Still, “the banking sector in Portugal
doesn’t have the same problem the Irish banking sector could
have to face.”  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  plans to save 15 billion
euros ($20 billion) over four years to reduce the deficit to
below the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by
2014. The deficit will be about 12 percent of GDP this year, or
32 percent of GDP when the costs of the banking rescue are
included.  Irish central bank governor  Patrick Honohan  said in an
interview on Nov. 10 that austerity measures, which include 6
billion euros in spending cuts and tax increases for 2011,
“should boost confidence” and help push down borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Francine Lacqua  in Frankfurt on  flacqua@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  