-- Deutsche Bank Breached Trading Rule on Day of Kospi Plunge, Exchange Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-15T10:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/korea-exchange-says-deutsche-bank-breached-trading-rule-nov-11.html
Deutsche Bank AG  breached South
Korea’s stock exchange rules governing the disclosure of
computer-driven trades on a day when the benchmark Kospi Index
slumped the most in more than five months, the bourse said.  Deutsche Bank filed a report on the trades one minute late,
said Um Se Yong, director of the Korea Exchange’s examination
department.  Mark Bennewith , a spokesman in Singapore for the
German lender, declined to comment.  South Korea’s financial regulator and the exchange operator
are investigating the cause of a Nov. 11 plunge in the Kospi
Index, including sell orders made through Deutsche Bank’s local
brokerage. The Kospi plunged 48 points to 1,914.73 between 2:59
p.m. and 3:01 p.m. in Seoul that day. The stock gauge ended the
day 2.7 percent lower, the biggest drop since May 25.  “The impact was huge,” said  Kim Young Joon , head of
equity at NH-CA Asset Management Co., which manages $7.5 billion
equivalent of assets in Seoul. “This could provide some support
for local regulators’ logic in adopting stricter measures to
rein in hot-money inflows into the market.”  About 1.6 trillion won ($1.4 billion) worth of sell orders
were made through  Deutsche Bank’s  local brokerage, the financial
regulator said in a statement the day after the stock plunge.
Korea Exchange said the market fell due to “program” selling.  Ongoing Investigation  South Korean financial regulators found the sell orders
that caused a plunge in the Kospi Index on Nov. 11 were made
through Deutsche Bank’s London office, MoneyToday reported
earlier today, citing an unidentified industry official. The
regulators are still investigating whether the order was for
Deutsche Bank itself or for its clients, according to the
Korean-language report.  Kim Soo Mi, a spokeswoman at South Korea’s Financial
Supervisory Service, declined to comment, citing a policy to not
speak publicly about ongoing investigations.  Scrutiny of equity-market swings has intensified since May
6, when a 20-minute drop in U.S.  equities  briefly erased $862
billion of market value. A transaction in Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures helped spur the retreat, the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission
said in an Oct. 1 report.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc’s Turquoise trading venue
stopped operating for two hours on Nov. 2, with the bourse
citing human error that “may have occurred in suspicious
circumstances.”  The Kospi fell 0.1 percent on Nov. 12, the day after the
stock tumble, and rose less than 0.1 percent today. Companies in
the gauge are valued at an average 9.6 times estimates for next
year’s profit, the third-cheapest level in the Asia Pacific
after Pakistan and Vietnam, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The inspection will hurt sentiment but only briefly,”
said  Sean Hwang , head of Korea equity research at Mirae Asset
Securities Co. “Many foreign investors here are long-term
buyers. They may see any big correction as a chance to buy
more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net . 