-- Naphtha's Two-Year High Triples Europe-to-Asia Shipments: Energy Markets
-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-11-15T17:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/naphtha-s-two-year-high-triples-europe-to-asia-shipments-energy-markets.html
The highest Asian  naphtha prices  in
two years are poised to spur an almost threefold increase in
shipments from Europe as demand for petrochemicals in China
soars and the country suffers fuel shortages.  Asia-bound cargoes of the product used to make motor fuel
and plastics may climb to 290,000 metric tons this month from
110,000 tons in October, according to the median estimate of
four European traders surveyed by Bloomberg. Naphtha delivered
to Japan, a benchmark for prices in the region, rose to $817.25
a ton Nov. 11, the highest since September 2008, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “Asia is expected to be net short of naphtha in the next
two months,” said  Ravi Narayanaswamy , a senior consultant at
Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore.  China’s appetite for petrochemicals used in everything
from Barbie dolls to car parts is surging as the country’s
growth outpaces that of every other major economy.  Industrial
output  rose 13 percent in October from a year ago, the Beijing-
based National Bureau of Statistics said Nov. 11. At the same
time, a government push to cut energy consumption is forcing
factories to use diesel to power generators, prompting refiners
to make more of the fuel instead of naphtha.  Demand for naphtha in Asia may exceed supply by almost
800,000 tons in December, up from about 700,000 tons in October,
according to Purvin & Gertz. China  imported  198,696 tons more
than it exported in September, customs data show.  “The growth trends still look pretty solid,” said  Alex Yap , a consultant at Facts Global Energy in Singapore.  Full Capacity  Chinese production of ethylene, a plastics ingredient made
by putting naphtha through a cracker, soared 32 percent in
October to 1.3 million tons, according to China Mainland
Marketing Research Co., which compiles data for the National
Bureau of Statistics. Petrochemicals producers in Japan, Taiwan
and South Korea are also running near full capacity, according
to Jinsu Yim, a Singapore-based director at Chemical Markets
Associates Inc., a U.S. research firm.  South Korea will add about 450,000 tons a year of ethylene
capacity by mid-2011, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a Nov. 8
note.  Indian Oil Corp., which operates about 33 percent of the
nation’s refining capacity, plans to export surplus naphtha and
sees demand mainly from Japan, S. Mitra, general manager of
petrochemicals, said in an interview in Mumbai today.  “Petrochemicals demand is still growing robustly,” Yap
said. “Consuming sectors like textiles, fibers and plastics are
seeing output up by between 10 to 15 percent year-on-year.”  Weekly Advance  Open-specification naphtha  for delivery to Japan climbed
$9.50 last week, or 1.2 percent, to $801.25 a ton as of Nov. 12,
a third weekly advance that brought its gain this year to 9.1
percent, according to Bloomberg data. Crude for December
delivery slipped $1.97, or 2.3 percent, to $84.88 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange last week, paring its gain in
2010 to 7 percent.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the nation’s largest oil
refiner, said Nov. 4 it increased production of diesel, at the
expense of naphtha, amid national fuel shortages. More than
2,000 retail stations closed after running out of the fuel, the
official Xinhua News agency said Nov. 7.  European propane’s  premium  to naphtha widened to the most
in almost 21 months because of the rising Asian demand.  Propane ,
used in heating and petrochemicals, traded at a premium of $90
ton to naphtha today, according to Bloomberg data. That’s
the most since Feb. 23, 2009. Propane and butane are both types
of liquefied petroleum gas.  LPG Strength  “The strength of the LPG price has supported naphtha in
recent months,”  David Wech , head of research at Vienna-based
JBC Energy GmbH, said by phone. “We’re seeing this in Asia and
Europe.”  European naphtha exports peaked in May at about 500,000
tons. They then slumped in October as strikes in France
disrupted production at 10 refineries.  Rising naphtha prices in Asia are increasing the profit
traders can make by buying the fuel in Europe and shipping it
east for sale. Cargoes for December delivery were $23.50 a ton
 more expensive  in Asia than Europe on Nov. 11, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Shipments were $33 a ton cheaper in Asia
than Europe on Oct. 8.  Total SA, Europe’s largest refiner, chartered the tanker
Nord Neptune to transport 60,000 tons to Japan for November
loading, and Statoil ASA booked the Summit Australia to ship
55,000 tons, according to AISLive data on Bloomberg and ship
brokers including New Delhi-based Interocean Shipping.  Vitol Group, the largest independent oil-trading company,
booked the Ottawa and Horizon Dimitri to take 60,000 tons each
from the Mediterranean to Asia on Nov. 18. Madrid-based Vilma
Oil SL chartered the Ploutos to carry 55,000 tons from Cyprus to
Japan on Nov. 20, according to the data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net . 