-- New Zealand Expects `Significant' Costs as Kiwifruit Vine Disease Spreads
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-11-15T05:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/new-zealand-expects-significant-costs-as-kiwifruit-vine-disease-spreads.html
New Zealand will incur
“significant” costs from a bacterial vine disease threatening
its NZ$1.4 billion ($1.1 billion) kiwifruit industry, the
government said today.  The country is pursuing a strategy of “aggressive
containment” as it seeks to prevent the spread of the vine
disease,  David Carter , the minister for biosecurity, said in an
e-mailed  statement . About 500 hectares are now infected and
eradication is looking “increasingly difficult”, he said.  Thirteen kiwifruit orchards in New Zealand’s Bay of Plenty
region are infected with Pseudomonas syringae pv actinidiae, a
bacterial disease that reduces productivity of the plants,
according to the statement. Sixteen sites are quarantined and
samples are being collected from 93 orchards.  “The response to Psa is likely to require a significant
financial commitment from both the government and the kiwifruit
industry,” Carter said in the statement.  Containment measures will include the removal and disposal
of infected plant material, spraying infected vines and
controlling the use of artificial pollen, he said.  “There’s a real need for urgency,” Carol Ward,
spokeswoman for  Zespri Group Ltd. , the world’s largest marketer
of the fruit, said in a media briefing today. “We’re dealing
with peoples’ livelihoods.”  New Zealand is the world’s biggest kiwifruit grower after
China and Italy, accounting for about 21 percent of global
production. The country earned NZ$1.4 billion from kiwifruit in
the year ending in March, according to Zespri figures.  The disease is spreading through infected vines on some
orchards, with symptoms progressing from leaf spotting to a red
ooze on trunks and vine dieback, Ward said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 