-- New York State's Budget Gap May Reach $1 Billion, Deputy Comptroller Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-11-15T23:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/new-york-state-s-budget-gap-may-reach-1-billion-deputy-comptroller-says.html
New York’s  deficit for the current
year, pegged by the Division of Budget at $315 million, may more
than triple, Deputy Comptroller  Tom Nitido  said today.  This year’s projected gap will be followed by a $9 billion
deficit in the year beginning April 1, according to budget
documents. Next year’s imbalance may reach $9.3 billion if
lawmakers don’t close the current deficit with spending cuts,
according to  Robert Megna , the state budget director.  “It’s time to take off the rose-colored glasses,”
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said today in a  statement  that
accompanied a  report  on spending and revenue for the first seven
months of the state’s fiscal year.  To balance the state’s general fund, its main account, and
meet  budget division  projections, tax revenue must increase more
than 10 percent in the year’s remaining five months, or more
than twice the 4.5 percent growth rate of the first seven
months, DiNapoli said. His spending and revenue estimates, along
with those from the Senate Finance and Assembly Ways & Means
committees, were presented today at a budget hearing in Albany.  Nitido’s $1 billion projection for this year’s deficit “is
not outlandish,” Megna said. As for projections for the coming
fiscal year, “everyone would agree that the gap is between $9
billion and $10 billion,” he said.  Spending-Cuts Session  Governor  David Paterson  said he plans to call lawmakers
back to Albany, the state capital, to approve spending cuts at a
date still to be determined.  New York’s reliance on taxes from high-paying financial
jobs leaves it dependent on Wall Street’s annual cash bonuses,
which are expected to rise 10 percent this year, Megna said.  Megna and DiNapoli said the state is vulnerable to revenue
growth that may be slower than expected if taxpayers don’t
accelerate their capital gains this year. That may occur if
Congress decides not to raise federal taxes to 20 percent from
15 percent after Dec. 31, as many newly elected Republicans
prefer.  The budget division  estimates  this year’s spending plan at
$135.3 billion, and projects a rise to $144.3 billion next year.  The state’s basic problem is that spending for programs
approved in past years is expected to grow faster than tax
revenue, as the state’s economy slowly recovers from the
recession, Megna said at the hearing.  New York, the third most-populous state after California
and Texas, expects to lose $5.4 billion next year as federal
economic-stimulus aid winds down, Megna said. That money would
be replaced with state funds under current law, he said.  In the Medicaid health-care program for the poor, the end
of the additional federal aid in June would increase the share
paid by New York state and local governments to 50 percent from
38 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  