-- New York City's Yellow Cab Passengers to Help Choose `Taxi of Tomorrow'
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-15T20:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/new-york-city-s-yellow-cab-passengers-to-help-choose-taxi-of-tomorrow-.html
New York’s “Taxi of Tomorrow” may
be chosen with input from among the 600,000 riders who use
yellow cabs daily in the most-populous U.S. city, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  Ford Motor Co. ,  Nissan Motor Co.  and  Karsan Otomotiv Sanayi
& Ticaret AS  of Turkey were named as finalists in a competition
to design a new model for the city’s 13,237 taxi cabs. The mayor
said he would ask each automaker to give the city its best offer
within a month, after which a decision will be made whether to
designate one as the sole supplier for the fleet.  “We’re asking for input from our most important
stakeholders, and that’s the residents of New York City,”
Bloomberg said at a City Hall news conference where he announced
the creation of a  survey page  on the city’s www.nyc.gov website.  Those who fill out the form have a chance to enter a
drawing to win one year of free taxi rides worth as much as
$5,000, the mayor said. The survey asks passengers to rate the
importance of several factors, including fuel economy, interior
room, accessibility and amenities such as electric outlets to
recharge cell phones.  City officials intend to save taxi owners money with one
manufacturer for the entire fleet, with cars designed to be more
durable to handle the city’s pothole-riddled roads and changing
seasonal weather conditions over the course of a typical 70,000-
mile year, Bloomberg said.  ‘Too Risky’  Seven companies responded to the city’s request for
proposals in December 2009.  General Motors Co.,  the largest U.S.
automaker, “scored less on comfort, accessibility, durability
and performance” than the three finalists, said Taxi &
Limousine Commissioner  David Yassky . Over five years, the
contract may be worth as much as $750 million, Yassky said.  The proposal drew criticism from a group of taxi owners on
the website  www.yellowcabnyc.com . Relying on a sole manufacturer
could lead to disruptions if the company fails to provide a
steady flow of vehicles and parts, the group said.  “I think it’s too risky,” said  Ron Sherman , president of
the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, which represents 31
fleets with about 3,500 yellow cabs combined.  Cabs have a life cycle of about three to five years, after
which they must be replaced. If the city designates a model cab,
the entire fleet would change over to the new vehicles within
about five years, according to the  Taxi & Limousine Commission .  Current Fleet  The current fleet has 16 models from nine manufacturers,
including 3,983 hybrids, five that run on compressed natural gas
and 17 “clean diesel” cabs, the commission said in a news
release. The yellow cab became the uniform color by law in 1967.  While the city has set standards for taxis in the past, it
has never worked with the auto industry to design a cab
specifically for New York, the mayor said. Taxi passengers spend
more money than is spent in subways and buses combined,
Bloomberg said.  Of the cars, Ford has the longest history in the business;
Nissan’s cab design was the roomiest and had the capacity to
switch to electric power, and Karsan built the only wheelchair-
accessible cab, yet had the least experience in the industry,
Yassky said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@loomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 