-- Nokia Confirms MeeGo Devices Won’t Appear Before 2011
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-15T17:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/nokia-says-meego-project-is-reinventing-user-experience.html
Nokia Oyj  won’t ship MeeGo devices
before 2011,  Alberto Torres , the company’s executive vice
president for MeeGo Computers, confirmed at a developer
conference in Dublin today.  Nokia , Intel Corp. and their collaborators will change the
user experience with MeeGo, Torres said. The ability to
manipulate many kinds of devices with direct gestures will
produce a change in experience comparable to the transition from
command-driven interaction to mouse pointing in the 1980s,
Torres said.  More than 1,000 people attended the MeeGo Conference at a
Dublin football stadium, hosted by Espoo, Finland-based Nokia
and partner  Intel , the world’s biggest chipmaker. The pair
merged their Linux-based device systems into MeeGo this year and
are now touting their openness to outside contributions. They
aim to attract applications on a variety of devices to compete
with Google Inc.’s similarly broad-based Android.  “Nokia has recognized some things they have done wrong in
the past, and they are working hard to fix them, but they’re
nowhere near ready with MeeGo,” said Robert Caunt, a London-
based analyst with CCS Insight. “Not having MeeGo devices yet
is hugely damaging because Android is already out there with a
robust developer community.”  Free Software  Smartphones took a back seat at the conference as T-shirted
programmers flocked to sessions about netbooks, Internet TV and
in-vehicle infotainment systems.  “I think it’s exciting because it’s a good way to see free
software getting into consumer electronics,” Kevin Ottens, a
developer with Hagfors, Sweden-based software consultants KDAB,
said in an interview. “This is the first attempt to do that in
an open way.”  MeeGo fans who want to develop for  Nokia  handsets are still
working with the N900, which was introduced in September 2009
with Nokia’s Maemo 5 software and runs a version of MeeGo that
hasn’t been released to the public. Before agreeing in February
2010 to merge its system with Intel’s Moblin, Nokia had aimed
for its next Linux-based device to be out in the second half of
this year.  Nokia  doesn’t plan to use the standard reference user
interface but will instead provide “openness and
differentiation,” Valtteri Halla, director of Nokia MeeGo, said
in a panel discussion.  Market Share  “We’re writing our own applications like we do with all
Nokia devices like the N900,” Halla said, adding that the
company doesn’t comment on future products. The core of the
operating system is on schedule, he said.  Nokia ’s main operating system, Symbian, dipped to a 36.6
percent in smartphone market share in the third quarter from
44.6 percent a year earlier, according to Gartner Inc. Nokia
took most Symbian activities back in-house last week after an
effort to run them through a vendor-independent foundation
failed.  Android now has 25.5 percent of the market on devices from
various manufacturers including  Samsung Electronics Co.  and HTC
Corp., while Apple Inc.’s iPhone, which is widely said to have
reinvented the user experience on smartphones when it was
introduced in 2007, is third with 16.7 percent.  MeeGo Concepts  “Nokia needs to ensure that MeeGo balances its open
philosophy with sufficient rigor when it comes to fundamentals
such as governance, development cycles, time to market, service
integration, application development and revenue generation,”
 Geoff Blaber , a London-based analyst at CCS Insight, said in a
report last week. “If MeeGo fumbles these basic concepts, it
could give Google free rein as the primary contender to Apple.”  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. announced today that it has
joined the MeeGo project. Future MeeGo devices will run on  AMD 
chips as well as Intel’s, Intel Vice President Doug Fisher said.  “We expect that this operating system will help drive our
embedded plans and create expanded marketing opportunities for
our forthcoming Accelerated Processing Units,” Ben Bar-Haim,
AMD corporate vice president, said in a statement.  Future devices will be “more natural” for users owing to
gesture interfaces and integration with surrounding objects,
Torres said. He characterized Nokia’s intended offering as
“delicious hardware, delightful user experience, great core
apps and services” and said there would be “room to create
things that are unique.”  Tablet Device  Torres’s remarks indicate it’s likely that Nokia will
introduce a MeeGo tablet as well as a smartphone when it makes
announcements,  Sami Sarkamies , an analyst at Nordea Bank, said
in an e-mail. The company could use a release of MeeGo scheduled
for April 2011 and introduce products next spring, he said.  A MeeGo conference will be held in San Francisco in May,
followed a week later by a developer meeting in Oulu, Finland,
organizers said.  MeeGo’s success will partly depend on Qt, a development
environment owned by Nokia and now used by 400,000 programmers
at companies including  Google Inc , Skype SARL, and vehicle
makers such as Scania AB and Daimler AG, Torres said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  