-- Norway Says Natural-Gas Glut Will Shrink, Markets Stabilize Soon
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-11-15T15:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/norway-says-natural-gas-glut-will-shrink-markets-stabilize-soon.html
Norway, the world’s second-biggest
natural-gas exporter, expects increased  demand  will reduce a
glut of the fuel more quickly than forecast by the International
Energy Agency, according to its Oil Minister.  An excess of supply capacity will peak at more than 200
billion cubic meters next year, from 130 billion in 2009, before
starting “a hesitant decline” to at least 150 billion in 2020,
the IEA said in a report this month. The Paris-based agency
defines the glut as the capacity of inter-regional pipelines and
LNG export plants minus the volume of gas actually traded.  “I’m a little bit surprised to hear that the IEA is
projecting a glut of natural gas for the next ten years, this is
contrary to the message I get from the industry and other market
advisers who say that much of the gas surplus has already
disappeared,”  Terje Riis-Johansen  said today in an Oslo
interview. “We see an imbalance in the market now, but we
believe this will stabilize itself relatively soon.”  Gas for next month has tumbled 32 percent in New York this
year amid rising production from U.S. shale formations and as
exporters increased liquefied natural gas capacity. European gas
demand dropped 5 percent, or 27 billion cubic meters last year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Global demand will
return to growth this year after dropping in 2009, the IEA said.  “The size of the gas glut will go down, but it may be with
us for some time to come,”  Fatih Birol , chief economist at the
agency, said today at a conference in Oslo.  Diverging Forecasts  Producers and buyers have diverging forecasts for how long
the glut will last. E.ON Ruhrgas AG’s chief executive officer
said last week he expected the glut to peak in two or three
years and last a decade. Total SA said the oversupply will be
absorbed by surging demand for the fuel in China and India.  “We see a market that is in the process of normalizing
itself,” Riis-Johansen said. “The role of gas will be
significant going forward and we’ll see a switch from coal to
gas, which will ensure a stable delivery of Norwegian gas.”  The country’s  gas production  doubled in the past decade and
is forecast to stabilize at 105 billion to 112 billion cubic
meters a year until 2014 because of a lack of any large
discoveries. The country, the world’s seventh-biggest oil
exporter, plans to boost gas output as oil production from its
North Sea fields is forecast to decline for a 10th consecutive
year, according to the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate.  ‘More Optimistic’  “We’re probably more optimistic than the IEA regarding how
the gas prices will develop and we’re seeing a tightening of the
market already,” Statoil ASA’s Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund  said in an Oslo interview. “We’re seeing on the forward
curves that the market is starting to tighten in Europe and
Asia, while the prices in the U.S. are still low because there’s
so much new supply that has been made available, but we expect a
tightening there as well in the years to come.”  Weaker spot gas prices have prompted customers to seek more
flexible terms and cheaper gas from producers such as OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, and Statoil, which has
chosen to temporarily cut production and move its fuel to other
markets to obtain higher prices.  Brian Bjordal , chief executive officer of Gassco AS, the
nation’s gas pipeline and processing company, said that he was
more concerned about how Norway would maintain its gas output
after 2020, due to the lack of new finds.  The glut “will not be a problem for Norwegian gas, because
it’s unusually competitive and well-positioned in the market, so
I don’t see that as a source of concern,” Bjordal said in an
interview. “The main challenge for Norway will rather be the
production development for the next 10 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  