-- Obama Returns From Asia to Face Unfinished Business, Republican Challenge
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/obama-returns-from-asia-to-face-unfinished-business-republican-challenge.html
President  Barack Obama  returned
from Asia confronted by a menu of unfinished domestic and
foreign policy goals on issues from trade to taxes and by
Republicans ready to challenge him on all fronts after
election victories.  The president left for the four-nation trip days after
voters in midterm elections gave Republicans control of the
House of Representatives and narrowed the Democratic
majority in the Senate. He said what he learned from the
election and the tour of Asia was that inaction in
Washington will put the U.S. at an economic disadvantage.  “The American people were not issuing a mandate for
gridlock,” Obama told reporters aboard Air Force One
before it landed in Washington yesterday afternoon. “They
want to see us make progress because they understand
instinctually how competitive things are and how we have to
step up our game.”  In January Obama will face a remade Congress with
Republicans in control of the House and a smaller
Democratic majority in the Senate. Among the unfinished
business he is seeking to wrap up before then is reaching a
compromise on extending Bush-era income tax cuts,
completing negotiations on a revised free-trade agreement
with South Korea and winning ratification of a nuclear arms
treaty with Russia.  Obama has scheduled a meeting with Democratic and
Republican congressional leaders Nov. 18 at the White House
to discuss legislative priorities. After that he leaves the
country again for a  North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
summit in Lisbon.  Expectation for Talks  “My expectation is when I sit down with  Mitch McConnell  and  John Boehner  this week along with Democratic
leaders, that there are a set of things that need to get
done during the lame-duck” congressional session, Obama
said, referring to the top Republicans in the Senate and
House.  The tax cut debate likely will dominate the
discussions. Republicans want to continue income-tax cuts
enacted when  George W. Bush  was president and set to expire
at the end of the year for households at all income levels.
Obama and congressional Democrats support keeping the
reductions only for the first $200,000 of income for
individuals and $250,000 for married couples.  While Obama repeated his stance that the U.S. can’t
afford the cost of permanently extending the rates for top
earners, he and his top advisers have signaled they may
compromise, possibly with a temporary extension.  Paying for Tax Cuts  “If they feel very strongly about it, then I want to
get a sense of how they intend to pay for it,” he said.  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican who was
Obama’s opponent in the 2008 presidential election, said
now isn’t the time to raise anyone’s taxes.  The tax cuts “should be extended until we are out of
this recession at which time we could look at tax hikes,”
McCain said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  While in Asia, Obama met with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and told him that getting the Senate to ratify a
new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty before year’s end is
“a top priority.”  Republican Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas expressed
skepticism about dealing with the treaty with so much else
on the agenda.  “I don’t think there’s a lot of appetite to try to
jam stuff through,” Cornyn said yesterday on CNN. “I just
don’t see that happening.”  Still, Obama said he feels “reasonably good about our
prospects” of winning approval.  Goals in Asia  The president fell short of some of his goals on the
trip to Asia. He failed to secure an agreement on concrete
steps to rebalance the global economy at the Nov. 11-12
summit of the Group of 20 nations in Seoul, and had to
extend talks on securing the South Korean trade deal, which
is central to his goal of boosting U.S. exports.  The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit ended
yesterday with leaders pledging “concrete steps” toward
creating a “comprehensive” regional free-trade agreement,
without setting a target for achieving that goal.  Still, Obama was greeted warmly during a three-day
stay in India where he secured $10 billion worth of
commercial deals that the administration estimates will
support 50,000 U.S. jobs. He also followed up on his
outreach to the world’s Muslims with a speech in his
boyhood home of Indonesia.  ‘Step Up Our Game’  Obama said that while Asia is eager for America to
reengage as a leader in the region, the U.S. needs to
“step up our game” because the countries there pose a
challenge to U.S. economic dominance.  “Korea, China, India, the entire Southeast Asian
region, Japan, all of them recognize how competitive things
are,” he said. “They are thinking each and every day
about how to educate their workforce, rebuild their
infrastructure, enter into new markets.”  To deal with the changed political landscape in the
U.S. and economic competition overseas, Obama said he wants
to “redouble” attempts to change the partisan tone in
Washington after spending his first two years in office
with an “obsessive focus on policy.”  “In that obsessive focus on policy, I neglected some
things that matter a lot to people and rightly so,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  