-- Loehmann's Holdings Files for Bankruptcy in New York
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   S c i n t a   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-11-16T02:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/loehmann-s-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-after-failing-to-exchange-notes.html
Loehmann’s Holdings Inc. , the seller
of discounted designer goods, negotiated a restructuring plan
with owner Istithmar Retail Investments and noteholder
Whippoorwill Associates Inc. before filing for bankruptcy.  Loehmann’s, which filed for bankruptcy today, said its plan
to reorganize would cut debt by $115 million. Istithmar and
Whippoorwill agreed to invest $25 million in the company,
according to court papers.  “That plan will deleverage this company in a huge way,”
Frank Oswald, Loehmann’s bankruptcy attorney, said today at a
court hearing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Loehmann’s, founded in 1921 by  Frieda Loehmann , blamed its
bankruptcy on declining sales and an inability to carry its debt
load. The retailer sells clothes from brands such as  Michael Kors ,  Calvin Klein  and  Donna Karan . The Bronx, New York-based
company operates 48 stores in 13 states and the District of
Columbia, according to court papers. In its Chapter 11 petition,
it listed assets of $204.5 million and debt of $232.7 million as
of Oct. 30.  “The decline in economic conditions in several markets in
which Loehmann’s stores are concentrated, mainly California, the
Northeast, Midwest and Florida, has had an adverse effect on
Loehmann’s financial condition,”  Joseph Melvin , the company’s
chief financial officer, said today in a court filing.  $45 Million Loan  At a hearing today, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert Gerber 
said he would approve a portion of a $45 million loan that
Loehmann’s will use during its bankruptcy case. The company will
borrow as much as $6 million of the loan from Crystal Financial
LLC on an interim basis, according to court papers. It will
return to court later for approval of the full amount of the
loan.  The financing includes a rollup of $30 million of
Loehmann’s pre-bankruptcy debt into post-bankruptcy debt, Oswald
said after the hearing.  Gerber said he would sign an order approving the financing
after criticizing many of its terms, including a group of
milestones that require  Loehmann’s  to win court approval of its
restructuring plan by Feb. 7. He called the deadlines “a very
aggressive schedule.”  “I don’t like my debtors starting Chapter 11 with guns to
their heads,” he said.  Best Terms  Loehmann’s attorneys said the terms were the best the
retailer could negotiate and that the milestones were
achievable.  “We need to get this company in and out just as quickly as
we can,” Oswald said.  Loehmann’s began negotiating in August with Istithmar and
the two largest noteholders, Whippoorwill and Plainfield Asset
Management LLC. Whippoorwill, a White Plains, New York-based
investment manager, supported the failed exchange and Plainfield
didn’t, court papers show.  In September, the company reached an agreement with
Istithmar and Whippoorwill to pursue a restructuring through the
exchange or a Chapter 11 plan, according to court papers.  “The proposed restructuring set forth in the original
support agreement, however, was not supported by Plainfield,”
Chief Operating Officer Joseph Melvin said in court papers.  While noteholders representing about 92.4 in principal
amount tendered their notes in accordance with the offer, the
exchange offer wasn’t consummated as it didn’t achieve the
required 97 percent acceptance, court papers show.  Notes Bought  Whippoorwill, which initially had 33.9 percent of the
 notes , bought Plainfield’s holding, raising its share to 70
percent. Istithmar in turn agreed to purchase half of the notes
previously owned by Plainfield.  In October, Loehmann said a holder of 35 percent of the
notes agreed to the exchange. Wit Clay, a Plainfield spokesman,
said today that the investment fund was that noteholder.  The current reorganization will be financed with a
$25 million investment from Istithmar and Whippoorwill. The
proposal, which requires court approval, calls for a $40 million
exit loan. Recoveries to unsecured creditors haven’t been
estimated, according to court papers. Istithmar and Whippoorwill
would get equity in the reorganized company.  “We look forward to working constructively through this
process and achieving a consensual restructuring,”  Andy Watson ,
acting chief executive officer of Istithmar World PJSC, said in
an e-mailed statement. Istithmar, owned by the Dubai government,
bought Loehmann’s in 2006.  1999 Bankruptcy  Loehmann’s previously filed for Chapter 11 protection in
May 1999 in Delaware amid increasing competition from discount
chains. It emerged from bankruptcy the following year after
cutting more than $140 million in debt, closing 25 stores and
rejecting takeover offers from two rivals.  Loehmann’s owes about $30.5 million under a credit revolver
and there is about $750,000 in open letters of credit under a
pre-bankruptcy credit agreement, court papers show.  The company is represented by lawyers from Togut, Segal &
Segal LLP.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  said it is
advising Istithmar on Loehmann’s Chapter 11 case.  The case is In re Loehmann’s Holdings Inc. 10-16077, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Scinta  in London at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 