-- Crude Oil Rises for First Time in Three Days After Japan's Economy Expands
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-15T13:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/oil-rises-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-speculation-demand-may-increase.html
Oil rebounded from its biggest
decline in more than three weeks amid speculation that economic
data from Japan and the U.S. signal increasing demand for fuel.  Crude rose as much as 1.1 percent, following a 3.3 percent
drop on Nov. 12, after reports showed gross domestic product in
Japan grew more than forecast in the third quarter and U.S.
retail sales climbed more than forecast in October.  “Stronger-than-expected GDP data out of Japan is
supporting the outlook for oil demand this morning, helping the
market recover from the carnage at the end of last week,” said
 Robert Montefusco , senior broker with Sucden Financial in
London.  Oil for December delivery rose as much as 89 cents to
$85.77 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange and was at
$85.43 at 1:38 p.m. London time. Brent crude for December
settlement was up 73 cents at $87.07 on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. The December Brent contract expires today.
The more actively traded January future was up 62 cents at
$87.15 a barrel.  Japan’s economy increased an annualized 3.9 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo
today. The median forecast of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 2.5 percent gain. Japan is the world’s
third-largest oil consumer, after the U.S. and China.  “It gives further evidence of that Asian recovery,” said
 Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “You’ve seen the recovery in
China and the positive spill-over effects for those economies in
the Asian region. Up until now, you haven’t really seen it as
much in Japan.”  U.S. Retail Sales  U.S. retail sales rose 1.2 percent in October, the biggest
gain since March, following a 0.7 percent September increase
that was larger than previously estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed today. The median estimate of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.7 percent advance.  Oil dropped 2.3 percent last week on speculation China will
raise interest rates, damping growth in the world’s biggest
energy consumer. Such steps to cool the economy may damp fuel
prices, according to  John Vautrain , a senior vice president at
energy consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore.  “The Chinese government is interested in tapering the
economy a bit,” he  said.  Chinese demand for fuel has surged this year. Oil
processing rose to a record last month after refiners increased
production to ease a domestic fuel shortage. Plants refined 37
million metric tons, or about 8.8 million barrels a day, in
October, up 12 percent from a year earlier, China Mainland
Marketing Research Co. said Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  