-- Oil Edges Lower on Speculation New Jersey Refinery Restarting
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-15T21:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/oil-increases-as-improving-economic-indicators-point-to-higher-fuel-demand.html
Crude oil slipped, following
gasoline lower, and giving up gains held for most of the day, on
speculation  ConocoPhillips  is preparing to restart a refinery in
New Jersey.  ConocoPhillips was preparing to restart a crude unit at the
Bayway plant, two people with knowledge of the plans said Nov.
12. The refinery is warming up a furnace associated with the
unit, said one of the people. Prices climbed earlier after a
government report showed that U.S. retail sales increased last
month by the most since March.  “There are rumors that the ConocoPhillips Bayway refinery
will soon restart,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas
Commodity Futures Inc. in New York. “Gasoline kept pushing
higher until interest dried up and sent it, and oil lower.
Gasoline is coming this way and the refinery will be back.”  Crude oil for December delivery slipped 2 cents to settle
at $84.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures
rose as much as 89 cents to $85.77. Prices are up 11 percent
from a year ago.  Gasoline for December delivery declined 1.49 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $2.195 a gallon in New York. It
rose as much as 1.8 percent to $2.2489.  The Bayway refinery, located along New York Harbor, has a
capacity of 238,000 barrels a day and processes mainly light,
low-sulfur crude oil, according to the company’s website.  Oil rose initially after the Commerce Department said U.S.
 retail sales   climbed  1.2 percent in October after a 0.7 percent
September increase that was larger than previously estimated.
Economists anticipated a 0.7 percent advance, based on the
median of 74 responses a Bloomberg News survey. The October data
exceeded the highest forecast in the poll.  ‘Mildly Bullish’  “We’ve had mildly bullish economic news, but it’s not
enough to take us to new highs,” said  Michael Lynch , president
of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. “Today’s headlines aren’t that impressive when
compared with the big news last week.”  Oil dropped 2.3 percent in New York last week on
speculation China will raise interest rates, damping growth in
the world’s biggest energy consuming country.  “The market was pulled in different directions today,”
said  Phil Flynn , a Chicago-based analyst and trader with
investment adviser PFGBest. “The economic data today was mixed,
with better-than-expected retail sales balanced against less
manufacturing and rising inventories.”  Economic Index  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  fell to minus 11.1 from 15.7 in October. Readings less
than zero signal contractions in the so-called Empire State
Index, which covers New York, northern New Jersey and southern
Connecticut. Economists forecast the measure would fall to 14
this month, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Business inventories in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
September as companies stocked shelves before the holiday
season. The 0.9 percent increase matched the rise in August that
was larger than previously estimated, the Commerce Department
said today in Washington.  “We’re moving sideways after last week’s precipitous
fall,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “You probably
won’t see oil move in a strong direction until we get the
inventory report on Wednesday. We’ll want to see if there is
another big decline in stocks.”  The Energy Department reported on Nov. 10 that supplies
tumbled 3.27 million barrels in the week ended Nov. 5 to 364.9
million, the biggest drop since July, as demand from refineries
climbed and imports fell. The department is scheduled to release
its weekly report at 10:30 a.m. on Nov. 17 in Washington.  Brent Futures  Brent crude oil for December settlement increased 36 cents,
or 0.4 percent, to end the session at $86.70 on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London. The December Brent contract expired
today. More-actively traded January oil rose 23 cents, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $86.76.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 514,138 contracts as of 4:03
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 854,507
contracts on Nov. 12, 20 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.47 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  