-- Olympian Survives Sharks, Japanese Sadist in `Seabiscuit' Follow-Up: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2010-11-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/olympian-survives-sharks-japanese-sadist-in-seabiscuit-follow-up-books.html
“Incredible” and “unbelievable”
are words that keep coming to mind during “ Unbroken ,”  Laura
Hillenbrand’s  horror-by-horror account of the sufferings
Louis Zamperini endured during World War II.  He survived 47 days on a raft in blistering equatorial
heat, losing half his body weight. And that ordeal was
pleasant compared with what followed when he was captured
by the Japanese.  Zamperini was an Olympic runner from Torrance,
California. There’s reason to believe that if the war
hadn’t intervened he could have broken the four-minute mile
years before Roger Bannister finally did it in 1954.  In May, 1943 his bomber went down in the South
Pacific. Of the 11 men on board, only three made it onto
two small canvas-and-rubber rafts. There was nothing on
them to shelter the men from the sun. For nourishment they
had only a little water and chocolate, which quickly
disappeared.  When they spotted a plane and shot off a flare, it
turned out to be Japanese and strafed them. Zamperini
jumped into the water and fought off the sharks with his
fists.  The first camp Zamperini was interned in was the
Japanese equivalent of one of the CIA’s “black site”
prisons. The POWs were starved and tortured -- their
captors claimed “they were ‘unarmed combatants’ at war
against Japan and, as such, didn’t have the rights that
international law accorded POWs.”  ‘The Bird’  The next camp was worse, owing to the psychopathic
sadism of Cpl. Mutsuhiro Watanabe, “the Bird,” who after
the war ranked among the most wanted Japanese war
criminals. He immediately fixated on the famous Olympian
and determined to break his spirit.  Hillenbrand, the author of the 2001 bestseller
“ Seabiscuit ,” is a wonderful storyteller with a knack for
surprising the reader. Nevertheless, the deeper in I got
the less I found myself wanting to return to her endless
atrocity anecdotes:  “While Louie hid upstairs on his bunk, sick with
fever, he saw the Bird and Kono beat two sick POWs until
they acquiesced to the Bird’s order to lick excrement from
their boots.”  Much to her credit, she doesn’t try to tug inspiration
out of Zamperini’s history. (The title and subtitle -- “A
World War II Story of Survival, Resilience and Redemption”
-- are much cheesier than anything in the text.) When the
war was over, he was very broken. How he put himself back
together forms the final part of the book.  Hiroshima and Nagasaki  Reading about the Japanese prison camps made me feel
the way I do when I read about the German death camps --
implicated in the vileness of humanity. But it tempered
some of my qualms on another score, the destruction of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Hillenbrand shows that the Japanese
had “kill-all” orders for any camps that appeared likely to
be liberated.  There had already been mass murders of prisoners
before Hiroshima went up in flames. “They were evidently
about to murder all the other POWs and civilian internees
in their custody when the atomic bomb brought their empire
crashing down.”  “Unbroken” is published by  Random House  in the U.S.
(473 pages, $27). It will be published in the U.K. by
Fourth Estate in January. To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 