-- Hong Kong Brokers First to Get Direct Access to Tokyo Exchange
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-11-15T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/hong-kong-brokers-allowed-to-trade-directly-on-tokyo-exchange-tse-says.html
Traders based outside Japan will
have direct access to the  Tokyo stock exchange  for the first
time without having to open offices in the country or requiring
locally licensed brokers.  The TSE has struck an agreement with the Securities and
Futures Commission of Hong Kong, the Chinese city’s market
regulator, to allow authorized broker dealers from the city to
directly execute orders on the exchange. It is the first time
offshore traders will have direct access to the bourse,  Satoshi Mimura , a spokesman for the Tokyo exchange, said yesterday. The
SFC approved the arrangement on Nov. 8, according to its
 website .  “There are a lot of branches of U.S. and European
brokerages in Hong Kong, and we saw a strong demand to execute
orders from the city, where there is little time difference
between Japan,” said TSE’s Mimura. “It’s easier to put out
orders from there.” Japan is one hour ahead of Hong Kong.  The Tokyo bourse has taken steps to boost trading as the
value of China’s stock market surpassed Japan’s last month to
become the second-biggest worldwide. Average daily volume of
shares traded on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange
has fallen to about 1.95 billion this year from 2.12 billion
last year, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . Exchanges in
the region are competing globally for new business and face
competition from alternative trading platforms such as Chi-East,
the dark pool joint venture between Singapore Exchange Ltd. and
Chi-X Global Inc., which started operating on Nov. 11.  ‘Enhance Accessibility’  “All regional bourses are looking for ways to enhance
their products and enhance their accessibility to make
themselves a more meaningful place,” said  Andrew Sullivan , a
director of institutional sales trading at OSK Securities Hong
Kong Ltd.  Hong Kong-based broker dealers licensed by the SFC and
authorized by the TSE and Japan’s Financial Services Agency,
will be able to send orders from the Chinese city, Mimura said.
They will also be able to place their servers near those of the
exchange, a practice called co-location, which reduces the time
it takes for market data and orders to be transmitted, enabling
brokers and trading firms to make faster decisions and receive
quicker executions. Brokers  previously  required a branch office
or an agent in Japan in order to be able to deal from offshore.  “The next step is to promote brokerages to participate,”
Mimura said. No remote trading memberships have yet been granted
to any Hong Kong brokerages, he said. The TSE has been preparing
for the deal from about a year ago, Mimura said.  Authorized Access  The SFC  authorized  access for Hong Kong brokers to the
Tokyo exchange’s Arrowhead stock trading system as well as its
derivatives platform and the bourse’s Tdex+ options trading
system.  “It would be good for some Japanese companies because it
will attract some funds,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at
Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Other exchanges in the region have also taken steps to gain
more presence in Asia.  Singapore Exchange Ltd.  offered last
month to buy ASX Ltd., Australia’s main stock exchange, for
A$8.4 billion ($8.3 billion) in cash and shares in a drive to
compete with Hong Kong and Tokyo.  “With more hedge funds moving out of Japan to other parts
of Asia, it’s no surprise it would introduce something like this
to increase its business,” said  Tsutomu Yamada , a market
analyst at kabu.com Securities Co. in Tokyo. “It’s showing
determination to remain a major part of Asia’s market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 