-- Hong Kong’s Stock Index Drops to Two-Week Low; China Coal Slumps
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-15T09:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/hong-kong-stocks-fluctuated-amid-tightening-concerns-on-growth.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to its lowest close in two weeks, as banks and
property developers declined after a report said China’s biggest
lenders have stopped new loans to real-estate companies.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest lender, dropped 1.8 percent even after denying the
report.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. , controlled by the
construction ministry, dropped 2.9 percent. China Coal Energy
Co., a unit of the country’s second-largest producer of the fuel,
plunged 4.1 percent after reporting lower sales.  “The Chinese government tells the banks ‘please don’t lend
to the sector,’ and you get a micro level of tightening, even
though there is no movement in interest rates,”  Adrian Mowat ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief Asian and emerging-market
strategist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Mowat said China will raise interest rates in the second
quarter of 2011. He favors shares in consumption and health care,
and avoids property stocks in China.  The Hang Seng Index  slipped 0.8 percent to 24,027.18, its
lowest close since Nov. 2. Declines were limited as JPMorgan
raised its recommendation on the MSCI Hong Kong Index to
“overweight” from “underweight.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares
of Chinese companies fell 1.8 percent to 13,416.25.  The Hang Seng Index has gained 9.9 percent this year on
expectations that growth in corporate earnings will overcome
concerns about the pace of the U.S. economic recovery and
China’s steps to curb rising property prices. Shares in the
gauge trade at an average  15.1 times  estimated earnings,
compared with about 17.2 times at the start of the year.  Banks Fall  ICBC fell 1.8 percent to HK$6.49. China Construction Bank
Corp., the nation’s second-biggest lender by market value,
dropped 1.2 percent to HK$7.34. Bank of China Ltd., the No. 3,
slid 1.5 percent to HK$4.49. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.,
the fourth-largest, lost 1.9 percent to HK$4.22.  China’s four biggest banks will not issue any new loans to
property developers for the remainder of the year, the state-run
China Real Estate Business reported, citing unidentified
executives at the banks. ICBC, Construction Bank, Bank of China
and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. had met their allotted loan
targets for the year, according to the report.  Agricultural Bank and Construction Bank denied the report
that loans to property developers have been halted, Caixin
Online said, citing unidentified people at the banks.  Xie Taifeng, a press officer with ICBC, also denied it had
stopped extending loans to property developers for the remainder
of this year.  China Overseas declined 2.9 percent to HK$15.98. China
Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer, lost 2.1
percent to HK$15.06.  Metals Producers  China Coal slid 4.1 percent to HK$13.18, the sharpest drop
on the Hang Seng Index, after saying sales dropped 0.9 percent
to 9.32 million tons, while coal production rose 23 percent from
a year earlier.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest maker of
the lightweight metal, dropped 2.6 percent to HK$7.27.  China’s metals producers may extend declines in the “near
term” on speculation the country will further tighten monetary
policy, according to China International Capital Corp.  The People’s Bank of China in October raised its benchmark
interest rates for the first time since 2007 and last week
boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios by as much as one
percentage point, seeking to tame the fastest inflation in two
years. Consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent in October from a year
earlier, exceeding all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  SouthGobi Resources Ltd., backed by China’s sovereign
wealth fund, rose 2.8 percent to HK$85.75. The company may post
a profit next year as increased output boosts sales, Chief
Executive Officer Alexander Molyneux said.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index slid 1 percent to 23,955.
About seven stocks dropped for every four that rose among the
measure’s 45 constituents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 