-- Morgan Stanley Chicago Parking Makes Cities Redo Deals
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-11-15T20:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/morgan-stanley-chicago-parking-windfall-makes-cities-redo-deals.html
Chicago’s agreement for a Morgan
Stanley partnership to run its parking meters for 75 years,
expected to cost drivers $11.6 billion, has Indianapolis,
Pittsburgh and Los Angeles rethinking their own deals.  Indianapolis, whose city council plans to vote tonight on a
proposal with  Xerox Co.’s  Affiliated Computer Services, would
rather take less money up front in favor of more total fees in
its 50-year transaction. It also wants something Chicago didn’t
get: exit clauses that let the city end the lease.  “We have terms that are not in Chicago’s deal,” Deputy
Mayor  Michael Huber , who negotiated with Affiliated Computer,
said in an interview. “We’ve built in a lot of flexibility.”  Bloomberg News reported in August that Chicago’s agreement
may earn the Morgan Stanley group 10 times the $1.15 billion
lump sum Mayor  Richard Daley  got when he forced the City Council
to consider the deal on a few days notice in 2008, according to
documents for a planned private note sale by the Chicago Parking
Meters LLC venture. The experience shows the pitfalls of a hasty
process that doesn’t weigh all the costs, said former Chicago
 Inspector  General  David Hoffman .  “It’s a mistake to rush into a deal for such a long period
of time without a full public accounting of the pros and cons,”
Hoffman said in an interview.  Among the cons for Chicago was that the city was unable to
take advantage of falling interest rates by borrowing against
parking-meter revenue, Hoffman said. Chicago Parking Meters, the
partnership of Morgan Stanley,  Allianz SE ’s Allianz Capital
Partners and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, did.  Record-Low Rates  It recovered part of its upfront costs when it sold $600
million of 10-year notes on Nov. 4, the day investment-grade
corporate-debt yields fell to 3.53 percent, the lowest on
record, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Mayor Daley had reason to push for the parking lease with
his city facing deficits. He’s since spent about $792 million of
the Morgan Stanley money over three years for fiscal needs
including balancing budgets, according to city reports.  The longest recession since the Great Depression cut U.S.
cities’ general-fund revenue in the budget year that ended June
30 by the most since at least 1986, according to the  National
League of Cities . That’s prompted many to seek lower costs in
partnerships with private companies to run everything from
airports to zoos.  Los Angeles, facing a projected $550 million budget deficit
by 2014, will spend the proceeds of its parking-meter agreement
to help pay off building loans, meet current expenses and add to
reserves. Pittsburgh needs the money for city pensions.  No Rush  Indianapolis  took its time considering a parking deal
because it wasn’t seeking funds for its budget, Deputy Mayor
Huber said. State law requires the proceeds be used to repair
streets adjacent to the meters, he said.  The city wants a private company to take over the system
because it needs an upgrade, Huber said. Some meters haven’t
been replaced and rates haven’t been raised for 35 years, he
said.  After the deal was proposed in August, it was  modified,  he
said. The city cut the upfront payment to $20 million from $35
million while it increased the amount it would receive over the
contract to $620 million from $400 million.  It also added the ability to terminate the contract every
10 years. Chicago can’t get its system back for 75 years unless
Morgan Stanley and its partners default, according to bond-sale
documents issued in July.  Airport Parking  The Morgan Stanley group may earn a profit of $9.58 billion
before interest, taxes and depreciation, according to bond
documents. That’s equivalent to 80 cents per dollar of projected
revenue.  Standard Parking Corp ., which runs 30,000 spaces at
Chicago’s O’Hare and Midway airports, earned 4.84 cents on that
basis last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Profit estimates in the bond offering documents were “in
line” with projections when the city established the value of
the contract between $700 million and $1.1 billion,  Gene Saffold , Chicago’s chief financial officer, said in August. He
said the net present value of the $11.6 billion over 75 years
was consistent with the $1.15 billion the city received.  In Indianapolis, the arrangement still favors the
contractor, said  Phineas Baxandall , a senior analyst for tax and
budget policy in Boston with U.S. Public Interest Research
Group, a federation of state advocacy groups.  The city’s income of about $640 million over the life of
the arrangement is less than half the $1.5 billion the private
group could make in the period, he said.  ‘Out of Line’  “The cost is way out of line,” said Baxandall. Private
deals can be tax increases in disguise, he said.  Contractors are better managers of parking systems than
municipalities, said David Cummins, vice president of parking at
Affiliated Computer in Germantown, Maryland. Indianapolis’s
system made a profit of $715,000 in 2009, Cummins said.  “We can double and triple the revenue a city can generate
on its own,” he said. “It’s a little ludicrous for a city to
think it can build a parking system on its own and see the same
results our concession envisions. They should leave it to the
experts.”  The Pittsburgh City Council rejected a $451 million
agreement with a  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  group last month amid
concerns about its length and the possibility of rate increases.  “Pittsburgh’s City Council stood up and said the city
doesn’t have to take a bad deal,” Baxandall said.  Pittsburgh Plan  Mayor  Luke Ravenstahl  wants to revive the proposal to help
Pittsburgh meet a Jan. 1 deadline to make a $225 million payment
to the city’s pension, said his spokeswoman, Joanna Doven. The
state may take over the pension if the city misses the
contribution, she said.  “We believe it’s the best thing for the city,” Doven
said.  Los Angeles City Administrative Officer  Miguel Santana  is
seeking private companies to run municipal parking garages,
possibly earning upfront payments of as much as $300 million for
a 50-year agreement. He plans to present final bids to the City
Council by February, he said in an interview last month.  Santana recommended the city reject language similar to
Chicago’s agreement that gave up control of parking rates,
according to  a Jan. 28 report . The Morgan Stanley group has
raised some central Chicago meter rates to $4.25 an hour from $3
since January 2009, and they will go to $6.25 in 2013, documents
for its bond sale said.  Los Angeles, which may get a larger initial payment by
giving up control over rates, decided to set a fee schedule for
the first five years to shield residents from higher costs.
Increases after that would be limited by the Consumer Price
Index.  “We want to make sure there’s a value for the city,”  Eric Garcetti , the council president, said in a telephone interview,
“but not cede control in ways that residents would be hurt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  