-- PKN Hires Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, RBS for Eurobonds
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i ,   B e n j a m i n   M a r t i n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-11-19T14:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/orlen-hires-citigroup-rbs-for-meetings-on-polish-refiner-s-debut-eurobond.html
(Corrects story published Nov. 15 to remove erroneous
reference to credit rating in fifth paragraph.)  PKN Orlen SA , Poland’s largest oil
refiner, hired Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc to meet investors for its first sale of
bonds in euros.  The meetings will start on Nov. 17 and take several days,
spokesman Beata Karpinska said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News. The company will use the proceeds
from the sale to “diversify its sources of financing,” she
said. Nordea Bank AB and UniCredit SpA are the issue’s co-
arrangers.  “A successful issue of long-term Eurobonds would extend
the company’s debt maturity profile and substantially reduce
PKN’s refinancing risk in 2012” as 7.2 billion zloty ($2.5
billion), or 65 percent of the company’s outstanding debt comes
due then,  Arkadiusz Wicik , director at Fitch Ratings in Warsaw
wrote in a statement today.  Fitch has today assigned the issue an “expected” rating
of BB+, the highest non-investment grade. The company raised its
debt outlook for PKN to “stable” from “negative” on Sept. 3
because of improved cash-flow generation and financial
flexibility, according to the statement.  PKN is  rated  an equivalent Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service.  PKN said on Oct. 29 that earnings before interest and taxes
will be “very good” in the fourth quarter after profit
increased 86 percent in the previous period. Ebit rose to 788.6
million zloty in the third quarter from 423 million zloty a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Hyde  at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  