-- Mortgage-Bond Yields Guiding Home Loans Soar to Five-Month High
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-15T22:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/mortgage-bond-yields-that-guide-home-loan-rates-advance-to-four-month-high.html
Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
mortgage securities that guide home-loan rates reached their
highest levels in almost five months, suggesting borrowing costs
may rise from record lows.  Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage 
bonds jumped to 3.80 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York, mostly
tracking a gain in 10-year Treasuries as those yields rose from
3.64 percent to the highest since June 25, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on mortgage securities, which
typically push loan rates in the same direction by similar
amounts, have risen from 3.27 percent on Nov. 4.  Benchmark Treasury yields have soared as the Federal
Reserve embarks on buying an additional $600 billion of U.S.
government debt in a bid to spur economic growth. Higher
Treasury rates probably aren’t being caused by concern the Fed’s
plan will weaken the dollar or boost inflation, analysts at
Barclays Capital led by  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  in New York wrote.  “The most likely reason is simply that investors have
scaled back their expectations of Fed purchases,” the analysts
said in a Nov. 12 report.  Treasury prices fell today, sending yields higher for a
third day as a report on retail sales showed economic growth
quickening and a group of Republican lawmakers and economists
urged the Fed to halt purchases of government bonds because it
may risk a surge in inflation.  The  average rate  on a typical 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
fell to a record low 4.17 percent in the week ended Nov. 11,
compared with this year’s high of 5.21 percent in April,
according to McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac. A 0.4
percentage point increase would raise the monthly cost of a
$300,000 home loan to $1,533 from $1,461.  Home Sales  Sales  of existing U.S. homes advanced to an annual pace of
4.43 million in September after tumbling to record lows in July
and August following the expiration of tax credits for buyers,
according to data that goes back to 1963 reported Oct. 25 by the
National Association of Realtors. The average annual sales rate
for the past decade was 5.78 million homes.  Yields on agency mortgage bonds are now guiding rates on
almost all new U.S. home lending following the collapse of the
non-agency market in 2007 and reduced loans by banks. The $5.3
trillion market includes securities guaranteed by government-
controlled Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and bonds of government-
insured loans guaranteed by federal agency Ginnie Mae.  Effect on Rates  Changes in home-loan rates will probably be of “a lot
lower magnitude” than rising yields on mortgage securities
because lenders can accept lower per-loan profits, Nomura
Securities International Inc. analysts led by  Ohmsatya Ravi  said
in a Nov. 12 note to clients. That dynamic will limit the amount
of debt-selling connected to hedging, the analysts said.  As rates rise, the  projected lives  of mortgage bonds and
loan-servicing contracts increase, partly because the potential
for homeowners to refinance drops. Servicers and investors who
own the securities then have portfolios with longer-than-
expected durations, which may prompt them to sell longer-dated
Treasuries, mortgage bonds and interest-rate swaps. Those sales
may send yields on mortgage securities even higher.  The difference between yields on the Fannie Mae current-
coupon securities, which most influence loan rates because they
trade closest to face value, and 10-year Treasuries narrowed
about 0.01 percentage point today to 0.84 percentage point,
Bloomberg data show. The spread, which has climbed from 0.75
percentage point on Nov. 3, reached a record low of 0.54
percentage point on July 30.  Credit Suisse Group analysts said today they were no longer
suggesting a bet that spreads would widen. That earlier
recommendation reflected the idea that investors should “buy
what the Fed is buying.” At the end of March, the central bank
concluded a program to buy $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed
securities.  “Risk/reward appears balanced at current valuations,” the
analysts led by  Mahesh Swaminathan  in New York wrote in a note
to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  