-- Motorola Plans January Spinoff of Mobile-Phone Unit
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-15T21:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/motorola-plans-january-spinoff-of-mobile-phone-unit.html
Motorola Inc. , the U.S. maker of
mobile phones and two-way radios, is targeting January for the
spinoff of its handset unit, splitting the company in two.  Co-Chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  gave the timeframe at
a meeting with analysts in New York today. He had previously
only said the split would occur in the first quarter.  Motorola reported a sales increase last quarter for the
first time in almost four years, smoothing the way for a spinoff
of its handset and set-top-box businesses as a new company. That
will leave Brown to focus on running an entity called Motorola
Solutions made up of the company’s remaining businesses, which
make bar-code scanners, walkie-talkies and other emergency-
communication equipment.  Motorola , based in Schaumburg, Illinois, fell 5 cents to
$7.94 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have
added 2.3 percent this year.  Co-CEO  Sanjay Jha  runs the phone and set-top-box
businesses, which will be known as Motorola Mobility once spun
off. After the separation, Motorola Solutions will be able to
put money it had been investing in the phone unit into the rest
of the business and may make acquisitions, Brown said in an
interview last month. He reiterated today that the company will
consider buying companies after the split.  “Right now we’re focused on launching, listing and growing
organically,” Brown told analysts today. “Then we’ll see how
things come at us in 2011.”  Motorola Prospects  Motorola Solutions expects sales to climb 5 percent to 8
percent excluding acquisitions over the long-term, Brown said
today. Its operating margin, or profit as a percentage of sales,
should be 16 percent to 18 percent, helping the new company to a
‘solid’ investment-grade rating, he said. Motorola will consider
returning cash to shareholders, including through dividends,
Brown said.  The company aims to save $150 million to $250 million in
operating costs through job cuts Brown described as ‘modest.’
Asked to elaborate, he said they would only be in the ‘hundreds
’and wouldn’t affect its research and development or sales
force.  The radio and bar-code-scanner business reported a 9
percent increase in sales last quarter to $1.9 billion and a 5.9
percent gain in operating profit to $321 million. That helped
lift the company’s sales by about 6 percent to $5.8 billion, the
first year-over-year revenue increase since the fourth quarter
of 2006.  Government customers account for 65 percent of sales so far
this year, with corporate customers generating 35 percent, Chief
Financial Officer  Edward Fitzpatrick  told analysts. The company
will break out revenue by those two segments once independent.  The company should have about $2.9 billion in debt and $5.3
billion in cash at the time of the split and maintain a credit
facility of $1.5 billion, Fitzpatrick said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  