-- House Freshmen for 2011 Gather as Congress Prepares to Address Tax Cuts
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/house-freshmen-for-2011-gather-as-congress-prepares-to-address-tax-cuts.html
The 2011 U.S. House freshman
class is in Washington for orientation as Congress today
opens a lame-duck session to decide whether to extend
billions of dollars in Bush-era income-tax cuts.  “I’m just looking forward to getting started,”
Republican  Jim Renacci  of Ohio, who beat Democratic
Representative  John Boccieri  in the Nov. 2 election, said
in an interview yesterday. Renacci said his first priority
when the new lawmakers take office in January is that
“we’ve got to get spending under control.”  The members-elect attended a reception and separate
dinners for Democrats and Republicans. They will undergo
orientation this week as legislative leaders meet with
President  Barack Obama  on tax cuts and House members of
both parties meet in private to choose their leaders for
next year.  Democrats announced a plan to keep their team in
place, although they ordinarily would lose one position
upon becoming the minority party in January.  “This is about the freshman class,” said Virginia
Representative  Eric Cantor , the No. 2 ranking House
Republican, as he walked to the reception at a hotel about
a mile from the Capitol. “It’s an opportunity for them to
get to know one another. I’m just here to get to know them
and meet all the new faces.”  Democrat  Karen Bass  of Los Angeles said House Speaker
 Nancy Pelosi  of California offered a toast to the new
members of both parties at the reception and spoke of the
need to “freshen” Congress every two years. Pelosi is
running to become minority leader in 2011.  Tax Cuts  Renacci said he expects the lame-duck Congress to
extend the Bush-era tax cuts, which expire at the end of
the year. “We need to make sure those tax cuts are
extended” to help the economy, he said. If they lapse, he
said he hopes Republicans will try to renew them
retroactively.  Obama and congressional Democrats want to continue the
tax cuts only for the first $200,000 in income for
individuals and $250,000 for couples. Republicans insist on
a permanent extension of the tax cuts for all income
levels.  Obama told reporters yesterday he’s committed to
extending tax cuts for middle-class Americans by the end of
the year and indicated he’s willing to negotiate with
Republicans on an extension for the country’s highest
earners.  Immigration, Jobless Benefits  Lawmakers also may address issues including
immigration, an extension of unemployment benefits and food
safety. Bass said her top hope is that lawmakers extend
federal jobless benefits scheduled to expire Nov. 30.  Democrat  Hansen Clarke , who will represent a district
in Detroit, said his primary goal will be to listen to
taxpayers and work with Republicans in the majority. “I
really don’t care about partisanship,” he said. “The
public is tired of all this partisan infighting.”  On taxes, Clarke said he supports keeping lower rates
for capital gains to help entice investment in Detroit,
where he said industry should begin diversifying from
automobile manufacturing to sectors like alternative
energy.  Democrats will still control the both houses during
the lame-duck session. Republicans won at least 60 seats
from the Democrats on Nov. 2. Republicans also gained six
seats in the Senate, trimming the Democrats’ control to 53-
47.  Leadership Elections  House Democrats will elect their leaders on Nov. 17.
Pelosi, 70, is creating a third leadership position under a
plan that will keep all three members of the current team.  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland, 71, the current majority
leader, would get the No. 2 job of minority whip in
January.  Jim Clyburn  of South Carolina, 70, now majority
whip, would hold the post of assistant leader, created to
head off a contest for the whip position.  North Carolina Democrat  Health Shuler  said he will
challenge Pelosi for the minority leader’s job although he
said he lacks the numbers to win. Having Pelosi as minority
leader is “unacceptable for our party, to move our party
forward in a moderate direction,” Shuler said on CNN’s
“State of the Union.”  Clarke and Bass said they support Pelosi to be
minority leader.  House Republicans will choose their leaders Nov. 18.
Minority leader  John Boehner  of Ohio has no opposition to
become speaker, and Cantor is in line to become majority
leader.  Arizona Republican  Paul Gosar , who beat Democratic
incumbent  Ann Kirkpatrick , said his arrival in Washington
has been a blur. “People coming in very fast, moving out
very fast,” he told a television interviewer as he stood
next to his wife, clasping her hand. “I’m just a small-
town pol.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 