-- U.S. House Panel Denies Rangel Request For Ethics Trial Delay
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-11-15T23:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/house-s-rangel-seeks-to-delay-ethics-panel-trial-to-raise-money-for-lawyer.html
A U.S. House ethics subcommittee
began closed-door deliberations on ethics allegations against
Representative  Charles Rangel  of New York, who boycotted its
hearing earlier today after being denied a postponement.  The subcommittee recessed for the day and will resume
discussions tomorrow in Washington. The panel, comprised of
four Democrats and four Republicans, heard testimony from chief
counsel Blake Chisam without calling any witnesses.  Rangel sought the postponement at the start of the
proceedings so he could find a lawyer. He said his previous
attorneys dropped him last month after being paid $2 million in
legal fees. Rangel said he didn’t have the money to continue
paying the law firm and needed to set up a legal defense fund
to raise cash.  “Fifty years of public service is on the line,” Rangel
said. “I truly believe that I’m not being treated fairly and
that history will dictate that, notwithstanding the political
calendar, I am entitled to a lawyer during this proceeding.”  Rangel told the panel that he wouldn’t respond to the
charges against him or participate in the hearing without legal
counsel. He left the room as the eight subcommittee members
adjourned to meet in closed session to consider the request for
a postponement.  He didn’t return when the subcommittee members re-
convened, and Chairwoman  Zoe Lofgren , a California Democrat,
said the hearing would proceed as planned.  “These matters have been under way for a long time,” she
said.  Decision Urged  Chisam told the panel he believed the evidence against
Rangel was clear enough that they could make a decision on the
case without days of testimony.  “You can right now get to a vote, based on what you have
before you,” he said.  Even as the case proceeded, some subcommittee members said
it was wrong for Rangel’s lawyers to withdraw weeks before the
hearing.  “If this was a court of law, a judge would not permit
that to happen,” said Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont
Democrat.  The committee in July accused Rangel of 13 violations of
House rules. Among his alleged transgressions are improperly
soliciting donations to help finance a City College of New York
academic center named for him, filing erroneous financial-
disclosure statements and misusing rent-controlled apartments
in Manhattan.  Corruption Query  “In all of your investigation of this matter, did you see
any evidence of personal financial benefit or corruption?”
Representative  G.K. Butterfield , a North Carolina Democrat,
asked Chisam today.  “Do I believe, based on this record, that Congressman
Rangel took steps to enrich himself based on his position in
Congress? I do not,” Chisam responded.  “I believe that the congressman, quite frankly, was
overzealous in many of the things that he did,” he said,
citing the charges that Rangel used congressional stationery
and staff members in seeking donations for the academic center.  Chisam also said Rangel was “sloppy in his personal
finances.”  Later in the hearing, Representative  Mike Conaway , a Texas
Republican, asked Chisam whether he was saying “that
sloppiness is a defense?”  “I don’t believe it’s a defense at all,” Chisam said.
“In fact, I believe that it’s a violation of the rule.”  Previous Recommendation  The panel previously recommended Rangel be reprimanded by
the full House. Rangel and the committee failed to agree on an
appropriate punishment before today’s hearing.  The subcommittee will report its findings to the full 10-
member ethics committee, which would then decide on an
appropriate punishment should it agree that Rangel violated
House rules. Penalties range from receiving a letter of
reprimand from the committee to being publicly censured on the
House floor to being expelled from the House.  Rangel, 80, took to the House floor Aug. 10 to declare
that he wouldn’t resign his seat and instead wanted the
committee to “expedite” its hearing.  He won a 21st House term Nov. 2 after fending off
challenges from five candidates in New York’s Sept. 14
Democratic primary. He garnered 80 percent of the general
election vote in his Harlem-based district.  Rangel stepped aside as chairman of the  Ways and Means
Committee  in March after the ethics panel said he broke House
rules by accepting corporate-sponsored travel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 