-- Lowe's Third-Quarter Profit Increases 17% on Lower Labor Costs
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2010-11-15T21:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/lowe-s-profit-rises-17-on-lower-labor-costs-as-revenue-misses-forecast.html
Lowe’s Cos. , the second-largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, said third-quarter profit increased
17 percent as it controlled labor expenses in the housing slump
to counter slower-than-forecast sales growth.  Net income rose to $404 million, or 29 cents a share, in
the quarter ended Oct. 29, from $344 million, or 23 cents, a
year earlier, the Mooresville, North Carolina-based company said
today in a statement. Excluding a writedown in the value of some
stores, earnings were 31 cents. Analysts projected 30 cents, the
average of 21  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Lowe’s, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock , has curbed staff costs by hiring more part-time,
seasonal workers and using employees instead of outside
contractors to clean and do plumbing and electrical repairs in
stores. The gross profit margin widened amid restrained spending
on kitchen remodeling and other major projects.  “The company is doing a good job managing through the
current downturn,”  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Capital
Markets in New York, wrote today in a note to clients. He rates
Lowe’s as “neutral” and said the economic environment will
limit share gains as “sales are prone to disappointment.”  Lowe’s  fell 23 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $21.46 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have dropped 8.3 percent this year.  The retailer cut its full-year profit forecast to a range
of $1.37 a share to $1.40 a share, compared with $1.21 last
year. In August, it projected earnings of $1.38 to $1.45 for the
year ending Jan. 28. It now sees full-year sales rising 3
percent to 4 percent, compared with an earlier prediction of
about 4 percent.  Home-Improvement Projects  Revenue rose 1.9 percent to $11.6 billion in the third
quarter, trailing the retailer’s earlier prediction of a gain of
3 percent to 5 percent.  A third-quarter survey of consumers by Lowe’s indicated
that half of projects planned by homeowners in the next six
months are “discretionary in nature,” Niblock told analysts on
a conference call today. Most of that spending will cover
projects costing less than $500, he said.  “Consumers are not yet willing to consistently take on
larger, discretionary home-improvement projects,” Niblock said.
In many cases, homeowners are delaying or scaling back spending
until they’re more confident about their personal finances, home
values and the economy, he said.  The gross profit margin, the portion of sales remaining
after subtracting the cost of goods sold, increased to 35.05
percent from 34.20 percent a year earlier.  Stores assigned employees to spend more time with
customers, cutting back-office tasks and helping reduce manpower
by almost 400 hours a week per store, Chief Financial Officer
 Robert Hull  said. The retailer paid less in bonuses than it had
planned after sales missed its projection and earnings were at
the lower end of its guidance, he said.  Home Depot Inc. , the world’s largest home-improvement
retailer, plans to report third-quarter results tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 