-- Panamericano Bonds Extend Week-Long Rout as Accounting Fraud Probe Deepens
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2010-11-15T19:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/panamericano-bonds-extend-weeklong-rout-as-accounting-fraud-probe-deepens.html
Banco Panamericano SA bonds
declined, extending a week-long rout, as Folha de S. Paulo
reported the alleged fraud under investigation by the central
bank and prosecutors could total more than 2.5 billion reais
($1.5 billion).  The Sao Paulo-based bank’s 8.5 percent bonds due in 2020
fell 4.15 cents on the dollar to 90.75 cents, pushing the yield
up 72 basis points, or 0.72 percentage point, to 10 percent,
according to Trace. The notes were trading at 110 cents a week
ago after the bank issued them in international markets at 99.17
cents in April.  Grupo  Silvio Santos , the bank’s controlling shareholder,
rescued the Sao Paulo-based bank last week after taking out a
2.5 billion real loan from the nation’s deposit insurance fund.
The probe into accounting inconsistencies may show that the
total needed to bail out the bank exceeds that amount, Folha
reported, without saying how it obtained the information.  “Investors are not really sure what’s going to happen or
how extensive the problem is at the bank,” said  Eric Ollom ,
chief emerging-markets strategist with Jefferies & Co., the New
York securities firm. “Investors don’t want to be involved.”  The central bank said by e-mail that it can’t comment on
any aspect of the investigation.  Santos, the Brazilian media mogul whose group owns a
majority stake in Panamericano, sought bailout funds after he
discovered his own credit card company owed the bank 400 million
reais, said a person close to the probe.  Stock Plunge  Santos, 79, also needed financing after the central bank
found 2.1 billion reais of losses stemming from the sale of
credit portfolios to other lenders that Panamericano had kept on
its books as assets, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the investigation is confidential.  The 400 million reais figure is an estimate made by Grupo
Silvio Santos executives and may increase after the central bank
completes a probe into the bank, Folha said.  Shares of Panamericano, owned 35 percent by state-
controlled bank Caixa Economica Federal, fell 4.6 percent to
4.76 reais in Sao Paulo on Nov. 12, extending their loss last
week to more than 30 percent. Brazilian financial markets are
closed today for a national holiday.  Banco BVA SA, a Brazilian bank specializing in loans to
mid-sized companies, delayed an international bond sale on Nov.
12 as the Panamericano probe curbed demand for debt from the
country’s lenders, according to people familiar with the
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  