-- Paulson Sells Off Goldman Sachs, Trims Financials
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-16T00:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/paulson-fund-buys-anadarko-shares-sells-exxon-mobil-goldman-sachs-stakes.html
Paulson & Co., the $32 billion hedge
fund run by billionaire  John Paulson , sold its entire position
in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and trimmed stakes in Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and other banks.  Paulson sold 30 million shares of Bank of America last
quarter, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission today. The sale and market declines cut his
stake in the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank by $605.8
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shoddy mortgage lending has led bankers into a two-front
war, pitting them against U.S. homeowners challenging the right
to foreclose and mortgage-bond investors demanding refunds that
could approach $200 billion. Pimco,  BlackRock Inc .,  MetLife Inc .
and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York are seeking to force
Bank of America to repurchase mortgages packaged into $47
billion of bonds by its  Countrywide Financial Corp . unit.  “For the hedge funds, I think a lot of the easy money had
been made,” said  Douglas Ciocca  , managing director at
Renaissance Financial Corp. in Leawood, Kansas, which oversees
about $2 billion in assets. “From here it will be harder to
swallow a process of financial reform and that will impact
profits, especially when the banks are struggling with their
identity.”  Bank of America has declined 16 percent since the second
quarter, compared with a gain by the same percentage for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Paulson also sold 82.7 million shares of Citigroup, 2
million shares of  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., 2 million shares of
 Wells Fargo & Co . and his entire stake of 1.1 million shares in
Goldman Sachs in the quarter. The sales helped cut his holdings
of financial stocks by 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 