-- Pimco Cuts Government Debt, Adds Mortgages in October
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-15T23:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/pimco-cut-government-related-holdings-last-month-purchased-more-mortgages.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , cut
 holdings  of government-related debt to the lowest level since
July 2009 and bought more mortgages in October.  The $256 billion Total Return Fund’s investment in
government debt fell to 28 percent of assets, from 33 percent
the previous month, according to data on Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco’s  website . The fund boosted mortgages to
39 percent of assets, from 28 percent, the highest since July
2009. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in
portfolio holdings.  Gross, who reduced holdings of government-related debt for
a fourth straight month, said in October that a renewal of asset
purchases by the Federal Reserve will likely signify the end of
the 30-year bull market in bonds. Under what Pimco calls the
“new normal,” investors should expect lower-than-average
historical returns with heightened regulation, lower
consumption, slower growth and a shrinking global role for the
U.S. economy.  “Check writing in the trillions is not a bondholder’s
friend,” Gross wrote in a monthly investment outlook posted on
Pimco’s website on Oct. 27. “It is in fact inflationary, and,
if truth be told, somewhat of a Ponzi scheme. It raises bond
prices to create the illusion of high annual returns, but
ultimately it reaches a dead end where those prices can no
longer go up.”  New Normal  Treasuries fell for a third day, sending 30-year  yields  to
the highest since May, as a group urged the Fed to halt its plan
to purchase $600 billion of bonds and a report on retail sales
showed quickening economic growth.  Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the firm’s website.  As part of adjusting to a new normal, Pimco began offering
equity funds in April. The firm moved into stocks to allow
customers to diversify holdings as the global economy changes
and areas such as emerging markets outperform developed regions.  High-yield holdings rose by 1 percentage point to 5 percent
in October, and non-U.S. developed debt also edged up by 1
percentage point to 7 percent. Pimco reduced its net cash-and-
equivalent position to negative 11 percent from negative 3
percent.  Bernanke Letter  The Total Return Fund  has returned 10.2 percent in the past
12 months, beating 73 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It lost investors 0.72 percent over the
past month. Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer Allianz
SE, managed $1.236 trillion of assets as of September.  A group including former Republican government officials
and economists urged the Fed to rethink quantitative easing in
an “Open Letter to  Ben Bernanke ” opposing the latest round of
quantitative easing. Pimco has been among the firms supporting
Bernanke’s efforts.  The Fed acting “irresponsibly” relative to conventional
wisdom is the correct approach for reversing an economy mired in
a liquidity trap, Pimco’s  Paul McCulley  wrote in a note Nov. 10.  “Unconventional has now become conventional,” McCulley
wrote. “Quantitative easing coupled with pro-active fiscal
expansion, alongside price level targeting, is the hat-trick
with the most likely probability of success in breaking an
economy out of a liquidity trap.” In a liquidity trap,
borrowing or lending may not be stimulated because of a
shortfall in demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  