-- Pinnacle Owner Tries to Cut Borrowing Needed to Complete London Skyscraper
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-11-15T14:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/pinnacle-owner-tries-to-cut-borrowing-needed-to-complete-london-skyscraper.html
Arab Investments Ltd., the developer
of the London tower known as the  Pinnacle , is seeking to raise
additional money from investors, reducing the amount it needs to
borrow to complete the project.  The company requires more than 500 million pounds ($804
million) to complete the tallest skyscraper in the City of
London financial district,  Khalid Affara , managing director of
Arab Investments, said in March.  Arab Investments is in talks with  Saudi Economic &
Development Co.  and other investors about providing “a
substantial further equity investment,”  Affara  said today in a
statement. If the talks are successful, the developer can move
ahead with work “more quickly and without signing up a major
tenant in advance,” he said.  SEDCO, a privately owned Saudi Arabian developer based in
Jeddah, and other investors in the Pinnacle may buy as much as
150 million pounds in additional equity, the Financial Times
reported Nov. 13, without saying where it got the information.  The Pinnacle, which will have a height of 945 feet (288
metes) tower, will cost more than 1 billion pounds to develop,
said Iain Lindsley, an spokesman for Arab Investments. Sedco and
the other investors have already put up around 400 million
pounds of equity, while HSH Nordbank AG has provided loans of
140 million pounds, he said.  Relying entirely on debt to finance the rest of the tower
would require Arab Investments to find occupiers willing to
agree in advance to lease 40 percent of the 1 million square
feet (92,900 square meters) of space, Affara said in March.
Tenants have so far leased about 200,000 square feet.  In September, Arab Investments was in talks to lease as
much as a quarter of the tower to U.K. fund manager Schroders
Plc, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.
The company declined to comment about leasing talks today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 