-- Polish October Inflation Matches Median Forecast, May Delay Rate Increase
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2010-11-15T17:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/polish-october-inflation-matches-median-forecast-may-delay-rate-increase.html
Poland’s annual  inflation rate  rose
in line with economists’ forecasts in October, prompting traders
to cut their bets on an interest-rate increase this month.  The rate advanced to 2.8 percent from 2.5 percent in
September the Warsaw-based  Central Statistical Office  said
today, matching the median forecast of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Consumer prices rose 0.5 percent on the month.  The central bank left its  benchmark rate  at a record-low
3.5 percent for a 16th month in October because of concern
higher rates may attract capital inflows that would strengthen
the zloty, hurting exports and economic growth. The Monetary
Policy Council voted 6-4 against a rate increase in August,
according to the latest vote breakdown released to the public.  “There’s a big struggle going on in the Monetary Policy
Council, and I don’t think this week’s data will be quite enough
to tip the balance toward an increase this month,”  Piotr Bielski , an economist at Bank Zachodni WBK in Warsaw, said by
phone. Policy makers may start raising rates as early as
December, he said.  The central bank will keep interest rates at a record-low
3.5 percent at its next policy meeting on Nov. 22-23, according
to nine of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Polish derivatives traders reduced bets that borrowing
costs may rise following the inflation report. One-month
forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on rates within a
month, dropped 5 basis points on the day to 4.0262 percent. The
agreements are trading 18 basis points above the current three-
month Warsaw  interbank offered rate  of 3.85 percent.  The zloty strengthened to 3.9259 against the euro at 6:34
p.m. in Warsaw from 3.9350 before the data release and was 0.5
percent higher on the day.  Belka Comments  Central bank Governor  Marek Belka , who voted against a rate
increase in August, said today that domestic borrowing costs may
have to rise as the recovery strengthens.  “The improving growth outlook in Poland increases the risk
that inflationary pressure, albeit currently low, will increase
somewhat over the medium term, which may warrant some monetary
tightening,” Belka said at a conference in Vienna. “Inflation
is also expected to increase, partly due to temporary factors
such as VAT rate hikes in January 2011.”  Money flowing into Poland from investors seeking higher-
yielding emerging-market assets as the U.S. Federal Reserve
keeps interest rates near zero may push the zloty higher and
slow inflation, Belka said.  “If strong capital flows” persist, the stronger zloty may
“take the burden off monetary tightening and limit the scope for
interest rate increases,” he said.  Core Inflation  Andrzej Kazmierczak , a member of the Monetary Policy
Council, said the consumer price index is rising because of
“supply factors” that can’t be controlled by monetary policy
and core inflation is expected to remain steady. Core inflation,
which excludes food and fuel prices, held at a 34-month low of
1.2 percent in September.  Droughts in grain-exporting nations, including Russia and
Ukraine, and summer floods in Poland have helped drive the cost
of food, drinks and tobacco up 4.5 percent in the past 12
months, according to the statistics office.  The central bank should raise rates “only if inflation
grows dramatically, and nothing like that is happening,”
Kazmierczak said in a phone interview. “Further appreciation of
the zloty is very likely” and that this prospect is “another
reason to leave rates unchanged,” he said.  Poland last week sold a record amount of inflation-linked
bonds as concern grew that rising consumer prices would prompt
the central bank to raise interest rates. The Finance Ministry
on Nov. 10 issued 2.3 billion zloty ($790 million) of bonds
maturing in August 2023 at an exchange auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  