-- Teens Smoking Pot Before 16 Show Brain Changes, Scientists Say
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-11-15T20:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/pot-smoking-before-16-causes-brain-changes-that-inhibit-focus-study-finds.html
Smoking marijuana regularly before
the age of 16 causes changes in the brain that can impair a
young person’s ability to focus, learn from mistakes and think
abstractly, according to a Harvard study.  On brain scans, the youngest pot smokers showed activation
in regions of the brain that was not seen in those who started
smoking after age 16, suggesting early exposure to marijuana
causes neural changes, researchers at Harvard-affiliated McLean
Hospital found. Early and habitual users performed more poorly
on tests of cognitive functions, including mental flexibility.  Research on how marijuana changes a developing brain is
important as it’s the most frequently used illegal drug in the
U.S., said study author Staci Gruber, the director of the
cognitive and clinical  neuroimaging  core at McLean Hospital in
Belmont, Massachusetts. Almost 16 percent of eighth graders have
tried marijuana, and that number rises to 42 percent by 12th
grade, a  2009 study  from the National Institute on Drug Abuse
found.  Chronic, early users of marijuana “make repetitive
incorrect responses despite the fact I’m telling them they’re
wrong,” said Gruber, who is also an assistant professor of
psychology at Harvard University. “That’s called ‘cognitive
inflexibility’ and you see it in babies.”  The research, presented today at the Society for
Neuroscience’s  meeting  in San Diego, also found that the group
that started earlier smoked more pot more often than those who
started later. People who began smoking before age 16 had 25.1
smokes a week, compared with 12.1 in those who began later, the
study showed. The early-onset group smoked almost three times as
many grams a week, Gruber said.  Cognitive Tests  The study compared 33 marijuana smokers to 26 healthy
controls. Participants were given a battery of tests designed to
measure executive function, a term for brain processes
responsible for abilities and behaviors involving abstract
thinking, decision making, cognitive flexibility and correcting
mistakes.  The results showed those who started using marijuana before
age 16 made twice as many mistakes on tests of executive
function than those who began later. The research didn’t examine
those people who had started smoking early and stopped, although
those people begin to look more like non-smokers in other
studies, Gruber said.  “The developing brain is vulnerable,” Gruber said. “If
you were to legalize it, you need to keep in mind marijuana is
not entirely benign. Regulations and guidelines are needed
anyway given the sheer number of Americans using it.”  Marijuana’s active ingredient acts upon receptors in the
brain that are densest in regions that influence memory,
thinking and concentration, according to the National Institute
on Drug Abuse.  California voters earlier this month rejected a ballot
measure that would have legalized marijuana for personal use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 