-- Pound Gains Versus Euro as Restated Greek Deficit Prompts Hunt for Havens
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-15T17:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/pound-declines-versus-dollar-after-report-u-k-home-sellers-lower-prices.html
The pound strengthened against the
euro after Greece’s budget deficit was revised upward by
European Union authorities, boosting demand for the relative
security of Britain’s currency.  Sterling depreciated against the dollar for a second day.
The Greek budget shortfall last year was revised to 15.4 percent
of gross domestic product from 13.6 percent, the Eurostat
statistics office said in a report today. The nation’s debt was
revised to 126.8 percent of GDP from 115.1 percent.  “Markets are just not going to take it very well in terms
of where the euro zone is positioned right now, so we could be
seeing relative value flows coming out of the euro zone and into
sterling,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-exchange strategist at
UBS AG in London. “The relative growth and debt differentials
are just becoming wider and wider by the day.”  The pound rose 0.2 percent against the euro to 84.79 pence
at 5:03 p.m. in London. It fell 0.3 percent versus the dollar to
$1.6061.  Questions about the accuracy of Greek data have undermined
the credibility of EU budget rules, which call for euro members
to keep their shortfall at less than 3 percent of GDP. The total
budget gap for the 16-nation euro region widened to 6.3 percent
in 2009, the largest in the shared currency’s history. Today’s
revisions also mean Greece won’t achieve the target agreed to in
return for 110 billion euros ($150 billion) in emergency loans.  Sterling slipped versus the greenback after data showed
U.S.  retail sales  climbed the most in seven months, exceeding
the highest forecast among economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. This adds weight to earlier data showing bigger-than-
projected gains in payrolls and the ISM manufacturing purchasing
managers index that suggest the U.S. recovery picked up at the
start of the fourth quarter.  Bonds Fell  “Signs of stabilization in the U.S. will work in favor of
the dollar,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in London. “With the overall picture suggesting
that we’re going to get a stronger dollar in the next few days
across the board, that should keep pound-dollar under
pressure.”  The pound has declined 3.1 percent against a basket of its
developed-country peers in 2010, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the third-worst
performing currency after the euro and Norwegian krone.  U.K. government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year yield up 6
basis points to 3.28 percent. The two-year note yield rose 2
basis points to 1.09 percent.  Gilts have returned 7.4 percent this year, compared with an
8 percent gain for German bonds and a 7.8 percent increase for
U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 