-- Power Grid Gains After Share-Offer Price Set at Upper Limit of Sale Range
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-11-15T11:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/power-grid-gains-after-share-offer-price-set-at-upper-limit-of-sale-range.html
Power Grid Corp. of India , the
nation’s biggest transmission company, gained in Mumbai trading
after the board set the price of shares sold in a secondary
issue at the top end of the offered range.  The  stock  rose 1.7 percent to 101.20 rupees at the close.
The shares traded above the offered range of 85 rupees to 90
rupees apiece during the four-day sale last week. State-run
Power Grid has fallen 8 percent this year compared with a 16
percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index .  Power Grid and the government together raised the maximum
74.4 billion rupees ($1.66 billion) after a record initial
public offering in Coal India Ltd. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is targeting 400 billion rupees from asset
sales this financial year to reduce a budget deficit and build
infrastructure projects while the company will use the funds to
expand transmission networks and help reduce blackouts.  “Power being in deficit in India, companies will continue
to build new plants and there will be more demand for
transmission,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist
at SMC Global Securities Ltd. in New Delhi. “Success of the
sale was because of the persistent discount.”  India’s government and Power Grid sold 10 percent each in
the offering.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , ICICI Securities Ltd.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and SBI Capital Markets were the advisers
for the sale.  The government plans to sell shares in companies including
 Indian Oil Corp. , Steel Authority of India Ltd. and  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.  in the year ending March 31.  Power Grid may spend 1 trillion rupees to add 80,000
kilometers (49,720 miles) to its network. The grid’s length was
79,556 kilometers as of Sept. 30, according to the share-sale
document.  Power Grid received at least 1 trillion rupees of bids in
the share sale that ended Nov. 12. Investors sought 12.2 billion
shares, or 14.5 times the 841.8 million shares offered, data on
the National Stock Exchange website showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 