-- Qantas Aborts Fourth Flight in Less Than Two Weeks
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-15T09:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/qantas-says-argentina-flight-returns-to-sydney-after-technical-difficulty.html
A  Qantas Airways Ltd.  plane bound
for Buenos Aires returned to Sydney after pilots saw smoke in
the cockpit, becoming at least the fourth flight turned around
by the carrier in less than two weeks.  The smoke likely came from a landing instrument and
probably wasn’t related to the  Boeing Co. 747-400ER ’s General
Electric Co. engines,  Simon Rushton , an airline spokesman, said
by phone today. The plane landed safely, and there were no
injuries among the 220 passengers and crew, a statement said.  The incident comes as Sydney-based Qantas continues to
inspect its grounded fleet of Airbus SAS A380s following a Nov.
4 mid-flight explosion of a Rolls-Royce Group Plc engine. Two
other Qantas planes also turned back since then because of
engine faults that the carrier said were unrelated.  “We simply don’t know how much damage this could do,”
said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG Markets in
Melbourne. “At the very least, it highlights the risks of
holding an airline stock.”  Qantas  fell 0.4 percent to A$2.79 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trading in Sydney, while the S&P/ASX 200 index was little
changed. The stock has declined 2.8 percent since Nov. 3,
compared with a 0.7 percent drop for the benchmark index.  No smoke entered the plane’s passenger cabin, Rushton said.
Cabin pressure and oxygen supplies also were unaffected, the
airline said. The carrier will make arrangements for those
affected by the disruption, it said.  Engineers are probing the incident, which has been reported
to Australia’s  Civil Aviation Safety Authority  and the Air
Transport Safety Bureau, Qantas said.  Grounded A380s  Qantas, which has never had a fatal jet accident, has
deployed spare capacity and shuffled its fleet to maintain long-
haul operations affected by the grounding of its six A380s.
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce  also trumpeted the company’s
safety record to allay concerns that could persuade passengers
to shun the carrier in favor of  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  or
Emirates Airline.  Qantas, Singapore Air and Deutsche Lufthansa AG, the only
operators of Rolls-Royce-powered A380s, may have to change as
many as 29 engines between them because of possible oil leaks,
the  Sydney Morning Herald  reported today.  Jessica Gadiel, a spokeswoman for Qantas, declined to
comment on the report. Roger Hunt, a Sydney-based spokesman for
Rolls-Royce, didn’t immediately return a message left on his
mobile phone.  Qantas grounded the four-engine superjumbos, representing
17 percent of the airline’s international capacity, hours after
the Nov. 4 emergency landing in Singapore. The following day, a
Qantas 747 also returned to the city-state because of an engine
failure.  A 767 bound for Melbourne returned to Perth on Nov. 12
because of an engine fault.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  