-- Ranbaxy-Nexium, Condatis, Roche, Majestic Star: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-15T18:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/ranbaxy-nexium-condatis-roche-majestic-star-intellectual-property.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.  sued
 AstraZeneca Plc  in the U.K. over claims that its European
patents for the ulcer treatment Nexium are invalid, two years
after settling a related U.S. case.  India’s biggest drugmaker, which filed the lawsuit on Sept.
30, also seeks a court order that it won’t infringe the patents
if it starts selling a generic form of Nexium in the U.K.,
AstraZeneca said in an Oct. 29 regulatory filing. Justice George
Mann in the High Court in London agreed Nov. 12 that several
documents outlining the claims in the case should be kept
confidential.  The earlier U.S. case was settled in April 2008 in a deal
that gave Gurgaon, India-based Ranbaxy the right to sell generic
Nexium under license from AstraZeneca beginning in 2014.
AstraZeneca, based in London, sued in 2005 in federal court in
New Jersey, after Ranbaxy sought U.S. regulatory approval for
generic drug.  Under the U.S. deal, Ranbaxy agreed AstraZeneca’s six U.S.
patents on the product were “valid and enforceable,” the
U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker said at the time. Ranbaxy also
accepted that its generic medicine would infringe four of those
patents if it were sold without a license.  “AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously
defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting
Nexium,”  Laura Woodin , an AstraZeneca spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  Krishnan Ramalingam , a Ranbaxy spokesman, had no immediate
comment when reached Nov. 12.  JetBlue, 39 Other Defendants Sued for Infringing Condatis Patent  JetBlue Airways Corp.  and 39 other defendants were sued for
patent infringement by a Texas-based company that doesn’t make
any products based on the patent it says is infringed.  Condatis LLC, based in Plano, Texas, claims its patent
5,450,321 is infringed. The patent, which was issued in
September 1995, covers an “interactive dynamic real-time
management system for powered vehicles.”  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, inventor Howard E. Crane assigned this patent to
Condatis in April 2010. At that time, Condatis was based in
Chevy Chase, Maryland.  Among the other 39 defendants Condatis accused of
infringing this patent are Delta Air Lines, Rolls Royce Plc.
Maersk Line Ltd., Emirates Corp., Goodrich Corp., Lockheed
Martin Corp. and Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.  Condatis said its patent is infringed and the company
damaged by the various engine monitoring and management systems
used by the defendants. The money damages Condatis requested are
“in no event less than a reasonable royalty.”  While it asked the court for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation expenses, Condatis didn’t request
that the court order the defendants to stop using the disputed
technology.  In many patent cases filed by so-called “non-practicing
entities,” -- companies that don’t make products covered by the
patents they claim are infringed -- a usual litigation tactic is
to seek a court order barring use of the patented technology.
Such an order, if granted, can stop a company cold in its
tracks, barring it from making and shipping products or
conducting its normal operations.  In April 2010, the same month it acquired the patent,
Condatis sued another 40 defendants in federal court in Ft.
Lauderdale, Florida for infringing the same patent. Many of
those defendants, including Holland American Line Inc., Arcturus
Marine Systems Inc., and Campers & Nicholson Marine Investments
are either shipping lines or in the marine services industries.
In the case also, Condatis only asked for financial compensation
and didn’t seek a court order barring use of its technology.  That case is Condatis LLC v. Arcturus Marine Systems Inc.,
0:10-cv-60540-FAM, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Ft. Lauderdale).  The next suit was filed June 1 in federal court in
Marshall, Texas, against only one defendant,  Audi AG . In this
complaint, Condatis now says it is based in Plano, Texas, and it
accused the German automaker of infringing the same patent. This
case is unusual among the Condatis suits in that this time the
company did ask for a court order barring further infringement
of its patent.  That case is Condatis LLC v. Audi of America Inc., 2:10-cv-
00184-TJW-0CE, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  On July 9 Condatis sued another 41 defendants in Marshall,
Texas for infringing that same patent. This time the defendants
included the  Boeing Co. , BP Plc., Cummins Inc. and Siemens AG.
Although the company did not request a court order for non-
infringement of its patent, it did ask for money damages
including attorney fees and litigation costs.  That case is Condatis LLC v. ARINC Inc., 2:10-cv-00232-TJW.  Condatis is represented in that case and the newest suit by
 Andrew W. Spangler  of  Spangler Law PC  of Longview, Texas.  The newest case is Condatis LLC v. A. P. Moller-Maersk A/S,
6:1--cv-00600, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  Roche Wins Ruling to Block Watson’s Copy of Boniva  Roche Holding AG  won a court ruling that ensures  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. ’s Cobalt unit won’t begin selling a generic
version of osteoporosis drug Boniva in the U.S. until a patent-
infringement trial can be held.  Roche is likely to succeed in its contention that two of
its patents on the medicine are valid, U.S. District Judge
 Stanley Chesler  in Newark, New Jersey, ruled Nov. 10. Cobalt
could receive U.S. regulatory approval to sell generic Boniva as
early as Nov. 16, and Roche sought to block sales.  The judge already ruled that the Cobalt version of Boniva
would infringe Roche’s patents, which expire in 2012 and 2014.
Roche “will likely withstand Cobalt’s challenges to the
validity and enforceability of the patents,” Chesler said.  A trial will most likely take place next year, said  Terry Hurley , a spokesman for Roche.  “This is good news,” he said of Chesler’s decision. “Roche
is pleased that the court has recognized both the irreparable
harm that the company would suffer if Cobalt were allowed to
launch any of its ibandronate products prior to a trial on the
merits and the strength of Roche’s Boniva patents.”  Charles Mayr, a spokesman with Corona, California-based
Watson, said the company doesn’t comment on litigation.  Boniva, advertised in commercials featuring actress Sally
Field, generated U.S. sales of 416 million Swiss francs ($425
million) in the first nine months of this year, Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche said in an Oct. 30 regulatory filing.
The drug accounted for 2.2 percent of 2009 sales, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Roche told the court it would lose 50 percent to 90 percent
of its sales if a copy entered the market and would suffer
significant “price erosion,” Chesler said in his ruling. The
company is expecting competition from two other drugs in the
coming months, according to the judge. They are Warner Chilcott
Plc’s Atelvia and Amgen Inc.’s Prolia.  “Roche has demonstrated that it is likely to suffer
irreparable harm” without a block of the Cobalt generic, the
judge ruled.  The case is Hoffman-La Roche Inc. v. Cobalt Pharmaceuticals
Inc., 07-4539, U.S. District Court for the District of New
Jersey (Newark).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Majestic Star Sues Panamanian Companies Over Domain Name  Majestic Star Casino LLC., operator of the Fitzgeralds
resort hotel casinos in Las Vegas and Tunica, Mississippi and
Fitzgeralds Casino in Black Hawk, Colorado, sued a Panama
resident and two Panama-based companies for trademark
infringement.  The suit, filed Nov. 10 in federal court in Las Vegas,
related to Internet domain names the casino company says
infringe its trademarks and cause consumer confusion. Majestic
Star uses  fitzgeraldslasvegas.com  to promote its business.  It objects to the FitzgeraldsLasVegas.net domain name used
by Susana Gonzales and two companies she allegedly controls.
Hambledon NV and Smart Answer SA. The casino company claims the
defendants linked their fitzgeraldslasvegas.net domain name “to
a website used to promote and solicit business through an online
interactive gaming network.”  The public is confused and falsely assumes a connection or
affiliation exists between the two entities, Majestic Star said
in its pleadings. It claims the defendants are deliberately
trying to frustrate or divert Internet traffic intended for the
casino site.  Claiming the defendants domain name causes harm and
“dilution of the distinctive quality” of its marks, Majestic
Star asked the court to bar the defendants from using any
confusingly similar names. It also asked that it be transferred
the objectionable domain name and for awards of money damages,
attorney fees, and litigation costs.  Majestic Star is represented by  John L. Krieger  of Phoenix-
based  Lewis & Roca LLP .  The case is Majestic Star Casino LLC. V. Hambledon NV,
2:10-cv-01974-GMN-RJJ, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada
(Las Vegas).  CHL’s Attempt to Register ‘Mt. Washington’ Trademark Draws Ire  Attempts by the owners of a New Hampshire hotel to register
“Mt. Washington” as a trademark has raised the ire of local
residents, the Boston Globe reported.  The hotel, owned by Orlando, Florida-based  CNL Financial
Group  since 20067, is only interested in blocking three other
lodging companies in Northern New Hampshire that also have “Mt.
Washington” in their name, according to the newspaper.  A lawyer for one of the properties he said is targeted told
the Globe there is no proof consumers have been confused in the
past by the similar names.  He said the hotel’s attempt to restrict the use of the name
didn’t make sense and wouldn’t pass any legal test, according to
the globe.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Good Sports Claims Amazon Affiliate Merchant Infringes Copyright  Good Sports Inc., a Connecticut clothing company, sued two
 Amazon.com  affiliate merchants for copyright infringement.  The suit related to flags Angela & John Nohl of Mount
Carmel, Illinois, are accused of selling through Amazon.com.
Good Sports claims that as “Knife Kingdom,” the pair is
selling a flag that infringes their patriotic “All Gave Some”
design.  Good Sports said it placed the design on T-shirts, jackets,
sweatshirts, flags and other items. The design features an
American eagle bearing in its talons two banners printed with
the message “All gave some. Some gave all.” One of the eagle’s
wings is colored like an American flag and the other bears the
POW-MIA banner that honors U.S. military prisoners of war and
those missing in action. Good Sports registered the design with
the U.S. Copyright Office in November 2004.  Included in the case filing is a screen shot of an
Amazon.com page showing a flag with a similar design sold by the
affiliate merchant Knife-Kingdom.  The Connecticut sporting goods company said it didn’t
authorize the Nohls to use the design and that it has “lost and
will continue to lose substantial revenue” to the sale of the
infringing merchandise. The sale of the copycat item has diluted
the distinctive quality of the design, the company said in the
complaint filed Nov. 9 in federal court in New Haven,
Connecticut.  The company asked the court for an order barring future
infringement of its design, and the seizure and destruction of
all infringing products and promotional materials. Additionally,
Good Sports requested money damages, attorney fees, litigation
costs, and the profits the Nohls derived from their alleged
infringement.  Good Sports is represented by Mario G. Ceste of the Law
Offices of Mario G. Ceste of Wallingford, Connecticut.  The case is Good Sports Inc. v. Angela Nohl, 3:10-cv-01758-
SRU, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  Court Limits Reach of DMCA Against EBay Furniture Seller  A federal court in Sacramento, California, barred a
furniture company from filing copyright-infringement take-down
notices with  EBay Inc.  against a competitor.  U.S. District Judge William H. Shubb told Zen Path LLC of
Las Vegas that it couldn’t keep demanding EBay remove Design
Furnishings Inc.’s listings from the online auction listing.  Design Furnishings originally sued Zen Path in California
state court in September 2010 over the removal of its EBay
listings for the sale of wicker furniture. The Sacramento-based
furniture company said Zen Path was using the same factories in
China as the source of its furniture, and was filing notices
with EBay under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. EBay had
no choice but to comply with the takedown requests, which caused
Design Furnishings to lose sales and for its business to be
imperiled, according to court papers.  The case was removed to federal court in Sacramento. And
Design Furnishings asked for a court declaration that its sale
of furniture was lawful and didn’t infringe any of Zen Path’s IP
rights. It also asked the court to order Zen to quit filing the
take-down notices.  In his Oct. 20 ruling, Judge Shubb said that EBay’s policy
of pulling listings in the wake of an infringement take-down
request would “allow anyone to effectively shot down a
competitor’s business on EBay” just by filing a notice with the
auction company. The suspension of its listings would cause
Design Furnishings “irreparable harm,” he said, and found that
Zen’s claiming copyright protection for the furniture designs
was impermissibly reaching past the limits of copyright
protection.  Design Furnishings was represented by Brian Samuel Crone of
 Berry & Block LLP  of Sacramento. Zen Path was represented by
 Mark David Nielsen  and  Daniel M. Cislo  of  Cislo & Thomas LLP  of
Santa Monica, California.  The case is Design Furnishings Inc., v. Zen Path LLC, 2:10-
02765-WBS-GGH, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
California (Sacramento).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 