-- Rand Weakens for Sixth Day as Europe Debt Concern Curbs High-Yield Demand
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-15T16:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/rand-weakens-for-sixth-day-as-europe-debt-concern-curbs-high-yield-demand.html
The rand weakened for a sixth day
versus the dollar as Europe’s debt crisis threatened to
deteriorate and China took more aggressive steps to cool its
economy, curbing investor appetite for higher-yielding assets.  South Africa’s currency depreciated as much as 0.7 percent
to 7.0152 per dollar and traded 0.3 percent weaker at 6.9860 at
5:25 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of 6.9650.  European Central Bank council member  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  asked Ireland to make a “final decision” on its fiscal
crisis to calm markets, underscoring pressure on Ireland to
accept a bailout and help reverse a sell-off among the euro-
region’s deficit-laden nations. Greece’s budget shortfall last
year was revised to 15.4 percent of gross domestic product from
13.6 percent, making it the largest in the euro region, Eurostat
said.  “The biggest pressure on the rand is coming from the debt
problems in peripheral Europe,”  Brigid Taylor , a currency
analyst at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a
telephone interview. “The China issue is also a bit of a
negative for commodity-based currencies like the rand.”  Commodities fluctuated on concern that China may take more
tightening measures after it ordered its four biggest banks to
cease loans to property developers and U.S. retail sales rose
1.2 percent in October, the most since March.  Bonds, FRAs  Bonds in Ireland, Portugal and Greece have plummeted since
EU leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to establish a new rescue fund from
2013 that would require investors to cover a portion of future
bailout costs. Germany is pressing Ireland to seek aid before a
Nov. 16 meeting of European finance ministers to calm market
volatility and win agreement on the EU plan to make investors
help pay for future bailouts, a German government official said.  Government bonds fell in South Africa, with the benchmark
13.5 percent security due September 2015 declining 16 cents to
126.03 rand. The yield on the bond rose 3 basis points, or 0.3
percentage point, to 7.04 percent.  Forward-rate agreements, or FRAs, showed money-market
investors reduced bets the  South African Reserve Bank  will lower
its  6 percent  main interest rate when it announces its next
decision this week on Nov. 18. The cost of  three-month contracts
for cash due in one month  added 2 basis points to 5.7235
percent.  “Although the market is priced for a 50 basis-point cut
this week, we think the Reserve Bank might leave rates
unchanged,” said Taylor. “If a rate cut comes it might only be
in January.”  The so-called 1x4 FRA contract fell to 5.69 percent on Nov.
4, the lowest since the central bank first introduced the
repurchase rate in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  