-- Rangers Reliever Feliz, Giants Catcher Posey Win MLB Rookie of Year Award
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-11-15T21:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/rangers-reliever-feliz-giants-catcher-posey-win-mlb-rookie-of-year-awards.html
San Francisco Giants catcher  Buster Posey  topped Atlanta Braves outfielder  Jason Heyward  in voting
for the National League Rookie of the Year Award, while Texas
Rangers relief pitcher  Neftali Feliz  earned the honor in the
American League.  Posey got 20 of 32 first-place votes and 129 overall points
in balloting by the  Baseball Writers’ Association of America 
before the postseason. Points were awarded on a 5-3-1 basis.
Heyward had nine first-place votes and 107 overall points.  Posey, 23, started the 2010 season in Triple-A Fresno
Grizzlies before playing 108 games with the Giants.  “It gave me an opportunity to work on some stuff that
maybe if I started immediately in the big leagues, I wouldn’t
have had the leeway,” Posey said. “So I’m sure it was
beneficial.”  He batted .305 with 18 home runs and 67 runs batted in as a
major-leaguer, putting together a 21-game hitting streak during
one stretch. Posey also caught a San Francisco pitching staff
that led the NL with a 3.36 earned run average.  It was the sixth Rookie of the Year honor for the Giants
and the first since pitcher John Montefusco in 1975.  Sixth Catcher  Posey was the sixth NL catcher to win the award, joining
 Johnny Bench , Earl Williams,  Benito Santiago ,  Mike Piazza  and
Geovanny Soto.  Heyward, a 21-year-old right fielder, hit a home run in his
first at-bat of his career and became an All-Star midway through
the season. He finished with 18 homers, batting .277 with 72
runs batted in, 29 doubles, 5 triples and 11 stolen bases in 142
games.  “I remember seeing him hit the homer opening day and as a
baseball fan myself, it was a really cool moment,” Posey said
of Heyward while on a conference call with reporters. “The guy
had an unbelievable year and I’m just extremely humbled to have
won the award.”  St. Louis Cardinals pitcher  Jaime Garcia  earned a first-
place vote and 24 overall points to finish third in the
balloting, followed by the Florida Marlins’  Gaby Sanchez  (18
points; two first-place votes).  Dominican Pitcher  Feliz, 22, became the first pitcher from the Dominican
Republic named Rookie of the Year and the eighth Dominican
overall, joining AL winners  Alfredo Griffin ,  Carlos Beltran  and
 Angel Berroa , and NL honorees  Raul Mondesi ,  Rafael Furcal ,
 Albert Pujols  and  Hanley Ramirez .  “To be a rookie and to be in the company of those great
names, I’m very proud of it,” Feliz said through a translator
on a conference call with reporters.  Feliz was named on 20 of 28 ballots in AL voting, earning
122 points to top runner-up  Austin Jackson , an outfielder for
the Detroit Tigers. Jackson received the remaining eight first-
place votes and a total of 98 points.  Feliz set a rookie record with 40 saves as the Rangers
claimed the AL West for the first time since 1999.  He was All-Star and finished the most games in the league,
posting a 4-3 record with a 2.73 earned run average while
striking out 71 and allowing 18 walks.  The only other Rangers player to win the award was first
baseman  Mike Hargrove , in 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 