-- Rattner Says GM IPO May Price Higher Than $29 a Share
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-11-15T18:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/rattner-says-gm-ipo-may-price-higher-than-company-s-26-29-a-share-plan.html
Steven Rattner , the former head of
the U.S. government’s auto task force, said he expects  General
Motors Co.’s  initial public offering to price above the range of
$26 to $29 the company has announced.  “There is definitely a greater level of confidence in the
ability of the carmakers to perform,” Rattner told reporters
today at an Automotive Press Association event in Detroit.
“That’s because of the profit numbers.”  GM, which earned $4.77 billion in the first nine months of
the year, has said it plans to raise as much as $10.6 billion in
the offering. The reception six GM executives have received from
investors as they promoted the IPO has been strong enough to
sell the shares for more $30, two people familiar with the deal
said last week.  GM probably will exercise its so-called greenshoe or
overallotment option, granting underwriters 54.8 million more
shares, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private.  The price range was “a little bit light” relative to his
expectations for $35 or $40 a share, Rattner said in a Nov. 4
interview on Bloomberg Television.  Rattner also said non-executive Chairman  Ed Whitacre ’s
nine-month tenure in the chief executive officer’s role, which
 Dan Akerson  took over in September, shows why the automaker
should separate the chairman and CEO roles.  Rick Wagoner  and
 Fritz Henderson  also served as GM’s CEO in the past two years.  “It’s not a good idea for any company to go through four
CEOs in 18 months,” Rattner said. “GM is the poster child of why
you should split the jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 