-- Treasury 30-Year Bond Falls on Inflation Concern, Economic Data
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-15T22:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/treasuries-fall-as-group-asks-federal-reserve-to-cancel-asset-buying-plan.html
Treasuries fell for a third day,
sending 30-year  yields  to the highest since May, as a group
urged the Federal Reserve to halt purchases of bonds and a
report on retail sales showed quickening economic growth.  The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
10-year  notes  instead of those maturing in two years rose 12
basis points to 2.4 percentage points. Ten-year note  yields 
touched the highest since Aug. 6 as a group including former
Republican government officials and economists urged the Fed to
rethink quantitative easing. Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said
a permanent extension of tax cuts first enacted under the
administration of President  George W. Bush  won’t lead to a
downgrade in the U.S. credit rating.  “It’s the anti-QE2 trade,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of
interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 18
primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  “The article on the
evaluation of U.S. ratings spooked the market a bit. It’s not a
ringing endorsement of the first couple of rounds of QE. There
are a lot of worries out there.”  The  yield  on the 30-year bond rose 13 basis points, or 0.13
percent, to 4.42 percent at 5:08 p.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The 4.25 percent security due in November
2040 declined 2 3/32, or $20.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 97
8/32.  Two-year note yields rose three basis points to 0.54 and
10-year note yields increased 17 basis point to 2.96 percent,
the highest since Aug. 5.  Moody’s U.S. Rating  Moody’s said tax cuts won’t change the U.S. rating.  “We have a Aaa outlook for the U.S. that is stable and we
are not contemplating changing anything anytime soon, that is
the bottom line,”  Steven Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s
in New York, said in an interview today.  “Implementing a plan from leaders of President  Barack Obama ’s commission to reduce the federal deficit would safeguard
the nation’s credit rating, according to Moody’s Corp.  The potential for implementation of the plan is ‘‘low,”
according to the New York company’s report, citing aversions in
Congress as its release created instant opposition from
Democrats, some Republicans and groups such as the Mortgage
Bankers Association and the Aerospace Industries Association.  October’s 1.2 percent increase in retail sales was the
biggest gain since March, following a revised 0.7 percent
September increase that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The
median estimate of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a 0.7 percent advance.  Republican lawmakers and economists today wrote an “Open
Letter to  Ben Bernanke ” opposing the latest round of
quantitative easing.  Letter to Bernanke  “The planned asset purchases risk currency debasement and
inflation, and we do not think they will achieve the Fed’s
objective of promoting employment,” the economists and
lawmakers wrote in an open letter to be published as ads this
week in the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times.  “We disagree with the view that inflation needs to be
pushed higher, and worry that another round of asset purchases,
with interest rates still near zero over a year into the
recovery, will distort financial markets and greatly complicate
future Fed efforts to normalize monetary policy,” the letter
said.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, was 2.09
percentage points, matching the five-year average.  Treasuries have lost 0.6 percent since Oct. 15, cutting
their gain this year to 7.8 percent, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  Note Support  The notes were buoyed earlier this year as signs the
economic recovery was faltering fueled speculation of more
purchases by the Fed and concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis would worsen stoked demand for the safest assets.  The central bank said on Nov. 3 it would purchase an
additional $600 billion in government securities through June,
expanding record stimulus in a bid to reduce unemployment from
9.6 percent and prevent deflation. The Fed today bought $7.923
billion of Treasuries.  Two-year  yields , among those most sensitive to what the Fed
does with its benchmark rate, have climbed to as high as 0.55
percent from a record low of 0.31 percent on Nov. 4.  Bernanke ’s plan to spark inflation in the U.S. is already
showing signs of succeeding, the market for bond options
indicates.  Investors are paying eight times more than in April for
options on interest-rate swaps that protect against rising
yields relative to those that bet on them falling, according to
Barclays Plc data. Bonds that compensate for higher consumer
prices also show heightened inflation expectations.  While a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll last week of 1,030
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers
showed that 56 percent said the plan won’t boost growth, half
said it will help avoid deflation. That may be more important to
Bernanke because a general decline in prices makes consumers and
businesses less willing to invest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  