-- Treasuries Decline, Pushing Yields to Two-Month High, Before Retail Sales
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-15T12:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/treasury-yield-near-two-month-high-as-economists-say-retail-sales-climbed.html
Treasuries fell, sending yields to a
two-month high, before a government report that economists said
will show retail sales climbed for a fourth month in October.  The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
10-year notes instead of those maturing in two years rose for a
third day. Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the central bank may need to tighten monetary policy
even with an elevated unemployment rate to avoid a surge in
inflation. The Fed is scheduled to buy Treasuries each day this
week under its plan to pump $600 billion into the economy
through June to spur growth.  “The selloff has to take effect if the data continues on
this path,” said  Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “We are
expecting higher yields into year-end.”  The  yield  on the 10-year note rose five basis points to
2.84 percent at 7:16 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 2.625 percent security due in November 2020
declined 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 5/32. The
yield reached its highest since Sept. 13. They increased 26
basis points last week, the steepest gain this year. Five-year
rates advanced eight basis points today to 1.46 percent.  The  yield spread  between two- and 10-year securities
widened by one basis point to 229 basis points. It climbed from
221 basis points on Nov. 10. The 10-year yield may increase to 3
percent before the end of December, Chatwell said. That’s higher
than the 2.51 percent median forecast of 60 analysts’ and
economists’ prediction compiled by Bloomberg News.  Retail Sales  U.S. retail  sales  gained 0.7 percent last month from
September, according to a Bloomberg News survey before today’s
Commerce Department report. Statistics this week also include
industrial production and inflation for October.  “At some point in the not-too-distant future, we are
likely to face an economy growing in a self-sustaining way,
while the unemployment rate is still relatively high by
historical standards,” Lacker said yesterday in a speech in
Richmond, Virginia. “Inflation recently has been quite low.”  Lacker does not vote on interest rates until 2012.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, was 2.09
percentage points, matching the five-year average.  Treasuries have lost 0.6 percent since Oct. 15, cutting
their gain this year to 7.8 percent, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  The notes were buoyed earlier this year as signs the
economic recovery was faltering fueled speculation of more
purchases by the Fed and concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis would worsen stoked demand for the safest assets.  Irish Talks  Ireland said it’s in discussions with European officials as
Germany pushes the country to accept a bailout and help reverse
a bond selloff across the euro-region’s periphery. The euro
weakened to $1.3635, from $1.3691, after tumbling 2.4 percent
last week, the most in three months.  The European Commission has “no reason to have doubts
about the level of commitment and the capacity” of Ireland to
get to grips with its fiscal problems, spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj 
said today.  “It is clear the situation is serious,” Altafaj told
reporters in Brussels today. “But there is a clear
determination by the Irish authorities to do the necessary
commitment.”  The Fed is scheduled to buy $7 billion to $9 billion of
Treasuries maturing from May 2016 to November 2017 today,
according to its  website .  The central bank said on Nov. 3 it would purchase an
additional government securities through June, expanding record
stimulus in a bid to reduce unemployment from 9.6 percent and
prevent deflation.  Option Signals  Fed chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is seeking to boost the
recovery after near-zero interest rates and $1.7 trillion in
securities purchases helped pull the economy out of a recession
without bringing down joblessness that is close to a 26-year
high.  Two-year  yields , among those most sensitive to what the Fed
does with its benchmark rate, have climbed to 0.54 percent from
a record low of 0.31 percent on Nov. 4. The rate is 29 basis
points more than the upper end of the Fed’s target range for
overnight loans between banks, the most in two months.  Bernanke ’s plan to spark inflation in the U.S. is already
showing signs of succeeding, the market for bond options
indicates.  Investors are paying eight times more than in April for
options on interest-rate swaps that protect against rising
yields relative to those that bet on them falling, according to
Barclays Plc data. Bonds that compensate for higher consumer
prices also show heightened inflation expectations.  Investor Poll  While a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll last week of 1,030
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers
showed that 56 percent said the plan won’t boost growth, half
said it will help avoid deflation. That may be more important to
Bernanke because a general decline in prices makes consumers and
businesses less willing to invest.  Fund managers in a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a
unit of the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, became more
bearish on the outlook for Treasuries through year-end.  Ried’s sentiment index declined to 46 for the seven days
ended Nov. 12 from 47 the week before. A figure less than 50
indicates that investors expect prices to fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  