-- McNabb Gets 5-Year, $78 Million Extension Before Redskins' 31-Point Loss
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-16T06:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/redskins-give-mcnabb-five-year-78-million-contract-extension-espn-says.html
Washington Redskins quarterback
 Donovan McNabb  signed a contract extension that may be worth as
much as $88 million ahead of last night’s 31-point loss to the
Philadelphia Eagles.  McNabb, 33, threw three interceptions as the Redskins were
routed at home 59-28 by his former team. McNabb was traded to
Washington during the offseason after spending his first 11
National Football League seasons with the Eagles.  McNabb, who was benched in the closing minutes of an Oct.
31 loss in Detroit, received a five-year extension worth $78
million,  ESPN reported on its website . The contract includes $40
million in guaranteed money and could be worth as much as $88
million, ESPN.com said, citing an unidentified person with
knowledge of the agreement.  “I guess that’s one question I don’t have to answer
anymore, but I’m embarrassed,” McNabb said at a news conference
when asked about his contract. “The way the (game) just
snowballed was just an embarrassment.”  McNabb had 295 passing yards and two touchdowns last night
against the Eagles, yet one of his interceptions was returned 40
yards for a touchdown and the Redskins’ offense was 0-for-10 on
third-down opportunities.  Washington, which trailed 35-0 after the opening play of
the second quarter, fell to 4-5 on the season.  McNabb has 11 interceptions overall, two short of his
career high set in 2000. A six-time Pro Bowl selection, McNabb
has 225 touchdown passes and 111 interceptions over 12 seasons.  “When we made the trade for him, we understood what we
were getting,” Redskins General Manager Bruce Allen said in a
statement before last night’s game. “We’re pleased with the
leadership that he brings and we believe he can help us win.”  McNabb was benched in favor of  Rex Grossman  during the
Redskins’ previous game, a 37-25 loss to the Detroit Lions.
Washington coach  Mike Shanahan  later questioned McNabb’s fitness
and knowledge of the team’s two minute offense in explaining the
switch.  It was the second time in his career that McNabb had been
benched during a game. Shanahan said he didn’t consider taking
McNabb out last night.  “The contract is great,” McNabb said. “I’ve always said
I wanted to be here and I look forward to being here for more
years, but I can only focus on the present time. I’m looking
forward to moving on (from the Eagles’ loss.)”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 