-- Three-Fold Jump in Dollar Purchases Fuels Rally in Bonds: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-15T13:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/three-fold-jump-in-dollar-purchases-fuels-rally-in-bonds-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s central bank is tripling
 purchases  of U.S. dollars in 2010, pushing them to the highest
in four years to weaken the peso and bolster foreign reserves.  The bank bought $9.6 billion through October, up from $3.3
billion in all of 2009, as a record soybean harvest swelled
dollar inflows from exports. The purchases helped make the peso
the only major Latin American currency to decline this year and
drove reserves to a record $52 billion, according to the central
bank’s website.  The increase is providing President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  with cash to pay creditors and spurring a debt rally
that has made Argentine dollar bonds the best performer among
major emerging markets this year. Countries from Brazil to South
Korea have stepped up intervention in the currency market to
stem capital flows, pushing the world’s foreign reserves up 18
percent this year to a record $9 trillion.  Argentine dollar bonds have returned 40 percent this year,
the best among emerging-market nations and more than double the
15.8 percent gain for emerging market debt, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes.  “They’ve been able to buy more dollars to build reserves
because the soybean harvest is a record this year and prices
have gone up,”  Boris Segura , a Latin America economist at
Nomura Securities Inc, said in a telephone interview from New
York. “They also need to do it because they have inflicted upon
themselves a policy of servicing debt with international
reserves.”  Default Concern Eases  The build-up in dollars, as well as Fernandez’s ability to
borrow from government agencies flush with cash, bolsters
investor confidence that Argentina will meet its debt
obligations in the next two years, said Segura. The country
defaulted on a record $95 billion of bonds in 2001.  The gap between 2-year and 10-year CDS is near its widest
since October 2008, a sign that traders are growing confident
the government will meet debt obligations in the near term yet
may struggle with payments in the following decade.  The  policy  is “a risky strategy because it relies on a
benign external environment -- good harvests, good weather
conditions, good prices for commodities -- all of which are out
of the realm of the government’s control,” Segura said. “What
happens if the world turns around and they keep using reserves
to service debt? Reserves would then come down and that would
cause financial instability.”  Reserves Jump  Reserves have climbed from $19.7 billion at the end of
December 2001, the month Argentina defaulted. Revenue from
Argentine commodity exports, including soybeans, corn, wheat and
sunflower seeds, will increase 8 percent to $28 billion during
the 2011 harvest, Gustavo Lopez, a former director of the
government’s agricultural markets office who is now an analyst
at Agritrend SA, said in an Oct. 20 interview from Buenos Aires.  Argentina’s soybean output quadrupled during the past
decade as farmers switched away from corn, wheat, cattle and
sunflower to feed growing global demand, especially from China.  “Investors have chosen emerging markets in general because
you have low interest rates in the world and high commodity
prices, so all countries that export commodities have a good
outlook,” said  Camilo Tiscornia , a former central bank
economist who now runs research firm C&T Asesores Economicos in
Buenos Aires. “The central bank wants to prevent a stronger
peso because that would hurt the competitiveness, which is
already hurt by inflation.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own Argentine bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 22
basis points to 5.08 percentage points at 8:44 a.m. New York
time, according to JPMorgan.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 3.9645 per dollar.  Credit Markets  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.01 cent to 13.56 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt rose
20 basis points to 652 on Nov. 12. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Consumer prices are rising at a rate of about 27 percent
this year and will likely climb 30 percent or more next year as
Fernandez steps up spending ahead of elections in October,
Tiscornia said.  Annual  inflation  held at 11.1 percent in October for the
third straight month, the government reported Nov. 12.
Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos 
have questioned official inflation statistics since 2007, when
 Nestor Kirchner , Fernandez’s late husband and predecessor, made
personnel changes at the national statistics institute. The
government says the data is accurate.  Higher Inflation  Paying debt with reserves is accelerating inflation,
 Alfonso Prat-Gay , opposition lawmaker and former central bank
president, said in Nov. 10 comments during a floor debate on the
2011 budget.  Central bank President  Mercedes Marco  del Pont told
reporters in Buenos Aires on Nov. 10 that rising global food
prices are spurring inflation, not monetary policy.  “Argentina has pursued a policy to sustain the exchange
rate with the goal of continuing the industrialization of our
country and improving and transforming our productive
structure,” Marco del Pont said after testifying before a
senate committee. Weekly note auctions remove 65 percent of the
pesos the central bank prints to buy dollars, she said.  Near-zero rates in the U.S. and Europe and Argentina’s
improved balance sheet will lure investors to dollar bonds, said
Segura.  “There’s been an appetite for risk given the low rates in
developed countries,” said Segura. “That’s helped Argentine
bonds, particularly when the risk of default over the next two
to three years is fairly contained.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  