-- U.S. Economy: Retail Sales Increased 1.2% in October
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-15T21:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/retail-sales-in-u-s-increased-by-1-2-in-october-most-in-seven-months.html
Sales at U.S. retailers climbed in
October by the most in seven months, brightening the outlook for
holiday shopping even as unemployment holds near 10 percent.  Purchases  rose 1.2 percent, exceeding the highest  forecast 
among economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, according to data
from the Commerce Department issued today in Washington. Another
report showed manufacturing in the New York region unexpectedly
shrank in November as orders dropped.  Stock gains over the past two months and growing employment
are helping households repair finances, indicating consumer
spending will play a bigger role in the recovery. At the same
time, merchants from  J.C. Penney Co.  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  are
offering promotions to guard against any letdown in the last two
months of the year, typically the biggest shopping season and
hiring time for retailers.  “We expect the holiday shopping season to really ramp up
in November,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, who forecast a 1.1
percent gain in sales. “The breadth of discounting” and steady
income gains are “providing some support,” he said.  The improvement in spending comes as other parts of the
economy show signs of cooling.  Manufacturing in the New York region contracted in November
for the first time in more than a year, according to the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s so-called  Empire State Index . The
measure, which covers New York, northern New Jersey and southern
Connecticut, fell to minus 11.1 from 15.7 in October. Readings
less than zero signal declines in activity.  Shares Climb  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  fell 0.1 percent to
1,197.75 at the 4 p.m. close in New York as increasing concern
over Fed policy and the government budget deficit wiped out
earlier gains. The S&P  Consumer Discretionary Index , which 
includes auto dealers, hotels and restaurants where sales are  
more sensitive to the economic outlook, fell 0.3 percent after 
having been up as much as 0.7 percent.  The median estimate of 74 economists surveyed projected
retail sales would increase 0.7 percent. Forecasts ranged from
increases of 0.4 percent to 1.1 percent. The Commerce Department
revised the September rise up to 0.7 percent from the 0.6
percent gain previously reported.  Nine of 13 categories in today’s report showed an increase
in demand, led by a 5 percent gain among auto dealers.  Vehicles
sold  at a 12.25 million seasonally adjusted annual rate last
month, the strongest performance since the government’s cash-
for-clunkers program in August 2009, according to industry data
released earlier this month.  Effect on Growth  Sales  excluding automobiles  advanced 0.4 percent, matching
the median forecast of economists surveyed.  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales
improved 0.2 percent after a 0.4 percent gain the prior month.  Non-store merchants, which include Internet retailers,
sporting goods and building material stores, were among the
other categories that showed increasing demand.  The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December holiday sales will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago,
the most since 2006.  J.C. Penney, the third-largest U.S. department-store
company, last week said third-quarter profit rose 63 percent.
Fourth-quarter sales at stores open at least a year will rise 3
to 4 percent, the Plano, Texas-based company said in a Nov. 12
statement, adding that the holiday shopping environment will
“remain highly promotional.”  Rebuilding Inventories  Companies may be stocking up ahead of the holidays in
anticipation of better sales, another report showed today.
 Inventories  rose 0.9 percent in September, more than forecast,
according to figures from the Commerce Department. Auto dealers
and building material stores led the advance.  The pace of job growth and Americans’ drive to pay down
debt and boost savings may remain hurdles for retailers.
Payrolls grew by 151,000 workers in October, the first gain in
five months, and the unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent, the
Labor Department said Nov. 5.  Joblessness will average 9.3 percent in 2011, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg this
month.  Shares over the past two months rallied in anticipation of
more action by the Fed to spur growth. Policy makers this month
announced a plan to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries
through June with the aim of reducing joblessness and averting a
drop in prices that would hurt the recovery.  The government may also be poised to extend support for
American households.  Tax-Cut Extension  President  Barack Obama  has said he’s committed to extending
tax cuts for middle-class Americans that are due to expire by
the end of the year and indicated he’s willing to negotiate with
Republicans an extension for the country’s highest earners.  The Democratic Party this month lost control of the House
of Representatives to Republicans amid voter discontent over the
outlook for the economy.  “It is good to see consumer spending coming back,”
 Rebecca Blank , the Commerce Department’s undersecretary for
economic affairs, said in an interview. “If middleclass
Americans see their taxes increase, that is going to have a
negative effect. I’m very hopeful that we are going to maintain
the current tax setting.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  