-- Ruble Government Bond Sales Scaled Back as Yields Increase: Russia Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-11-16T14:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/ruble-government-bond-sales-scaled-back-as-yields-increase-russia-credit.html
Russia is scaling back borrowing as
yields on its ruble-denominated debt head for their biggest
monthly increase since April and the government turns to a
sovereign wealth fund to finance the budget.  Russia sold about 500 billion rubles ($16.2 billion) of
debt this year through Nov. 11, or 60 percent of this year’s 839
billion-ruble target, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on central bank and  Finance Ministry  data. The government sold
5.1 billion rubles, or 9.3 percent, of 54.5 billion rubles it
offered at auctions this month, according to Bank Rossii.  A second consecutive Russian  budget deficit  and Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis have put pressure on borrowing costs,
according to OAO Sberbank and ING Groep NV. Yields on Finance
Ministry OFZ bonds due in 2013 and 2014 are on course for their
biggest monthly increase in seven months, with gains of 26 basis
points and 31 basis points, respectively, through Nov. 16.  “The market is pretty cautious in pushing the yields
down,” said  Konstantin Kostrub , head of fixed-income trading at
ING in Moscow. “That limits speculative demand, which drives a
substantial part of the local market.”  The yield on Russia’s ruble notes due November 2014 rose to
7.06 percent today. The yield on OFZ bonds due in 2013 stood at
6.17 percent, according to Bloomberg pricing.  Local-currency debt has also declined in Brazil this month.
The yield on the country’s real-denominated bond due in January
2014 has added 29 basis points to 12.179 percent this month
through Nov. 16, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Inflation Fear’  Consumer prices  in Russia rose 7.5 percent in October from
a year before, compared with a rate of 5.5 percent three months
earlier, because a drought raised food prices. In Brazil,  the
inflation rate  rose to 5.2 percent from 4.6 percent in July.  “Inflation fear is the number one variable that hurts
these local markets,”  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage the
equivalent of $8.5 billion of emerging market debt, including
Russian corporate bonds, at Union Investments Privatfonds in
Frankfurt. “In Russia’s case, inflation has surprised on the
upside and increased the fears that the central bank might start
hiking rates soon. It’s a similar story in Brazil.”  The government failed to sell any of the 14.5 billion
rubles of OFZs due in 2016 it auctioned on Nov. 3 because bids
didn’t meet the target price, said a person at the Finance
Ministry who declined to be identified.  Auction Tomorrow  The government is planning to offer 30 billion rubles of
2016 bonds at an auction tomorrow and 35.5 billion rubles the
following week. The Finance Ministry will offer investors a
return of between 7.26 percent and 7.36 percent, according to a
 statement  posted on its website today. That amounts to a premium
of as much as 9 basis points after the yield added 1 basis point
to 7.27 percent yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  The Finance Ministry  targets  selling 60 billion rubles of
debt in December, compared with monthly totals of between 120
billion rubles and 250 billion rubles since July.  “The substantial volume of state bonds that the Finance
Ministry planned to issue has also put pressure on yields,”
 Alex Ermak , a senior fixed-income analyst in the treasury
department of OAO Sberbank in Moscow, said by phone.  The government may seek to contain rising borrowing costs
by using its funds to cover the bulk of its deficit, according
to ING, UniCredit SpA and Bank of Moscow. The move may enable
the Finance Ministry to reduce domestic debt sales by as much as
400 billion rubles, or almost half of the total borrowing
program for this year, ING’s analysts including  Dmitry Polevoy 
in Moscow said in a Nov. 8 report.  The Reserve Fund, one of the country’s two sovereign wealth
funds, shrank 31 percent in dollar terms this year to $41.8
billion as the government tapped the stockpile to finance
Russia’s second deficit since 1999.  Curbing Rates  “The government is not willing to allow higher rates on
its debt not only because of the debt servicing concerns, but
also because it is not willing to allow a general increase in
the level of borrowing costs in Russia,”  Vladimir Osakovsky , a
Moscow-based economist at UniCredit SpA, said in an e-mailed
response to questions on Nov. 12. The  Reserve Fund  “is a factor
that significantly helps to keep yields on the domestic market
at current levels,” he said.  The ruble fell 0.5 percent to 31.0699 per dollar at 4:31
p.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide
a guide to expectations of currency fluctuations and interest
rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
movements, show the ruble at 31.3023 per dollar in three months.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 1 basis points, or
0.01 percentage point, to 143 today, down from this year’s peak
of 217, according to CMA prices. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s, its
third-lowest investment grade rating, cost 10.5 basis points
more than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower
at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries added 2 basis points to 201,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 144 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 168 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 38 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, near the smallest difference
since September 2009 and down from a 15-month high of 105 in
February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  Spike in Spending  Government  spending  traditionally spikes in the last month
of the year, with expenditures surging 59 percent in December of
2009, the year’s biggest monthly increase.  The budget deficit reached 783.6 billion rubles this year
by the end of October, or 2.1 percent of gross domestic product,
according to the Finance Ministry’s preliminary data. State
expenditures “will massively increase” in the remaining two
months, according to a Nov. 15 Troika Dialog research note.  The government forecasts a gap of 2.38 trillion rubles, or
5.3 percent of GDP, at year-end. Banks including Troika Dialog,
VTB Capital and Bank of Moscow estimate the actual end-of-year
budget deficit will be smaller than forecast because higher
prices of  oil  is boosting revenue.  Urals crude  rose to about $81.75 a barrel in October from
this year’s low of $67.42 a barrel on May 25, according to
Bloomberg data. This is set to lift revenue above the
government’s 7.78 trillion rubles target, Moscow-based Troika
Dialog said in a research note on Nov. 15.  Oil Revenue  Bank of Moscow estimated the budget shortfall will total
about 1 trillion rubles for the last two months of this year and
will be “mainly financed by the Reserve Fund,” the lender
controlled by the city government said in a note dated Nov. 13.  Higher oil  income  means that more spending will be covered
by budget revenue rather than the Reserve Fund, Deputy Finance
Minister  Tatiana Nesterenko  said on Nov. 11, according to
comments posted on the ministry’s website. Deputy Finance
Minister  Dmitry Pankin  wasn’t reachable for comment at his
office in Moscow yesterday.  Next year, Russia won’t be able to rely on the Reserve Fund
and will have to borrow more to finance spending, according to
Deutsche Bank AG research.  “OFZs will play the key role in financing the government
budget,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , head of research for Deutsche
Bank in Moscow, said by phone on Nov. 9. “We’ve more or less
reached the minimum level for the Reserve Fund.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 