-- Russia and Bulgaria Disagree Over Prices for Danube Nuclear Power Plant
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-11-15T12:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/russia-bulgaria-disagree-over-danube-nuclear-power-plant-price.html
Russia and Bulgaria disagree over
the cost of a planned 2,000-megawatt nuclear power plant at
Belene on the Danube River.  Rosatom Corp., Russia’s nuclear power company that won a
contract to build the two-reactor plant for 4 billion euros
($5.45 billion) in 2005, has increased the price to 6.3 billion
euros because of the delayed construction, Bulgarian Energy and
Economy Minister  Traicho Traikov  said today.  “The proposed price is unacceptably high for us,” Traikov
said in Sofia. “The power plant should not cost more than 5
billion euros in our estimates.”  Russia Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said during a Nov. 13
visit to Sofia that Rosatom has given a “precise cost
estimate” for the Belene nuclear plant near Svishtov that the
Bulgarian government will assess. He gave no figure then.  Construction of the Danube plant has stalled since Prime
Minister Boiko Borissov’s government came to power 16 months ago
and refused to provide state funding, which prompted  RWE AG ,
Germany’s second-largest utility, to withdraw. Atomstroyexport
ZAO, a unit of Rosatom, was chosen in 2005 to build the plant,
with  Areva SA  and  Siemens AG  as subcontractors.  Bulgaria will choose a consultant today who will estimate
the total cost of the project including the adjacent
infrastructure and interest payments due, Traikov said. The
consultant will also seek new investors in the project.  Russia and Bulgaria plan to invite German and Italian
companies to participate in the Belene plant with 1 percent to 2
percent stakes, the Russian government said in documents
distributed to reporters in Moscow on Nov. 13. They didn’t
specify the companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  