-- Sarkozy Under Pressure as France Feels Irish Heat: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-16T16:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/sarkozy-under-pressure-as-french-debt-market-feels-irish-heat-euro-credit.html
French President Nicolas Sarkozy,
fresh from skirmishes over plans to raise the retirement age, is
now under pressure to reduce the government deficit as investors
punish nations such as Ireland for having too much debt.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year French
government bonds instead of German securities of similar
maturity reached 50 basis points last week, the most since June.
France’s debt costs more to insure against default than in Chile
and Malaysia, both of which have lower credit ratings. Its debt
will equal about 84 percent of gross domestic product by the end
of the year, more than the Netherlands and Germany, according to
estimates from the European Commission.  “I’ve never liked the liability profile of France because
of its over-reliance on shorter maturities,” said Louis
Gargour, chief investment officer at LNG Capital LLP, a London-
based hedge fund he co-founded in 2006. “If deficits rise or
borrowing costs increase, that debt becomes more difficult to
refinance.”  Irish bonds led a market rout from Portugal to Greece this
month, after European Union leaders agreed Oct. 29 to consider
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s proposal for a permanent
rescue mechanism as of 2013 that would include losses for
sovereign debt holders. French Finance Minister Christine
Lagarde said last week she supported the call for investors to
share the cost of bailouts.  Record Low  Sarkozy’s popularity is at a record low after national
strikes to protest the president’s bill to raise the minimum
retirement age to 62 from 60, according to a poll for Le Figaro
Magazine.  After France’s biggest budget-deficit cuts in two decades,
the government expects its shortfall next year to equal about 6
percent of GDP. In May, the commission made a forecast for
Germany’s 2011 shortfall at 4.7 percent, compared with 5.1
percent for the Netherlands and 12.1 percent for Ireland.  France’s debt as a percentage of economic output by the end
of December will exceed Germany’s 79 percent, the Netherlands’
66 percent and Spain’s 65 percent, according to the May
commission estimates. Italy’s may be 118 percent this year,
according to the forecast.  ‘Perceived Risk’  Credit-default swaps protecting French government bonds for
five years were at 81 basis points today, according to data
provider CMA. That’s more than the 78 basis points for Chile, 79
for Malaysia and 73 for Slovakia. France is rated AAA by
Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.
Chile’s highest rating is Aa3 at Moody’s, the agency’s fourth-
highest grade. Malaysia’s is A-, S&P’s seventh-highest step, and
Slovakia has the fifth-highest rating with all three companies.  “If the perceived risk of French default increases further
in the next few months, which is quite possible given the French
public’s lack of appetite to engage in any meaningful reform, it
won’t be long until France trades wider than another group of
emerging markets,” M&G Investments money manager Michael
Riddell said in his blog on the company’s website.  In a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of 1,030 investors and
analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers, 30 percent said they had
an optimistic view of Sarkozy, compared with 35 percent for U.S.
President Barack Obama. Merkel is viewed favorably by 68 percent
of respondents in the poll.  “We’re being very, very solid and strict on our budget
commitments,” Lagarde said in a Nov. 10 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with Francine Lacqua. “We’re not
going to vary, we have to stay the course, not flinch.”  ‘Positive’ Changes  Lagarde will remain as finance minister after a reshuffle
of the government by Sarkozy, 55. Francois Fillon was kept as
prime minister.  The changes to the government are “generally a positive
outcome” for French government bonds, a team of analysts at
Nomura International Plc led by Nick Firoozye in London wrote in
an investor note yesterday.  France’s 10-year yield premium to bunds widened from 25
basis points as recently as Aug. 9, according to Bloomberg
generic data. It was at 43 basis points as of 4:40 p.m. in
London today.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt instead
of equivalent-maturity Dutch bonds widened to 22 basis points on
Nov. 11 from 6 basis points on July 30. It set a new euro-area
record of 25 basis points on June 29, and was at 19 basis points
today. France’s bonds yield 20 basis points more than Finland’s,
up from 5 on Aug. 2.  Weaker Fundamentals  “The debt-to-GDP level is rather high, the deficit is
higher and they haven’t got much of a track record on cutting
it,” said Huw Worthington, a fixed-income strategist at
Barclays Capital in London, who prefers the Netherlands and
Finland from an investment standpoint. “We think France might
underperform the others and that’s generally where the market
stands. The fundamentals in France look a little bit weaker.”  French bonds have handed investors a return of 7.6 percent
so far this year, compared with 8 percent for German securities
and 7.4 percent for U.K. debt, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  The nation plans to sell as much as 8 billion euros ($11
billion) of notes due in five years and less on Nov. 18, and
also inflation-linked bonds due in July 2022 and July 2040.  France may sell fewer bonds than the 186 billion euros
planned for next year as government finances improve, Philippe
Mills, chief executive officer of Agence France Tresor, the
country’s debt agency, said last month.  Moody’s Statement  “It’s very probable that it will be slightly below,”
Mills said. “We have slightly below funding needs with the
implementation of fiscal consolidation. The commitment of the
French government is very strong.”  Moody’s said Aug. 17 that France is well positioned to
preserve its top rating, though, like its peers, it must retain
market confidence.  “Debt dynamics have become more sensitive to market
confidence,” Moody’s said. The “tailwinds” that are keeping
borrowing costs down depend on credible budgets, the New York-
based ratings company said.  “We rate France as the weakest of the AAA rated issuers,”
Padhraic Garvey, head of developed-markets debt strategy at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam, said in a research note. “We don’t
expect France to lose its AAA status, but it needs to get its
fiscal deficit down to reduce the risk that one of the rating
agencies moves it to negative outlook. Any such threat would
have negative feedback loops.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  