-- Satyam Profit Declines in First Quarterly Earnings Announcement Since 2008
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-11-15T14:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/satyam-reports-profit-decline-in-first-earnings-announcement-in-2-years.html
Satyam Computer Services Ltd ., the
software exporter embroiled in India’s biggest corporate fraud
probe, reported its first quarterly earnings in almost two years,
ahead of a merger with  Tech Mahindra Ltd.   Profit fell 76 percent to 233 million rupees ($5.2 million)
in the three months ended September from the previous quarter
ended June, Hyderabad-based Satyam said in a statement to the
National Stock Exchange today. The company last announced
 quarterly earnings  in December 2008.  Satyam, whose former Chairman  Ramalinga Raju  disclosed in
January 2009 that he overstated the company’s assets by $1
billion, will be absorbed by its largest shareholder, Tech
Mahindra Ltd., within a year of announcing numbers for the
quarter.  “Clients are asking for discounts,” said  Rahul Jain , an
analyst with Dolat Capital Market Ltd. in Mumbai. “You are
seeing lots of deal wins, but the revenue and rate is not up to
the mark.” Jain has a “neutral to negative” rating on Satyam
and an “accumulate” rating for Tech Mahindra.  Sales in the three months fell to 12.4 billion rupees from
12.5 billion rupees in the quarter ended June, according to the
statement.  ‘Critical ICU’  Satyam “has been in critical ICU for almost a year,” said
Chairman  Vineet Nayyar  at a press conference in Hyderabad. “The
good news is that most of the damages inflicted on this company
have now been repaired, but that doesn’t mean it has
recovered.”  Raju and five company executives surrendered before a trial
court in the southern city of Hyderabad Nov. 10 after India’s
Supreme Court canceled their bail, the Economic Times reported
at the time, without saying where it got the information.  Many clients “put us on hold, waiting for us to come out
with results,” said Chief Executive Officer  Chander Prakash Gurnani  at the press conference. “Now, we should aggressively
go back to our lost customers.”  Satyam dropped 1.7 percent to 84.25 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close of trading in Mumbai, before the earnings announcement.
That compares with a 0.8 percent advance in the benchmark
Sensitive Index, or  Sensex . The stock has fallen 14 percent this
year, underperforming the Sensex’s 16 percent advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  