-- Sichuan Borrows as California Combats Muni Crisis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T09:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/sichuan-lures-muni-bond-investors-as-california-faces-crisis-china-credit.html
While California pays the price for
its fiscal emergency on the other side of the Pacific, companies
linked to China’s local governments may match their record for
bond sales even after regulators added curbs to reduce risk.  Sichuan Development Holding Co., an arm of the Chinese
province, sold 8 billion yuan ($1.2 billion) of notes on Nov. 8,
adding to offerings by the cities of Maanshan and Shangrao,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Southwest Securities Co.
in Beijing forecasts municipal borrowers will raise 250 billion
yuan from bonds this year, equaling their all-time high in 2009.  “China hasn’t yet had a precedent of a local government
bankruptcy” in the yuan market,  Wang Jianhui , an analyst at
Southwest Securities, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not
like America,” he said.  Cities and provinces in China turned to bonds after a 9.59
trillion yuan borrowing binge in 2009 forced the government to
impose a cap on  bank lending . Sales have been sustained even
though regulators barred local governments from securing debt
with tax revenues. In the U.S., the recession left states facing
a $130 billion budget gap for fiscal 2012, according to the
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , spurring investor  Warren Buffett  to warn about the risk of widespread muni bond defaults.  Officials have set up about 8,800 companies to fund
infrastructure projects in China, according to estimates from
Credit Suisse Group AG, because the law prevents cities and
provinces from direct bond sales to investors. At 250 billion
yuan, their combined issuance this year would still be less than
the $50 billion borrowed by California and the state’s local
municipalities, Bloomberg data show.  Central Government  Local governments’ outstanding debt rose to a record 11.4
trillion yuan last year, according to  Victor Shih , a professor
at Northwestern University who warned about growing municipal
indebtedness in March.  “Creditors aren’t afraid because they know a default would
look really bad for the central government,” Shih said in an
interview in Beijing. “Investors figure the central government
will always work something out” using state banks, so “you
have this too-big-to-fail logic really taking hold,” he said.  The yield on Chongqing City Construction Investment Co.’s 3
billion yuan of 5.3 percent bonds due October 2013 dropped to
4.86 percent from 5.07 percent this year, according to Chinabond
prices on Bloomberg.  While companies linked to local governments have never
failed to make payments on their yuan-denominated bonds,
Guangdong International Trust & Investment Corp. defaulted on
so-called Yankee notes in 1998, becoming the first Chinese
issuer to do so since the People’s Republic of China was formed
in 1949.  Social Stability  A domestic default may “affect social stability,” Ivan
Chung, a senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in an
interview in Beijing. Local governments would probably make
“arrangements” to prevent one, he said.  Moody’s raised  China’s  bond rating to Aa3, its fourth-
highest level, on Nov. 11. The country’s efforts to tackle asset
bubbles and avert bad loans have meant the “likely containment
and effective management” of losses from record lending last
year to counter the financial crisis, the credit assessment firm
said in a statement.  The yield on the 3.28 percent government bond due August
2020 was little changed at 3.73 percent, according to Interbank
Funding Center prices as of 4:18 p.m. in Shanghai. China raised
its benchmark one-year lending rate on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a
percentage point to 5.56 percent as inflation accelerated to its
fastest pace in two years last month.  The yield on India’s  10-year  bonds fell 3 basis points to
8.07 percent yesterday. Similar-maturity bonds pay 12.6 percent
in Brazil. These three nations, plus Russia, form the so-called
BRIC group of countries.  Credit-Default Swaps  Elsewhere in China’s credit markets, five-year  credit-
default swap  contracts on government bonds rose 1/2 basis point
to 61 basis points yesterday, CMA prices in New York show. The
contracts fell about 15 percent in October following a drop of
19 percent in September.  Credit-default swaps typically decline as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements. Government debt investors
usually buy the contracts to hedge against a rise in yields.  One-year interest-rate  swaps , or the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , fell 16 basis
points to 2.51 percent. Five-year swaps fell four basis points
to 3.79 percent. That rate is up from this year’s low of 2.68
percent on Aug. 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yuan Appreciation  The yuan has appreciated 2.9 percent versus the dollar
since a two-year peg was relaxed in June, and non-deliverable
forwards show traders are betting on a 2.2 percent advance in
the coming 12 months. The currency strengthened 0.1 percent to
6.6360 per dollar as of 4:26 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  China plans to “accelerate” the opening of its yuan bond
markets to overseas borrowers, Shi Wenchao, secretary-general of
the National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors, a regulatory body, said today at a conference in
Beijing. UBS AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, General
Electric Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. may be among companies
allowed to sell yuan bonds, he said.  Xiamen, Fujian-based  Yuzhou Properties Co. , which develops
residential real estate in southern China, plans to sell as much
as $300 million of five-year bonds to yield about 13 percent to
13.5 percent, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Collateral Curbs  China’s  National Development and Reform Commission  stopped
approving local government-linked bond sales for more than a
month after the State Council ordered a clean-up of their
finances Jun. 10.  Regulators then stopped them from using assets that depend
on local government revenues as collateral, according to China
Merchants Securities Co. Bonds have since been sold with
guarantees from banks and state-owned enterprises.  While concern about local government debt may be
“rational,” the new rules will prevent risks from becoming
“concentrated,” Xu Lin, a director in the NDRC’s finance
department, said at a conference last month.  Anhui-based Maanshan Construction Investment Development Co.
sold 2 billion yuan of 4.86 percent seven-year bonds in July
that are guaranteed by the state-owned parent of Maanshan Iron &
Steel Co. The notes are rated AA+ by Dagong Global Credit Rating
Co., its second-highest grade and three levels above Dagong’s
rating for the U.S. government. The bonds yielded 5.3 percent on
Nov. 15, according to Chinabond prices.  California Sales  That compares with San Francisco City & County Public
Utilities Commission, which sold taxable 4.1 percent bonds in
June, Bloomberg data show. The notes, due in November 2017 and
rated Aa2 by Moody’s, traded at an average yield of 4.13 percent
on June 10, according to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
data.  California  is selling $10 billion of one-year notes this
week to boost cash on hand, as the state that produces 13
percent of the U.S. gross domestic product tries to assure
investors it can repay loans amid a $25 billion budget gap.  Investors are being offered $2 billion of notes maturing in
May at tentative yields of 1 percent to 1.25 percent, according
to two people familiar with the offering. That’s about 0.58 to
0.83 percentage point more than  top-rated one-year municipal
bonds  as of Nov. 12, according to Municipal Market Advisors data.
The $8 billion of securities maturing in June are quoted at 1.25
percent to 1.5 percent, or about 0.83 to 1.08 percentage points
more than top-rated notes.  Fiscal Emergency  California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , citing a $25.4
billion budget gap over the next 19 months, declared a fiscal
emergency this month and called lawmakers to a special session
in December to begin dealing with the problem. He wants to take
steps to erase an officially estimated $6.1 billion gap that has
already emerged in the budget enacted last month.  Notes sold by companies linked to Chinese local governments
are listed on the nation’s interbank and exchange bond markets.
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors, or QFIIs, may buy and
trade the notes on the exchange market.  Warren Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc. sells auto
policies and catastrophe coverage, told the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission in June that U.S. municipal bonds face a
“terrible problem.” The U.S. government may be compelled to
rescue at least one state from default, he told shareholders at
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s annual meeting May 1.  Forty-six U.S. issuers have defaulted on about $1.7 billion
of muni bonds this year, the Distressed Debt Securities
Newsletter said in August. About $1 billion of the securities
fail in a typical year, it said.  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance from  James Regan  in Hong
Kong,  Judy Chen  in Shanghai,  Mark Tannenbaum  and Brendan A.
McGrail in New York, and  Michael Marois  in Sacramento. Editors:
 Hugh Chow ,  Will McSheehy   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  