-- Singapore's Retail Sales, Excluding Cars, Grow at Slower Pace in September
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-15T08:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/singapore-s-retail-sales-excluding-cars-grow-at-slower-pace-in-september.html
Singapore’s retail sales excluding
motor vehicles rose at a slower pace in September after the
economy contracted last quarter.  The index measuring purchases excluding automobiles climbed
5.3 percent from a year earlier, after gaining a revised 6.4
percent in August, the Statistics Department said today.
Including vehicles, which are sold subject to government caps,
total  retail sales  rose 0.3 percent, less than the median
forecast for a 1.5 percent increase in a Bloomberg News survey
of eight economists.  Singapore’s gross domestic product shrank at a 19.8 percent
annual rate in the third quarter from the previous three months,
the government said last month, and Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong  has said the economy may “moderate” in the coming months,
citing risks from the U.S. and Europe. A stronger currency may
also have deterred spending by tourists, said Citigroup Inc.
economist  Kit Wei Zheng .  “The strength of the Singapore dollar from Monetary
Authority of Singapore tightening may temper retail spending by
tourists,” Kit said. “The increasing confidence of residents
may not necessarily translate into stronger domestic retail
sales, as higher incomes and the stronger Singapore dollar have
made it more attractive for residents to spend abroad rather
than domestically.”  Retail sales excluding automobiles were boosted earlier
this year as the city state added more than 85,000 jobs from
January to September and the island’s services industry expanded,
helped by the opening of two casino resorts run by  Genting
Singapore Plc  and Las Vegas Sands Corp.  Adjusted for seasonal factors, overall retail sales fell
2.4 percent from August, today’s report showed.  Singapore controls pollution and congestion on its roads by
selling limited permits for each automobile category, and the
quotas may distort sales figures because motor vehicles are the
biggest component of the retail index, accounting for a third of
the gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  