-- Small Business Picks Up, Preceding Fed's Easy Money
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2010-11-15T15:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/small-business-accelerates-in-u-s-as-new-jobs-precede-easy-money-from-fed.html
Ultimate Golf Seating  in Elkhart,
Indiana, has hired five workers to expand its staff to 10 as
orders increase for its custom-made golf-cart seats, which start
at $745.  “Demand is starting to improve,” co-owner David Vahala
said. “We’re definitely making a turn this year.”  Small businesses are bouncing back as access to lending
eases and consumers ramp up purchases. This would be welcome
news for policy makers struggling to spur the world’s largest
economy and bring down  unemployment  stalled near a 26-year high,
because small companies account for 60 percent of job creation,
according to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The Fed
said Nov. 3 it plans to buy another $600 billion of Treasuries,
citing “disappointingly slow” progress in the recovery.  “The winds are changing in favor of small businesses,”
said  Ryan Sweet , senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
West Chester, Pennsylvania. “It is a gradual improvement, but
they’re definitely more active than they were a few months ago.
As these businesses re-engage, it’ll put the recovery on a more
solid footing.”  The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks the small-cap segment
of U.S. equity markets, has risen  19.6 percent  since August 31,
compared with a  14.4 percent gain  in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. The outperformance signals investors’ rising confidence
in smaller companies and those that cater to the sector,
including  Administaff Inc. , which provides human-resource
services to small and mid-size businesses.  Analysts Upgrade  The Kingwood, Texas-based company’s stock  jumped  8.2
percent to $27.90 on Nov. 2 after Roth Capital analyst  Jeff Martin  in Newport Beach, California, upgraded the stock to buy
from neutral and set a price target of $34 a share following
third-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The shift is echoed in announcements by larger companies
ranging from  SAP AG , the world’s largest maker of business-
management software, to  Dell Inc. , the world’s third-biggest
personal-computer manufacturer. Charlotte, North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. , the largest U.S. bank by assets, last
month said it plans to hire 1,000 employees in the next year to
focus on companies with sales of $3 million or less.  Small-business sentiment also is healing, according to the
optimism index of the National Federation of Independent
Business in Nashville, Tennessee, which  jumped  in October to a
five-month high.  ‘Serious Improvement’  “This looks to us like the start of a serious
improvement,”  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at High
Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, New York, said in a note
to clients after the NFIB report on Nov. 9. “We have long
argued that a proper recovery in the broad economy requires a
sustained improvement in the small-firm sector, which employs
half the workforce.”  A month earlier, Shepherdson had written that September
NFIB data indicated “progress is slow and small firms remain
deeply depressed.”  John Ryding  and  Conrad DeQuadros  of RDQ Economics LLC in
New York also were encouraged by the  NFIB ’s October report,
which showed rising expectations for sales, better business
conditions six months from now and improvement in  hiring plans .  “Perhaps, at last, the small-business sector has a pulse,
albeit a faint one,” the economists wrote in a Nov. 9 note to
clients. “We expect small-business conditions to improve over
the coming months.”  ‘Performed Quite Well’  Walldorf, Germany-based SAP’s small- and medium-size
enterprise business “performed quite well in the third
quarter,”  Bill McDermott , co-chief executive officer, said on
an Oct. 27 conference call with analysts. Dell, in Round Rock,
Texas, said Aug. 19 that sales to these customers grew 25
percent in the second quarter from a year ago, after a 19
percent gain the prior three months.  One source of relief for small companies is the thaw in
lending, reinforced by the Fed’s quarterly survey of senior loan
officers, released Nov. 8. Fed officials have held more than 40
meetings this year to try to reverse the drop in credit, and
Bernanke said in an Oct. 15 speech that regulators have “seen
some positive signs.”  Citigroup Inc.  which claims 2,500 of the world’s 3,000
largest corporations as clients, says it also is targeting U.S.
companies with less than $20 million of annual sales, and plans
to hire about 200 bankers by the end of 2011 to court them. That
would bring the number of small-business bankers to about 500,
or one for every two North American branches.  Portfolio Revival  The revival in stock portfolios also helps by giving
consumers the wherewithal to spend, said Ultimate Golf Seating’s
Vahala, who is setting his sights on southern California,
Arizona, Texas and the Carolinas after his first year of selling
luxury seats in retirement communities such as  The Villages  in
Florida.  “More retired customers are saying, ‘Now I can buy this
seat; it’s been on my wish list for some time,’” said Vahala,
52. He sees the possibility of adding “one or two people
through the end of this year and some more next year as the
sales come in.”  He and his brother, Dan, also run  Vahala Foam Inc. , a 20-
year-old company whose products go into car seats, recreational
vehicles, boats and furniture. Their business, which cut staff
to 65 in 2009 from about 120 before the recession, has 80
workers now and spent about $100,000 on new equipment this year.
Hiring and investment would have been higher in normal years,
Vahala said.  ‘Coming Back Nicely’  Business is “coming back nicely,” he said, adding that
workers have resumed 40-hour weeks after reduced shifts in 2009.
“I’m still a little gun-shy. I wonder what’s going to happen
this winter, but I feel we’ll come through it. Next year will be
better.”  A pickup at small companies “could be pretty dramatic for
stocks,” said  Joseph Kremer , director of mid-, small- and
micro-cap value strategies in Cleveland for Fifth Third Asset
Management, which oversees about $20 billion.  “A renaissance in small, private businesses would ripple
through the economy,” he said. Companies that sell to U.S.
customers “would suddenly be seeing more growth,” while so far
in the recovery, “most of what the market’s been hanging its
hat on is industrial demand, a lot of it fed by foreign sales.”  Kremer said a general-merchandise discount retailer such as
Dublin, Georgia-based  Fred’s Inc.  may do well because some
consumer spending “would be ginned up at the lower end.”
Companies like  Consolidated Graphics Inc. , a commercial printer
in Houston, also might benefit from an increase in small-
business demand for products such as mailers, business cards and
catalogs, he said.  Jobs Turnaround  Data on employment show the turnaround has begun. Small
companies have added jobs in every month since March, including
a 21,000 gain in October, according to ADP Employer Services in
Roseland, New Jersey, and St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers
LLC. Medium-sized businesses employing 50 to 499 people expanded
by 24,000, and large companies with more than 499 workers cut
staff by 2,000.  “The momentum in business activity is up again, and that
probably reflects the improvement in small business as well,”
said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New
York. “It increases the likelihood that a true, self-sustaining
recovery is under way.”  More Active  The lack of an industrywide measure makes it hard to gauge
progress at small, privately held companies. The Small Business
Administration defines small companies as those with fewer than
500 employees. Another description, used by Fort Lauderdale,
Florida-based  SFN Group Inc ., qualifies small customers as
having annualized revenue of less than $5 million. The staffing
and recruitment services provider, which changed its name from
Spherion Corp. in February, said such clients are becoming more
active.  “We did see some more engagement by the small accounts,”
 Roy Krause , chief executive officer, said Oct. 28 on SFN’s
third-quarter earnings call. “That’s an issue everybody’s been
talking about in the industry.”  Paychex Inc. , which manages payrolls accounting for
companies that employ fewer than 100 workers, said checks per
client rose 1.2 percent from a year ago in the quarter ended
Aug. 31, after a 1.1 percent gain in the previous quarter that
broke a more than three-year-long string of declines.  “Small businesses are doing some hiring and have reduced
their layoffs,”  John Morphy , chief financial officer of the
Rochester, New York-based company, said in a Nov. 11 interview.
“Of the clients that have weathered the storm, the majority are
doing well. We’re seeing stability in our sales.”  2001 Recession  Sweet at Moody’s says  small businesses , which he defines as
those with fewer than 50 workers, still have a lot of ground to
recover. He estimates these companies accounted for 37 percent
of job losses during the  18-month recession  that ended June
2009, compared with 16 percent during the 2001 slump.  Demand is still uneven, credit isn’t widely available and
home equity, often a source of funds for small companies, has
plunged. While the government has provided assistance, it will
take time to deliver results.  President  Barack Obama  signed small-business  legislation  in
September that included $56 billion worth of tax cuts over the
next 12 months and a $30 billion program to boost lending.
That’s in addition to support from his stimulus plan, such as
funding to increase limits on loan guarantees offered by the
 Small Business Administration .  Small companies still have “a lot of problems to work
through, so their contribution will be more visible next year
and even more noticeable in 2012,” Sweet said. “But they’re
making progress, which at this stage of the recovery is very
welcome because it keeps us moving in the right direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  