-- Shanghai Apartment Fire Kills at Least 53, Hospitalizes 70
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T05:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/smoke-blocks-chopper-rescue-as-shanghai-apartment-fire-kills-8-injures-90.html
A high-rise apartment building fire
in central  Shanghai  yesterday killed at least 53 people and
hospitalized 70, 17 of whom were in critical condition, the
Shanghai government said in a  statement .  The blaze was caused by unlicensed electric welders and
four people have been detained in connection with the incident,
Xinhua News Agency said, citing an initial investigation. Public
Security Minister  Meng Jianzhu  today called for a full inquiry,
adding that those responsible will be punished, according to a
government statement. No one at the Shanghai police headquarters
answered phone calls.  Scaffolding for renovation work on the 28-story building in
the Jing’an district ignited about 2:15 p.m. yesterday and the
fire was brought under control four hours later, the local
government said. The blaze damaged the whole block. At least 30
policemen and paramilitary officers blocked off the streets
surrounded by about 400 bystanders.  “I heard noises that sounded like firecrackers; I thought
someone was getting married,” said a local woman who gave only
her surname, Liu. “I saw a girl who was trying to climb down
the building and construction workers wave their hands for help.
It was so frightening. I’ve never seen such a big fire like this
before.”  Gold Watch  A woman who declined to give her name said her sister’s
family lived on the seventh floor and only had time to take with
them a few belongings including a gold watch. Most residents
were relocated to hotels nearby, she said.  The building, built in the 1990s, housed more than 280
residents, mainly elderly, the official newspaper People’s Daily
 reported  yesterday. Most of the injured were elderly and
children at home during working hours, state broadcaster China
Central Television reported.  Yesterday’s blaze was one of the most serious in the city’s
recent history. In 1996, a fire at another Shanghai apartment
killed 36 people, injuring 19, the Shanghai Morning Post
reported today.  Last year, a fire in China Central Television’s new
headquarters complex ravaged more than 100,000 square meters
(1.1 million square feet) of the site in Beijing, and killed a
fireman. That blaze, ignited by unapproved fireworks to mark the
end of Lunar New Year celebrations, destroyed a hotel being
constructed that was to be managed by Mandarin Oriental
International Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
 Bonnie Cao  in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ,  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at   swong139@bloomberg.net ; 