-- South Africa Finds `Many Irregularities' With Mining Rights, Minister Says
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-15T10:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/south-africa-finds-many-irregularities-with-mining-rights-minister-says.html
South Africa has uncovered “many
irregularities” in the government’s award of mining rights,
particularly those given to companies controlled by black
investors, following an investigation into 1,475 licenses.  In some cases “owners of the rights are not actively
involved in what they’ve applied for,” thwarting the efforts of
the government to promote black people in the economy, Mines
Minister  Susan Shabangu  told reporters in Pretoria today.  The minister ordered the probe and a six-month moratorium
on issuing prospecting rights after saying in August she found
maladministration in her department. Anglo American Plc’s  Kumba
Iron Ore Ltd.  is challenging in court the ministry’s award of
rights to its Sishen mine to Imperial Crown Trading. Lonmin Plc,
the third-largest platinum producer, is also appealing an award.  Shabangu, whose department oversees the world’s largest
reserves of platinum, manganese and chrome, faces questioning
from investors when she travels to New York and Boston for a
roadshow this week amid the probe and a debate within the ruling
African National Congress over calls to nationalize mines.  The ANC in September agreed to debate the demands of its
youth wing for nationalization even as Shabangu said it would
happen “over my dead body.” The demands “do little for
investor confidence,” Lonmin said in a statement today.  The company is appealing against the ministry’s award of
prospecting rights over an area Lonmin says it holds to Keysha
Investments 220 Ltd. Keysha said in August it was mistakenly
awarded rights over  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.  territory.
Shabangu has said the Sishen award to Imperial was proper.  The government’s policy of setting aside rights for black
investors aims to boost the participation of those disadvantaged
under the discrimination of apartheid rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net 
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 