-- ANC Wants Independent Research on Nationalization of South African Mines
-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-15T10:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/south-africa-s-anc-to-appoint-independent-researchers-on-nationalization.html
South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress plans to appoint two independent researchers
to investigate the viability of nationalizing the country’s
mines and wants mining companies to help fund their work.  Calls for the seizure of mines have been led by the ANC’s 
Youth League, which says the country’s mineral wealth needs to
be more widely shared. The party decided at a conference in
September that the issue required further research before policy
changes could be considered.  The researchers from “reputable institutions” must
“investigate successful models that could be considered on the
role of the state in mining,” ANC secretary general  Gwede Mantashe  told reporters in Johannesburg today, after a meeting
of the party’s national executive committee. “A report on this
work will be presented to the NEC in the last quarter of next
year in preparation for our policy conference in 2012.”  Mining generates 30 percent of South Africa’s export
revenue, 18 percent of its corporate taxes and 500,000 direct
jobs, according to the Mines Ministry. The country is the
world’s biggest producer of platinum and chrome, and the third-
biggest gold producer.  Mining companies should help fund research on
nationalization, since it is in their interests for the issue to
be thoroughly investigated, Mantashe said.  Melbourne, Australia-based  BHP Billiton  Ltd., London-based
 Rio Tinto Group  and  Anglo American Plc  are among companies with
a stake in South Africa’s mineral resources, which Citigroup
Inc. has valued at $2.5 trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 