-- SouthGobi Resources May Report Profit Next Year on Increased Coal Sales
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-11-15T08:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/southgobi-resources-may-report-profit-next-year-on-increased-coal-sales.html
SouthGobi Resources Ltd. , a coal
producer backed by China’s sovereign wealth fund, may post a
profit next year as increased output boosts sales by two-thirds,
Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Molyneux  said.  The Toronto and Hong Kong-listed coal producer may expand
sales to 4.5 million metric tons in 2011 from about 2.7 million
tons this year, Molyneux said in an interview.  The coal producer posted a loss of $110.8 million last year
after the startup of its Ovoot Tolgoi mine in Mongolia and costs
increased. The company may report “robust” earnings next year
as production expands, according to Molyneux in April.  SouthGobi will produce more higher-quality coking coal to
ramp up sales, Molyneux said in his office in Hong Kong today.
The company has been investing in mining equipment at Ovoot
Tolgoi pit to help boost output, he said.  The coal producer’s mining operations made a loss of $6.7
million in the third quarter and revenue slumped 44 percent to
$6.6 million partly because of sales of lower-quality coal with
a higher ash content, the company said in a  statement  on Nov. 11.  The shares have fallen 23 percent since it started  trading 
in Hong Kong on Jan. 29, compared with the 19 percent gain in
the benchmark Hang Seng Index. SouthGobi rose 2.8 percent to
close at HK$85.75.  SouthGobi may post a loss of $139 million this year,
falling to $20.5 million next year, according to a median
estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Nine out of 11
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg rate the stock a “Buy,” while
two rate the stock a “Hold.”  The coal producer aims to get a mining license for a second
pit in Mongolia by the year-end, Molyneux said on Aug. 13. About
$205 million is needed to develop the mine, according to the
chief executive.  China Investment Corp., the nation’s sovereign wealth fund,
owns about 13 percent of the mining company’s shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 