-- South Korea Is Preparing a `System' to Counter Volatility in Capital Flows
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-15T08:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/south-korea-is-preparing-a-system-to-counter-volatility-in-capital-flows.html
South Korea said it will take steps
against capital inflows that have driven up the nation’s
currency, threatening the exports fueling its economic growth.  “We will prepare a system to counter the excessive
volatility in flows of foreign capital in and out of the
nation,” Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said in Seoul today.
A bond tax on overseas investors, a bank levy and strengthened
rules covering foreign-currency derivatives at foreign banks are
being considered, he said.  Two ruling party lawmakers last week submitted separate
bills to parliament to revive the bond tax, as nations from
Brazil to Thailand strive to restrain their currencies. Emerging
nations have more room to act after the  Group of 20  said that
they can take regulatory steps against capital surges.  “The communiqué at the G-20 Seoul Summit allowed macro-
prudential measures for emerging countries,” Yoon said. He was
speaking at a session of parliament.  The won fell to its lowest level this month after the
comments. It traded at 1,131.81 per dollar as of the 3:00 p.m.
close in Seoul, after dropping 1.8 percent last week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has risen 7.5
percent since June. The yield on the 3.75 percent bond due June
2013 was 3.48 percent, unchanged from last week’s close,
according to Korea Stock Exchange.  Bond Tax  Kim Song Sik , a lawmaker from the ruling Grand National
Party, last week submitted a bill to parliament to revive a 14
percent tax on bond holdings by foreigners to curb foreign-
exchange volatility.  “If we don’t do it right now and the situation worsens, we
may have to set up higher barricades,” he said on Nov. 9. The
central bank should increase borrowing costs to head off asset-
price bubbles, he also said.  Kang Gil Boo, another member of parliament from the ruling
party, on Nov. 12 submitted a bill that would introduce a
flexible tax rate on investment gains from South Korean treasury
and central bank bonds held by foreign investors. The rate
levied would depend on financial market conditions, his office
said by telephone today.  The government’s position on reviving the bond tax has
“not been decided yet,” Kim Yi Tae, foreign-exchange market
director at the Ministry of Finance, said by telephone today.  A ministerial meeting tomorrow on the economy won’t discuss
measures against capital inflows, presidential spokeswoman Kim
Hee Jung told reporters in Seoul today, according to a
transcript from the presidential office. Yonhap News had earlier
reported the controls would be a topic of discussion.  G-20 Statement  “In circumstances where countries are facing undue burden
of adjustment, policy responses in emerging-market economies
with adequate reserves and increasingly overvalued flexible
exchange rates may also include carefully designed macro-
prudential measures,” leaders of the G-20 nations said in a
statement on Nov. 12 following a two-day meeting in Seoul.  Policy makers from Asia to South America have warned that
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s second round of quantitative easing
could depress the dollar and intensify a flight of capital into
emerging markets, threatening asset bubbles.  The U.S. central bank said on Nov. 3 it will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries to boost growth in the
world’s biggest economy.  The  Bank of Korea  will debate raising borrowing costs
tomorrow for the second time this year after the won’s
appreciation failed to stop consumer price growth from breaching
the monetary authority’s inflation ceiling.  Analysts Split  Analysts are split on whether the central bank will add to
July’s 0.25 percentage point  interest-rate  increase from a
record-low 2 percent. Six of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predict another quarter-point move to 2.5 percent, with the
rest projecting no change.  South Korean regulators began an audit of banks handling
foreign-currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to tackle speculation.
Financial Supervisory Service Governor Kim Jong Chang said
earlier in November that the country may tighten curbs on bank
trades of the derivatives and penalize institutions acting
improperly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eunkyung Seo  in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  