-- Southern Sudanese Start Registering for January Referendum on Independence
-- B y   A l a n   B o s w e l l   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-11-15T22:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/southern-sudanese-start-registering-for-january-referendum-on-independence.html
Southern Sudanese have begun
registering to vote in a January referendum to decide whether
their oil-producing region will break away from Sudan and become
Africa’s newest independent nation.  The vote will test a 2005  peace accord , brokered by the
U.S., the U.K. and Norway, that ended a 21-year civil war
between the Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and
traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million people died in the
conflict and more than 4 million were displaced.  “This is a very special day,” said Peter Benjamin, 28,
waiting in line to register yesterday at Juba University in
Southern Sudan’s capital. “My choice will be secession, of
course.”  Registration started two days after northern and southern
leaders agreed in  African Union -mediated talks to maintain a
“soft border” if the south secedes, permitting “unhindered
economic and social activity and interaction, which will be
essential for economic prosperity and harmony between the north
and the south.”  The two sides also approved a “framework document” on how
to address outstanding issues on the peace accord, such as
border demarcation and sharing oil revenue after the referendum,
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday from the AU High
Level Panel on Sudan, headed by Former South African President
 Thabo Mbeki .  Oil Production  Southern Sudan accounts for as much as 80 percent of the
Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy .  “The referendum is done only once, and if southerners miss
this opportunity, then they would have been fighting and dying
for no cause at all,” Southern Sudan’s president,  Salva Kiir ,
told a crowd in Juba after registering.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , who has been pressing for
Sudan to hold the vote on schedule, is “extremely pleased”
that the registration has begun, White House press secretary
 Robert Gibbs  said in a statement. He said the start of the
registration is a “critical milestone.”  Delays in the registration have raised tension between the
former battlefield adversaries, the  Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement , which governs the south, and President  Umar al- Bashir ’s National Congress Party in Khartoum.  Major General Moses Obi of Nigeria, the commander of the
11,000-member UN force monitoring the peace agreement, said he
increased patrols in border areas following an Oct. 30 clash
between Sudanese government soldiers and troops loyal to the
Southern Sudan administration.  UN Patrols  “In view of accusations and counter accusations on either
side as to troop build-up, we have taken steps to enhance the
cease-fire monitoring mechanisms at all levels,” he told
reporters today in Khartoum. “We now encourage more patrols; we
now have long-duration patrols.”  The majority of Southern Sudanese  favor independence , the
Washington-based National Democratic Institute said in an Oct.
20 report, based on 63 focus groups surveyed in 48 locations
from Feb. 5 to March 16.  Lines of 50 or more people stood quietly across Juba
yesterday waiting for their turn to register. In Khartoum, many
potential voters didn’t know where the registration centers
were, James Goy, a 29-year-old from Unity State, said in Soba,
an informal settlement outside the capital.  The Southern Sudan Referendum Commission has more than
10,000 workers organizing the two-week registration across
Africa’s largest nation by landmass and in eight countries,
including the U.S., Canada, Australia and Kenya, where Southern
Sudanese took refuge during the war.  Indigenous Groups  Vagueness in eligibility criteria may open the door to
manipulation and confusion among voters and commission
employees, especially for southerners in northern Sudan, the
Atlanta-based Carter Center, which is monitoring the referendum,
said in a  statement  Oct. 29.  Only voters with roots from one of the indigenous groups of
Southern Sudan or others whose families have lived there since
Sudan’s independence from the U.K. in 1956 are eligible to vote,
the referendum law says. Those with links to the ethnic
communities whose families weren’t living in Southern Sudan
since 1956 must travel to the south to register and vote.  The referendum law, passed by Sudan’s national assembly in
December, doesn’t provide a list of those indigenous groups or
detail how voters may prove their eligibility.  “We don’t know at this stage if all the registration staff
has understood what was taught to them during the training in a
consistent manner,” Denis K. Kadima, head of the  United Nations 
Integrated Referendum and Electoral Division, which is assisting
the referendum commission, said on Nov. 13.  Choose Unity  Al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum is campaigning for
Southern Sudanese to choose unity.  A simultaneous referendum in the border region of Abyei to
decide whether it should be part of the north or the south is in
jeopardy, with the Khartoum authorities and the SPLM unable to
agree on who can vote.  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in The Hague, in a
ruling last year, set Abyei’s borders to the immediate area
around settlements of the Ngok Dinka people, who consider
themselves southerners, largely excluding Misseriya cattle-
herders who back the north.  In the U.S. statement, Gibbs said both parties in Sudan
“must urgently work to find an agreed-upon way forward for
Abyei in the interest of lasting peace.”  Khamees Yambio Jadeen, 41, standing outside the
registration center in Soba, said he sent his three children to
the south and is looking for someone to buy his home because he
fears southerners may be targeted if the south secedes.  “The people in the government are scaring the southerners,
saying they don’t deserve citizenship, property ownership or
medicine,” he said. “Does this not scare someone who has
children?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 