-- Sovereign Bond Default Risk Tumbles in Europe on Ireland Bailout Wagers
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-11-15T15:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/sovereign-bond-default-risk-declines-in-europe-on-ireland-bailout-wagers.html
The cost of insuring against losses
on European government bonds fell on speculation pressure from
euro-region central bankers will force Ireland to accept an
international bailout that would calm markets.  Credit-default swaps on Irish government debt fell for a
third day, dropping 58.5 basis points to 488, the lowest level
since Oct. 29, according to data provider CMA. The Markit iTraxx
SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments declined
8.5 basis points to 160.  “Three words: Waiting for Ireland,” said  Suki Mann , a
credit strategist at Societe Generale SA in London. “Until
there’s any concrete news, investors will stay sidelined.”  Pressure is mounting on Ireland to follow Greece in turning
to the European Union’s rescue fund as the region’s deficit
crisis worsens. European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said today that Ireland would be able to tap the fund
to save its banks, while fellow central bank council member
 Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said the nation should make a
“final decision” on an aid plan.  Swaps on Ireland reached a record high closing price of 599
basis points last week on concern the ballooning cost of
rescuing its banking system is becoming unsustainable. Contagion
from Ireland also helped push the cost of insuring Portuguese
and Spanish debt to records on Nov. 11.  Portugal declined 35 basis points to 401 today and Spain
was 15 lower at 246. Italy fell 8.5 to 180, CMA prices show.  ‘Thin Markets’  “Thin markets and poor liquidity we can accept at this
time of the year,” Mann said. “But the huge speculation
surrounding Ireland could not have come at a more inopportune
time.”  Swaps on Greece declined 7 basis points to 857, reversing
an earlier increase after European Union authorities revised the
nation’s budget deficit to 15.4 percent of gross domestic
product from 13.6 percent, making it the euro region’s largest
shortfall.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds also fell after retail
sales in the U.S. climbed by the most in seven months.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings declined 3 basis
points to 457, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings decreased 1.75 basis points to 101.5.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers dropped 4.5 to 134 and the subordinated
index was 9.5 lower at 210.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($13.6 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  