-- Stadium Officials Probe Blackout, Power Outages in Giants' Loss to Dallas
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-15T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/stadium-officials-probe-blackout-power-outages-in-giants-loss-to-dallas.html
Officials for New Meadowlands
Stadium said they’ll investigate power outages that briefly left
the $1.6 billion facility in complete darkness during the New
York Giants’ loss to the Dallas Cowboys last night.  The lights went out for about five or six seconds early in
the third quarter in East Rutherford, New Jersey. The problems
caused the National Football League game to be halted twice for
a total of about 11 minutes.  “We’ll determine what the cause was and initiate any
remedies necessary to make sure it doesn’t happen again,”  New
Meadowlands Stadium  Chief Executive Officer Mark Lamping said
during a news conference after the Cowboys’ 33-20 win.  At about 6 p.m. New York time, a transformer blew at an
external  New Jersey Sports & Exhibition Authority  substation
that supplies power for the stadium, Lamping said. It caused
several banks of lights atop the stadium to go out.  After a brief delay, play continued with dimmed lighting
and  Felix Jones  took a screen pass 71 yards for a touchdown that
gave the Cowboys a 26-6 lead. The lights went out completely
during the Giants’ ensuing drive, causing an eight-minute delay.  Lamping said the blackout was a result of power shifting
between the two lines coming into the stadium.  “It was scary, actually,” Giants defensive end  Osi Umenyiora  told reporters. “I’ve never been in a situation where
all the lights were out like that. You never know what’s going
on, especially in this day and age that we live in.”  Well-Behaved  Lamping said the crowd of about 80,851 was well-behaved and
there were no security problems related to the outages.  The stadium, which is home to the Giants and New York Jets,
opened earlier this year. Lamping said officials will work with
the NJSEA and  Public Service Electric and Gas Co.  to determine
what happened and “minimize the risk” of it occurring again.  The Jets play the next game at the stadium, hosting the
Houston Texans on Nov. 21.  The Giants (6-3) scored their only two touchdowns after the
power outages and had a five-game winning streak snapped. The
Cowboys (2-7) ended a five-game losing skid.  “Sometimes you play lights out, literally, and sometimes
you just don’t have it,” Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck  told
reporters. “It would be easy for me to stand up here and make
excuses about calls or the lights going out, but the simple fact
is we didn’t play well enough to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  