-- Swiss Re Seeks Partner in India for Health, Life Insurance to Boost Growth
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-11-15T08:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/swiss-re-seeks-partner-in-india-for-health-life-insurance-to-boost-growth.html
Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s
second-largest reinsurer, said it’s looking for a local partner
in India as it considers entering the country’s life and health
insurance market.  “We see a very good potential of the evolution of the life
and health market in India and we would make an exception to our
model of purely being a reinsurer to enter indirectly through a
minority joint venture,”  Michel Lies , member of Swiss Re’s
group executive committee for client markets, said in an
interview in New Delhi today.  Property and casualty reinsurance in emerging markets offer
the most growth potential for the company, as Asian governments
spend more on infrastructure projects that require coverage,
according Swiss Re. Growth from the U.S. and other developed
countries is expected to be little changed or slow.  The Zurich-based company will be a minority partner in the
local joint venture, Lies said. Swiss Re is also in talks with
the Indian government to provide insurance coverage for natural
disasters, said  Reto Schnarwiler , a director.  China, Brazil and Mexico made up about 5 percent of Swiss
Re’s total of 29.7 billion Swiss francs ($30.5 billion) of gross
written premiums in 2009. The company doesn’t break down the
premium income for other emerging markets.  Swiss Re  said in June it expects annual growth in the
property and casualty reinsurance market to be 6.5 percent over
the next decade, while the life and health market will grow at
3.7 percent a year.  Swiss Re is bidding to regain its credit rating that
Standard & Poor’s cut in February 2009 after record losses
forced the company to turn to Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  