-- Swiss Stocks Advance as Richemont, Holcim, Implenia Increase in Zurich
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-11-15T16:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-as-richemont-gains-zurich-financial-shares-retreat.html
Stocks in Switzerland rose, sending
the Swiss Market Index higher for the first day in five, amid
optimism that growth in the world economy will continue.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA , the world’s largest jewelry
maker, rallied 2.3 percent.  Holcim Ltd. , the second-biggest
cement maker, gained 1.7 percent.  The benchmark  SMI  of the biggest and most actively traded
Swiss companies rose 0.9 percent to 6,562.15 at the close of
trading in Zurich, as all but one out of 20 stocks advanced. The
measure shed 1.3 percent last week amid renewed concern that
some of Europe’s most indebted countries will struggle to reduce
their budget deficits. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
added 0.8 percent today.  “The fundamental arguments for Swiss equities are still in
place,” said  Thomas Stucki , chief investment officer at
Hyposwiss Privatbank AG in Zurich. “The Swiss stock market is
positively influenced by a growing world economy.”  Shares erased earlier losses as European Central Bank Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said Ireland would be able to tap the
European Union’s rescue fund to bail out its banks as pressure
mounts on the country to stop its crisis infecting the rest of
the region.  Irish bonds rose as European leaders push the government to
accept a bailout and help it draw a line under its financial
crisis. Credit-default swaps on Irish government debt fell for a
third day, dropping 58.5 basis points to 488, the lowest level
since Oct. 29, according to data provider CMA. The nation’s
finance ministry said late yesterday that officials are in talks
with their EU counterparts.  U.S. Retail Sales  Retail sales in the U.S. climbed in October by the most in
seven months, a sign consumers may play a bigger role in the
recovery. Purchases increased 1.2 percent in October, exceeding
the highest forecast among economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The data overshadowed a Federal Reserve Bank of New York
report that showed manufacturing in that region unexpectedly
contracted in November for the first time in more than a year.  European stocks rose even after Greece’s budget deficit was
revised to the largest in the EU. The shortfall last year was
raised to 15.4 percent of gross domestic product from 13.6
percent, surpassing Ireland’s 14.4 percent shortfall, Eurostat,
the EU’s Luxembourg-based statistics office, said in a report.  Greece’s proper recording of government swaps contributed
to economic-data revisions released today,  Andreas Georgiou ,
president of the Hellenic Statistical Authority, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Athens.  Richemont, SGS  Richemont added 2.3 percent to 54.80 francs after Deutsche
Bank AG recommended buying the stock. Bank Vontobel AG analyst
 Rene Weber  increased his earnings-per-share estimates for 2010-
12. The world’s largest luxury goods maker has risen 6.6 percent
since Thursday.  Holcim gained 1.7 percent to 66.10 francs.  SGS SA , the world’s biggest inspection company, rose 0.9
percent to 1,650 francs, while drugmaker  Novartis AG  added 1.5
percent to 55.50 francs.  Implenia AG  climbed 4.4 percent to 30.70 francs after
Zurich Kantonalbank AG added Switzerland’s largest builder to
its list of top ten Swiss small- and mid-cap stocks. “It’s
lagging all the other building materials stocks in Switzerland
so we think it has some potential,” said analyst  Martin Huesler 
in a phone call.  Von Roll, GAM  Von Roll Holding AG  decreased 1.4 percent to 5.02 francs
after the wire insulation maker’s chairman and chief executive
officer,  Thomas Limberger , resigned effective Dec. 1. The Board
of Directors elected Dr Peter Kalantzis as the new chairman and
Matthias Oppermann as CEO.  Oridion Systems Ltd.  fell 1.3 percent to 11.45 francs after
Vontobel analyst  Christoph Gubler  removed the medical-devices
maker from its Alpha List of small- and mid-cap stocks. The
Jerusalem-based company reported third-quarter net profit of
$1.92 million compared with $1.76 million for the prior year
period.  GAM Holding AG  declined 3.9 percent to 15 francs. The money
manager that split from Julius Baer Group Ltd. last year said
assets under management rose to 118.7 billion Swiss francs on
Sept. 30 from 116.6 billion francs on June 30. Inflows were
“slower” as equity investments remained “muted” and clients
withdrew money from funds of hedge funds, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Giles Broom  in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 