-- Syria Gets 6 Pre-Qualifying Bids for Mobile License
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-11-15T08:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/syria-gets-6-pre-qualifying-bids-for-mobile-license-update1-.html
Six Arab and foreign companies
submitted bids in Syria’s pre-qualifying stage for a third
mobile telecommunications license, Mohammed al-Jalali, assistant
minister of communications and technology, said, according to
the official  Syrian Arab News Agency .  The companies include Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,
the bigger of two phone companies in the United Arab Emirates,
Saudi Telecom Co., Qatar Telecom,  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri
AS , Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone operator,  France Telecom SA, 
the country’s largest phone company and Iran’s TAMCO, the
newswire reported, citing Jalili.  The bids will be evaluated by a joint committee from the
ministry and a German advisory company to pick preliminary
candidates for the second phase of the competition, which will
be announced next month.  The Syrian government approved on Aug. 25 the auctioning of
a third license and decided to change the contracts of the two
current operators to build-operate-transfer license protocols.
Mobile penetration in Syria is around 47 percent, according to
the agency, known as  SANA .  Syriatel has 55 percent of the market with 4.2 million
subscriptions, while  MTN Syria SA  has the rest, according to
their respective websites.  “Syria remains a market operating under its true potential
because the two operators are in a comfortable duopoly and this
is why there is heightened interest in getting the license,”
said Jawad Abassi, founder and general manager of  Arab Advisors 
Group in a telephone interview.  “Once Syria gets three operators that are free to compete
with each other we will see penetration rates exceeding 100
percent in the next three to four years and effectively doubling
the market,” he added.  Syria is encouraging private industry and foreign
investment in its state-dominated economy to provide long-term
financing for development and long-planned economic reforms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 