-- U.S. Stock-Index Futures Maintain Gains as Retail Sales Top Forecasts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2010-11-15T13:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/u-s-stock-index-futures-maintain-gains-as-retail-sales-top-forecasts.html
U.S. stock-index futures maintained
gains after a government report showed retail sales rose more
than forecast last month, overshadowing an unexpected slowdown
in New York-area manufacturing.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring next
month climbed 0.5 percent to 1,201.6 at 8:35 a.m. in New York.
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  futures increased 33 points, or 0.3
percent, to 11,185.  Retail purchases rose 1.2 percent, the biggest gain since
March, Commerce Department figures showed. The median estimate
of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.7
percent advance. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index fell to minus 11.1 from 15.7 in October. Readings
less than zero signal contractions in the Empire State Index.
Economists forecast the measure would fall to 14.  The S&P 500 sank 2.2 percent last week amid concern about
Europe’s debt crisis and speculation China will boost interest
rates, while Cisco Systems Inc.’s forecasts missed analysts’
estimates. The index is still up 14 percent since the end of
August amid improving earnings and the Federal Reserve’s plan to
pump $600 billion into the economy through bond purchases.   About 76 percent of the companies in the S&P 500 that have
reported quarterly results since Oct. 7 have topped analysts’
estimates for per-share profit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Futures reversed losses from earlier today after European
Central Bank Vice President Vitor Constancio said Ireland would
be able to tap the European Union’s rescue fund to bail out its
banks as pressure mounts on the country to stop its crisis
infecting the rest of the region.  Germany is pressing Ireland to seek aid before tomorrow’s
meeting of European finance ministers to calm market volatility
and win agreement on making investors help pay for future
bailouts, according to a German government official who declined
to be identified because the talks are private.  Irish Enterprise Minister Batt O’Keeffe said a bailout has
not been discussed, while a Finance Ministry spokesman said
Ireland is in talks with European officials about current
“market conditions.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  