-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose in October for Fourth Month
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-15T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/u-s-retail-sales-likely-rose-a-fourth-month-as-recovery-engaged-consumers.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. probably
rose in October for a fourth month, showing consumers are
playing a bigger role in the recovery, economists said before a
report today.  The projected 0.7 percent gain in purchases is based on the
 median estimate  of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
would follow a 0.6 percent advance the prior month. Other
figures today may show businesses boosted stockpiles, and
manufacturing in the New York region expanded.  A 13 percent increase in stocks over the past two months
and growing employment may keep lifting consumer spending, the
biggest part of the economy, in coming months. At the same time,
an unemployment rate hovering near 10 percent is prompting
companies like  J.C. Penney Co.  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  to use
discounts to lure shoppers during the holiday season.  “Things have gotten incrementally better over the last
year,” said  Zach Pandl , an economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York. “The labor market has started
to perk up, and you’ve had a pretty healthy performance in the
stock market, which raises household wealth.”  The Commerce Department’s sales report is due at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from gains of 0.4
percent to 1.1 percent.  The last two months of the year are typically the biggest
U.S. shopping season and hiring time for retailers. The National
Retail Federation has forecast November-December holiday sales
will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago, the most since 2006.  Retailer Profits  J.C. Penney, the third-largest U.S. department-store
company, last week said third-quarter profit rose 63 percent.
Fourth-quarter sales at stores open at least a year will rise 3
percent to 4 percent, the Plano, Texas-based company said in a
Nov. 12 statement, adding that the holiday shopping environment
will “remain highly promotional.”  Investors have driven up retailers’ shares on signs of
improving demand. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite  Retailing
Index of 91 companies, including J.C. Penney and  Macy’s  Inc.,
has gained 18 percent this year, compared with a 7.5 percent
increase for the broader  S&P 500  gauge. The 500 Index’s 13
percent advance from September through October was the best two-
month performance in more than a year.  Shares rallied last month in anticipation of more action by
the Federal Reserve to spur growth. Policy makers this month
announced a plan to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries
through June with the aim of reducing joblessness and averting a
drop in prices that would hurt the recovery.  Obama’s View  President  Barack Obama , whose Democratic Party this month
lost control of the House of Representatives to Republicans,
said last week that deflation poses a “huge danger” to the
U.S. “We have to be mindful of those dangers going forward,”
he told reporters in Seoul.  The Commerce Department figures may reflect gains in auto
sales.  Vehicles sold  at a 12.25 million seasonally adjusted
annual rate last month, the strongest performance since the
government’s cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009, according
to industry data.  The report may also show purchases  excluding automobiles 
rose 0.4 percent, the same as in September, according to the
survey median. Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent
of the U.S. economy.  The pace of job growth and Americans’ drive to pay down
debt and boost savings may remain hurdles for retailers.
Payrolls grew by 151,000 workers in October, the first gain in
five months, and the unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent, the
Labor Department said Nov. 5.  Long-Term Unemployment  Joblessness will average 9.3 percent in 2011, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg this
month.  The New York Fed’s so-called Empire State manufacturing
report is due at 8:30 a.m. The bank’s  index  probably fell to 14
this month from 15.7 in October, according to the median
forecast in the Bloomberg survey. Figures greater than zero
signal expansion.  A report at 10 a.m. from the Commerce Department may show
 business inventories  rose 0.8 percent in September after
advancing 0.6 percent the prior month, according to the median
forecast.  
To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  