-- U.S. Stocks Erase Advance as Treasury Yields Surge; Amazon, Pulte Retreat
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-15T22:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-freeport-mcmoran-alcoa-fall-in-europe.html
U.S. stocks erased gains, wiping out
most of an 88-point rise in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, as
increased criticism of the Federal Reserve’s plan to stimulate
growth and concern that a swelling federal deficit will lead to
higher borrowing costs drove Treasury yields higher.  PulteGroup Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and Titanium Metals Corp.
slumped at least 2.9 percent to help lead losses in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, which completed its biggest weekly drop in
three months on Nov. 12. The S&P 500 had risen as much as 0.7
percent today as  Bucyrus International Inc.  and Isilon Systems
Inc. surged more than 28 percent after receiving takeover offers
and  Ford Motor Co.  climbed 4.3 percent to an almost seven-year
high before General Motors Co.’s initial public offering.  The  S&P 500  retreated 0.1 percent to 1,197.75 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The Dow gained 9.39 points, or 0.1 percent, to
11,201.97. Yields on 30-year Treasuries rose to 4.41 percent,
the highest intraday level since May.  “Investors are very cautious,” said  Michael Nasto , senior
trader at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which manages about $2.5
billion in San Antonio. “There’s a lot of criticism about the
Fed action. There’s growing concern about the U.S. debt and
deficit situation. That’s obviously a negative for the stock
market.”  Inflation Concern  Stocks and Treasuries slid as a group including former
Republican government officials, economists and hedge-fund
manager  Cliff Asness  urged Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to halt
his expansion of monetary stimulus, saying it risks an inflation
surge.  U.S. bonds extended losses in the afternoon, and stocks
turned lower, after Market News International reported that the
lead analyst at Moody’s Investors Service said a permanent
extension of President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts would be a
“definite negative” for the U.S. credit rating.  After stock exchanges closed, Moody’s said a permanent
extension wouldn’t cause a downgrade.  “We have a Aaa outlook for the U.S. that is stable and we
are not contemplating changing anything anytime soon,”  Steven Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s in New York, said in an
interview today. “That is the bottom line.”  The S&P 500 sank 2.2 percent last week amid concern that
Europe’s debt crisis was worsening and speculation China will
boost interest rates to stem inflation, while  Cisco Systems
Inc.’s  forecasts missed analysts’ estimates. The index is still
up 14 percent from the end of August amid improving earnings and
the Fed’s plan to pump $600 billion into the economy through
bond purchases.  Retail Sales  U.S. stocks rose earlier today, rebounding after the
biggest weekly drop for benchmark indexes in three months, as
takeovers and faster-than-estimated growth in retail sales
fueled optimism about the economy.  Retail purchases rose 1.2 percent in October, exceeding the
highest forecast among economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The data overshadowed a Fed Bank of New York report that showed
manufacturing in that region unexpectedly contracted in November
for the first time in more than a year.  Gauges of raw-materials and energy producers led the
decline in the S&P 500 as the dollar rose, reducing the appeal
of commodities as an alternative investment.  Pulte, the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, declined
5.5 percent to $7.08. Amazon, the largest online retailer, fell
4.1 percent to $158.90. Titanium Metals, a Dallas-based producer
of the metal, slumped 2.9 percent to $17.66.  Akamai Technologies Inc. had the second-biggest decline in
the S&P 500, sinking 5.1 percent to $47.21. The maker of
technology that speeds Internet traffic was cut to “market
perform” from “outperform” by Oppenheimer & Co.  Caterpillar, EMC  Bucyrus  soared 29 percent to $89.80. Caterpillar Inc., the
world’s largest maker of construction equipment, agreed to buy
the company for $7.6 billion to add shovels and drills to its
range of mining machinery. Caterpillar is expanding its mining
business as coal and metals producers raise investment to meet
growing demand from emerging economies.  Isilon surged 28 percent to $33.77. EMC Corp., the world’s
biggest maker of storage computers, agreed to purchase the
company for $2.25 billion to gain video-storage equipment.  “It’s encouraging,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees
more than $4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co. in New York.
“The takeover deals that we’ve seen are showing high premiums.
That alone tells me that there’s corporate confidence and that
companies are  undervalued .”  Car-related companies in the S&P 500 rose 2.6 percent,
collectively, the biggest gain among 24 industries.  Ford rallied 4.3 percent to $17, the highest price since
January 2004. GM, 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury, may
sell $10.6 billion of shares Nov. 17 to help repay its bailout.
American taxpayers will have a 34 percent loss on the sale at
the maximum $29-a-share offer price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 