-- UBA Among Top Picks of Undervalued Nigerian Banks, African Alliance Says
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-11-15T13:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/uba-among-top-picks-of-undervalued-nigerian-banks-african-alliance-says.html
Nigeria’s banking industry is
undervalued by 36 percent, African Alliance said, identifying
its top picks as  United Bank for Africa Plc ,  Access Bank Plc  and
 Diamond Bank Plc .  Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, the company established
by the government to purchase bad debt from lenders, said on
Nov. 9 it will buy back 2.2 trillion naira ($14.6 billion), more
than a forecast of $10 billion by the  Central Bank of Nigeria .
Loans backed by shares in listed companies will be valued at
about 60 percent of the 60-day average price to Nov. 15, Amcon
said last week.  “The price at which Amcon is willing to purchase margin
loans is sending a strong signal to the investing public that
the sector is materially undervalued,” African Alliance said in
an e-mailed statement today in Lagos, the commercial capital.  Bank shares plunged after a debt crisis resulting from
loans to speculators in the domestic stock market and operators
in the oil and gas business threatened to cripple the banking
industry. The central bank fired the chief executive officers of
eight of the country’s 24 lenders, and took stakes in some of
them, spending 620 billion naira to recapitalize the industry.  Amcon’s valuation represents about a 70 percent premium to
the lenders’ share values at Sept. 30 “and we expect that the
majority of banks will participate,” African Alliance said.  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index , which tracks the
performance of the 10 biggest banks by market value, fell 0.3
percent to 387.99, the lowest since Nov. 9. It has gained 22
percent this year, matching the increase in the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange All-Share Index  over the same period. Bank stocks make
up 42 percent of the West African nation’s market, according to
data published by the bourse.  Access gained 0.3 percent to 9.13 naira at the 1 p.m. close
in Lagos, its lowest since Nov. 11. Diamond Bank fell 0.1
percent, to 7.5 naira, its lowest since Nov. 8, while UBA was
unchanged at 9.45 naira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 