-- UCB Slides Most in Six Months as UBS Says Drugmaker Unlikely to Be Bought
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2010-11-15T09:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/ucb-falls-most-in-six-months-as-ubs-says-takeover-unlikely.html
UCB SA  fell the most in six months
in Brussels trading after UBS AG recommended selling the shares,
saying the drugmaker is unlikely to be acquired.  Sales of UCB’s Cimzia drug for rheumatoid arthritis also
may be threatened by a pill under development by Pfizer Inc.,
 Andrew Whitney , an analyst at UBS in London, wrote in a report
today. He cut the stock to  “sell”  from “neutral.”  “Although an acquisition of UCB is theoretically possible,
we see it as unlikely in the near term,” he wrote. The
company’s founding family remains the largest shareholder, and
it has an agreement with other shareholders that effectively
give it control over the company, Whitney wrote.  UCB on Oct. 14 rose the most in 17 months on speculation
that it may be a target for drugmakers seeking protection from
the expected loss of sales when their products lose patent
exclusivity. Today, the stock sank 70 cents, or 2.6 percent, to
26.15 euros at 10:45 a.m. in Brussels. Earlier, it fell as much
as 3.8 percent, the biggest intraday decline since May 7.  The Pfizer treatment, tasocitinib, reduced pain and
inflammation for 71 percent of patients in a study released Nov.
7 that may help the company supplant injectable drugs such as
Cimzia with $12 billion in yearly sales. Pfizer plans to
complete four more studies in the first half of next year before
seeking U.S. clearance.  Financiere de Tubize SA, a  holding company  controlled by
the family of UCB founder  Emmanuel Janssen , owns 36 percent of
the company’s stock. Tubize has agreements with other
shareholders, including Banque DeGroof and KBC Bank NV, to act
together, giving it a bloc of 49 percent.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Phil Serafino  at   pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  