-- Chavez Creates `Socialist' Bourse With `High Yields'
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-11-15T20:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/hugo-chavez-creates-socialist-bourse-in-venezuela-promises-high-yields.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he is creating a “socialist” state-run Public Bond Market
that will offer local investors high yields to stimulate saving
and allow nationalized companies to seek financing.  The Public Bond Market, which will begin operations in
December, will allow state-run companies to sell debt to finance
operations and individuals to seek investment opportunities,
Chavez said.  Chavez tightened his grip on the financial industry this
year by closing more than a dozen banks and 40 brokerages that
he said committed “fraud” and set artificial exchange rates.
He said investors will have their investments guaranteed by the
state. Caracas’s  private stock exchange  has seen trading plummet
since 2007 after the nationalization of companies including
Cemex SAB and Cia Anonima Nacional Telefonos de Venezuela, known
as  CANTV .  “The banking and brokerage crisis has allowed us to draft
this law,” Chavez said yesterday on state television during his
 Alo Presidente  program. “Don’t spend all your year-end bonuses,
invest in the bourse, and the state will guarantee your money
with good yields.”  Yields Rise  The government’s  average dollar-bond yield  rose 20 basis
points, or 0.2 percentage point, to 13.23 percent on Nov. 12,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  In addition to state companies, joint ventures, community
councils and private companies will be authorized to sell debt,
according to the law that was published in the Official Gazette
on Nov. 13. The market will operate under the jurisdiction of
the Finance Ministry, the Official Gazette said.  Chavez plans to use the new bourse as a way to finance
government enterprises, said  Alejandro Grisanti , Latin America
analyst for Barclays Capital. The weak financial condition of
many of Venezuela’s state-owned companies will give little
incentive for investors to participate in the bond market, he
said.  “In my opinion there is no way that a private investor
will go there,” he said in a telephone interview from New York.  The Securities Regulator authorized state oil company
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA  to sell $3 billion of bonds due in
2017. The bonds were sold Oct. 25 and will be traded in the
secondary market through the Public Bond Market, according to a
statement.  CANTV, the state-run telecommunications company, will be
able to sell shares to local investors through the market,
Chavez said.  The government has assigned a headquarters for the bourse,
Chavez said, without providing the location.  “The Public Bond Market has been born as a product of the
terminal crisis of Venezuelan capitalism,” he said from the
Miraflores presidential palace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  