-- UniCredit Is Said to Have Met With Possible Bidders for Pioneer
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-11-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/unicredit-is-said-to-have-met-with-potential-bidders-for-pioneer-fund-unit.html
UniCredit SpA  met with potential
bidders for its  Pioneer Global Asset Management  unit, including
France’s BNP Paribas SA, Natixis SA and Amundi, and is awaiting
non-binding offers, said two people with knowledge of the talks.  The Milan-based bank discussed a possible partnership for
Pioneer with seven firms, said one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the talks are private. Potential
bidders received financial information and met with Pioneer’s
managers, the people said. The meetings concluded last week.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, said in May it would
review options for Pioneer as part of a plan to strengthen its
finances after the global credit crisis. The process, delayed by
the appointment of  Federico Ghizzoni  as chief executive officer
in September, is focusing on finding a strategic partner for the
unit. UniCredit intends to keep a stake.  A spokeswoman at UniCredit declined to comment. The
strategic review on Pioneer is ongoing,” Ghizzoni said on a
conference call last week. “We have received some proposals,
but it’s difficult to say when the deal will be concluded,” he
said.  Officials at Paris-based BNP Paribas, Natixis and Amundi,
which is an asset-management joint venture of France’s Credit
Agricole SA and Societe Generale SA, also declined to comment.
Amundi CEO  Yves Perrier  said in August the firm may look at
Pioneer, while Natixis CEO  Laurent Mignon  said that month that
Pioneer would fit with its strategy for partnerships.  Pioneer oversees about 185 billion euros ($252 billion),
operates in 29 countries and has about 2,000 employees. It
earned 247 million euros before taxes in the first nine months
of 2010, an increase of about 36 percent from a year earlier.  A partnership for Pioneer will help the company widen its
range of products and the markets where it operates, Pioneer CEO
 Roger Yates  said in an interview on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 