-- Municipal Funds Fall Most in Two Years as Bonds Drop, Borrowing Costs Rise
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-11-16T00:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/municipal-funds-fall-most-in-two-years-as-bonds-drop-borrowing-costs-rise.html
Funds that invest in debt securities
issued by state and local governments  fell  the most in two years
today as losses in the municipal bond market were exacerbated by
a rise in their cost of borrowing.  The  Nuveen Municipal Closed-End Index  dropped 4.4 percent,
the biggest decline since Oct. 15, 2008, after losing 6 percent
last week, the largest retreat since February 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Nuveen Ohio Quality Income Municipal
Fund tumbled 7.5 percent, its biggest drop since Oct. 10, 2008,
and the BlackRock Investment Quality Municipal Trust slid 7.2
percent, the most since Dec. 5, 2008.  Yields on  top-rated 10-year  U.S. municipal debt rose the
most since March today as states and cities prepared to borrow
about $16.2 billion this week, the most on record, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg dating to 2003. Declines in closed-
end funds may have been worsened because they borrow money to
make their purchases, according to  Peter Boockvar , a strategist
with Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  “The closed-end funds have a lot leverage in them, so the
moves get exaggerated,” Boockvar said. “The main catalyst is
that the spike in U.S. interest rates is obviously going to put
pressure on anything that is priced off it.”  Publicly Traded  Closed-end mutual funds, unlike their open-ended
competitors, sell common shares to investors that are publicly
traded on exchanges. They also borrow to boost returns by
selling preferred stock that’s similar to bonds. Funds with the
biggest losses today, including  Nuveen’s Ohio Quality ,
BlackRock’s Investment Quality,  Dreyfus Strategic Municipals 
Inc. and Nuveen North Carolina Premium Income Municipal Fund
employ leverage to boost returns, according to company websites.  AAA 10-year municipal bond yields increased 7 basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.87 percent, according to data
from Municipal Market Advisors, an independent research firm
based in Concord, Massachusetts. The yield is the highest since
July. Yields move in the opposite direction of prices.  Investors are dumping municipal bonds along with U.S.
Treasuries, which fell for a third day today, sending 30-year
yields to the highest since May. Treasury prices fell as a group
including former Republican government officials and economists
urged the Federal Reserve to rethink quantitative easing and a
report on retail sales showed quickening economic growth.  California Sales  Representatives from the Nuveen Ohio Quality Income
Municipal Fund, the BlackRock Investment Quality Municipal
Trust, Dreyfus Strategic Municipals and Nuveen North Carolina
Premium Income Municipal Fund didn’t return messages seeking
comments after the close of normal business hours.  Municipal bonds posted losses as California prepared to
sell $10 billion of one-year notes to boost cash on hand.
Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  also is selling $3.75 billion of long-
term obligations starting later this week. Issuers plan to offer
more than $20.1 billion in the next 30 days, according to the
Bloomberg visible supply index on Nov. 12, the most since Oct.
23, 2009, and almost double the daily average this year.  The $2.8 trillion municipal-securities market recorded its
best year in 2009 since 2000, with the average tax-exempt bond
gaining 14.4 percent, according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. Munis were bouncing back
from a 3.9 percent drop in 2008, the worst since 1999, as
investors fled all but the safest securities during the credit
crisis. The  Nuveen Municipal Closed-End Index  has gained 77
percent since its October 2008 low.  “Closed-end fund investors tend to overreact on bad
news,” said  Cecilia Gondor , an analyst at Thomas J. Herzfeld
Advisors Inc. in Miami. “This particular group of funds has had
the moon and stars aligned for a long time now, they’re
leveraged, they’re borrowing short-term and investing long-term
which has helped boost the dividend they can pay, but now things
are starting to turn around and everyone wants to be the first
one out the door.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  