-- Untapped $105 Billion Endowments May Boost Shariah Funds: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-11-15T07:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/untapped-105-billion-endowments-may-boost-shariah-funds-islamic-finance.html
Managers of Islamic endowments with
$105 billion in assets are seeking to diversify out of bank
deposits, providing Shariah-compliant funds with the chance to
capture new business, Ernst & Young LLP says.  These “largely untapped” endowments, or awqaf, have as
much as $40 billion of cash parked at commercial banks, Ashar
Nazim, Manama-based executive director and head of Islamic
financial services for Ernst & Young, Bahrain, said in a
telephone interview Nov. 9. Awaqf typically consists of cash or
assets, including land and buildings, donated by individuals or
institutions for charitable and religious purposes.  “Over the next 18 months, the Islamic endowment segment
could prove to be a major stimulus for growth in the Islamic
funds industry,” Nazim said. “They realize that they cannot
manage it on their own and they need to involve the formal
financial industry.”  Assets held by Islamic funds have stagnated at around $52
billion since 2008, according to  Ernst & Young  in its Islamic
Funds & Investment Report published in May. The combined wealth
of the Middle East’s more than 400,000 millionaires grew 5.1
percent in 2009 to $1.5 trillion,  Cap Gemini SA  and Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said in June.  Islamic endowment institutions should diversify their real-
estate holdings into government sukuk and other products,  Nida Raza , senior vice president of capital markets at Bahrain’s
Unicorn Investment Bank BSC, said in telephone interview
yesterday from Manama.  Property Slump  Real-estate prices have tumbled more than 50 percent since
their 2008 peak in Dubai and 30 percent in neighboring Abu Dhabi
as banks tightened mortgage lending and speculators fled the
market. Property is used as collateral for Shariah-compliant
bonds, which are backed by assets and pay a share of profit
instead of interest.  “The demise of real estate in the global market has woken
a lot of people up,” Raza said. “For the awqaf, a long-term
investment meant real estate, but as more and more products are
realized in the Gulf region, more longer-dated sukuk and sukuk
funds, you’ll start seeing the diversification from the
endowment fund perspective.”  Global sales of Islamic bonds fell 29 percent to $13.7
billion this year from the same period in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 12 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index ,
compared with a 15.5 percent gain in developing markets,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  Markets in Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Dubai, Kuwait
and Qatar are closed Nov. 16-18 for the Eid Al-Adha holidays,
Nov. 16-17 in Saudia Arabia and Nov. 17 in Malaysia.  Bahrain’s Research  As much as 80 percent of assets owned by Islamic endowments
are donated real estate, Ernst & Young’s Nazim said. Islamic
mutual funds account for 5.5 percent of the estimated $939
billion Shariah-compliant industry, according to the company’s
May report.  “These are prime properties, with huge scope for enhancing
value through professional investment management of the
portfolio,” Nazim said. “While awqaf institutions have been
successful in mobilizing donors’ money and disbursing it for the
defined causes, they typically don’t possess asset management
capabilities.”  Bahrain’s Waqf Fund, started in 2006 with $4.6 million from
the  central bank  and Islamic financial institutions, provides
money for training and research on the industry, according to
the bank’s  website .  Malaysian Program  Maybank Islamic, the Shariah-compliant unit of Malaysia’s
largest lender, started a  awaqf program  in July that will allow
Muslims to make religious donations through the bank,  Abdul Wahid Omar , chief executive officer of  Malayan Banking Bhd .,
said on Aug. 20. Maybank Islamic will then work with awaqf to
manage the funds, he said.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 climbed 12 basis points today to 2.79 percent,
according to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s was little changed at 368,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate widened 1.5 basis points to 333
points on Nov. 12, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index.  “Any kind of infusion of new opportunities, whether it’s
in the form of cash or human resources, that’s significant for
the industry,”  Shaykh Yusuf Talal DeLorenzo , Dubai-based chief
Shariah officer and board member of Shariah Capital Inc., said
in an interview in Dubai on Nov. 11. “Asset managers really
haven’t had the opportunities to interface and work” with
endowment institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  