-- Vice President Xi Says Chinese Economy May Become Second Biggest This Year
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-15T08:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/vice-president-xi-says-chinese-economy-may-become-second-biggest-this-year.html
China is set to become the world’s
second-largest economy this year, even as its development
remains “unbalanced, uncoordinated and unsustainable,” Vice
President Xi Jinping  said.  “The Chinese economy has showed fast growth for more than
30 years since reform and opening-up,” Xi said in a speech in
Singapore today. Still, “we are soberly aware that China
remains a developing country,” with about 150 million people
living below the poverty line, he said.  China’s gross domestic product has grown more than 90-fold
since the late leader  Deng Xiaoping  initiated economic reforms
more than 30 years ago, inviting in foreign companies such as
Volkswagen AG and  American International Group Inc.  to help
modernize the country. The nation’s GDP surpassed Japan’s in the
second and third quarters, the Japanese government estimates.  For the nine months through September, China still ranks
behind the U.S. and Japan, with GDP totaling $3.947 trillion
versus its Asian neighbor’s $3.967 trillion, according to the
Japanese government.  China will overtake the U.S. to become the world’s largest
economy by 2020,  Standard Chartered Plc  said in a report today.
The Chinese economy will be twice as large as the U.S.’s by 2030
and account for 24 percent of global output, up from 9 percent
today, according to the report.  Income Gap  The country’s main challenges include growing resource
constraints, imbalances between investment and consumption and a
wide income gap, Xi said. China also faces inadequate scientific
and technological innovation capacity, improper industrial
structure and uneven urban-rural development, he said.  “We are also under pressure to create more job
opportunities and adjust the inappropriate employment
structure,” Xi said.  Xi is visiting Singapore as vice president for the first
time as the two nations mark 20 years of diplomatic relations
this year. He officiated the unveiling of a bust honoring Deng
near the island’s Asian Civilizations Museum yesterday. Today,
he visited Singapore’s Biopolis biomedical research hub, held
talks with Senior Minister  Goh Chok Tong , and is due to meet
Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong  this afternoon.  On Oct. 18, Xi was appointed as a vice chairman of the
Communist Party’s military commission, strengthening his
position to be the next leader of the world’s most-populous
nation. The Singapore visit is his first overseas trip since the
appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  