-- Infineon to Pay First Dividend in Decade as Net Beats Estimates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-16T08:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/vivendi-s-gvt-activision-drive-earnings-growth-as-levy-s-deals-pay-off.html
Vivendi SA Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Bernard Levy’s two signature acquisitions are paying off.  Gains at GVT Holding SA, a Brazilian phone company, and at
Activision Blizzard Inc., the world’s largest video-games
company, are driving growth at Paris-based Vivendi, offsetting
sluggish performance in other units.  GVT, which Vivendi bought for $4.18 billion last year,
delivered a 42 percent increase in revenue in the first nine
months of the year, while Activision Blizzard, which Vivendi
created in 2008, saw sales climb 15 percent. In contrast, French
mobile-phone unit SFR’s revenue rose 1.6 percent and Universal
Music Group’s sales declined, Vivendi said yesterday.  GVT has turned out to be “a real gem,” said Alexander
Wisch, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research in
London. “They did bite at the right time,” riding a wave of
economic expansion in Brazil, he said.  For Levy, 55, who took over as CEO in 2005, the gains at
GVT are a vindication. He was criticized by some analysts for
overpaying for GVT, after winning a bidding war with Spain’s
Telefonica SA with an offer that valued the company at about
11.5 times expected earnings. Since then, GVT has added coverage
to seven additional cities and is planning more.  GVT and Activision boosted Vivendi’s nine-month adjusted
net income to 2.21 billion euros ($3 billion), a 4.8 percent
increase, Vivendi said yesterday. SFR’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization slid 1 percent.  ‘Call of Duty’  “Operating momentum at SFR is weakening,” UBS AG analysts
Polo Tang and Kiran Ganesh in London wrote in a report today.
“Weakening trends at SFR are likely to remain an area of focus
for investors.”  Vivendi fell as much as 2.2 percent in Paris, trading 1.9
percent lower to 20.10 euros at 9.34 a.m. and giving the company
a market value of 24.85 billion euros.  Adjusted net income in the third quarter of 688 million
euros beat analysts’ estimates. Earnings before interest, taxes
and amortization from Activision, in which Vivendi holds a 59.6
percent stake, doubled in the quarter as game players snapped up
the latest update to “StarCraft,” a personal-computer game.  Activision sold more than 1 million copies of “StarCraft
II: Wings of Liberty” on the first day of release. The “Call
of Duty” title remained a top 10 seller worldwide in the
quarter, the company said, citing industry researchers.  “We should have an exceptionally strong year-end” in the
video-games unit, thanks in part to the new “Call of Duty:
Black Ops” title, Chief Financial Officer Philippe Capron said
on a conference call yesterday.  Brazilian Growth  Levy bought a majority stake in Santa Monica, California-
based Activision in 2008, combining it with Vivendi Games to
create Activision Blizzard Inc., producer of such titles as
“World of Warcraft” and “Guitar Hero.”  In Brazil, GVT increased its 2010 guidance and now expects
revenue to rise by 40 percent and adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by 50 percent.
That’s up from the 34 percent and 44 percent it had forecast
respectively in September.  GVT is benefiting for the growth in Brazil’s economy, which
will expand 7.6 percent this year, its fastest pace in more than
two decades, according to the median forecast in a Nov. 5
central bank survey of economists.  Brazil’s real has more than doubled in value against the
dollar since 2003, the best performance among the 16 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  With the real’s appreciation, GVT’s net revenue in the
first nine months increased more than 74 percent in euro terms,
Vivendi said yesterday.  SFR, Universal Music  Gains at GVT and Activision contrasted with the declining
fortunes of SFR and Universal Music. In the third quarter, SFR,
which accounts for more than 45 percent of Vivendi’s sales, saw
Ebita slide 11 percent.  Levy is looking to take full control of SFR, France’s
second-largest mobile operator, by buying Vodafone Group Plc’s
44 percent stake in the unit. Vodafone has said it is reviewing
its plans for the stake after unloading assets in China and
Japan this year.  Taking over 100 percent of SFR would give Vivendi full
control of the French mobile operator’s cash generation.
Analysts value Vodafone’s 44 percent stake at as much as 9
billion euros.  Vivendi and Vodafone aren’t in negotiations on SFR, CFO
Capron said. Vivendi has received “no specific signal” from
Vodafone that a sale of the stake is imminent, he said.  Growth Outlook  Meanwhile, at Universal Music, nine-month sales fell 1.7
percent. There’s room for “very, very significant” cost cuts
at the unit, Capron said. He said Vivendi will try to cut costs
without hurting “the muscle and the bone” of the business.  In spite of the slump in the two businesses, Vivendi
reiterated its target for an increase in Ebita for the full
year, banking on continuing growth at GVT and Activision. Ebita
growth is likely to be close to 10 percent, Capron said.  Brazil’s economic boom is giving GVT an unexpected
challenge, Capron said: demand for construction crews is so
strong that the unit is having trouble finding enough staff to
lay cable and string wires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 