-- Vivendi Profit Beats Estimates on Video-Game Titles Including `StarCraft'
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-15T18:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/vivendi-profit-beats-estimates-on-video-game-titles-including-starcraft-.html
Vivendi SA , owner of the world’s
largest video-games company, posted third-quarter profit that
surpassed analysts’ estimates, aided by titles such as
“StarCraft.” The company confirmed its full-year outlook.  Adjusted net income rose 6.7 percent to 688 million euros
($936.5 million) from 645 million euros in the same period last
year, Paris-based Vivendi said in an e-mailed statement.
Analysts had predicted profit of 684 million euros, according to
the  average of eight estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “We should have an exceptionally strong year-end” in the
video-games unit, thanks in part to the new “Call of Duty:
Black Ops” title, Chief Financial Officer  Philippe Capron  said
on a conference call.  Vivendi Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy ’s
strategy of investing in games has helped make up for declines
in the company’s Universal Music unit. Levy is also looking to
take full control of SFR, France’s second-largest mobile
operator, by buying Vodafone Group Plc’s 44 percent stake in the
unit, while remaining open to emerging-market acquisitions.  Vivendi  closed  1.5 percent higher in Paris at 20.50 euros,
shrinking the stock’s decline this year to 1.4 percent and
giving the company a market value of 25.3 billion euros.  Its  Activision Blizzard Inc.  unit was the quarter’s biggest
growth driver with sales rising 17 percent. SFR, which accounted
for more than 45 percent of sales, reported a 1.3 percent
revenue increase, while Vivendi’s telecommunications unit in
Morocco, Maroc Telecom Group, had a 7.2 percent sales growth.  Growth Outlook  Vivendi reiterated its target for an  increase in earnings 
before interest, taxes and amortization in the full year and
adjusted net income higher than in 2009. Ebita growth is likely
to be close to 10 percent, Capron said on the call. Vivendi
confirmed plans for a dividend for 2010 of 1.40 euros a share.  In the third quarter,  Activision Blizzard , in which Vivendi
holds a 59.6 percent stake, tripled profit as game players
snapped up the latest update to “StarCraft,” a personal-
computer game.  Activision sold more than 1 million copies of “StarCraft
II: Wings of Liberty” on the first day. The “Call of Duty”
title remained a top 10 seller worldwide in the quarter, the
company said, citing industry researchers.  On SFR,  Vodafone  has said it is reviewing its plans for the
stake after unloading assets in China and Japan this year.
Taking over 100 percent of SFR would give Vivendi full control
of the French mobile operator’s cash generation.  SFR, Universal Music  The unit generated more than half of Vivendi’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization  last year .
Analysts value Vodafone’s 44 percent stake at as much as 9
billion euros.  Vivendi and Vodafone are not in negotiations on SFR, CFO
Capron said on the call. Vivendi has received “no specific
signal” from Vodafone that a sale of the stake is imminent, he
said.  At Universal Music, nine-month sales declined 1.7 percent.
There’s room for “very, very significant” cost cuts at the
unit, Capron said. He said the company will try to cut costs
without hurting “the muscle and the bone” of the business.  Earlier this year, Vivendi failed to reach a deal to buy
 Lagardere SCA’s  20 percent stake in Canal Plus France, the
largest domestic pay-TV operator, which Levy had also targeted
for a takeover. The companies are currently preparing an initial
public offering of the stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 