-- Weale Says More Bank of England Aid Would Be Right If Inflation Not a Risk
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-15T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/weale-says-more-bank-of-england-aid-would-be-right-if-inflation-not-a-risk.html
Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said officials would be right to add stimulus if it
doesn’t threaten to stoke inflation and assuming there is as
much spare capacity in the economy as he estimates.  “At the end of 2013 the most likely outcome is that real
GDP will remain about 6 percent below its pre-crisis trend,”
Weale said in a speech in London on Nov. 12, released today.
“In such circumstances, it would be right for the Monetary
Policy Committee to do what it could to stimulate the economy
further, provided that such a stimulus were consistent with
meeting the inflation target.”  Weale’s comments follow a rift between policy makers, who
have split three ways on the need for more emergency stimulus as
they weigh concerns about slowing  economic growth  against an
 inflation rate  expected to remain above the government’s limit
for an eighth month. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  last
week said there was an equal chance inflation will eventually
exceed or undershoot the 2 percent goal.  “The Monetary Policy Committee has to chart a course
between the Charybdis of recession and deflation and the Scylla
of excess inflation,” Weale said, referring to the mythical sea
monsters of Homer’s Odyssey. “At the present time, a majority
of the committee does not see a compelling case either for
slackening or for tightening policy.”  Inflation Limit  U.K. inflation probably stayed above the government’s 3
percent ceiling for an eighth month in October, requiring King
to write a letter of explanation to finance minister  George Osborne . Consumer prices rose in October by 3.1 percent from a
year earlier, according to the median forecast of 28 economists
in a  Bloomberg News survey . The Office for National Statistics
will release the figures at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.  “Inflation over the next few months may well rise further,
even if a subsequent decline is expected,” Weale said. “I
certainly worry about the effect on inflationary expectations of
introducing additional monetary stimulus.”  Still, spare capacity in the economy and resulting
 unemployment  may weigh on Britain’s economic recovery, Weale
said. While gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, twice the pace forecast by economists, officials have
warned the government’s biggest fiscal squeeze since World War
II may curb growth.  “We should never forget that spare capacity amounts to a
waste of resources and that the associated unemployment is a
source of misery,” Weale said. “The more rapidly the gap is
closed, the lower is the productivity loss arising from
sustained unemployment.”  While Weale’s “best estimate is that there is probably
room for the economy to expand by 4 to 6.5 percent as a cyclical
economic recovery,” he added that “the MPC cannot be sure that
there is as much spare capacity as my calculations imply, and
has to be sensitive to the fact that inflation in September was
more than one percentage point above its target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  