-- Wheat Prices Rise in Chicago as Demand May Increase for U.S. Grain Exports
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-15T20:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/wheat-prices-rise-in-chicago-as-demand-may-increase-for-u-s-grain-exports.html
Wheat futures rose for the first
time in a week on speculation that demand will increase for
exports from the U.S., the world’s largest shipper.  U.S. exporters sold 100,000 metric tons of wheat to Iraq
for delivery in the year that began June 1, the Department of
Agriculture said. Overseas buyers, food manufacturers and
livestock producers may boost purchases after March futures
plunged 7.7 percent last week, said  Darrell Holaday , the
president of Advanced Market Concepts in Manhattan, Kansas.  “Lower prices heal some problems,” Holaday said.
“Everything is back in recovery mode today, and we’re finding
some commercial interest.”  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 3 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $7.125 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The most-active contract has gained 48
percent since the end of June after drought in Russia and
Eastern Europe reduced global supplies.  The price slumped last week on speculation that  rain  would
improve prospects for U.S. winter crops. Parts of central
Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas got as much as 2.5 inches (6.4
centimeters) in the past week, said  Joel Widenor , the director
of agricultural services at the Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland.  “A huge amount of winter wheat got a significant amount of
rain,” Holaday said. “We had good rain in the Plains, and I
think that will be enough. In the fall, we just don’t need a
lot” before plants go into winter dormancy, he said.  The rain mostly missed growing areas in western Kansas and
Colorado, along with regions in the Midwest that grow the soft-
red variety of winter wheat, Widenor said. Much of the Great
Plains got less than half of the normal amount of precipitation
in the past 30 days, while the Midwest had 25 percent of the
usual rain, he said.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  