-- Simon Winchester’s Epic ‘Atlantic’ Brims With Battles, Heroes
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2010-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/winchester-s-atlantic-brims-with-battles-heroes-dead-cod-interview.html
The white American trader who was
blown off course near North Africa, ended up enslaved by Sahara
nomads and escaped to write a bestselling memoir, steps into view
as  Simon Winchester  unfolds his epic new book, “ Atlantic .”  Leif Eriksson, Napoleon, Nelson, Chaim Weizmann, and the
suicidal German captain who blew up the Graf Spee further
dramatize this fascinating history by one of today’s most
erudite and lively writers.  We spoke at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Hoelterhoff: Among the stories you tell are those of great
ships and the big battles that shaped history. I am thinking of
Trafalgar, for instance, in 1805, which changed the way sea
battles were fought.  Winchester: Instead of firing broadsides at each other, you
actually steer into the other fleet and break it into two.
Nelson did this brilliantly, if, for him, lethally.  He died on the flagship, HMS Victory, which remains the
oldest still-commissioned warship in the world.  Hoelterhoff: Then we stop briefly as two ironclad ships,
the Monitor and the Merrimack, duel in the Civil War.  Cunning Germans  Winchester: Both survived the battle, if with an enormous
loss of life. But it made naval commanders realize that the days
of the wooden ship were numbered. The big German ships built in
1914 had 18-inch thick hulls that were impossible to penetrate.  Hoelterhoff: You tell this strange story about the German
fleet which blew itself up at war’s end so the Brits wouldn’t
get their boats.  Winchester: Cunningly, the Germans had prearranged that
they would send each other a certain coded signal, which they
did at 11 a.m. on one particular morning.  And every single ship, the whole of the German fleet, had
demolition charges which were simultaneously exploded. The
entire fleet disappeared below the waves, thereby frustrating
the British, who were going to reuse them and incorporate them
into the Royal Navy.  But there’s one nice coda to that. This very high quality
metal is about the only steel in the world that does not have
radioactivity in it. And for very, very delicate scientific
experiments, you occasionally need metal which has no
radioactivity. And that, generally speaking, comes from these
salvaged warships which lie 100 to 200 feet below the waters in
Scapa Flow.  Lonely Emperor  Hoelterhoff: Napoleon, one of many names associated with
the Atlantic, hated the sight of it as he floated down the coast
of West Africa until eventually landing in exile on  St. Helena .
What’s it like today?  Winchester: It’s a tiny British possession, a beautiful
island with this adorable little capital town called Jamestown.
And then up in the hills behind Jamestown is Longwood House,
which has been given by the British in perpetuity to the French.  It’s got a perfect little castle and a perfect little
cathedral and a perfect little courthouse, all colored in
beautiful pastels and adorned with anchors, seahorses, fish and
things. And it just looks organically part of the ocean.  Hoelterhoff: Your book ends somberly, noting the change and
decay all around the ocean, most especially the killing of what
you call “the tragically unsuspecting whales,” along with the
near disappearance of cod.  Greed  Winchester: We associate the North Atlantic with cod. The
motto of Newfoundland used to be “In cod we trust.” It was a
joke, but it was essentially true.  But there is no cod anymore. And that’s extraordinary. It’s
all because of either greed or politics -- Canadian politics.  Hoelterhoff: I get a sense from your book of the Atlantic
as a presence, a huge kind of life force.  Winchester: Yes, it’s got a life, it was born, and it will
die. It also has moods, I think, and it feels as if it’s alive.  We’ve treated it badly. And it can strike back.  “Atlantic: Great Sea Battles, Heroic Discoveries, Titanic
Storms, and a Vast Ocean of a Million Stories” is published by
Harper. To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Manuela Hoelterhoff  is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 