-- Wind Seeks 3.2 Billion Euros in Year’s Biggest Junk Bond Sale
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-11-15T14:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/wind-raising-3-2-billion-euros-from-bonds-due-2018-update1-.html
Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA , the
Italian mobile-phone company whose parent is merging with
VimpelCom Ltd., is raising about 3.2 billion euros ($4.4
billion) in Europe’s biggest junk bond sale this year.  Wind is selling the debt as investor concerns the euro
region’s most indebted nations will need a bailout drove yields
to a six-week high. The offering is the largest high-yield sale
for a non-financial company this year, topping Dublin-based
Ardagh Glass Holding Ltd.’s $2.3 billion issue in September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rome-base Wind’s parent Weather Investments SpA, the
holding company of Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , is
refinancing existing bonds and loans to ease its merger with
Russia’s VimpelCom to make the world’s fifth-largest mobile
company. The new bonds include 2.5 billion euros of notes due
February 2018, and a $1 billion portion with the same maturity,
according to a person with knowledge of the sale.  “Wind is moving on an ambitious financing package at a
tricky time,” said  Norval Loftus , chief investment officer at
Allegra Asset Management in London. “The company has a high
level of investor familiarity, which is very important.”  Spreads Widen  The yield premium on high-yield company securities climbed
26 basis points this month to 591 basis points more than
benchmark German government debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show. Absolute yields have risen to 7.96 percent from a
three-year low of 7.49 percent on Oct. 14. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The mobile operator is  rated  below investment grade at Ba3
by Moody’s Investors Service and B+ by Standard & Poor’s. High
yield, or junk, debt is below Baa3 at Moody’s and BBB- at S&P.  Wind’s new notes are callable after three years and will be
sold through special purpose company Wind Aquisition Finance SA,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the sale
isn’t completed.  The phone company won investor approval last week for
changes to its bonds in preparation for the VimpelCom tie-up,
including nullifying change-of-control provisions in the
securities.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG are
coordinating the bond sale, the person said.  Wind is also raising 3.4 billion euros from loans, people
familiar with the transaction said Nov. 4.  A Wind spokeswoman, who declined to be identified citing
company policy, confirmed the size of the new bond issue without
providing details on the terms of the debt. 