-- Ambac Rehab Plan Approval Comes Before Wisconsin Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-16T01:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/wisconsin-insurance-chief-seeks-approval-for-ambac-plan-to-repay-claims.html
Wisconsin  Insurance Commissioner
Sean Dilweg is seeking a state judge’s approval of a plan
to “rehabilitate” a $50 billion Ambac Assurance Corp.
portfolio of policies to insure bonds and mortgage-backed
securities.  Wisconsin Circuit Court Judge William D. Johnston began
hearing testimony today at the state courthouse in Darlington.
The plan to pay claimants 25 percent in cash and the rest in
nine years at 5.1 percent annual interest has drawn objections.  “The goal here is to start paying claims next year,”
Dilweg testified. The ability to fulfill the payment plan is
dependent upon the continued U.S. economic recovery and the
health of the remainder of Ambac Assurance’s business, he said.  The hearing comes as  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the New
York-based holding company for the Wisconsin insurer, seeks to
reorganize in a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filed Nov. 8 in Manhattan.
The parent company has $1.68 billion in liabilities.  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the credit crisis in 2008. In March, Dilweg’s office ordered the
carrier to turn over control of its subprime assets to isolate
them from the balance of the insurer’s business as defaults
accelerated the pace of policy  claims , threatening to deplete
the company’s reserves.  Payments Halted  Payment of claims on the segregated policies has halted
pending approval of the rehabilitation proposal. Johnston is
hearing the case at the Lafayette County courthouse in
Darlington, about 66 miles southwest of the state’s capital,
Madison.  Peter Poillon , a spokesman for Ambac Financial, declined to
comment on the hearing or its significance to the companies,
referring questions to Dilweg, whose cross-examination continues
tomorrow.  The commissioner faces opposition to his plan from policy
holders including the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., better
known as  Freddie Mac , and its government-subsidized sibling, the
Federal National Mortgage Association, or  Fannie Mae . Dilweg’s
plan is also opposed by  Bank of America Corp.  as a trustee, and
a group of five hedge funds, Aurelius Capital Management LP, Fir
Tree Inc., King Street Capital LP, Monarch Alternative Capital
LP and Stonehill Capital Management LLC.  Calling themselves the RMBS Policyholders, they’ve
challenged Dilweg’s plan to rehabilitate the segregated Ambac
Assurance portfolio, arguing that it fails to assure claimants
they would receive more money if it is approved than if the
company is  liquidated .  40 Trusts  Hedge fund lawyer David Greenwald said his clients’ funds
include about 40 trusts holding more than $1 billion in Ambac-
insured securities.  The first witness to testify at the hearing, Dilweg faced
questions from Greenwald about the possibility of plan failure.  “What are the chances they’re going to get paid by 2020?”
Greenwald asked, referring to class of segregated account policy
holders.  A prolonged or double-dip recession could scuttle the plan,
while an economic up-tick could accelerate it, the commissioner
said. He also said the plan was dependent on the well-being of
Ambac Assurance’s non-segregated business.  While the 13,000-policy general account has assets and
liabilities, the 700-policy segregated account has only
liabilities, he said. Payments will be funded by the general
account.  “The health of the general account is the key,” to
repayment of the nine-year notes, Dilweg said.  The judge refused to allow Greenwald to pose a hypothetical
question as to what would happen to the plan if the remainder of
the company required rehabilitation, calling it speculative.  Hedge Fund Appeal  Johnston, who heard more than three hours of preliminary
arguments today, rejected the  hedge funds  objection to his going
forward with the hearing while they challenge an earlier ruling
by him in a Wisconsin appeals court.  Lawyers for Ambac and Dilweg have demanded attorneys for
the mortgage-backed securities insureds provide them and the
court with more detailed information about whom they represent.  “The plan effectively subordinates claims of Ambac policy
holders which have been allocated to the segregated account to
claims of Ambac’s other policyholders, general creditors and
 shareholders ,” the hedge funds said in a Nov. 8 court filing.  Monorail Bondholders  Michael Van Sicklen, an attorney for Dilweg, told the judge
today that a settlement in principle had been reached with
holders of Ambac-insured revenue bonds issued by the bankrupt
 Las Vegas Monorail Co.   Van Sicklen called those obligations “the single largest
exposure in the segregated account.”  An attorney for the monorail bondholders, Philip Bentley,
said during a court-recess interview, that his clients hold more
than $500 million in present-value claims against Ambac, which
could increase to $1.1 billion over time.  Dilweg spokesman Tom Becker said he couldn’t immediately
comment on the value of the monorail bondholders’ accord which,
when completed, will require court approval.  The rehabilitation plan is complicated by a U.S. Internal
Revenue Service challenge to the company’s accounting on about
$7.3 billion in net operating losses that may be its biggest
asset. Ambac Financial on Nov. 9 sued the U.S. to try to protect
$700 million in tax refunds, a day after seeking protection in
 Manhattan .  IRS Challenge  Dilweg has said some of that $700 million is needed to pay
policyholders and other claimants. In an effort to shield the
insurance company’s share of those net operating losses, the
insurance department has placed the related liabilities into the
segregated account.  Dilweg, in an Oct. 8 phone interview, said his department
had started monitoring Ambac Assurance in 2008 during the global
financial crisis and that by the end of 2009, the insurer’s
“numbers were going upside down.”  The insurer was paying out as much as $150 million a month,
without taking in equivalent capital, he said then, adding,
“That was unsustainable.”  The case is In re The Rehabilitation of Segregated Account
of Ambac Assurance Corp., 2010cv001576,  Dane County , Wisconsin,
Circuit Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Darlington, Wisconsin, at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 