-- Treasuries Fall, Stocks Erase Gain, Dollar Rises on Debt Concern
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-16T00:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/yen-weakens-as-oil-copper-rebound-on-asian-growth-china-stocks-decline.html
Treasuries slid, sending 30-year
yields to the  highest level  since May, amid increased criticism
of the Federal Reserve’s plan to stimulate growth and concern
that a swelling U.S. deficit will lead to higher borrowing costs.
U.S. stocks erased gains and the dollar rallied.  The 30-year Treasury yield climbed 13 basis points to 4.42
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1 percent to
1,197.75, wiping out a gain of as much as 0.7 percent.  The
Dollar Index  jumped to its highest level since Sept. 30. Irish
10-year bonds rose, narrowing the yield premium to German bunds
to 540 basis points, amid speculation the European Union will
provide a rescue. After the close of U.S. markets, S&P 500
futures lost 0.1 percent at 7 p.m. in New York and stocks rose
in early trading in Japan and Australia.  Treasuries slid as a group of economists and former
government officials urged the Fed to stop its program of bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing, because it may spur
inflation. The U.S. securities extended losses in the afternoon,
and stocks turned lower, after Market News International
reported that the lead analyst at Moody’s Investors Service said
a permanent extension of President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts
would be a “definite negative” for the U.S. credit rating.  “The article on the evaluation of U.S. ratings spooked the
market a bit,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 18 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “It was an impetus for the last leg of the
down trade,” he said. “It’s not a ringing endorsement of the
first couple of rounds of QE. There are a lot of worries out
there.”  Moody’s Speaks  Moody’s told Bloomberg News after financial markets closed
that a permanent extension of tax cuts first enacted under the
Bush administration won’t lead to a downgrade in the U.S. credit
rating.  “We have a Aaa outlook for the U.S. that is stable and we
are not contemplating changing anything anytime soon, that is
the bottom line,”  Steven Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s
in New York, said in an interview today.  Treasuries fell for a third day after a group including
former Republican government officials and economists urged the
Fed to halt purchases of government bonds because it may risk a
surge in inflation. The letter was signed by 23 people including
 Cliff Asness , who runs AQR Capital Management LLC, Stanford
University Professor John Taylor and Columbia University
Professor  Charles Calomiris .  ‘Currency Debasement’  “The planned asset purchases risk currency debasement and
inflation, and we do not think they will achieve the Fed’s
objective of promoting employment,” the group wrote in its
“Open Letter to  Ben Bernanke ” to be published as
advertisements this week in The Wall Street Journal and New York
Times.  Earlier declines in bonds, and gains in stocks, also came
after the Commerce Department said U.S. retail sales increased
1.2 percent last month, above the forecast of a 0.7 percent gain
based on the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Inventories at U.S. companies rose 0.9 percent in September,
more than forecast, as companies stocked shelves ahead of the
holidays. Sales rose 0.5 percent, led by retailers.  Ten-year note yields rose 17 basis points to 2.96 percent,
a three-month high. The Fed bought $7.923 billion of Treasuries
today as part of its quantitative easing program.  Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the
central bank may need to tighten monetary policy, even with an
elevated U.S. unemployment rate, to avoid a surge in inflation.  Dow Pares Gain  The Dow Jones Industrial Average wiped out most of an 88-
point rally, closing up 9.39 points, or 0.1 percent, to
11,201.97. Walt Disney Co. and Intel Corp. lost more than 1
percent for the biggest declines. Commodity producers led the
S&P 500’s loss, with Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and
Exxon Mobil Corp. down at least 0.7 percent.  The early rally in stocks also followed takeovers in the
industrial and technology industries.  Bucyrus International Inc. ,
a mining-equipment maker, jumped 29 percent as Caterpillar Inc.
said it agreed to  buy  the company for about $8.6 billion,
including net debt. EMC, the biggest maker of storage computers,
agreed to purchase Isilon Systems Inc. for $2.25 billion to gain
video-storage equipment. Isilon rallied 28 percent.  Global takeovers announced so far this year have totaled
$1.78 trillion, up 18 percent from the same time last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The average deal premium has been 22
percent in 2010, the data show.  ‘High Premiums’  “The takeover deals that we’ve seen are showing high
premiums,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4
billion as chairman of Holland & Co. in New York. “That alone
tells me that there’s corporate confidence and that companies
are undervalued. The absence of negative news out of Europe is
also helpful today.”  Legg Mason Inc.’s  Bill Miller  said U.S. stocks may rise 15
percent in the next 12 months as the Fed continues efforts to
boost asset prices and the economy.  “The Fed wants the stock market to go up, and they will do
what’s necessary to get it to whatever level it takes for the
wealth effect of higher stock prices to stimulate growth,”
Miller wrote in a letter to shareholders released today.  General Motors Co.’s initial public offering and sales from
four private equity-backed companies are leading the biggest
week for U.S. IPOs since before the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Ten companies plan to raise a combined $12.5
billion this week, the most since Visa Inc.’s $19.7 billion sale
in March 2008, the largest IPO in U.S. history, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. GM, 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury, may
sell $10.6 billion of shares Nov. 17 to help repay its bailout.  European Stocks  Almost four stocks rose for each that fell in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index , which climbed 0.8 percent. Axa SA, France’s
biggest insurer, and Australian asset manager AMP Ltd. bid at
least A$13.3 billion ($13.1 billion) for Axa Asia Pacific
Holdings Ltd. The French company gained 2.3 percent. MAN SE
jumped 6.2 percent after Scania AB said it and MAN are
“investigating” a possible combination related mainly to
commercial vehicles.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent, extending its
1.6 percent drop on Nov. 12. Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. lost 1.8 percent in Hong Kong after the state-run
China Real Estate Business newspaper said the biggest four banks
won’t lend to property developers until next year, a report
denied by an ICBC spokesman.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index 
slipped 0.6 percent.  Dollar Gains  The dollar appreciated against 13 of 16 major peers, rising
0.8 percent to $1.3587 per euro and strengthening 0.7 percent to
83.007 yen. The pound slipped 0.4 percent to $1.6054 after a
 Rightmove Plc  report showed U.K. home sellers cut  asking prices 
by the most since 2007 this month.  The cost of insuring against losses on European government
bonds fell on speculation pressure from euro-region central
bankers will force Ireland to accept an international bailout
that would calm markets.  Credit-default swaps on Irish government debt fell for a
third day, dropping 58.5 basis points to 488, the lowest level
since Oct. 29, according to data provider CMA. The Markit iTraxx
SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments declined
8.5 basis points to 160.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  signaled that his
government will discuss measures to help the Irish banking
system with European finance ministers tomorrow as he resists
pressure to ask for a bailout.  Crude oil was little changed at $84.86 a barrel in New York.
Corn and soybeans rebounded as demand climbed from livestock
producers, food manufacturers and fuel makers following price
slumps last week. Corn futures for March delivery rose 3.8
percent to $5.69 a bushel in Chicago. Soybean futures for
January delivery rose 1.4 percent to $12.865 a bushel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomber.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  