-- Yen Weakens Amid Asia Growth Optimism; Euro Holds Weekly Loss on Ireland
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-15T05:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/yen-falls-as-asia-economic-recovery-signs-curb-safety-demand-aussie-gains.html
The yen weakened versus most major
counterparts as data showing the Asian economic recovery is
gaining traction curbed demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  The euro held onto its biggest weekly loss since August as
European finance chiefs prepare to meet tomorrow amid concern
Ireland needs a bailout. The dollar was near a five-week high
versus the yen before data forecast to show U.S. retail sales
rose for a fourth month. The yen declined as reports showed
Japan’s economy expanded faster than economists estimated and
New Zealand’s retail sales unexpectedly advanced.  “Recoveries of Asia-Pacific countries look very solid,”
said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of foreign exchange at
Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd. “There’s a bias to sell safe-
haven currencies such as the yen.”  The yen was at 113.13 per euro as of 2:19 p.m. in Tokyo
from 113.02 in New York on Nov. 12, when it climbed to 111.05,
the strongest level since Sept. 16. The euro was at $1.3680 from
$1.3691, after dropping 2.4 percent last week. The dollar
climbed to 82.69 yen from 82.53 yen, after reaching 82.80 yen on
Nov. 10, the highest since Oct. 7.  Japan’s gross domestic product expanded an annualized 3.9
percent in the third quarter, the Cabinet Office said,
surpassing the forecast for 2.5 percent growth in a Bloomberg
survey. New Zealand’s retail sales, adjusted for inflation,
gained 0.7 percent in the third quarter from the second, when
they rose 1.5 percent, the government said today.  Asia-Pacific Leaders  Asia-Pacific leaders meeting yesterday in Japan pledged to
take “concrete steps” toward creating a regional free-trade
agreement without setting a target for achieving that goal.
Their meeting followed an Nov. 11-12 Group of 20 summit in Seoul
that “opposed protectionist trade actions” while failing to
agree on a remedy for trade and investment distortions.  The euro extended three weeks of declines against the
British pound after an Ireland Finance Ministry spokesman said
in an email late yesterday that “ongoing contacts continue at
official level with international colleagues in light of current
market conditions.”  “Ireland has made no application for external support”
and the government is “fully funded till well into 2011,” the
spokesman said.  The yield difference, or spread, between Irish 10-year
securities and comparable bunds reached 652 basis points last
week, the highest ever. The spread between 10-year Portuguese
notes and bunds rose to a record 484 basis points on Nov. 11.  The euro slid to 84.906 British pence from 84.975 on Nov.
12.  ‘Find Faults’  “It’s easy to find faults about the euro when you think of
bailout risks for some nations,” said  Kazuyuki Kato , treasury
department manager in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a
unit of Japan’s second-biggest bank. “People want to buy back
the dollar, and selling the euro against it is an easy option.”  U.S. retail sales gained 0.7 percent in October after
rising 0.6 percent in September, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s
data.  “The U.S. economy is certainly recovering, albeit very
mildly,” said Kazuo Kitazawa, Tokyo-based director of fixed
income at Credit Suisse Group AG. “U.S. consumer prices and
retail sales are more likely to be strong, which will possibly
lift U.S. bond yields even higher and spur buying of dollars.”  Benchmark 10-year yields increased one basis point to 2.79
percent, according to BGCantor Market Data. They earlier touched
2.82 percent, the highest since Sept. 13.  ‘True Test’  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said the central bank may need to tighten monetary policy even
with the U.S. unemployment rate elevated to avoid a surge in
inflation similar to the 1970s.  “At some point in the not-too-distant future, we are
likely to face an economy growing in a self-sustaining way while
the unemployment rate is still relatively high by historical
standards,” Lacker said yesterday in a speech in Richmond,
Virginia. “The decisions we make at that time will be the true
test of whether we’ve learned our lessons.”  The Fed on Nov. 3 said it would buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus to
try to reduce 9.6 percent unemployment and keep inflation from
dropping.  The New Zealand dollar fell as Prime Minister John Key said
it was overvalued against the U.S. dollar.  New Zealand’s dollar is too strong relative to the
greenback, Key said today. The kiwi has gained 6.6 percent
against the dollar so far this year.  “There is no question that for those who are exporting in
U.S. dollars that are not commodity-linked, it’s very difficult
to combat the U.S.-New Zealand exchange rate, which is
overvalued,” Key told reporters in Wellington today.  New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to 77.03 U.S. cents
and earlier reached 76.84 cents, the least since Nov. 2. The
currency declined 0.2 percent to 63.69 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 