-- Yield Jump Slows U.S. Dollar Debt Sales as SBI Raises Euros: India Credit
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-16T08:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/yield-jump-slows-u-s-dollar-debt-sales-as-sbi-raises-euros-india-credit.html
Indian dollar-bond yields are headed
for their biggest monthly increase since the height of the
European debt crisis in May, putting a brake on the record pace
of issuance in the U.S. currency.  The combination of rising Treasury yields and concern that
emerging-market policy makers will struggle to control inflation
caused the average Indian corporate debt yield in HSBC Holdings
Plc’s Asian Dollar Bond index to rise 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, this month. The average yield in the Merrill
Lynch U.S. Treasury Master index climbed 21 basis points.  Dollar bond sales in India quadrupled this year to $10.4
billion as companies including Reliance Industries Ltd. and
ICICI Bank Ltd. took advantage of a drop in borrowing costs to a
record low last month. As dollar debt yields climb in Brazil,
Russia, India and China, State Bank of India Deputy Managing
Director  Pratip Chaudhuri  said yesterday that the lender plans
to sell bonds denominated in euros next week.  “Indian issuers are very price sensitive and every basis
point makes a difference for them,” Pierre Faddoul, a credit
analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd., said in a phone
interview from Singapore. “If they anticipate further U.S.
yield rises I wouldn’t be surprised if we see more companies
taking this opportunity to tap the market in Europe.”  Yields in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, have
climbed on speculation efforts by the Federal Reserve to spur
the economy will lead to faster inflation. The 10-year Treasury
yield fell from a two-month high today. There have been 292
dollar bond sales in India this year compared with 127 in the
same period of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Missed the Boat’  Vedanta Resources Plc’s 8.75 percent notes due January 2014
were among the worst performers in HSBC’s index in the past
month, with yields rising as much as 54 basis points, along with
Union Bank of India’s 4.625 percent notes due February 2016,
which climbed 51 basis points, according to Bloomberg data.  “There’s a risk that if we see Indian bonds continue to
track U.S. bonds and yields move higher, which is our house view,
companies may have missed the boat” on new sales,  Mitul Kotecha ,
the head of global foreign exchange strategy at Credit Agricole
CIB said in a phone interview from Hong Kong. “Issuance won’t
dry up as a result of this but certainly you may not see the
level of activity seen before.”  Euro Sales  State Bank of India, the nation’s largest lender, plans to
raise 500 million euros ($680 million) selling five-year debt
next week, Chaudhuri said in an interview. Last week, State Bank
of India hired six banks to arrange meetings with bond investors
in Europe, two people familiar with the matter said Nov. 11.  Reliance Communications Ltd.’s Flag Telecom unit may raise
at least $500 million by tapping the euro bond market, the
Economic Times newspaper said yesterday, citing banking
executives it didn’t identify.  The last time an Indian company sold euro-denominated debt
was July 2007 when Chennai-based information technology firm
Gemini Communications Ltd. offered 15 million euros of 6 percent
convertible notes due July 2012, the data show.  “Investors like the Europeans and Japanese would be happy
to buy non-dollar denominated bonds from Indian borrowers,”
said  Ajay Mahajan , managing director at UBS AG in Mumbai. “Non-
dollar borrowing suits companies when they spot investors keen
to diversify their holdings away from traditional assets like
dollar bonds.”  The yield on India’s benchmark 10-year notes fell 1 basis
point today to 8.06 percent, versus 8.11 percent at the end of
October. The rate is 518 basis points  more  than similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries, down from 560 a month ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Road, Rail Spending  Spending on infrastructure in India should keep dollar bond
sales buoyant even as yields rise, said  Chia Woon Khien , the
Singapore-based head of currency and rates strategy for Asia
excluding Japan at Royal Bank of Scotland.  India will need $1 trillion of investment in roads and
ports between 2012 and 2017, double the estimated spending in
the previous five years, to narrow the gap with China, according
to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government. China’s economy,
which was about the same size as India’s in 1980, has swelled
close to $5 trillion, four times that of India, after the
government boosted public spending.  “India is a very healthy economy and has a lot of
growth,” Chia said. “Behind the infrastructure programs the
government is pushing will be private sector ventures, and you
can’t expect those companies to participate without raising
funds.”  Default Swaps  The rupee rose for the first time in four days from a
seven-week low, bringing gains this year to 2.8 percent. The
currency touched a two-year high Oct. 15 as the central bank
raised interest rates to curb inflation, attracting fund inflows.  The cost in the credit-default swaps market of protecting
bonds of government-owned State Bank of India, which investors
use as a proxy for the nation, has decreased 72 basis points to
167 from a one-year high reached in May, according to CMA prices.
The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Elsewhere, ICICI Bank Ltd. plans to sell $150 million of
10-year subordinated notes as soon as today, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  India’s dollar bond yields compare with moves in Brazil,
Russia and China in the past week. India’s  yields  climbed 23
basis points to 4.91 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s
Asia Credit index. The yield for Brazil’s sovereign dollar bonds
rose 22 basis points to 5.02 percent in the same period,
Russia’s increased 32 points to 4.69 percent and China’s added
32 basis points to 1.99 percent, JPMorgan indexes show.  “The reality is there’s little chance we’ll see bond yields
remain well contained, while much lower yields are unlikely,”
Credit Agricole’s Kotecha said. “We’re in for a period of
volatility, which could slow the steady flow of issuance to some
extent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  