-- Goldman Sachs Alum Decries Second Banking Crisis: John F. Wasik
-- John F. Wasik
-- 2009-07-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-07-21/goldman-sachs-alum-decries-second-banking-crisis-john-f-wasik.html

          
          
             Banks continue to feast at the
bailout banquet while consumers are getting thrown the crumbs.  
 The most vexing result of last year’s financial meltdown is
that loans are harder to get and more expensive, even if your
credit is good. Yet on Wall Street, happy days look like they
are here again.  
 To almost no one’s surprise, the nation’s largest banks are
returning to their old, pre-crisis ways, even in the midst of a
$23.7 trillion bailout, the biggest financial rescue in history.  
 Banks based on trading and highly leveraged business models
still pose a huge risk to the financial system, so much so that
our government has enshrined as policy the doctrine of “too big
to fail.” Haven’t we learned anything from the past year?  
 While trading and investment-banking profits for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. soared in the second
quarter, Washington’s attitude toward policing financial
services practices is still a weak, unpracticed theory.  
 The second banking crisis unfolds with the realization that
“reckless banking practices” translated into $65 trillion in
global wealth lost since September 2007, says  Nomi Prins , a
former Goldman Sachs managing director, who is publishing a book
on the financial debacle titled “ It Takes A Pillage .” This
meltdown will continue to pummel Western economies for years if
not decades.  
 Culture Thriving  
 Prins, who once marketed collateralized debt obligations --
which were often used to bundle toxic mortgages -- notes that
the largest banks have actually grown during this crisis: Bank
of America Corp. took over Merrill Lynch & Co., JPMorgan assumed
Bear Stearns Cos. and Wells Fargo & Co. acquired Wachovia Corp.  
 Bigger isn’t better for consumers. Prins says these
institutions have “less incentive (since they have more market
share) to offer higher savings rates, or broader credit terms to
consumers, or open mortgage restructuring policies, or even
lower fees on regular accounts -- they simply don’t have to, and
it was not a condition of their bailout money to make it so.”  
 Nothing has changed in recent months, except that taxpayers
are increasingly getting treated as if they’re homeless and
begging for money. Congress has yet to find the gumption to make
lower financing  rates  and foreclosure-halting mortgage
modifications mandatory.  
 Banks are bringing in more money, although they aren’t
making credit widely available, prolonging the recession.  
 Consumers Aren’t Helped  
 While two-thirds of all government-insured banks reported
asset growth in the first quarter, total loans fell by about
$160 billion, or 2.1 percent, according to the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp .  
 Of those banks that received bailout money from the
government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, only 29 of
103 surveyed said they loaned out funds for “residential
mortgage activities.”  
 A July 21  report  from the TARP special inspector general
also noted that 17 of 61 banks surveyed said they were doing
“other consumer lending” and only nine of 34 banks were doing
mortgage-loan modifications.  
 Banks are missing in action on the foreclosure front as
well. Only a handful of mortgages for those facing default due
to higher adjustable rates or job losses are being modified. A
recent Federal Reserve of Boston  study  found that only 3 percent
of “seriously delinquent loans” were being made more
affordable by the banks they studied.  
 Meanwhile, lending across the board has tightened.
Mortgages are difficult to obtain -- even for the most
creditworthy -- and banks are lowering credit-card limits, which
can impair one’s ability to borrow if your credit scores drop.  
 Little Support  
 Even as the cost of funds to banks has held near historic
lows since the end of last year, annual credit-card finance
rates rose from an average of 12.02 percent to 13.08 percent
between November and February,  according  to the Congressional
Oversight Panel.  
 If anything, fees on credit cards and bank accounts will
continue to rise as banks try to recoup their losses and shift
their risk to you through obnoxious overdraft fees, higher
finance rates and lower credit limits.  
 Want to push back? Just maybe the best treatment for mega-
banking’s avarice-addled culture is for us to stop enabling
their addiction.  
 Your best recourse may be to limit credit card use, make
insured deposits at local thrifts and regional banks -- the
 deposit insurance  limit is generally $250,000 per account
through 2013 -- and turn to alternative sources of lending such
as credit unions and your own family. Avoid commission-based
services through banks, insurers and brokers.  
 A brand-name big bank may represent the old way of doing
business. And that’s been one of the surest ways to part you
from your wealth.  
 (John F. Wasik, author of “The Cul-de-Sac Syndrome,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John F. Wasik in Chicago at 
 jwasik@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        