-- Calif business moves causing few job losses: study
-- 
-- Tue Nov 6, 2007 1:47am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/11/06/businesspro-economy-california-relocatio-idUSN0561781920071106

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - California is losing relatively 
few jobs as a result of businesses relocating to other states, 
with most business moves involving relocations within the 
state, according to a study released on Monday. 

  The number of California jobs moving to other states due to 
business relocations is a relatively inconsequential 11,000 per 
year out of more than 18 million jobs, according to the report 
by the Public Policy Institute of California.  The findings stand in contrast to claims by various 
industry groups, including the California Chamber of Commerce, 
that California, the country's most populous state, is gripped 
by a hostile business climate.  The claim is a constant one for business interests in the 
state, and Republican Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has routinely 
echoed it to propose policies backed by business groups, 
including resisting calls for tax increases to help balance a 
state budget that routinely suffers shortfalls.  The report by the Public Policy Institute of California 
said other factors weigh far more heavily in the state's 
employment picture.  "Business births, deaths, contractions and expansions have 
a much greater effect on employment," the report said.  "Establishment relocations within the state are much more 
common than relocations into and out of the state," the report 
added. "Among intrastate relocations, short-distance moves are 
more common than long-distance moves."  Nearly all significant job migration within California 
takes place between neighboring counties, or outward from 
central cities or inland from the coast, the report said.  "This short-distance pattern suggests that businesses are 
not moving primarily in search of differently skilled or 
cheaper labor or a more friendly business climate," the report 
said. "Rather, it is more consistent with businesses looking to 
be closer to more productive business clusters, a more 
affordable real estate market, or workers or customers who have 
themselves moved toward less expensive real estate."  The biggest employment shifts in California in recent years 
were toward inland and less urbanized regions.  Riverside and San Bernardino counties, located east of Los 
Angeles and known as the Inland Empire, were the largest 
beneficiaries of intrastate moves, gaining more than 54,000 net 
jobs from elsewhere in the state between 1992 and 2004.  The Sacramento region in the central part of Northern 
California came in second, gaining 15,000 net jobs over the 
period, the report added.  The biggest loser of jobs to other parts of the state was 
the greater Los Angeles region, or Los Angeles, Orange and 
Ventura counties, which posted a net loss over the period of 
more than 50,000 jobs.  The San Francisco Bay area region saw a net loss of 17,000 
jobs over the period.  The report's authors say there is little cause for concern 
about California's business climate based on state employment 
trends and business location decisions: "Although some 
industries and some regions in the state are not growing as 
fast as others, California's job growth has kept pace with the 
nation."  (Reporting by  Jim Christie ; Editing by Leslie Adler)