-- Inflation hottest in two years, output solid
-- By  Mark Felsenthal
-- Fri Dec 14, 2007 6:22pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/15/businesspro-usa-economy-dc-idUSN1430506720071215

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Consumer prices rose the most in 
more than two years in November as energy costs surged and a 
host of other prices marched higher, damping prospects of 
further interest-rate cuts from the Federal Reserve. 

  At the same time, production at the nation's mines, 
factories and utilities rose a stronger-than-expected 0.3 
percent last month, suggesting the economy may have a bit more 
steam than many analysts had thought.  The Labor Department said on Friday that the consumer price 
index jumped 0.8 percent in November, the biggest gain since 
September 2005, as energy costs leaped 5.7 percent.  Even stripping out fast-rising food and energy prices, the 
so-called core CPI rose a relatively steep 0.3 percent, the 
largest increase since January and ahead of the 0.2 percent 
rise expected on Wall Street.  "It puts the Fed in a little bit of a bind and people have 
to question how aggressive the Fed can be in cutting rates if 
inflation is rearing its ugly head," said Firas Askari, head 
currency trader at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  U.S. stocks and government bond prices fell while the 
dollar rose against major currencies as traders saw the data 
suggesting slimmer chances of further rate cuts from the Fed, 
which has lowered borrowing costs by a percentage point over 
the past three months. The Dow Jones industrial average  .DJI  
closed down 178 points, or 1.3 percent.  "All of these dovish, weak-money individuals out there 
screaming for rate cuts really need a bucket of cold water in 
the face because if the Fed goes down that path we may have a 
bubble in the CPI," said Michael Darda, chief economist at MKM 
Partners in Greenwich, Connecticut.
  GASOLINE ON THE FIRE  Gasoline prices rose 9.3 percent last month, the steepest 
climb in half a year. Over the past 12 months, gasoline costs 
are up 37.1 percent, the biggest one-year gain since September 
2005.  However, the increase in consumer prices was broadly based.  Apparel costs rose 0.8 percent, medical care prices 
increased 0.4 percent and owners' equivalent rent -- a gauge of 
the cost of home ownership that accounts for nearly one-quarter 
of the overall CPI -- gained 0.3 percent.  Overall inflation rose 4.3 percent from November 2006, the 
steepest 12-month gain since June 2006, while core inflation 
rose 2.3 percent over the past 12 months, the biggest rise in 
seven months. During the first 11 months of 2007, inflation 
rose at a 4.2 percent annual rate, compared with 2.5 percent 
for all of 2006.  The report on November consumer prices followed producer 
price data on Thursday that showed an unexpectedly steep 3.2 
percent climb, the biggest increase in 34 years.  Inflation in the 13-nation euro zone was also on the rise 
last month, with prices up 3.1 percent year-on-year, the 
steepest gain in six and a half years and a reminder that the 
Fed is not the only central bank struggling to tamp down 
inflation at a time growth is threatening to falter.  The U.S. central bank lowered benchmark overnight borrowing 
costs by a quarter point to 4.25 percent on Tuesday, the third 
rate cut since mid-September. The move was a bit of added 
insurance against the possibility a lengthy housing downturn 
and tighter credit could tip the economy into recession.  At the same time, policy-makers expressed concern that high 
energy and commodity prices could fuel broader inflation.  The implied chances of a rate cut at the Fed's next meeting 
in January, as reflected in prices of interest rate futures, 
fell to 78 percent on Friday from 98 percent on Thursday.
  FACTORY ACTIVITY STIRS  In a separate report on industrial output, the Fed said 
factory production rose 0.4 percent in November after a 0.6 
percent drop in October, indicating the economy retained some 
resilience despite being hobbled by the housing downturn.  The manufacturing figure was helped by a 1.7 percent rise 
in motor vehicle and parts production and a 2.1 percent 
increase in computer and electronics products output.  Excluding motor vehicle production, industrial output was 
up 0.2 percent in November.  While industrial activity last month was stronger than 
economists had expected, the Fed revised its measure of October 
output downward, saying production dropped 0.7 percent and not 
0.5 percent as originally reported. It was the largest drop 
since October 2005.  "While the industrial production data are encouraging ... 
less than half of manufacturing industries appear to be 
growing," said Cliff Waldman, economist for the Manufacturers 
Alliance/MAPI. "The economic climate remains treacherous."  (Additional reporting by  David Lawder )