-- Japan banks balk at subprime fund request: Nikkei
-- 
-- Sat Dec 15, 2007 12:04am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/15/businesspro-japan-subprime-banks-dc-idUST13479220071215

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Three Japanese banks that have been asked 
to provide $5 billion each to a subprime support fund planned 
by U.S. banks have balked at what they see as an unreasonably 
high figure, the Nikkei business daily reported on Saturday. 

  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp, a unit of Sumitomo Mitsui 
Financial Group Inc ( 8316.T ), and Mizuho Corporate Bank, which 
is part of Mizuho Financial Group ( 8411.T ), appear reluctant to 
provide the requested amount, the Nikkei reported, without 
naming any sources.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group ( 8306.T ), which has a U.S. 
presence through its unit UnionBanCal Corp, is also expected to 
ask for a reduction in the amount, it added.  Bank of America ( BAC.N ), Citigroup ( C.N ) and JPMorgan Chase 
( JPM.N ) are heading an effort to raise billions of dollars for 
the new fund, which will buy assets from failing structured 
investment vehicles (SIVs) as a way to ease turmoil in the 
credit markets.  The deadline for the Japanese banks to respond is next 
week, the Nikkei said.  The banks are seen acknowledging that it is in their best 
interest to help their U.S. counterparts to recover from the 
credit crunch triggered by subprime mortgage problems.  But they realize that contributing funds without thoroughly 
assessing the risks would prompt objections from shareholders, 
the Nikkei said.  The fund has faced skepticism from market players who 
believe that it will buy only high-quality assets, which would 
do little to help weaker SIVs, which are off-balance-sheet 
funds banks use to buy assets like U.S. mortgages.  With fewer subprime-related investments than their overseas 
rivals, Japanese lenders have so far avoided heavy subprime 
losses, although some have been forced to write down the value 
of some investments.  (Reporting by  Naomi Tajitsu , editing by Jacqueline Wong)