-- Icahn scores lucrative victory in MedImmune sale
-- By  Dane Hamilton
-- Mon Apr 23, 2007 5:44pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/23/businesspro-icahn-medimmune-dc-idUSN2329630820070423

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - New York financier Carl Icahn once 
again demonstrated his skill at corporate activism with 
Monday's sale of MedImmune Inc. MEDI.O, which added to $1 
billion made on the sale of four Nevada casinos, also announced 
today. 

  The 71-year-old, who Forbes estimates is worth $13 billion, 
is netting at least $300 million in gains for his hedge fund 
from the pending sale of the vaccine maker to AstraZeneca Plc 
( AZN.L ) for $15 billion, a person familiar with the matter 
said.  The deal came after Icahn, who just this year built up a 
stake of more than 10 million shares in the vaccine maker, told 
the company that he planned to run a proxy campaign to get a 
new board slate if it did not agree to seek a buyer.  "This proves again that activism does work to enhance value 
for all shareholders," Icahn said adding that he and intends to 
support the transaction.  In an interview, the financier declined to discuss his 
stock gains for MedImmune, which surged 18 percent on Nasdaq on 
Monday. Icahn credited Alex Denner, a former Morgan Stanley 
( MS.N ) biotechnology fund manager and PhD who now works for 
Icahn's hedge fund, for finding the investment.  A person familiar with the matter said Icahn roughly 
doubled the value of his MedImmune investment, buying into the 
stock when it was around $30 a share a few months ago.  The gain add to $1 billion Icahn said he made when his 
publicly traded real estate entity, American Real Estate 
Partners LP ( ACP.N ), sold its Nevada gaming operations for 
about $1.3 billion in a deal disclosed on Monday. Icahn holds a 
90 percent stake in ACP.
  VETERAN ACTIVIST  The deals demonstrate that Icahn, who cut his teeth as a 
corporate raider in the 1980s, hasn't lost his edge, even if 
not all his investments pan out.  But generally, when Icahn takes a position in a company and 
begins a campaign, the stock moves up, based on investors' 
views that Icahn has the financial wherewithal and 
tenaciousness to force changes on companies.  "He gets in and the share prices move upward," said Ken 
Squire, who runs 13D Monitor, a consulting firm specializing in 
shareholder activism issues.  In a recent analysis, Squire calculated that Icahn has 
generated returns of 115.9 percent in 11 investments that were 
large enough to prompt a regulatory filing. The biggest return 
by far is from Icahn's ACP holding, which has grown by more 
than 13 times since 1995, with Icahn buying into the stock at 
$8.31, according to 13D Monitor. It traded at $108 on Monday.  "He's been around for a long time and is very successful," 
said Scott Berman, a hedge fund lawyer at Friedman Kaplan 
Seiler & Adelman who has represented Icahn in the past. "He's 
smart and tough and that gives him heft."  And Icahn is now more active than ever with his brand of 
activism, which usually entails buying a large stake in a 
company he deems to be an underperformer and demanding changes, 
such as a sale, stock buyback or other moves. His moves have 
spawned a host of imitators among the ballooning legions of 
newly minted hedge fund managers.  In recent months, Icahn has offered to buy WCI Communities 
Inc. WCI.N, a luxury homebuilder in which he holds 14.5 
percent. He also has a bid outstanding for auto parts maker 
Lear Corp. ( LEA.N ) over the objections of other stockholders.  The Queens-born billionaire achieved another major success 
this year when forest products maker Temple-Inland Inc. TIN.N 
agreed to sell assets and break up under pressure from Icahn. 
ImClone Systems Inc. IMCL.O shares are up 30 percent since he 
was appointed chairman after a corporate dust-up last year.  "The bottom line is that he's a good stock picker," said 
one analyst at a proxy solicitation firm who declined to be 
identified because the firm is working for companies that Icahn 
has targeted.  "He has developed the credibility that he will consummate 
and he doesn't back down," the analyst said. "His message of 
enhancing shareholder value is hard to ignore for company 
managers because you don't like the messenger."