-- Oil-Service Companies' Pension Costs May Double, Analyst Says
-- David Wethe
-- 2008-11-12T23:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-11-12/oil-service-companies-pension-costs-may-double-analyst-says.html

          
          
             Oilfield service companies, which
have the largest employee pension-plan deficit of any industry
in the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, are expected to pump at
least twice as much into their pension plans after the U.S.
stock market plunged more than 40 percent this year, according
to Citigroup's Robin Shoemaker.  
 The service companies with deficit-hobbled plans at the end
of 2007 include  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) ,  Rowan Cos. (RDC)  and
 National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , according to a research report
dated yesterday.  
 Energy companies, especially those which assist exploration
and production companies, are most affected because payrolls
have soared as oil and natural-gas prices have risen, Shoemaker
said in a telephone interview.  
 ``Some of these oil-service companies have almost seen
their employee service counts double in the last four years,''
Shoemaker said. ``I don't think other American companies have
seen anywhere near that kind of growth.''  
 Service companies could be forced to contribute anywhere
from two to four times as much as originally expected in 2009
for their pension plans, he said.  
 The S&P 500 is expected to end this year with a pension-fund deficit worse than in 2002, when pensions were in the hole
$219 billion, according to a report earlier this month by Tobias Levkovich, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  
 Funding Plans  
 Companies in the S&P 500 mostly fund their pension plans
through a balanced portfolio of stock ownership. Shares of
companies in the S&P 500 have fallen 42 percent since the start
of the year.  
 ``Using some very broad assumptions, it is reasonable to
predict that aggregate pension fund assets could fall by more
than 20 percent,'' according to Levkovich's report.  
 At the end of 2007, the energy sector of the S&P was the
worst-funded, according to the report.  
 ``This could be troublesome for the sector, which already
has experienced sharp downward earnings estimate revisions
recently as a result of plummeting oil and gas prices,''
according to the report.  
 At the end of 2007, Rowan's pension deficit was $123
million, according to Shoemaker's report. The Houston-based
company said its 2009 pension funding obligation could exceed
$130 million, according to its latest 10-Q filing. Annual
contributions have averaged $34 million from 2003 to 2007.  
 ``Recent capital markets weakness has adversely affected
our pension assets and will likely cause a significant increase
in our required funding in 2009,'' according to the filing.  
 Rowan is evaluating what percent of its total pension
obligation it should fund for 2009, Suzanne McLeod, the
company's director of investor relations, said in a telephone
interview.  
 Drag on Earnings?  
 The deficit for Houston-based Weatherford was $151 million
at the end of last year, according to Shoemaker's report. A
spokesman for Weatherford could be immediately reached for
comment.  
 The increased pension contributions will be a drag on
earnings, Shoemaker wrote in his note. He also said that because
the service companies are expected to reduce capital spending
because of slowing demand for their services in a struggling
economy, the pension deficit is ``no cause for alarm.''  
 Clay Williams, the chief financial officer for Houston-based National Oilwell Varco, said he's not concerned about his
company's $40 million pension deficit.  
 ``It's not a big deal for us,'' Williams said in a
telephone interview. ``We're very creditworthy. It's a very
modest amount.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Cox at 
 acox3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        