-- Renting Beats Home-Buying Remorse After Meltdown: John F. Wasik
-- John F. Wasik
-- 2009-10-14T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-10-13/renting-beats-home-buying-remorse-after-meltdown-john-f-wasik.html

          
          
             Unless you want to stay in a
neighborhood for life, renting a home may make more sense.  
 With more foreclosures and huge  inventories  of unsold homes
looming and mortgage rates held down by the government, the
housing market may not stabilize for years.  
 It’s no longer a given that you will build home equity. The
housing debacle may have depressed  housing prices  for a
generation in all but a handful of areas.  
 Am I spouting American housing heresy? After all, can’t you
still build wealth by simply buying a home and holding it? And
with 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages dipping below 5 percent,
isn’t your buy signal flashing “go”?  
 A rent-versus-buy decision is a complicated one. You will
need to make some blunt assumptions and do some in-depth
homework on the neighborhood in which you want to buy.  
 The first layer of your decision-making is the duration of
your investment. If you are fairly certain you are going to be
in a neighborhood for an extended period -- say you have a young
family, like the local schools and have a secure government job
-- check the “buy” category and calculate ownership costs.  
 Those facing relocation, looking to downsize or retiring
should strongly consider renting.  
 It’s difficult to recoup all of your closing costs and down
payment in a short period of time. This is the easy part.  
 Rent Versus Buy  
 Now comes some gnarly cash-flow analysis for those leaning
toward buying.  
 Let’s say you were considering a $300,000 home, put down 20
percent, and obtained a 5 percent, 30-year fixed-rate mortgage.
You are in the 33 percent federal-tax bracket and you will pay
$7,000 annually in property taxes and about $1,000 for insurance
and maintenance. Your total monthly payments are $1,945.  
 Comparing your purchase to a similar property renting for
$2,000 a month, you come out ahead buying and holding for 30
years. While your actual cash outlay is much less for renting --
$583,267 versus $751,236 for buying -- once you figure in the
tax benefits over three decades, you are better off buying.  
 The combination of appreciation, leverage and tax breaks
makes buying the winner over 30 years. Instead of having paid
rent and gained no equity, this example will show a net asset
value of $526,770 for buyers. This, of course, assumes a
positive annual gain in your home’s price.  
 This example assumes a 1 percent annual return rate, stable
property taxes and federal write-offs continuing untouched.  
 Property Taxes  
 Yet times have changed and it’s unlikely you will have the
same mortgage, expenses and write-offs for three decades.  
 Real-estate taxes are wild cards that few brokers will
discuss. Since public agencies are mostly dependent on property
valuations for revenue, they are hurting in this housing
recession and may be crippled for years from depressed home
values. I’m seeing this in my area where the primary school
district alone is facing a $3.5 million shortfall.  
 The most dangerous assumption is that property taxes will
remain static. Ask your broker for past real-estate bills and
the fiscal shape of local taxing bodies.  
 Another flawed assumption is appreciation. You can still
lose home equity.  
 Check on median property values where you are buying. A few
states were relatively untouched by the recent bubble, such as
Texas, Utah, Wyoming, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and North
Carolina. Home-value declines were the worst in Nevada,
California, Florida and Arizona, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau’s most recent  American Community Survey .  
 Invest the Difference  
 Still want to buy a home? Then dig even deeper in your
targeted areas.  
 How many foreclosures are pending? Are there any vacant
homes? What has been the mortgage default trend over the past
two years? Is there a glut or shortage of unsold housing units?
You can find local housing inventories by contacting area
realtor associations.  
 Frank Armstrong III , a Coconut Grove, Florida-based
financial planner and author of “Save Your Retirement” (FT
Press, $14.99), says home ownership “is no longer a risk-free
transaction. This has been the assumption for 30 years, and it’s
been rebutted.”  
 An unstable or declining neighborhood usually translates
into home-equity loss for buyers, most of whom have no idea when
an area has hit bottom.  
 There’s no shame in not buying and exploiting the hidden
upside in renting, though.  
 The money you would have spent on maintenance, taxes and
insurance can pay off credit-card bills or be invested in an
emergency fund, retirement or college savings. I know that few
people will look at it this way, but renting might be a chance
to recover financially.  
 ( John F. Wasik , author of “The Audacity of Help: Obama’s
Economic Plan and the Remaking of America,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John F. Wasik in Chicago at 
 jwasik@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Home for rent and sale  
                       
                         
                           Tim Boyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An "ALSO FOR RENT" sign is posted outside a home for sale in Park Ridge, Illinois, Nov. 6, 2008. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An "ALSO FOR RENT" sign is posted outside a home for sale in Park Ridge, Illinois, Nov. 6, 2008. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
