-- Abu Dhabi Debt Poised for Best Quarter in Year on Economy: Islamic Finance
-- Dana El Baltaji
-- 2010-09-20T09:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/abu-dhabi-debt-poised-for-best-quarter-in-year-on-economy-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Abu Dhabi bonds are heading for
their best quarter in a year. Union Investment and LCF Edmond de
Rothschild CI Ltd. say investors are ready to snap up any new
issue from the oil-rich Persian Gulf emirate.  
 The government’s 6.75 percent dollar-denominated non-
Islamic notes due April 2019 have returned 6.6 percent, set for
the biggest quarterly gain since September 2009, and more than
the 6 percent increase for Qatar’s 5.25 percent debt maturing in
January 2020, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai’s
sukuk, or bonds that comply with Shariah law’s ban on interest,
returned 6.3 percent and yielded 6.34 percent on Sept. 17.  
 Speculation is growing that Abu Dhabi, which helped
neighboring Dubai avoid a default last year with a $20 billion
bailout, may sell its first international securities since April
2009 as the economy expands. Demand for Abu Dhabi’s debt due in
2019 has pushed yields down to 3.86 percent, or 11 basis points
less than similar-rated securities from Qatar. Abu Dhabi’s
government met investors in Europe last week to brief them on
the sheikhdom’s budget and economy, two people familiar with the
meetings said.  
 “I would definitely purchase Abu Dhabi debt if they issue
in dollars or euro, both conventional or sukuk, since it is a
very financially strong entity that issues very rarely,”  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage $6 billion of emerging-market debt
in Frankfurt at Union Investment, said in an e-mail response to
questions on Sept. 14. “They are not over-leveraging
themselves. It is still relatively and will be relatively cheap
on a return-rating basis to other AA credits.”  
 Paving the Way  
 Abu Dhabi last sold bonds in April 2009, when it raised $3
billion from five-year and 10-year securities. The 2019 bonds
yielded 137 basis points, or 1.37 percentage points, more than
similar-maturity Treasuries on Sept. 17, compared with 420 when
the notes were priced. The gap reached a record low 95 basis
points on April 5.  
 The United Arab Emirates’ richest member will post economic
growth of 3.7 percent this year, while Dubai’s economy will
shrink about 0.5 percent, the International Monetary Fund said
in May. Abu Dhabi, home to around 7 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, plans to raise crude production by 30 percent to 3.5
million barrels a day by 2018, according to data from a  yearbook 
entitled Oil & Gas Year Abu Dhabi 2010. The publication is based
on an independent study carried out with help from Abu Dhabi’s
government.  
 ‘Further Issues’  
 Abu Dhabi is rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and AA
by Standard & Poor’s, the third-highest investment grade
rankings. The 2020 debt sold by Qatar, similarly rated by
Moody’s and S&P, offers a 132 basis-point rate advantage.  
 “There would definitely be demand for further issues from
the Abu Dhabi authorities,”  John de Garis , chief investment
officer at Guernsey-based LCF Edmond de Rothschild CI Ltd. in
the U.K.’s Channel Islands, said in a Sept. 16 telephone
interview. “If the Abu Dhabi authorities hold a roadshow, it
would suggest that a new issue is forthcoming. From our point of
view, a conventional issue is more interesting.”  
 The spread between the average yield for Islamic bonds in
the U.A.E. and the London interbank offered rate shrank 104
basis points to 507 basis points so far this quarter, according
to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai UAE US Dollar Sukuk Index.   
 Shariah-compliant bonds returned 4.6 percent this quarter,
while debt in developing markets gained 6.5 percent, JPMorgan
Chaa & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index shows. The gap
between the yields of Dubai’s sukuk and Malaysia’s 3.928 percent
Islamic notes due June 2015 narrowed 53 basis points to 360 this
quarter, according to prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  
 Persian Gulf Sales  
 The Abu Dhabi government’s meetings with investors aren’t
related to immediate plans to sell bonds, the two people, who
declined to be identified because the details are private, said
on Sept. 14. Officials will meet investors in the U.S. after the
meetings in Europe, one of them said.  
 An official at the debt management office in Abu Dhabi
didn’t respond to telephone calls yesterday seeking comment.  
 Global sales of Islamic bonds fell 24 percent to $10.7
billion so far this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland  expects to manage $7 billion to $10
billion of Persian Gulf bond sales next quarter,  Simon Penney ,
chief executive officer for the Middle East and Africa at RBS,
the U.K.’s biggest government-owned bank, said in an interview
in Dubai on Sept. 16.  
 The bonds will be sold by governments, state-related
companies, financial institutions and companies from “across
the region, but dominated by the U.A.E.,” he said. The
offerings will be from Abu Dhabi, Dubai and some of the
country’s other emirates, he said.  
 ‘Negative Impact’  
 Following Abu Dhabi’s bailout, state-controlled Dubai
World’s agreement this month with 99 percent of its creditors to
restructure $24.9 billion of debt reduced the risk that the
company will default.  
 “You cannot underestimate the link between Dubai and Abu
Dhabi,”  Ahmed Talhaoui , the head of portfolio management in Abu
Dhabi at Royal Capital PJSC, which is 44 percent owned by United
Gulf Bank, an investment bank in Bahrain, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The trend is that whenever there is
negative news on Dubai on the debt side, there could be a slight
negative impact on Abu Dhabi.”  
 The deepest financial crisis since the 1930s sent property
prices in Abu Dhabi down more than 30 percent from their peak in
mid-2008, according to Jones Lang LaSalle estimates published in
February.  
 Department of Finance  
 The emirate’s 2030 economic plan targets 7 percent annual
growth through 2015 and 6 percent thereafter. Mubadala
Development Co., an Abu Dhabi government-backed investor, set up
a unit for financial investment, the company said on its
 website .  
 The emirate forecast a second consecutive budget deficit
this year, according to a government-guaranteed bond prospectus
in July. Government spending will exceed revenue by 84.9 billion
dirhams ($23 billion), compared with a deficit of 126.5 billion
dirhams in 2009, the data show.  
 Governments in the Persian Gulf haven’t borrowed through
global sukuk sales since the Dubai Department of Finance issued
a $1.25 billion Islamic bond in October. This year, Saudi
Electricity Co., the region’s largest utility, sold 7 billion
riyals ($1.87 billion) in April.  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate
Development Co ., the biggest Saudi Arabian developer by market
value, and  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the second-biggest
bank in the U.A.E., sold Shariah-compliant debt in U.S. dollars
and Malaysian ringgit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Abu Dhabi Debt Poised for Best Quarter in Year  
                       
                         
                           Matilde Gattoni/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Buildings stand on the skyline of Abu Dhabi. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Buildings stand on the skyline of Abu Dhabi. Photographer: Matilde Gattoni/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
