-- Madoff, William Blair, StuyTown, Daimler, Shell, Merrill in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-09-20T10:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/madoff-william-blair-stuytown-daimler-shell-merrill-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Bart M. Schwartz, the court-
appointed receiver for Ariel Fund Ltd. and Gabriel Capital LP,
which were feeder funds for Ponzi schemer Bernard Madoff, sued
J. Ezra Merkin for breach of fiduciary duty, gross negligence
and fraud.  
 Rather than make any decisions on the funds’ investments,
Merkin handed over responsibility to Madoff, his company Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC and Cerberus Capital
Management LP, according to the lawsuit, filed in New York state
Supreme Court on Sept. 16.  
 Merkin and his Gabriel Capital Corp., which also was sued,
breached their fiduciary and other obligations to the funds by
“allowing Madoff and other money managers to control the Funds’
assets and concealing and failing to monitor the actions of
these managers despite the size of these investments,” the suit
says.  
 Madoff is serving a 150-year term in federal  prison  in
Butner, North Carolina, after pleading guilty to orchestrating
history’s biggest Ponzi scheme. His investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  
 “We are disappointed that the receiver has decided to use
investors’ funds to bring its own lawsuit when the New York
attorney general is already pursuing the same claims on behalf
of all investors,” Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Merkin, said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 Schwartz said in an e-mail that his lawsuit “complements”
Cuomo’s effort, and assures investors in the Ariel and Gabriel
funds that “they will have a direct representative with a seat
at the table in any negotiations.”  
 The case is Bart M. Schwartz v. J. Ezra Merkin,
651516/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 William Blair Sued Over Chicago Meter Privatization  
 William Blair & Co. was sued by a Chicago resident who
accused the investment firm of failing to properly assess the
value of a $1.15 billion, 75-year parking meter privatization
contract.  
 Jennifer Bunting of Chicago filed the lawsuit against the
firm Sept. 17 at the Illinois state courthouse in the city.
She’s seeking group status on behalf of the city’s 2.8 million
residents.  
 Chicago, the third-largest U.S. city, leased its meters to
a partnership led by  Morgan Stanley  in December 2008. Last July,
the group estimated its revenue over the lifetime of the
agreement at $11.6 billion. The Blair firm, based in Chicago,
was the city’s outside financial adviser on the plan.  
 “The city was paid, conservatively, $974 million less for
this 75-year lease than the city would have received” from the
revenue generated by its 36,000 meters during that time, Bunting
said, citing a 2009 report by the city’s inspector general.  
 Bunting accused the firm of negligence, alleging its
valuation “shortchanged” the city of millions or billions of
dollars for which she’s seeking unspecified money damages.  
 Tony Zimmer, a spokesman for William Blair, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment Sept.
17.  
 The case is Bunting v. William Blair & Co. LLC, 10CH40418,
Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court, Chancery Division
(Chicago).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 StuyTown Lenders Plan Foreclosure as Ackman Halted  
 Senior debt holders of Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper
Village, Manhattan’s biggest rental complex, plan to proceed
with an Oct. 4 foreclosure sale after a judge blocked a rival
group’s move to take control of the apartments.  
 State Supreme Court Justice Richard Lowe in Manhattan
issued a preliminary injunction stopping a foreclosure by Bill
Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP and Winthrop
Realty Trust, which bought $300 million of mezzanine debt on the
property. The joint venture, PSW NYC LLC, may only proceed if it
first pays senior creditors the $3.67 billion that they are owed
under the first mortgage, according to Lowe’s order Sept. 16.  
 “The intercreditor agreement is unambiguous,” Lowe wrote
in the decision. “Its plain language obligates PSW to cure all
senior loan defaults.”  
 CWCapital Asset Management LLC, the special servicer for
the senior mortgage, is seeking to move forward with its own
foreclosure almost nine months after Stuyvesant Town owner
Tishman Speyer Properties LP defaulted on its $3 billion senior
loan and $1.4 billion of mezzanine, or junior, debt. The
Pershing-Winthrop venture filed a notice Sept. 17 that it will
appeal Lowe’s decision, potentially pushing back the CW auction.  
 “We vigorously disagree with the court’s ruling,” Michael
Ashner, chairman and chief executive officer of Boston-based
Winthrop, said in an interview. “We believe his interpretation
of the contract was erroneous.”  
 “They can’t foreclose, they can’t sell to anybody and they
can’t transfer,” Greg Cross, a lawyer for CWCapital, said after
the judge’s decision. “They have to pay us in full.”  
 CWCapital will now proceed with its scheduled Oct. 4
foreclosure on the property, Cross said.  
 The case is Bank of America NA v. PSW NYC LLC, 10-651293,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Daimler Unit Executive Arrested in U.K. Truck Probe  
 An executive at  Daimler AG’s  U.K. truck unit was arrested
by police as part of a cartel probe by British antitrust
regulators.  
 Ian Jones, the head of the U.K. Mercedes-Benz truck
division, was detained by police last week, Mercedes spokesman
Simon Wood said in a telephone interview.  
 The  Office of Fair Trading , which investigates and
prosecutes antitrust violations, is probing Mercedes, Volvo AB
and at least three other truck makers.  
 “At this time we have no knowledge of wrongdoing,” Wood
said in an e-mailed statement. “As always the presumption of
innocence applies to all people involved. Due to the ongoing
legal process the company is unable to comment further.”  
 The company said Sept. 16 that the OFT had visited its
offices in Tongwell, England, as part of the investigation.  
 Calls to Jones’s office were referred to Wood, who declined
to provide Jones’s contact details. Jonathan Marciano, a
spokesman for the OFT in London, declined to comment.  
 Office Romances Face More Enemies as Co-Workers File Lawsuits  
 The office romance has survived threats such as corporate
no-fraternization policies, philandering chief executives, David
Letterman, or, in the recent case of former Hewlett-Packard Co.
Chief Executive Officer Mark Hurd, ambiguous contractors. Now
there’s a new legal menace, Spencer Morgan reports in  Bloomberg
BusinessWeek’s  Sept. 20 issue: scorned workers who claim that an
office affair fostered an invidious work environment, even if
they weren’t actually involved in the romance themselves.  
 So-called third-party or hostile-work-environment sexual
harassment claims are difficult to prove while easy to allege,
particularly by employees fearing for their jobs in a sluggish
economy.  
 As job insecurity has mounted and third-party claims have
risen, the office fling may become the recession’s latest
victim.  
 “It seems likely that there’s a certain opportunistic
element to what’s happening out there,” says Sondra Solovay, a
director of Workplace Answers, a San Francisco-based compliance
services company. “Employees who fear for their jobs are making
sexual-favoritism complaints as a means of ensuring their own
job security.”  
 The most pressing threat to the office romance is the rise
of the retaliation lawsuit, Solovay says. Such suits are waged
by workers who claim they were fired to prevent them from filing
a discrimination claim against their employer.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Continental, United Merger Contested in Federal Court  
 Continental Airlines Inc. ’s merger with  UAL Corp. , approved
by shareholders Sept. 17, should be blocked because the
combination would create a monopoly, a lawyer representing
consumers argued in federal court.  
 The attorney, Joseph Alioto, and Katherine B. Forrest, a
lawyer representing Houston-based Continental and Chicago-based
United, presented final arguments in the antitrust case before
U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg in San Francisco.  
 To temporarily block the merger and then contest it at a
trial, Alioto must convince Seeborg that the acquisition
substantially reduces competition or creates a monopoly.  
 “In the U.S. we happen to believe in competition rather
than combination,” Alioto told Seeborg. Arguments presenting
potentially reduced service at Cleveland’s airport, for example,
and potential price increases must demonstrate a “threatened”
and not necessarily certain injury to consumers to block the
deal, Alioto said. The challenge “at least deserves a trial on
the merits,” Alioto said.  
 Shareholders of UAL and Continental approved Sept. 17 the
$3.22 billion all-stock merger that was announced in May and is
scheduled to close by Oct. 1. The airlines received regulatory
approval from the Justice Department in July to merge, creating
an airline company surpassing Delta Air Lines Inc. as the
world’s biggest.  
 Forrest said Alioto hasn’t presented evidence sufficient to
block the merger. She told Seeborg that Ohio Attorney General
Richard Cordray closed an investigation of the merger and that
the companies have been promised that a similar inquiry in
California will be closed.  
 Seeborg said he will rule before Oct. 1.  
 The case is Malaney v. UAL Corp., 10-2858, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  
 Airgas can Argue at Air Products Trial, Judge Says  
 Airgas Inc.  will be permitted to argue its challenges to
new board bylaws at a trial beginning Oct. 4 in which hostile
suitor  Air Products & Chemicals Inc.  will ask a judge to
facilitate its acquisition of Airgas, according to court papers.  
 At a Sept. 15 meeting, Airgas shareholders voted for three
of the bidder’s director nominees and proxy questions, including
holding a second annual meeting on Jan. 18 giving Air Products
nominees a chance to take control of the board.  
 Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler III
granted Airgas fast-track status on its case in an order made
public Sept. 17 and said that Airgas’s arguments “shall occur
at the pleasure of the court” during Air Products’ trial.  
 Allentown, Pennsylvania-based Air Products has offered $5.5
billion for Airgas, which is shunning the offer as inadequate.  
 Air Products sued Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas Feb. 4,
asking Chandler to force Airgas to perform its duty to
shareholders and negotiate with Air Products.  
 Airgas sued Air Products separately on Sept. 15, asking
Chandler to declare that the revised bylaw that allows a second
annual meeting in four months isn’t permitted under Delaware
corporation law.  
 Beth Mentesana, an Air Products spokeswoman, and Jay
Worley, a spokesman for Airgas, weren’t able to respond to phone
calls and e-mails after regular business hours Sept. 17.  
 The cases are Air Products v. Airgas, CA5249; and Airgas v.
Air Products, CA5817, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Toyota Motor Settles Suit Tied to Fatal San Diego Crash  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  said it settled a suit with relatives of
four people killed in a San Diego accident that prompted the
Japanese automaker to recall vehicles on concern they might
suddenly accelerate.  
 “Through mutual respect and cooperation we were able to
resolve this matter without the need for litigation,” Toyota
said in an e-mailed statement last night, without disclosing the
terms of the settlement.  
 Toyota President Akio Toyoda, in remarks to Congress in
February, apologized to the family of Mark Saylor, the
California Highway Patrol officer who was killed along with his
wife, daughter and brother-in-law in a Lexus that sped out of
control in August 2009. Investigators identified floor mats as a
probable cause of that accident.  
 “Especially, I would like to extend my condolences to the
members of the Saylor family, for the accident in San Diego,”
Toyoda said in front of a U.S. House Committee on Feb. 23. “I
would like to send my prayers again, and I will do everything in
my power to ensure that such a tragedy never happens again.”  
 For more, click here.  
 Companies Immune From Alien Tort Suits, Court Rules  
 Companies, including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s  Nigerian unit,
aren’t subject to U.S. lawsuits by foreigners seeking damages
for human rights violations, a federal appeals court in New York
ruled.  
 A panel of the court ruled 2-1 Sept. 17 that the Alien Tort
Statute gives U.S. courts jurisdiction over alleged violations
of international law by individuals only, not by corporations.  
 The decision dismisses claims by a group of Nigerians that
Shell aided in the torture and murder of dissidents in Nigeria
in the 1990s, including the playwright Ken Saro-Wiwa.  
 “The principle of individual liability for violations of
international law has been limited to natural persons -- not
‘juridical’ persons such as corporations -- because the moral
responsibility for a crime so heinous and unbounded as to rise
to the level of an ‘international crime’ has rested solely with
the individual men and women who have perpetrated it,” Circuit
Judge Jose Cabranes wrote on behalf of the two-judge majority.  
 Cabranes said that the Alien Tort Statute, enacted in 1789,
allows U.S. courts to hear death and injury claims by non-U.S.
citizens connected to violations of international law, including
war crimes and crimes against humanity.  
 In a separate opinion, Circuit Judge Pierre N. Leval said
the majority’s ruling would permit companies to profit from
slavery, genocide, piracy and official torture without liability
under the statute. Leval agreed with the majority of the panel
that the case should be dismissed. He disagreed with the
majority that the statute doesn’t apply to corporations.  
 Paul L. Hoffman, a lawyer for the Nigerian plaintiffs,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment
on the ruling.  
 Alison Chassin, a Shell spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  
 The case is Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., 0096-4800,
2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan.)  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-UBS Client Hernandez Sentenced to Year in Prison  
 Former  UBS AG  client Federico Hernandez, who pleaded guilty
to hiding Swiss accounts once valued at $8.8 million from U.S.
tax authorities, was sentenced to a year in prison followed by
six months of home confinement.  
 Hernandez, 44, pleaded guilty April 15 as part of a U.S.
crackdown on tax evasion by clients of foreign banks. His term
was the longest yet for a former UBS client after nine others
got sentences ranging from probation to 10 months.  
 U.S. prosecutors sought a term of 18 to 24 months, saying
in court papers that the sentence was “unusually important” in
deterring the “rampant problem” of unreported offshore bank
accounts. Hernandez, a financial adviser, sought three months,
saying his wife had a stroke and they have two children.  
 “This is a difficult case,” U.S. District Judge Denny
Chin said in federal court in New York. “Mr. Hernandez does
have a lot going for him. He’s otherwise led a productive, law-
abiding life. On the other hand, this is serious conduct.”  
 Chin also imposed a fine of $4,000 and ordered Hernandez to
pay restitution of $84,423 to the Internal Revenue Service,
which his lawyer said he already paid after filing amended tax
returns. Hernandez also has agreed to a penalty of $4.4 million,
or half of the amount of the highest value of his Swiss
accounts.  
 “I’m deeply sorry for my actions,” Hernandez said before
Chin imposed sentence. “I respectfully ask for your leniency
and the shortest possible sentence you can impose on me.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Hernandez, 10-cr-334, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Court Filings  
 Squawk Box Lawsuit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  
 A lawsuit brought by the U.S. against former stockbrokers
involved in a scheme to let day traders eavesdrop on internal
conversations over brokers’ “squawk boxes” was the most-read
litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  
 Kenneth Mahaffy Jr., a former broker at  Merrill Lynch &
Co.  and Citigroup, and five co-defendants were found guilty in
the case in April 2009. Mahaffy was sentenced to two years in
prison in December. In July, the men lost a bid to have their
convictions tossed, after claiming prosecutors hid evidence of
their innocence.  
 On Sept. 8, Ralph Casbarro, 48, a former  Citigroup Inc. 
stockbroker, who cooperated with prosecutors, was fined $500 and
received no prison sentence or probation for his involvement.  
 The case is U.S. v. Mahaffy, 05-cr-00613, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 For more, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Lehman Adviser Fees Reach $961 Million Through August  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , the investment bank in
bankruptcy since September 2008, has paid lawyers and advisers
working on the case $961.3 million through August.  
 Restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, which is running
Lehman, earned $16.4 million in August, bringing the total the
firm has earned to $342.4 million, according to an August
operating report filed Sept. 17 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan.  
 Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP , Lehman’s lead bankruptcy law
firm, collected $8.6 million in August and $220.9 million total
for its work on the case.  Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP , the
law firm representing Lehman’s unsecured creditors, was paid
$69.3 million through August, according to the report.  
 The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        