-- Thailand Exports Rise for 10th Consecutive Month, Weathering Baht Strength
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-09-20T06:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/thailand-exports-rise-for-10th-consecutive-month-weathering-baht-strength.html

          
          
             Thailand’s  exports  rose for the
10th consecutive month in August as the baht’s appreciation to a
13-year high failed to curb demand for the country’s automobile
parts and electronics.  
 Shipments increased 23.9 percent last month from a year
earlier to $16.5 billion, Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai 
said in Nonthaburi province on the outskirts of Bangkok today.
The median estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey 
was for a 23.5 percent gain.  
 Surging exports helped Thailand’s economy overcome
political turmoil to expand 9.1 percent last quarter, more than
economists forecast. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s
government is considering measures to temper the baht’s gains,
which the Thai Chamber of Commerce said may affect overseas
shipments in the fourth quarter.  
 “The baht’s gain may not reduce export orders yet, but it
will definitely curb exporters’ income,”  Pornthep Jubandhu , an
economist at Siam Commercial Bank Pcl in Bangkok, said before
the report. “We won’t see strong growth like in the first
half” as global demand may weaken further, he said.  
 Baht Measures  
 The baht has gained 8.4 percent against the dollar this
year, making it the second-best performer in Asia. The Bank of
Thailand has proposed measures including an increase in limits
on investing and lending overseas by companies and individuals
to boost fund outflows, which will help slow the baht’s
appreciation, Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said Sept. 17.  
 Those measures will be implemented this week, Assistant
Governor  Suchada Kirakul  said today in Bangkok.  
 Siam Cement Pcl, the nation’s third-biggest company by
market value, said Sept. 13 its net income in the third quarter
may be hurt by the baht’s strength.  
 “Japan and China intervened in their currencies, so we
will probably benefit from that,” Porntiva said. “If the
central bank and the government are taking care of this issue,
we expect that the baht can be held at the 30 level and exports
won’t be affected much.”  
 The commerce ministry still expects exports to grow 20
percent to $183 billion this year, even after the baht’s
appreciation, Porntiva said.  
 Imports  climbed 41.1 percent in August, the ninth
consecutive month of gains, as the nation’s economic recovery
raised demand for raw materials and consumer goods. Thailand had
a trade surplus of $643 million last month, compared with a $940
million deficit reported in July.  
 Exports of auto parts increased 68 percent and electronics
gained 42 percent, according to the data. Rice shipments
declined 19 percent because of price competition with Vietnam,
Pakistan and India and the stronger baht, Porntiva said.  
 Thailand’s exports to the U.S. grew 37 percent in August,
up from a 24 percent gain a month earlier, and shipments to
Europe rose 20 percent from 16 percent. Exports to China rose 22
percent compared with a 30 percent gain in the previous month,
according to the ministry’s statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        