-- Taiwan's Export Orders Increase More Than Estimated, Signaling Resilience
-- Chinmei Sung
-- 2010-09-20T10:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/taiwan-s-export-orders-increase-more-than-estimated-signaling-resilience.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s  export orders  rose faster
than economists projected, signaling resilience to global
economic risks and scope for higher borrowing costs.  
 Orders , an indication of shipments in the next one to three
months, increased 23.3 percent in August from a year earlier,
after an 18.23 percent gain in July, the  Ministry of Economic
Affairs  said in Taipei today. The median estimate of 11
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 20.7 percent
advance.  
 Reviving exports have fuelled Taiwan’s economic recovery
this year, stoking home prices and the risk of a property bubble.
The central bank may boost the benchmark interest rate next week
to curb the threat, even as counterparts from South Korea to
Malaysia and Australia pause increases to judge the world
economy’s strength.  
 “The data confirmed the economic growth momentum for the
third quarter,” said  Lucas Lee , an economist with Mega
Securities Co. in Taipei. The central bank will raise the
benchmark by 0.125 percentage point to 1.5 percent this month to
“put a lid on real estate prices,” he said.  
 The Taiex stock index closed 0.4 percent higher at 8,186.96.
The Taiwan dollar was little changed at NT$31.752 against its
U.S. counterpart at the 4 p.m. close, according to Taipei Forex
Inc.  
 Trade Outlook  
 Trade gains propelled Taiwan to 12.5 percent economic
expansion in the second quarter. The strength of the yen has
been helping the island’s exporters, Huang Ji-Shih, head of the
economic ministry’s statistics division, said after the figures
were released.  
 The value of export orders advanced to $34.88 billion last
month from $33.83 billion in July, today’s report showed. Export
orders to China and Hong Kong combined increased 8.84 percent,
from 10.84 percent. Orders from the U.S. climbed 29.38 percent
from a year earlier, after a 20.29 percent rise in July.  
 The U.S. reading is a record high due to demand for
Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc.’s iPhones and iPads, and
export orders overall are likely to rise again in September,
Huang said.  
 Today’s figures may ease concerns that cooling global
growth threatens to hurt export earnings at firms including
Hsinchu-based  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the
world’s largest custom manufacturer of chips.  
 Chip Industry  
 Morris Chang , the company’s chairman, estimated on Sept. 16
that expansion in global chip-industry sales will cool to 5
percent in 2011, from 30 percent this year.  
 A week earlier, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said policy makers may need to extend or bolster
stimulus programs as the world economic recovery is proving
slower than projected.  
 Orders for electronics rose 27.15 percent last month, after
a 20.6 percent increase in July. Demand for information
technology and communications products climbed 35.4 percent in
August, after increasing 17.54 percent a month earlier.  
 “Strong overseas demand gives the central bank more scope
to raise rates further in the fourth quarter,” said  Icy Hsu , an
economist at Bank SinoPac in Taipei. “If the readings are poor
in September and October, it will likely take a pause.”  
 The central bank raised  borrowing costs  by 0.125 percentage
point to 1.375 percent in June, the first increase since 2008,
and capped loans for second homes in the Taipei metropolitan
area to curb property speculation. The policy board meets on
Sept. 30 to consider whether to boost rates again.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        