-- Ally's New Campaign Replaces Commercials That Showed Bankers as Cheaters
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-09-20T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/ally-s-new-campaign-replaces-commercials-that-showed-bankers-as-cheaters.html

          
          
             Ally Financial Inc. , the auto and
home lender rescued by more than $17 billion of bailout funds,
begins a new advertising campaign today to replace commercials
that portrayed competing bankers as deceptive.  
 The campaign for Ally Bank, the company’s Internet arm,
will be shown on television, in print and online and highlight
accounts that carry no fees and high interest rates, according
to a Sept. 17 statement. The Detroit-based company, formerly
known as GMAC Inc., flooded the airwaves with its previous
campaign, which helped attract more than $9 billion of deposits
in the four quarters that ended in June.  
 “They have built up some sort of brand awareness with
consumers and so now they can change their strategy a little
bit,” said  Brad Adgate , director of research at New York-based
advertising firm Horizon Media Inc. “They likely just want to
emphasize a different selling point.”  
 Ally Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  has built
deposits with marketing that pledged straightforward products
and above-average yields while tweaking competitors for
mistreating customers. Those ads drew fire from regulators and
trade groups such as the American Bankers Association and
Independent Community Bankers of America, whose members are
vying for more of the nation’s $9 trillion in deposits.  
 The original campaign was started in May 2009 to introduce
Ally, the name adopted after the GMAC Bank brand became tainted
by GMAC’s near-collapse in 2008. The ads, created by BBH New
York, featured a tall male banker who makes various offers of
toys or treats to small children and then changes what they
actually get. Ally promised to deal honestly.  
 Higher Rates  
 The new ads feature a job candidate who includes his Ally
account among his personal traits, and has to repeat his love
for the bank’s savings  product  three times after the interviewer
misunderstands. The interviewer repeats what he thinks he hears,
each version rhyming with “Raise Your Rate” CD, the Ally
certificate of deposit that allows customer a one-time chance to
raise the return. The commercial ends: “Ally. Do you love your
bank?”  
 Ally has customer satisfaction rates above 90 percent,
according to the statement.  
 “Our approach -- to be straightforward -- has clearly
resonated,” said  Sanjay Gupta , Ally’s chief marketing officer,
in last week’s statement. Gupta, the architect of the ads, was
awarded about $4 million in compensation last year, according to
company filings.  
 Strategy Shift  
 Ally  spent  $25.8 million on advertising in the first half
of this year, on top of more than $95 million in 2009, according
to Nielsen Co., the media-research company.  
 The change in approach may be the result of criticism Ally
received on the earlier ads and shows the company may be
graduating to a new phase of business strategy, said  Bert Ely , a
banking consultant based in Alexandria, Virginia.  
 “They certainly made a splash, but now it’s time to move
on,” Ely said in an interview. “The gimmick rubs off after a
while. And the really successful banks have found they have to
compete more on service and move away from doing it just on
price.”  
 Horizon Media’s Adgate said the more positive tone may be
in anticipation of this fall’s political ads, which often have a
negative tone. Ally may be looking to distance itself from any
consumer backlash as they grow tired of attack campaigns, he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        