-- ANC's Gwede Mantashe Downplays South African Mine Nationalization Call
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-09-20T18:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/anc-s-gwede-mantashe-downplays-south-african-mine-nationalization-call.html

          
          
             The leadership of South Africa’s
ruling party downplayed calls by its youth wing to nationalize
new mines in the country, saying “concrete proposals” are
needed before the idea can be considered.  
 The African National Congress’s Youth League argues that
nationalization became party policy when it adopted a document
known as the Freedom Charter in 1955. While the ANC has never
officially distanced itself from the charter, some of its
resolutions have not been implemented.  
 “Given that the ownership of all mineral deposits have
reverted back to the state, that private operators pay royalties
to the state and a state-owned mining company has been
reactivated, we need to offer concrete proposals as to what more
can be done,” Mantashe said.  
 South Africa has the world’s largest reserves of platinum,
chrome ore and manganese, and companies including Melbourne-
based  BHP Billiton  Ltd. and London-based  Rio Tinto Group  and
 Anglo American Plc  have mines in the country. Citigroup Inc. has
valued the country’s total mineral resources at $2.5 trillion.  
 Laws passed in 2004 that compel mining companies to sell 26
percent of their local assets to black South Africans by 2014
have done too little to transform the industry in the 16 years
since the end of apartheid, the league argues.  
 The debate on nationalization “has to be expanded to give
meaning to the clause in the Freedom Charter,” ANC Secretary-
General  Gwede Mantashe  said in a written report distributed in
the southeastern port city of Durban today.  
 Case to Argue  
 The text of the Freedom Charter states: “The mineral
wealth beneath the soil, the banks and monopoly industries shall
be transferred to the ownership of the people as a whole. All
other industry and trade shall be controlled to assist the
wellbeing of the people.”  
 The Youth League intends pushing the ANC to adopt
nationalization as official policy at the party’s five-day
national general council that began in Durban today. The
gathering is the ANC’s second most important policy formulation
forum after its national congress, which is next due to take
place in 2012.  
 ANC Youth League leader  Julius Malema  has warned that party
leaders who fail to back the nationalization call may be voted
out of office.  
 “The ANC Youth League must be more open and tolerant of
different views when issues are open for public debate,”
Mantashe said. “To antagonize and alienate those who wish to
contribute to the debate makes the engagement poorer.”  
 ‘Remain Divided’  
 Zuma made no reference to nationalization in his opening
address to the ANC meeting saying only that the party will
review progress in implementing policies agreed upon at the
ANC’s last national conference in 2007 and won’t deal with “new
policies.”  
 Nationalization “is not government policy,” Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in an interview today. “These
forums that we create are for the purpose of debate. If anybody
wants to argue their case, they can argue their case.”  
 The ANC differs from its labor union allies over economic
policy, Mantashe said.  
 “We remain divided over monetary policy,” he said. That
includes “exchange rate policy.  Inflation  targeting, exchange
controls and the most appropriate framework to effectively deal
with the challenge of high unemployment.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        