-- Apple May Be Readying IPad Tablet With Smaller 7-Inch Screen, Kumar Says
-- Arik Hesseldahl
-- 2010-09-20T16:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/apple-may-be-readying-ipad-with-smaller-7-inch-screen-rodman-analyst-says.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  may be readying a
version of its iPad tablet computer with a 7-inch screen to fend
off a threat from competing smaller-sized devices, according to
an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC.  
 The product may be ready as soon as the first quarter of
2011, Rodman analyst  Ashok Kumar  wrote in a research report
today. His analysis is based on conversations with Apple’s
suppliers. The current iPad has a 9.7-inch screen.  
 Apple may be considering the smaller iPad to vie with
Samsung Electronics Co., maker of the Galaxy Tab. The wireless
tablet device will run  Google Inc. ’s Android operating system
and be offered by the four biggest U.S. wireless carriers: AT&T
Inc., Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel Corp. and T-Mobile, a unit
of Deutsche Telekom AG. The Galaxy Tab will have a 7-inch
display and video-conferencing features via Wi-Fi networks,
Samsung said Sept. 16.  
 “Apple will be playing catch-up on the videoconferencing
features,” Kumar said in an interview.  
 Apple’s latest iPhone and iPod Touch support a Wi-Fi
videoconferencing feature called FaceTime, which Apple would
extend to the new iPad, Kumar said.  
 After demonstrating the product in January, Apple started
selling the iPad in the U.S. in April. By the end of the quarter
ended June 26, Apple had sold 3.3 million iPads in 10 countries.
Apple started selling the iPad in China on Sept. 17.  
 Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment.  
 Apple rose $5.14 or 1.9 percent, to $280.51 by 12:38 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Before today, the shares had
climbed 31 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        