-- Apple to Sell IPhone 4 in China This Week, Add Two Stores Amid Competition
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-09-20T06:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/apple-s-iphone-4-to-be-available-in-china-on-sept-25.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  will start selling the
latest version of the iPhone handset in China in its stores and
through partner  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.  this week amid
growing competition from rival smartphones.  
 Cupertino, California-based Apple will sell the top-end
iPhone 4 handset with 32 gigabytes of memory for 5,999 yuan
($893), starting Sept. 25, it said in a statement distributed by
Business Wire today. The company will add a store in Beijing,
and one in Shanghai on the same day, according to the statement.  
 The world’s biggest technology company by market value is
expanding in China, which overtook Japan last quarter to become
the second-biggest economy globally. Demand from Chinese
consumers for the iPhone, which faces competition from
smartphones made by local vendors including  Lenovo Group Ltd. 
and Huawei Technologies Co., has lagged behind expectations,
according to Analysys International analyst Fang Li.  
 “The iPhone is expensive compared with other devices in
the market,” Fang said today. “There are many smartphones that
offer comparable features and performance, but are priced much
less.”  
 China Unicom customers need to pay an initial 6,999 yuan
for the 32-gigabyte iPhone 4 model, before getting the price
fully or partly refunded during the course of a 2-year contract,
the carrier said on its website. Unicom, Apple’s only carrier
partner in China, started taking orders for the devices last
week.  
 U.S. consumers can buy the same model for $299 with an  AT&T
Inc.  contract, according to Apple’s website.  
 In China, shipments of iPhones trail those of smartphones
running Nokia Oyj’s Symbian operating system, and those of
 Google Inc. ’s Android, according to Analysys’ Fang.  
 In July, Apple opened a store in Shanghai, the company’s
second in China.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        