-- Argentine Merval Stock Index Jumps to Record as RBC Raises Growth Forecast
-- Camila Russo
-- 2010-09-20T20:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/argentine-merval-stock-index-jumps-to-record-as-rbc-raises-growth-forecast.html

          
          
             Argentina’s  Merval  stock index
climbed to a record on speculation the economy will improve
after RBC Capital Markets increased its forecast for the
nation’s growth.  
 Grupo Financiero Galicia SA , Argentina’s largest consumer
lender, and  BBVA Banco Frances SA  climbed, leading an advance
among financial stocks, after the price of the nation’s bonds
increased, signaling higher values for banks’ holdings in fixed-
income securities. The nation’s gross domestic product will
probably expand 9.2 percent this year, more than a previous
estimate of 6.5 percent,  Nick Chamie , global head of emerging-
markets research at RBC in Toronto, wrote in a research report.  
 The  Merval  index climbed 2.4 percent to 2,533.29 at the
close of trading in Buenos Aires at 4 p.m. New York time,
surpassing its high from April 9.  
 “The market is up mainly because bonds are performing
well,” said  Walter Chiarvesi , an analyst with Banco Santander SA
in Buenos Aires. “Argentina’s risk is higher than the rest of
Latin America but the country’s fundamentals are better than its
risk spread.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell ten basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 651 today, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the highest after Venezuela and Ecuador among countries in
the bank’s benchmark emerging-market index.  
 Petrobras Argentina SA , the Argentine unit of Brazil’s
state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA, rose 1 percent to 6.08
pesos, as crude oil increased for the first time in five days on
speculation the U.S. economic recovery will accelerate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camila  Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        