-- Asia Ex-Japan 2010 Share Sales May Reach $291 Billion
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-09-20T04:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/asia-may-see-116-billion-of-share-sales-by-yearend-citigroup.html

          
          
             Asian companies  outside of Japan
may raise a further $116 billion in share sales by the end of
the year, boosting the total for 2010 to a record $291 billion,
Citigroup Inc. said.  
 The equity issuance this year will be about 1.9 percent of
total money supply available, higher than the average of 1.6
percent since the early 1990s, Citigroup strategists led by
 Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today. The sales will  represent 
a “clearly unsustainable” 12.4 percent of the  MSCI AC Asia
excluding Japan Index ’s market capitalization, they wrote.  
 “With cash levels just at averages, investors may have to
sell something in order to buy something,” according to the
report. “Best to avoid the markets and sectors which are well-
owned as these could be a source of funds.”  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s largest
lender by customers, raised $22.1 billion in a July initial
public offering, the world’s largest ever. Other Chinese lenders
including Bank of China Ltd. also raised funds from rights
issues, while elsewhere in Asia, companies including  State Bank
of India  have announced plans for equity offerings.  
 China and Hong Kong may have $33 billion of share sales for
the rest of the year, followed by India with $12 billion and
Singapore at $9.1 billion, according to estimates by Citigroup.
Share sales in Taiwan, Thailand and the Philippines will
probably be the lightest, the brokerage said.  
 China, Taiwan  
 China and Taiwan are already “consensus underweight”
markets, with investors holding more of Hong Kong and Indonesia,
Rosgen said. Among industries, diversified financials, materials
and consumer stocks are the most “vulnerable” as investors
sell existing holdings to fund new purchases, according to the
report.  
 Even given this year’s share sales, the  MSCI Asian index 
has gained 6.7 percent this year, following a 68 percent rally
in 2009.  
 “There is little relationship between markets and issuance;
they are coincident at best,” Rosgen wrote. “Issuance does not
cause the market to fall, it merely slows the ascent.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        