-- Asian Stocks Rise on Profit Speculation; Taiwan Semiconductor, BYD Climb
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-09-20T10:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/asian-stocks-fall-on-u-s-economic-growth-concern-mining-shares-decline.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  rose, extending a
three-week rally, amid signs corporate earnings growth will be
sheltered from a possible U.S. slowdown. Utilities fell.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  gained 1.3 percent
in Taipei as it made purchases from chip-equipment maker KLA-
Tencor Corp. BYD Co. climbed 5.7 percent in Hong Kong after
Morgan Stanley rated the stock “overweight.”  Tsingtao Brewery
Co.  climbed 5 percent in Shanghai as an adviser to China’s
central bank said the nation needs to increase domestic
consumption. PT Perusahaan Gas Negara led declines among utility
companies as investors shifted out of safe-haven stocks.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  gained 0.5
percent to 437.03 as of 7:22 p.m. in Hong Kong before data today
that may show U.S. builders remained pessimistic in September.
About 11 companies rose as for every nine that fell in the MSCI
gauge, which has climbed 7.9 percent in the past three weeks.
Stocks advanced even after a Sept. 17 report showed U.S.
consumer confidence fell.  
 “There’s been a bit of a reversal from the over-the-top
risk aversion we saw a couple of months ago,” said  Matt Riordan ,
who helps manage about $5.2 billion at Paradice Investment
Management in Sydney. “The economic data out of Asia continues
to be quite positive for markets.”  
 Japanese markets are closed today for a holiday. Hong
Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  advanced less than 0.1 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi index gained 0.3 percent. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index  fell 0.2 percent, paring an earlier drop of 0.7 percent.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.4 percent.  
 Consumer Confidence  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.6
percent. The gauge rose 0.1 percent in New York on Sept. 17 as
better-than-estimated earnings at technology companies
overshadowed the consumer confidence report.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
September index of consumer confidence fell to a one-year low,
data on Sept. 17 showed. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey
estimate that a National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo  confidence index  due later today will record a level of 14
for September, up from 13 last month. Readings less than 50 mean
more respondents said conditions were poor.  
 Tsingtao Brewery jumped 5.2 percent to 40 yuan. China needs
to grow domestic consumption in an increasingly challenging
global economic environment,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the
People’s Bank of China, said at a financial forum in Beijing
yesterday. Li was appointed in March as one of three academic
advisers to the central bank.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor  
 Skyworth Digital Holdings Ltd. , the second-biggest Chinese
television maker by sales, jumped 2.4 percent to HK$5.11 in Hong
Kong. Dongfeng Motor Group Co. climbed 5.3 percent to HK$14.60
after the company’s executive director said total automobile
sales in China may reach 30 million vehicles a year by 2020.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor, the world’s largest custom
manufacturer of chips, climbed 1.3 percent to NT$62 after buying
NT$1.2 billion ($37.9 million) of equipment from KLA-Tencor,
spurring optimism capital spending is picking up.  
 BYD, a Chinese automaker backed by investor  Warren Buffett ,
climbed 5.7 percent to HK$56.30 after Morgan Stanley raised the
stock to “overweight” from “equal-weight,” citing the
prospects for its renewable energy business and “compelling”
valuation.  
 Telstra Corp. , Australia’s No. 1 telephone company,
climbed 0.7 percent to A$2.77 following its biggest weekly
decline in three. It dropped 2.1 percent last week, the most
since the period ended Aug. 27.  
 Federal Reserve Targets  
 Telstra also rose after SouFun Holdings Ltd., in which
Telstra owns 50.5 percent, surged 73 percent in New York Stock
Exchange trading on Sept. 17, making it the second-largest
first-day gain for a U.S. initial public offering this year.
SouFun operates China’s biggest property website.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes Japan, slumped
as much as 16 percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid
concerns global growth will falter. The Federal Reserve is
likely to lower its forecasts for U.S. economic growth at a
policy meeting this week,  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in a comment
piece published on ft.com’s ftalphaville section.  
 The MSCI gauge subsequently rallied 15 percent from a 10-
month low on May 25. Companies in the gauge trade at an average
14.3 times estimated  earnings , higher than the  S&P 500 Index ’s
13.5 times.  
 Takeover Targets  
 In Sydney,  Perseus Mining Ltd.  surged 8.3 percent to A$3.25
and  Adamus Resources Ltd.  climbed 7.2 percent to 68 Australian
cents after UBS AG said they were potential targets for larger
producers looking for acquisitions.  
 David Jones Ltd. , Australia’s second-largest department
store chain, declined 0.8 percent to A$5.20 after Credit Suisse
Group AG analysts led by  Grant Saligari  downgraded the stock to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  
 A gauge of utility companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific index
that excludes Japan lost 0.1 percent, the only decline of 10
industry groups. Gas Negara slumped 3.1 percent to 3,950 rupiah
in Jakarta, while Korea Electric Power Corp. fell 0.5 percent to
29,800 won in Seoul.  
 Utilities and telecommunications companies are the MSCI
index’s  worst-performing industries  in the half-year that
started July 1 amid rising confidence in the outlook for growth.
Investors typically favor those stocks when growth is slowing
because their earnings are perceived to be insulated from
gyrations in the economic cycle.  
 “The big question is double dip or no double dip”
recession,  Ronald Arculli , chairman of Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd., said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today. “It seems the consensus is no double dip.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Most Asian Stocks Fall on U.S. Growth Concern; Telstra Rises  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nine stocks declined for every seven that rose in the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index, which was little changed at 434.91 as of 10:39 a.m. in Hong Kong before a report today that may show U.S. builders remained pessimistic in September. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nine stocks declined for every seven that rose in the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index, which was little changed at 434.91 as of 10:39 a.m. in Hong Kong before a report today that may show U.S. builders remained pessimistic in September. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Todd Martin, equity strategist at Societe Generale, talks about his investment strategy for Asian stocks.
     Asian stocks fell, led by raw-material producers, after an unexpected drop in U.S. consumer confidence. Martin also discusses U.S., Chinese and Indian economies. He talks with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television's "On the Move Asia." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
