-- Australia Needs `Simpler and Softer' Emissions Approach, Norton Rose Says
-- James Paton
-- 2010-09-20T05:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/australia-needs-simpler-and-softer-emissions-approach-norton-rose-says.html

          
          
             Australia should start with a
“simpler and softer” emissions trading plan that is limited to
fewer industries and eases the financial burden on polluters, a
lawyer at Norton Rose LLP said.  
 The government’s previous cap-and-trade proposal to curb
greenhouse gas emissions “didn’t have to be as complex as it
was,” said  Anthony Hobley , head of the firm’s climate change
practice, who relocated to Sydney from London in May.
“Australia was trying to introduce something much more
comprehensive and much tougher than was initially introduced in
Europe. There is logic in a simpler and softer beginning.”  
 Australia should restrict the plan initially to industries
such as electricity generation and exclude others like
agriculture, he said. The country should begin by distributing a
higher level of free permits to polluters, while keeping a cap
on carbon emissions, before a gradual transition to selling more,
he said in an interview today.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  promised to restart efforts to
tackle climate change when she replaced  Kevin Rudd  in June.
Gillard said earlier this month that she would set up a
committee to move toward the introduction of a carbon price as
part of an agreement with the Greens Party. The Greens received
a surge in voter support in Australia’s August election after
the ruling Labor Party deferred its carbon pollution reduction
plan until after 2012.  
 The climate-change discussion in Australia has reached a
point at which many businesses see a carbon price as inevitable,
Hobley said. The same move toward acceptance played out in
Europe before emissions trading was introduced there, he said.  
 ‘Too Ambitious’  
 “Knowing something will happen, but not knowing how or
what or when is making investment decisions impossible at the
moment,” Hobley said by phone.  
 More than 30 nations already have introduced a price on
carbon with an emissions trading plan, he said.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers 
on Sept. 15 called on Australia to combine a carbon tax and
regulation with a market-based trading system potentially
restricted to power generation. The country must move away from
coal as fuel, he said. “Failure to do so will place us at a
competitive disadvantage in a future where carbon is priced
globally,” he said.  
 Coal is burned for more than 80 percent of Australia’s
electric power production, according to the Australian Coal
Association.  
 AGL Energy Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Fraser  said
last week that in Australia “perhaps we have been too ambitious
in trying to introduce an all-encompassing CPRS.”  
 Under a cap-and-trade system, the government sets a ceiling
on emissions and requires power plants, factories and other
polluters to acquire enough permits to cover the carbon
dioxide they release into the environment. Businesses that emit
less than their allowance can sell surplus permits.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        