-- Australia Rates May Rise on `Robust Upswing' in Growth, RBA's Stevens Says
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-09-20T06:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/australia-rates-may-rise-on-robust-upswing-in-growth-rba-s-stevens-says.html

          
          
             Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  signaled policy makers may resume raising interest
rates as the biggest mining boom in more than a century stokes
the economy next year.  
 “If downside possibilities do not materialize, the task
ahead is likely to be one of managing a fairly robust upswing,”
Stevens  told  a forum in the regional city of Shepparton in
Victoria state today. “Part of that task will, clearly, fall to
monetary policy.”  
 Australia’s currency rose after today’s remarks as
investors increased bets that Stevens will boost the  benchmark
lending rate  in coming quarters from a setting that policy
makers have described as “average.” Demand from China for iron
ore and coal has pushed Australia’s jobless rate to a level
Assistant Governor  Philip Lowe  said last week was almost “at
what would be considered full employment.”  
 “Stevens has left little doubt that Australian interest
rates need to rise,” said  Katie Dean , a senior economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne. “And
the tone of the speech suggests more than one future rate rise
will be required to meet the challenges of the mining boom.”  
 RBA Minutes  
 Minutes of the bank’s September meeting will be published
tomorrow and will provide an “insight as to whether the next
rate rise will be as early as October,” Dean said.  
 Australia’s dollar rose to 94.43 U.S. cents at 3:06 p.m. in
Sydney, close to its highest level since July 2008, from 94.04
cents just before the speech was published. The currency has
gained 8.8 percent in the past 12 months, the best performer
among the 16 most actively traded currencies.  
 Traders calculate a 78 percent chance of a quarter-point
increase in the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent by early December,
up from 68 percent before today’s speech, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures
Exchange at 2:45 p.m. today. Last month, chances of a move this
year stood at zero.  
 “Even with continued caution by households, that probably
means that overall growth, which has been at about trend over
the past year, will increase in 2011 to something above trend,”
Stevens said at the gathering of local business people. “We
think that means that the fall in inflation over the past two
years won’t go much further.”  
 Concern Australia’s economy, one of the few to skirt last
year’s global recession, is rebounding enough to fuel inflation
to the top of the bank’s target range of 2 percent to 3 percent
was a key reason Stevens led Group of 20 members by raising
borrowing costs in six quarter-percentage-point steps from
October to May to 4.5 percent.  
 Global Economy  
 Stevens reiterated today the bank’s view that the global
economy will “record reasonable growth” over the coming year,
helping keep “high” Australia’s terms of trade, a measure of
income earned from exports.  
 “We expect that this high level of relative export prices
will add to incomes and spending, even as the stimulative
effects of earlier low interest rates and budgetary measures
continue to unwind,” Stevens said.  
 “We expect, and indications from businesses are that they
do as well, that resource sector investment will rise further --
as we experience the largest minerals and energy boom since the
late 19th century,” he said.  
 Close to Capacity  
 The remarks echo comments by Assistant Governor Lowe on
Sept. 16 that the economy over the next year will “be
travelling along pretty much close to full capacity.”  
 Reports published since the RBA’s last meeting on Sept. 7
show business confidence jumped last month to the highest level
in four months and employers added 30,900 workers, pushing the
jobless rate down to 5.1 percent, matching the lowest level
since January 2009.  
 Gross domestic product also expanded 1.2 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the fastest
expansion in three years.  
 Stevens said today that the bank spends “a fair bit of
timing thinking” about potential risks to its forecast for
Australia.  
 “Possible candidates might be a return to economic
contraction in the U.S., or a bigger than expected slowdown in
China, or the resumption of financial turmoil that abruptly
curtails access to capital markets for banks around the world
and damages confidence generally,” he said.  
 Australian stocks fell today, paced by raw-material
producers such as  BHP Billiton Ltd.,  after an unexpected drop in
U.S. consumer confidence. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.4
percent to 4,622.8 at 3:30 p.m. in Sydney.  
 ‘Blunt Instrument’  
 Stevens also used his speech to defend the bank’s use of
what he said some observers have described as the “blunt
instrument” of monetary policy, which doesn’t take into account
different speeds of economic growth across regions.  
 “As a physically large country, with quite a diverse set
of industries, and our largest population centers separated by
long distances and even living in different climates, Australia
is always likely to see some differences in economic experience
by region,” the governor said.  
 “What is remarkable, in fact, is that the differences are
not, in the end, larger,” he said. “That they are not is
testimony to the degree of flexibility within our national
economy that has been built up over time, and to the design of
national policies that aim to lessen the more stark differences
that might otherwise occur.”  
 While the central bank’s monetary policy can’t make those
differences disappear, the RBA “remains committed” to the goal
of using interest rate changes to deliver “reasonable
macroeconomic stability,” Stevens said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stevens Says 'Robust Upswing' May Spur RBA Rate Move  
                       
                         
                           Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens speaking in Shepparton, Australia. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens speaking in Shepparton, Australia. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 14 (Bloomberg) -- Alan Oster, chief economist at National Australia Bank Ltd., talks about the outlook for the Reserve Bank of Australia monetary policy and the nation's economy.
     Australian business confidence jumped in August to the highest level in four months, suggesting the economy is avoiding fallout from weaker global growth and increasing the central bank’s scope to resume rate increases. Oster talks from Melbourne with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Joseph Capurso, a currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation's largest lender, talks about the outlook for the Australian dollar.
     The currency traded near a two-year high before its central bank tomorrow releases minutes of this month’s policy meeting when it said interest rates were appropriate "for the time being." Capurso talks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
