-- Mosque Shooting, Australia Security Warning Jolt Delhi Games
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-09-20T08:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/australia-warns-of-high-risk-of-terrorism-at-commonwealth-games-in-india.html

          
          
             Indian police blamed criminals 
rather than a terrorist network for the shooting of two 
Taiwanese nationals in Delhi a fortnight before the start of
the  Commonwealth Games , as Australia issued a security warning.  
 The shooting yesterday was the work of a “criminal gang”
and not a “terror attack,” Delhi  police  spokesman  Rajan Bhagat 
said by telephone today. Still, security agencies had issued a
“red alert” in the city, he said, adding there had been no
arrests.  
 The Indian Mujahideen, a domestic militant group that
claimed bombings in Delhi and the cities of Jaipur and Ahmedabad
in 2008 that killed at least 150 people, issued a statement
saying it was behind the attack outside Delhi’s biggest mosque.
One of two men riding a motorbike opened fire, injuring two
Taiwan citizens who had been filming a documentary near the  Jama
Masjid .  
 “Australians in New Delhi should be aware that the
Commonwealth Games will be held in a security environment where
there is a high risk of terrorism,” Australia’s Department of
Foreign Affairs and Trade department  said  on its website in a
travel bulletin issued today.  
 The Games, which feature 8,000 athletes from Britain and
its former colonies and dependencies, take place from Oct. 3-14.  
 The shooting was followed by a small explosion in the same
congested area of the city -- which includes other tourist
landmarks such as the Mughal-era Red Fort -- as inflammable
material placed inside a pressure cooker triggered a fire in a
parked car, Press Trust of India reported.  
 ‘Great Surprise’  
 A five-page statement purportedly from the Indian
Mujahideen and emailed to the media said a “great surprise”
was awaiting the Games, the  Indian Express  said.  
 India must now “convince the outside world” that the city
is secure by “arresting the perpetrators and taking more
security measures,” N.  Manoharan , an analyst at the Center for
 Land Warfare Studies  in New Delhi, said. The attackers “want to
send the signal to the outside world that Delhi is not safe
despite all the hype about security.”  
 The Indian government will station snipers on roof tops,
and locate teams of police commandos at strategic locations near
Games venues, Home Secretary  Gopal Krishna Pillai  said in
February. About 100,000 spectators are expected to visit the
city during the event, which have also been hit by delays to
construction work and allegations of corruption.  
 “The Ministry of  Home Affairs  and Delhi police have made
elaborate arrangements to provide the Commonwealth Games
athletes and officials a safe and secure environment,” Lalit
Bhanot, the secretary general of the Commonwealth Games
organizing committee, said in a statement.  
 U.S. Warning  
 The U.S. also issued a travel advisory yesterday to its
citizens asking them to be cautious. “U.S. citizens are urged
to always practice good security, maintain a heightened
situational awareness and a low profile,” according to one
warden  message  issued by U.S. embassy in New Delhi.  
 “India will feel that these travel advisories are
unjustified to some extent,”  Raghbendra Jha , economics
professor at Canberra-based Australian National University, said
in a phone interview today. “But it knows that the Commonwealth
Games will be a tense period.”  
 Indian Mujahideen has links with the Pakistan-based
guerrilla group Lashkar-e-Taiba, Rand Corp. analyst  Christine
Fair  has written. Lashkar gunmen carried out the November 2008
three-day siege of Mumbai, India and the U.S. say.  
 A bombing in March this year in a bakery in the western
city of Pune killed at 17 people, according to the  South Asian
Terrorism Portal , the only major terrorist strike since the end
of 2008.  
 ‘Acceptable Security’  
 India’s Home Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  has said that
some attacks in recent years may have been carried out by right-
wing Hindu groups.  
 The Australian Commonwealth Games Association said it will
continue to maintain a “high level of security awareness” and
take advice from its own security consultants as well as Indian
and Australian authorities.  
 “The ACGA remains of the view that there is an acceptable
level of security being provided for our 2010 Commonwealth Games
team in New Delhi,” Perry Crosswhite, the association’s chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australia Warning Jolt Delhi Games Preparation  
                       
                         
                           STRDEL/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         A car which burst into flames is seen near the site of a shooting in the old section of New Delhi. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A car which burst into flames is seen near the site of a shooting in the old section of New Delhi. Source: STRDEL/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
