-- Hochfelder Gets Prison Term for Stealing $20 Million From Banks, Friends
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/max-capital-s-hochfelder-sentenced-to-as-long-as-eight-years-for-fraud.html
Adam Hochfelder , the co-founder of
the real estate investment company Max Capital Management Corp.,
who stole about $20 million from banks, friends and family
members, was sentenced to as long as eight years in prison.  A sentence of two years eight months to eight years in
prison was handed down yesterday by New York state Supreme Court
Justice  Michael Obus  in Manhattan. Obus also ordered Hochfelder
to pay $9.5 million in restitution. Hochfelder, 39, pleaded
guilty in May to 15 counts of grand larceny and three counts of
scheming to defraud over more than five years.  Hochfelder is a former chairman and chief executive officer
of New York-based Max Capital, which he helped start in 1996
with  Richard Kalikow . Max Capital’s properties included the
Helmsley building at 230 Park Ave. in Manhattan.  Obus had promised Hochfelder a prison sentence of no more
than four to 12 years when he pleaded guilty.  “I did not expect to deviate from that sentence,” the
judge said in court yesterday. Obus said there was “more
nuance” to the case than he expected, including that victims,
many of whom are friends and family members, didn’t want
Hochfelder to be punished severely and were concerned about
being made whole.  “I’m not sure this is the right decision,” the judge
said.  Manhattan District Attorney  Cyrus Vance Jr.  said Hochfelder
misrepresented the value of his personal holdings and collateral
to obtain millions of dollars in loans from a childhood friend,
an uncle and two banks. He also got a family member to invest
$1.3 million in a fictitious business, Vance’s office said in
May, when it announced the plea.  ‘Victims’ Trust’  “Hochfelder held himself out as a legitimate
businessperson while systematically violating his victims’
trust,” Vance said yesterday in a statement. “In addition to
prison time, we aggressively pursued restitution so that this
defendant’s many victims can start to rebuild.”  Assistant District Attorney Gary Fishman had asked Obus to
impose a sentence of four to 12 years. Marc Agnifilo, one of
Hochfelder’s lawyers, asked the judge to sentence his client to
two to six years behind bars. Hochfelder once had a “very
severe” cocaine problem and bipolar disorder, Agnifilo told
Obus.  ‘Great Regret’  “Not one day has gone by in the last several years that I
have not felt great remorse and great regret for what I have
done,” Hochfelder said yesterday in court. He said he had
already paid back millions of dollars. “I will complete the
payment to all of you,” he said.  In 2002, Hochfelder bought Kalikow out and went into
partnership with Anthony Westreich, according to prosecutors. In
2004, the Westreich partnership dissolved.  Lauren Wachtler , another Hochfelder lawyer, said her client
hadn’t used drugs since 2008. She said Hochfelder had been
working for Heritage Realty in Manhattan and earned more than
$250,000 a year.  The cases are People v. Hochfelder, 01979-2008 and 00050-
2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 