-- Witness Says HSBC Told Him of Fake Documents U.S. Ties to Tax Fraud Crime
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   M o r t   L u c o f f
-- 2010-09-21T19:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/tax-fraud-trial-witness-tells-florida-jury-document-signatures-not-his.html
A witness at the tax fraud trial of
hotel developer Mauricio Cohen Assor said that a banker at HSBC
Holdings Plc alerted him to forged documents that prosecutors
claim were used to cheat the Internal Revenue Service.  Cohen, 77, and his son,  Leon Cohen Levy , 46, are on trial
in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, accused of conspiring to defraud
the IRS and filing false tax returns that hid income and
$150 million in assets. Mauricio Cohen’s brother-in-law, Habib
Levy Sibony, said his HSBC banker asked him in 2007 about
documents showing he owned several Cohen companies at the heart
of the federal trial.  Levy said the documents were forged, and he didn’t own or
manage the Cohen companies. Defense lawyer Michael Pasano sought
in cross-examination to show that Levy was lying, and he owned
the companies as the documents stated, not Mauricio Cohen.  Pasano asked Cohen why he didn’t follow up with HSBC.  “I didn’t want to cause Mauricio Cohen problems when I
realized” he “had forged my signature,” Levy said. “He had
asked me not to cause any problems with him and my sister.”  Levy, a resident of Caracas, spoke in Spanish through an
interpreter and told jurors that Cohen had used his name on
documents to avoid taxes in France. He said Cohen later forged
his name on many other corporate papers.  Levy said he testified for prosecutors after reading the
April 15 arrest complaint for the father and son, who built
hotels in Europe under the “ Flatotel ” brand, as well as one in
New York, which was sold in 2000.  Swiss Account  Prosecutors said they put the $33 million proceeds from
that sale in a Swiss account of  HSBC , Europe’s largest bank by
market value, and hid it from the IRS.  He said he was concerned that Cohen had used his name on
documents falsely stating that he owned companies. He said he
agreed to testify after prosecutors gave him a “safe passage”
letter assuring him he would not be arrested in the U.S. as long
as he told the truth.  Prosecutors yesterday showed photographs of Cohen’s
apartment in Paris; his son’s Miami Beach home worth $26
million; and his Miami Beach home worth $20 million.  The case is USA v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Mort Lucoff  in Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
at  morsybil@bellsouth.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 