-- Banks Seeking Most Cash Since July Drive Up Borrowing Costs: India Credit
-- V. Ramakrishnan
-- 2010-09-20T11:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/banks-seeking-most-cash-since-july-drive-up-borrowing-costs-india-credit.html

          
          
             Banks in India are increasing
borrowing from the central bank to the most since July as a
shortage of cash drives short-term interest rates higher.  
 Financial institutions  borrowed  a daily average of 294
billion rupees ($6.4 billion) last week, after depositing 69
billion a day in the previous week, Reserve Bank of India data
show.  Overnight lending rates  climbed to a six-month high of
6.10 percent on Sept. 17 from 5.25 percent a week earlier, as
companies pay taxes this month and people withdraw cash ahead of
religious holidays. That was the biggest jump since the period
ended June 5. It is at 6.20 percent today.  
 Banks have borrowed more than they deposited with the
 monetary authority  for four straight months, the longest stretch
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., as Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao  reins in money-supply growth to help cool
inflation in the world’s second-most populous nation. Subbarao
increased interest rates for the fifth time this year last week,
sending yields on 10-year Indian bonds toward a two-year high,
above those of China and Russia and below those of Brazil.  
 “Until inflation begins to dissipate, the central bank may
continue to keep cash conditions tight,”  Abheek Barua , chief
economist in New Delhi at  HDFC Bank Ltd. , India’s third largest,
said in a Sept. 16 interview. “The RBI has a plethora of policy
options to ease liquidity including easing reserve requirements
and raising foreign investment limit on debt, but they are
deliberately keeping it tight.”  
 Subbarao is concerned that higher rates have failed to stop
record lending. He is trying to slow  inflation , which surged to
11 percent in April before slowing to 8.5 percent in August, as
measured by wholesale prices. The Reserve Bank’s dominant
concern is inflation, he told reporters today in the southern
city of Hyderabad.  
 Inflation, Lending  
 Loans to companies including Essar Steel Ltd. and  Videocon
Industries Ltd . climbed 36 percent to 2.1 trillion rupees this
year, the most since Bloomberg started compiling the data in
2002.  State Bank of India  and  ICICI Bank Ltd ., the nation’s two
biggest, have raised their lending rates by 0.5 percentage point
this year, less than the 1.25 percentage-point increase in the
central bank’s benchmark repurchase rate.  
 India’s banks may push up their rates by 50 to 100 basis
points by December, helping bring down inflation to about 5.5
percent by the end of 2010, said HDFC’s Barua.  
 Last week’s borrowing by banks was the most since they
sought an average 642 billion rupees a day in the week ended
July 23, central bank data show. Indian companies withdrew funds
before the Sept. 15 deadline to pay corporate tax. Consumers may
also tap savings before the Hindu festivals of Dussehra in
October and Diwali in November.  
 The last time banks were net borrowers for four consecutive
months was between May and November in 2008, as the global
financial crisis deepened.  
 Yields Rise  
 The  cash reserve ratio , the proportion of deposits lenders
should keep with the central bank, was last increased by 0.25
percentage point to 6 percent on April 26. International
 holdings  of India’s rupee debt climbed 120 percent this year to
$16.6 billion as of Sept. 16, approaching the $20 billion limit,
according to data from the  Securities & Exchange Board of India .  
 The yield on India’s benchmark  10-year bond  rose 7 basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, last week to 7.98 percent, and
is one basis point below that level today.  While the rate has
climbed 38 basis points in 2010, it has slid 15 basis points
from a high of 8.12 percent on April 27. Similar-maturity bonds
yield 3.23 percent in China, 7.61 percent in Russia and 11.84
percent in Brazil.  
 The  difference  in yields between the debt and similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries widened to 5.25 percentage points on
Sept. 17 from 5.10 percentage point a week earlier. This
compares with an average 3.17 points in the past decade. The
measure peaked at 5.56 points on Aug. 26.  
 Worst Performers  
 Returns from Indian government bonds fell 0.25 percent this
month, losing the most after Singapore and Hong Kong among 10
local-currency debt markets outside Japan, according to indexes
compiled by London-based  HSBC  Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest
bank. The notes returned 3 percent this year, the worst
performance in the region excluding Japan.  
 The cost of fixing rates on money for three years in the
market for so-called interest-rate swaps, climbed 25 basis
points last week to 6.77 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It had dropped 42 basis points in the previous six weeks.  
 Signaling Pause  
 In raising rates, the Indian central bank “suggested that
the path of policy normalization was over, which we interpret as
signaling a long pause,”  Piero Ghezzi , the global head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Barclays Capital in London, wrote
in a Sept. 17 report.  
 The rupee appreciated 1.4 percent last week to 45.845 per
dollar, the most since the five-day period ended June 18, and
extended gains by 0.4 percent to 45.68 per dollar today. The
benchmark Sensitive Index of  shares  surged 4.2 percent last week
and jumped 1.6 percent today.  
 Subbarao may seek more curbs on credit in November,
including tighter rules for loans to property developers, said
Shubhada Rao, Mumbai-based chief economist at  Yes Bank Ltd ., a
lender part owned by  Rabobank Nederland NV  and HSBC.  
 “The RBI is making sure that liquidity stays tight,”
 Ramit Bhasin , the Mumbai-based head of markets in India at Royal
Bank of Scotland NV, said in a Sept. 17 interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 V. Ramakrishnan  in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Banks Seeking Most Cash Since July Drive Up Rates  
                       
                         
                           Adeel Halim/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Governor Duvvuri Subbarao increased interest rates for the fifth time this year last week, sending yields on Indian bonds toward a two-year high. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Governor Duvvuri Subbarao increased interest rates for the fifth time this year last week, sending yields on Indian bonds toward a two-year high. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
