-- Bankruptcy Turnarounds Menaced by Investor Valuation Fights, Lifland Says
-- Tiffany Kary
-- 2010-09-20T22:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/bankruptcy-turnarounds-menaced-by-investor-valuation-fights-lifland-says.html

          
          
             Companies trying to rehabilitate
themselves through bankruptcy are threatened by valuation fights
among late-arriving investors, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  told lawyers and judges at a conference in New York.  
 The recent Chapter 11 reorganizations of  Calpine Corp.  and
 Citadel Broadcasting Corp.  have required judicial intervention
in such disputes to help the companies exit bankruptcy, said
Lifland, speaking today at the Seventh Annual Complex Financial
Restructuring Program at Fordham University School of Law.  
 “We are troubled, we as judges, by those who use abusive
tactics to undermine constructive negotiations,” Lifland said,
addressing bankruptcy lawyers and Manhattan bankruptcy judges
including  Stuart Bernstein ,  Allan Gropper  and  Shelley Chapman .  
 “As evidenced by Calpine and Citadel, success rests on
courts’ ability to tamp down on a dispute over valuation,”
Lifland said. He said the “here today, gone tomorrow” attitude
of investors who trade in a bankrupt company’s debt threatens
the U.S. bankruptcy process, once a model emulated by other
countries.  
 Lifland said that in recent years, the power balance in
bankruptcy has tipped as the lending market has tightened,
making debtors more beholden to creditors for financing.  
 “There will be a lot more valuation fights than sales,”
in upcoming bankruptcies, said Christopher K. Wu, a managing
director at distressed investor and adviser Carl Marks Advisory
Group LLC, moderating a panel at the same conference today.  
 Chemtura Versus Shareholders  
 Chemical and plastic additives maker  Chemtura Corp.  is in
the middle of a Manhattan court battle with shareholders over
their claim that the bankrupt chemical maker’s enterprise value
is more than its estimate of $2.05 billion.  
 The committee of shareholders, represented by law firm
 Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP , could possibly boost
their recovery if they show at the trial that Chemtura is worth
more than its own estimate under its proposed Chapter 11 plan.  
 Such trials can prolong a company’s time in bankruptcy and
also add to the expense of its reorganization.  
 “Skadden has made no secret that they have 100 lawyers
working on challenging our valuation,”  Natasha Labovitz , a
lawyer for Chemtura with Kirkland & Ellis LLP, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Robert Gerber  at a Sept. 16 hearing that kicked
off the trial.  
 Innovative Resolution  
 Calpine, the biggest producer of power from natural gas and
geothermal energy, exited bankruptcy in January 2008. Lifland
said his appointment of a valuation expert, the now-deceased
chief executive of Bridge Associates LLC,  Anthony Schnelling ,
was an innovative way to resolve arguments that the company had
vastly disparate values. According to court documents filed in
the case, proposed values for the company ranged from $16.25
billion to $23.2 billion.  
 “To prevent the hijacking of confirmation, I did something
without precedent,” Lifland said.  
 In the case of Citadel, one of the largest radio
broadcasters in the U.S., Lifland said investors who bought into
the company just weeks before it was supposed to exit bankruptcy
came in with ill-informed valuation experts. His solution: “To
prevent the case from spiraling into a charade, I fast-tracked
confirmation.”  
 Hedge funds and other investors who trade in a company’s
debt throughout its bankruptcy serve a purpose other than
profiting for themselves, said lawyer Michael Friedman, partner
in the bankruptcy group at Richards Kibbe & Orbe LLP, speaking
in a phone interview.  
 “A valuation fight may disrupt a train toward confirmation
of a plan, but that plan could unfairly contain a windfall to
some of the more senior classes at the expense of the junior
classes,” Friedman said.  
 Lifland said that while investors have a legal right to
intervene in a case, “their motives for doing so can’t
always be squared with the overall objectives of Chapter 11.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        