-- Bank of America Said to Fire as Many as 400 Employees
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-09-21T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/bank-of-america-said-to-fire-as-many-as-400-employees-globally.html
Bank of America Corp. , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, is firing as many as 400 employees in its
global banking and markets division as revenue from trading and
advising clients declines, a person briefed on the matter said.  The moves follow a review led by  Thomas Montag , the former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner who joined the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank through the purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co.
in 2009. Employees ranging in seniority from managing directors
to junior analysts will be affected by immediate dismissals, the
person said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the
decision hasn’t been publicly announced.  “This sounds like an acceleration of the usual year-end
cutbacks among the lowest performers in each business,” said
 Richard Lipstein , a consultant at Boyden Global Executive Search
in New York. “Despite concerns over the markets, Wall Street
executives are trying hard not to turn the layoff spigot on.”  Firms including Barclays Capital and Credit Suisse Group AG
have begun cutting staffs as the fixed-income trading boom
slows. In the third quarter, the five largest Wall Street banks
may produce their lowest revenue from investment banking and
trading since the fourth quarter of 2008, when they had combined
negative revenue of $3.35 billion, analysts have said.  Bank of America’s banking and markets business hired more
than 800 people outside the U.S. in the past 18 months,
extending Merrill Lynch’s reach, Chief Executive Officer  Brian Moynihan , 50, said last week at an investment conference in New
York. The company hasn’t said how many people work in the
business unit or how many have been added in the U.S.  Other Banks  Barclays Capital added 3,600 people in the 12 months ended
June 30, while Credit Suisse picked up 1,300. Credit Suisse said
in August it will eliminate 75 posts in the U.K., while Barclays
Capital is cutting 300 administrative jobs, a person with
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Securities firms around the world will cut as many as 80,000
jobs in the next 18 months as revenue growth begins to slow,
bank analyst  Meredith Whitney  of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group
LLC said in a report dated Aug. 31.  Bank of America’s banking and markets business had a  profit 
of $4.1 billion in the first half, a 35 percent decline from a
year earlier when it reported a $3.8 billion pretax gain from
the sale of its merchant-processing business. Sales and trading
revenue increased 0.7 percent as fixed-income, currency and
commodities trading exceeded declining equity income.  The firings don’t reflect a strategy shift at Bank of
America, the person briefed on the matter said. The company “is
confident that we’ll move to number one in investment banking in
the world,” Moynihan said last week at a Barclays Capital
conference in New York.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see similar types of
reductions at many other companies as they right-size their
staffs,” said  Tom Lewandowski , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
in St. Louis who has a “buy” rating on Bank of America  stock .
“There has been a decline in overall business as people head to
the sidelines in many areas of trading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  