-- Munger Says `Thank God' U.S. Opted for Bailouts Over Handouts
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-09-20T15:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/berkshire-s-munger-says-cash-strapped-should-suck-it-in-not-get-bailout.html

          
          
             Charles Munger , the billionaire
vice chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , defended the U.S.
financial-company rescues of 2008 and told students that people
in economic distress should “suck it in and cope.”  
 “You should thank God” for bank bailouts, Munger said in
a  discussion  at the University of Michigan on Sept. 14,
according to a video posted on the Internet. “Now, if you talk
about bailouts for everybody else, there comes a place where if
you just start bailing out all the individuals instead of
telling them to adapt, the culture dies.”  
 Bank rescues allowed the U.S. to avoid what could have been
an “awful” downturn and will help the country as it deals with
the housing slump, Munger, 86, said. He used the example of
post-World War I Germany to explain how the bailouts under
Presidents  George W. Bush  and  Barack Obama  were “absolutely
required to save your civilization.”  
 “Hit the economy with enough misery and enough disruption,
destroy the currency, and God knows what happens,” Munger said.
“So I think when you have troubles like that you shouldn’t be
bitching about a little bailout. You should have been thinking
it should have been bigger.”  
 Germany was unable to stabilize its financial system in the
1920s, and, Munger said, “We ended up with  Adolf Hitler .”  
 Taxpayer funds injected into banks helped insulate bond
investors from losses and cushioned stock declines for equity
holders. U.S. programs designed to ease the burden for
distressed mortgage holders didn’t prevent foreclosures from
rising to a record. One out of every 381 households received a
foreclosure filing in August, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  
 Angry Public  
 “Charlie Munger is misrepresenting history, and that’s why
the public is angry at Wall Street,” said  Joshua Rosner , an
analyst at research firm Graham Fisher & Co. “We could have
wiped out the equity holders before we wiped out the taxpayer.”  
 Berkshire had advanced 26 percent on the New York Stock
Exchange this year as of Sept. 17 and benefited from a recovery
in earnings at some of its main bank holdings. It is the largest
shareholder of  Wells Fargo & Co. , the biggest U.S. home lender,
with a stake valued at more than $8 billion. Berkshire also owns
$5 billion of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  preferred stock.  
 Munger won a cult following among investors for his
economic insights and a direct manner of delivering his views.
“He’s irascible, brilliant and doesn’t suffer fools gladly,”
said Berkshire investor  Jeff Matthews  of Ram Partners LP.  
 Munger is welcomed by crowds of tens of thousands each year
when he takes the stage with Berkshire Chairman  Warren Buffett ,
his longtime business partner, at the annual company meeting.
Thousands have also turned up at the annual meeting of Wesco
Financial Corp., a Berkshire unit where Munger is chairman.  
 ‘Exactly Wrong’  
 At the Michigan event, one questioner said he had attended
both Berkshire and Wesco meetings. “You mean the groupies have
followed me here?” Munger asked. To another who asked whether
the government should have bailed out homeowners instead of Wall
Street, Munger said: “You’ve got it exactly wrong.”  
 “There’s danger in just shoveling out money to people who
say, ‘My life is a little harder than it used to be,’” Munger
said at the event, which was moderated by CNBC’s  Becky Quick .
“At a certain place you’ve got to say to the people, ‘Suck it
in and cope, buddy. Suck it in and cope.’”  
 At the same event, Munger said private investment may
advance society more than charity. He’s a director at  Costco
Wholesale Corp. , the largest U.S. warehouse-club chain, and has
been Berkshire’s vice chairman for more than three decades.  
 ‘A Better Place’  
 “I believe Costco does more for civilization than the
Rockefeller Foundation,” Munger said. “I think it’s a better
place. You get a bunch of very intelligent people sitting around
trying to do good, I immediately get kind of suspicious and
squirm in my seat.”  
 Charitable donations by Munger have aided California
institutions including Stanford University, the Harvard-Westlake
School and the Huntington Library. He is  chairman  of Good
Samaritan Hospital of Los Angeles and gave  $3 million  to the
University of Michigan’s law school to improve lighting.  
 Buffett, 80, has praised U.S. policymakers for the
financial company bailouts. The world’s third-richest person,
who oversees businesses selling insurance, candy and
recreational vehicles, told Berkshire shareholders last year
that the U.S. needs a stable financial system.  
 “Like it or not, the inhabitants of Wall Street, Main
Street and the various Side Streets of America were all in the
 same boat ,” Buffett said in the letter accompanying Berkshire’s
2008 annual report. “Whatever the downsides may be, strong and
immediate action by government was essential,” he said in the
letter, published in February 2009.  
 ‘Tough Love’  
 Munger slipped 16 places to 230th on Forbes magazine’s 2009
ranking of the wealthiest Americans as Berkshire’s stock gain
last year  trailed  the advance in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index . His stake in Berkshire, which didn’t take government aid,
is worth about $1.6 billion.  
 “To say you need tough love sometimes is probably right,”
said  David Kotok , chief investment officer of Cumberland
Advisors Inc. He said single mothers are unable to find work and
added, “So I think it’s kind of harsh to say, ‘Tough, no help
for you.’”  
 New York-based Goldman Sachs took $10 billion in U.S.
capital, while San Francisco-based Wells Fargo received $25
billion. Both banks have repaid the bailouts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Charles Munger, vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Charles Munger, vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Charles Munger, vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
