-- Reinstoff Offers Sliced Peas, Fire-Station Cool: Berlin Dining
-- Catherine Hickley
-- 2010-09-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/berlin-s-classiest-new-eatery-has-bisected-peas-fire-station-cool-review.html

          
          
             A couple of mouthfuls into an
exquisite dish of satiny, lightly marinated tuna, pea puree and
pomelo, it dawned on me that someone had cut my peas in half.  
 Not just anyhow -- they were bisected with precision. It
was one of many examples of the attention to detail that makes
Reinstoff Berlin’s classiest new restaurant and a worthy winner
of a Michelin star in 2009, the year it opened.  
 It’s housed in the former fire station of the factory where
AEG made the first mass-produced light bulbs. The old warehouses
are now populated by a film company, an art gallery, an
advertising agency and technology and software firms. Strains of
French, Russian and English drifted past my table in the
courtyard as jeans-clad workers clocked out after a long day.  
 The young team at Reinstoff (the name means pure substance)
met while working at Juan Amador’s three-Michelin-starred
restaurant  Amador , in Langen, near Frankfurt. Amador cites
Ferran Adria of El Bulli in Spain as an inspiration. Adria’s
experimental approach has filtered through to Daniel Achilles,
the talented chef at Reinstoff. Sommelier Ivo Ebert serves
Spanish as well as German wines.  
 You might expect people who split peas to be overly fussy
and formal, not the most comfortable company. Yet the beauty of
the Reinstoff experience is that there is nothing to distract
from the food, without doubt the main reason to go there.  
 Exposed Brickwork  
 The decor is cool, dark and understated with exposed
brickwork and broad metal pipes. The focal point is a metallic
grid hung with silver spheres on the ceiling. The atmosphere is
calm and relaxed, as are the customers.  
 The service is unobtrusively choreographed. Diners choose
from two menus: “Ganz Nah” (Quite Near) serves local produce;
“Weiter Draussen” (Far Away) has more exotic fare. Six courses
(and they are small) cost 89 euros ($115) on each menu. We opted
for the accompanying wines by the glass, at 46 euros. This kind
of quality doesn’t come cheap.  
 Scouring the “Quite Near” menu, which my guest chose, I
was impressed by the treats to be found in the wilds of the
Brandenburg countryside, the flat, under populated and
relatively poor region surrounding Berlin that always appears an
expanse of not much when you go through it on the train: Great
for swimming in the lakes and riding bikes, not known as a
gourmet paradise.  
 Brandenburg Buffalos  
 I learned that a  farm in Jueterbog , 70 kilometers south of
Berlin, produces organic mozzarella and ricotta from a herd of
water buffalos. And that “navettes” (a white turnip variety)
from Teltow, between Berlin and Potsdam, are a delicacy when
lightly steamed and served with thin slices of marinated beef.  
 A selection of amuse-bouche included a mouth-watering
quail’s egg in a mustard sauce, a sliver of eel on a beetroot
biscuit and a chocolatey duck’s liver with mango. Ebert served a
refreshing aperitif of rhubarb and white-currant essence mixed
with Cava.  
 The most memorable dishes were raw trout in a vichyssoise
sauce; the tuna with the pea; venison with creamy avocado and
sweet-corn; and a carrot-and-orange ice cream on a stick. A
desert of wild berries came with cotton candy. I haven’t even
mentioned the melting suckling pork -- or the mint chocolates.  
 Letting the sommelier select wines proved a good idea. He
opted for some bold pairings we never would have chosen. A
German pinot noir was served with plaice; cheese came with a
Spanish Muscadet.  
 Dining at  Reinstoff  should be treated like an evening at
the theater. It’s almost a shame to go if you have business to
discuss that might divert attention from the food. It’s best to
sit back, soak up the performances, anticipate each scene change
and let the evening unfold.  
 The pea-cutting sous-chef can take a bow.  
 Reinstoff is closed on Sundays and Mondays. Address: Edison
Hoefe Berlin Mitte, Schlegelstrasse 26c, 10115 Berlin. For more
information,  http://www.reinstoff.eu  or call +49-30-3088-1214.  
 Bloomberg Questions  
 Cost? About 140 euros per person including wine.  
 Sound level? Low.  
 Date place? Yes.  
 Special features? Understated perfectionism.  
 Private room? No.  
 Will I be back? Yes.  
 Rating: ***1/2  

 
What the Stars Mean
****          Incomparable food, service, ambience.
***           First-class of its kind.
**            Good, reliable.
*             Fair.
0 (no stars)  Poor.
 
 ( Catherine Hickley  is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Reinstoff  
                       
                         
                           Reinstoff via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Reinstoff in Berlin Germany. The restaurant, which was founded last year in Berlin, was started by three young business partners who won their first Michelin star in 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Reinstoff in Berlin Germany. The restaurant, which was founded last year in Berlin, was started by three young business partners who won their first Michelin star in 2009. Source: Reinstoff via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Daniel Achilles  
                       
                         
                           Goetz Schleser/Restaurant Reinstoff via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Daniel Achilles, the chef of the Berlin restaurant Reinstoff. Reinstoff won its first Michelin star in 2009, the year it was founded. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Daniel Achilles, the chef of the Berlin restaurant Reinstoff. Reinstoff won its first Michelin star in 2009, the year it was founded. Photographer: Goetz Schleser/Restaurant Reinstoff via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
