-- Bharti Turns to Bollywood, Satellite TV, as Mobile Profits Slow
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-09-20T10:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/bharti-turns-to-bollywood-films-satellite-tv-as-profit-from-mobile-slows.html

          
          
             Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s largest
mobile-phone company, forecast “rapid growth” at its satellite
television unit on rising demand in rural areas for Bollywood
movies and soap operas.  
 Bharti has signed up 3.8 million customers to gain a 14
percent market share, said Ajai Puri, chief executive officer of
the company’s digital TV services business. Industrywide, as
many as 12 million people may take up satellite television this
year, Puri said in an interview on Sept. 17 in New Delhi.  
 A price war following the entry of new players like  NTT
DoCoMo Inc.  and Telenor ASA pushed mobile-phone call rates down
to as low as a penny a minute, damping earnings growth at
Bharti, and prompting the carrier to seek new revenue
opportunities. The company is offering a pay-per-view TV
service, where new Bollywood movies are made available to rural
customers within three weeks of their release in city cinemas.  
 “The potential is very, very large,” said  Apurva Shah ,
head of research at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai. “But
it’s going to entail huge upfront investments and the ability to
sustain losses for several years to make a mark in this
business. It’s ultra competitive.”  
 Bharti, which started its direct-to-home TV service in
October 2008, lags behind  Dish TV India Ltd. , billionaire
 Kalanithi Maran ’s Sun TV Network Ltd., and Tata Sky Ltd., a
venture between India’s Tata Group and  Rupert Murdoch ’s Star
Group. Still, it leads its nearest wireless rival Reliance
Communications Ltd., which started its satellite TV business the
same year as Bharti, and has about 3 million customers.  
 ‘Positioned Very Well’  
 Satellite television subscribers in India surged to 21.3
million in the 12 months ended March 31 from 13.1 million a year
earlier, according to  data  from the nation’s telecommunications
regulator. With only a third of the nation’s 240 million
households having access to cable television, Bharti aims to
leverage its wireless-services retail network in towns and
villages to increase its share of direct-to-home accounts.  
 “The market is poised for rapid growth,” Puri said. “We
are positioned very well within the market to take a large chunk
of that growth. We have mobile distribution through 1.5 million
to 1.6 million retailers. These retailers are also available to
our DTH platform for servicing customers.”  
 Bharti  shares rose 2 percent as of the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai trading to 365.95 rupees, the highest since Oct. 5, 2009.
The stock is the  best performer  in the past three months on
India’s benchmark Sensitive Index, having climbed 38 percent
compared with the 13 percent advance by the Sensex.  
 Cheapest Entertainment  
 Profit growth  at Bharti has slowed in each of the past
three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company’s net income in the year ending in March may decline for
the first time in at least eight years to 74 billion rupees
($1.6 billion), according to the average of 27 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Bharti’s DTH service can cost as little as 150 rupees
($3.3) a month for a basic subscription offering a limited
number of channels, Puri said.  
 “For a customer in rural India, this is the cheapest form
of entertainment,” said Puri. “A customer, at a cost of 5
rupees a day gets entertainment for his entire family” while he
would have to spend a minimum of 100 rupees to take them out for
a night at the cinema, he said.  
 ‘Kill Piracy’  
 The pay-per-view service where new Bollywood movies are
offered to rural customers within three weeks of their
theatrical release is aimed at giving viewers in small towns and
villages almost “a premiere,” Puri said. “Now producers have
realized that DTH because of its national pan-India footprint,
is the best way to kill piracy. So they give us a movie and we
do a national release.”  
 Dish TV, a part of the Essel Group that also owns
broadcaster Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd., started services
in 2004 and had 8 million subscribers as of August, said Ritu
Jain, a spokeswoman for the company. Tata Sky began its service
in 2006 and has 5.5 million subscribers, said Franko William, a
spokesman for the company.  
 Satellite television services are unlikely to see the same
steep price cuts of the mobile phone industry, said Puri.  
 “Look at price cuts that have happened in mobile, where a
lot of operators who didn’t have scale cut prices below their
cost levels and only eroded value in the industry,” Puri said.
“We’re the fifth operator to enter the DTH space, but we’re not
going to lead any price cuts.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bharti Turns to Bollywood, Satellite TV  
                       
                         
                           Prashanth Vishwanathan/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A price war following the entry of new players NTT DoCoMo Inc. and Telenor ASA pushed down mobile-phone call rates to as low as a penny a minute, damping earnings growth at Bharti, and prompting the carrier to seek new growth opportunities. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A price war following the entry of new players NTT DoCoMo Inc. and Telenor ASA pushed down mobile-phone call rates to as low as a penny a minute, damping earnings growth at Bharti, and prompting the carrier to seek new growth opportunities. Photographer: Prashanth Vishwanathan/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
