-- Bridgestone, Goodyear Face Deepening Rubber Shortage
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-09-21T10:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/biggest-rubber-shortage-in-four-years-means-20-rise-in-tiremaker-expenses.html
  Bridgestone Corp ., the largest
tiremaker by sales, is raising European prices for the second
time this year and  Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co . is charging more
as rubber gains on prospects for the biggest shortage since 2007.  “Drought earlier this year and heavy rains later on
hampered tree-tapping across Asian plantations,” said Pongsak
Kerdvongbundit, managing director of Phuket, Thailand-based Von
Bundit Co., the largest natural-rubber producer and exporter in
the world’s biggest supplier. “Global production will lag
behind soaring demand for at least another two years.”  Stockpiles of the raw material, also used in gloves and
condoms, will drop 12 percent to 67 days of demand next year,
the lowest level in at least a decade, according to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Consumption will outpace supply by 127,000
metric tons, the most since 2007, the bank estimates. Futures in  Singapore  may jump 20 percent by March, said Makoto Sugitani, a
senior director at Newedge Japan Inc., who correctly predicted
the rally in January. That would mean a record $4.20 a kilogram.  Sales of rubber are increasing the most in six years,
helped by what the  International Monetary Fund  says will be the
fastest global economic growth since 2007. Rain and flooding in  Thailand  and Indonesia, the top producers, drenched farms and
curbed harvesting. Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-biggest
tiremaker, said in July that commodity costs would cut full-year
earnings by as much as 650 million euros ($850 million).  Shrinking Stockpiles  Futures may climb as much as 14 percent to $4 a kilogram by
March on the Singapore Commodity Exchange, according to the
median estimate of nine brokers and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Prices reached a record $4.11 on April 15 and closed
at $3.50 on Sept. 20, for an advance of 22 percent this year.  Inventories will drop almost 6 percent to 2.05 million tons
next year, for a third annual decline, Yuichiro Isayama and
three other analysts at Goldman Sachs in Tokyo said in a report
Sept. 3. La Nina, a phenomenon linked to extreme weather, is
likely to intensify at the end of the year, according to the
Thai weather office. That may cause higher-than-normal rainfall
in the south, which has 68 percent of the country’s plantations.  Global consumption will climb 9.4 percent this year to
10.31 million tons, the fastest increase since 2004, according
to the Singapore-based International Rubber  Study  Group, which
says it has 16 countries and the European Union as contributing
members. Demand will exceed output by 60,000 tons, from a
surplus of 237,000 tons last year.  Commodity Advance  Bridgestone announced European price increases Aug. 30.
Goodyear and Cooper Tire & Rubber Co., the two largest U.S.
tiremakers, confirmed Sept. 17 they would raise U.S. prices from
next month to recoup higher raw-material costs. Both companies
said they last raised retail prices in June.  World auto sales will increase 8 percent to 68.5 million
units this year and 7.2 percent to 73.4 million units next year,
according to Ashvin Chotai, London-based managing director at
Intelligence Automotive Asia Ltd. The economy in  China , the
biggest auto market, will expand 8.9 percent next year, more
than three times the pace of the U.S., according to the median
of as many as 60 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Even as governments fret about deflation, or declining
consumer prices, extreme weather from drought in Russia and
Ukraine to flooding in Pakistan and  Canada  is driving commodity
costs higher. Wheat as much as doubled since June, while corn
rallied to a 23-month high, coffee reached a 13-year peak and
cotton advanced to its most expensive since 1995. A United
Nations price-index of 55 foods rose to its highest level since
September 2008 last month.  ‘Chase a Rally’  “Rubber may chase a rally in grains and soft commodities
as investors are searching for better places to put their
money,” said Tokyo-based Sugitani of Newedge.  The U.S. producer price index increased 0.4 percent in
August, the most in five months and twice the gain in July, the
Labor Department reported Sept. 16.  Growth in demand for rubber may be undermined by a
faltering recovery. Global economic expansion will probably slow
in the second half of this year and in the first half of 2011,
IMF economists said in a report Sept. 10.  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly dropped to a
one-year low in September. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment fell to 66.6
from 68.9 in August, the group said Sept. 17, while U.S.
unemployment is close to a 26-year high.  Cooling Economies  U.S. industrial output increased 0.2 percent in August
after a 0.6 percent gain in July, the  Federal Reserve  said Sept.
15. Manufacturing in the New York region grew this month at the
slowest pace in more than a year, said another Fed report.  Auto sales in the U.S. in August were the worst for the
month in 28 years, according to Autodata Corp., a researcher in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . Passenger-car deliveries to Chinese
dealerships in July gained at the slowest pace in 16 months, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers reported. Almost
60 percent of the world’s rubber is consumed by the tire
industry, according to the International Rubber Study Group.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 6.3 percent from
this year’s high of 1,219.80 on April 26 on concern the recovery
is slowing, while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodity futures declined 4.5 percent since the gauge reached
555.729 on May 3. Treasuries returned 5.7 percent since then.  Demand from China and  India  may have peaked as governments
seek to cool their economies and deflate property bubbles, said
Chaiwat Muenmee, an analyst at Bangkok-based commodity broker DS
Futures Co. Rubber futures declined 9.6 percent since advancing
to a 21-month high of 338.5 yen a kilogram on April 16 on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange. They gained as much as 3.2 percent
today to the highest level in almost five months.  Bridgestone, Goodyear  Tiremakers are passing on the higher costs. Bridgestone
said Aug. 30 that it will raise tire prices in  Europe  from
October by as much as 6 percent. Increases by Goodyear and
Cooper were for as much as 6.5 percent starting next month.  “We don’t do a lot of raw-material hedging” said Keith
Price, a spokesman for Akron, Ohio-based Goodyear. Raw-material
costs are expected to jump by 30 percent to 35 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier and by about 30 percent in the
following quarter, Chief Financial Officer Darren R. Wells said
on a conference call July 29.  Top Glove Corp., based in Selangor,  Malaysia , and the
world’s biggest rubber-glove maker, passes on “the majority”
of higher costs, Executive Director Lim Cheong Guan said.  Rising costs are “a headache,” said Sakae Kubota,
managing director of  Okamoto Industries Inc ., Japan’s biggest
condom maker. Competition and demand mean the company is
absorbing the extra expense, the executive said.  Tumbling Inventories  Prices of $3,370 a ton for so-called Technically Specified
Rubber used in tire manufacturing are 53 percent more expensive
than alternatives made from oil, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Goldman Sachs’s Isayama said it’s impossible for tiremakers
to substitute immediately synthetic for natural rubber, and even
if substitution occurs, the volume should be limited to several
percent of total consumption.  Stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange and
the Tokyo Commodity Exchange have slumped. Shanghai inventories
plunged 72 percent in the past year while those reported by
Tocom tumbled about 47 percent.  Thailand’s production may drop as much as 5 percent to 3
million tons this year as rain disrupts tapping, according to
Pongsak. Output in  Indonesia , the second-largest grower, may
total 2.4 million tons, less than an earlier estimate of 2.6
million tons, said Suharto Honggokusumo, executive director of
the country’s rubber association.  “Demand keeps expanding and supplies are at risk,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Co. in Tokyo,
who helps manage as much as 35 billion yen and says prices may
reach a record by early next year. “The situation may reach a
critical point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 