-- Boeing 787 Dreamliner's Biggest Risk Is Rolls-Royce Engine, JPMorgan Says
-- Juliann Neher
-- 2010-09-20T20:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/boeing-dreamliner-s-biggest-risk-is-rolls-engine-jpmorgan-says.html

          
          
             Boeing Co. could see the biggest
risk to the development of its 787 Dreamliner jet coming from
engines supplied by  Rolls-Royce Group Plc , according to  Joseph Nadol , an aerospace analyst at JPMorgan Securities LLC.  
 In the seven weeks since the blowout of a Trent 1000 engine
on a Rolls-Royce test bed, neither Chicago-based Boeing nor
Rolls-Royce has determined whether it was caused by the engine
design or the way it was tested, Nadol wrote in a note today.  
 “Both companies express confidence that they can work
through this issue -- Rolls more so than BA,” Nadol said. “A
defect requiring a major redesign may be unlikely. However, the
impact of such a problem would be severe, and the Trent engine
therefore looks like the biggest risk for the 787.”  
 Last week’s disclosure of a power surge on a Rolls-Royce
engine on a test 787 adds to the uncertainty, said Nadol, who
rates Boeing as “neutral.” Boeing said it parked one of its
five Dreamliner test jets while crews replace a Trent 1000
engine that experienced the surge before takeoff on Sept. 10.  
 Boeing declared its first three test 787s weren’t fit for
sale to customers, and it announced a $2.5 billion charge.
Nadol, who is based in New York, said he was “increasingly
concerned” that Boeing also wouldn’t be able to sell three new
test aircraft, boosting those costs.  
 Replacement Engine  
 A replacement engine has been sent to New Mexico, where the
power surge occurred on a test plane,  Tom Brabant , a Boeing
spokesman, said today in a telephone interview. Testing resumed
over the weekend, he said.  
 A spokesman for London-based Rolls-Royce wasn’t available
for comment. Rolls-Royce competes with General Electric Co. to
build engines for the Dreamliner. The first 787 with GE-built
engines made its maiden test flight in June. The first four test
jets were equipped with Rolls-Royce engines.  
 Nadol said the leadership change to run the 747-8 jumbo-jet
program “suggests that Boeing is still getting its arms around
the new schedule and potential financial impact of the latest
delay” on the plane.  
 In August,  Pat Shanahan  replaced  Mohammad Yahyavi  as head
of the program, a month after Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  said workmanship and design issues put the 747-8 at
higher risk of not being delivered on time than the 787. The
first of the revamped jumbo jets may not reach its buyer,
Cargolux Airlines International SA, until 2011, Boeing has said.  
 Nadol said demand for Boeing’s 737, the world’s best-
selling airliner, is “solid” with a backlog of more than 2,000
planes. That represents more than four years of production based
on the rate Boeing announced last week, Nadol wrote.  
 Boeing rose 77 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $63.72 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 18 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Boeing 787’s Top Risk Is Rolls Engine, JPMorgan Says  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A visitor photographs inside the Rolls-Royce Plc engine of a Boeing Co. 787 Dreamliner airplane on the second day of the Farnborough International Airshow. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A visitor photographs inside the Rolls-Royce Plc engine of a Boeing Co. 787 Dreamliner airplane on the second day of the Farnborough International Airshow. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
