-- Boston Scientific to Buy Asthmatx for $193.5 Million Gaining Asthma Device
-- Ellen Gibson
-- 2010-09-20T20:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/boston-scientific-to-buy-asthmatx-for-193-5-million-gaining-asthma-device.html

          
          
             Boston Scientific Corp.  will buy
 Asthmatx Inc.,  a closely held company with an asthma treatment
device, for an initial payment of $193.5 million.  
 Asthmatx may receive added payments of as much as $250
million for reaching revenue targets, the companies said in a
statement. Boston Scientific will pay cash for the first
installment and expects the transaction to reduce earnings by 2
cents a share in 2011 and 2012.  
 Asthmatx, based in Sunnyvale, California, markets the Alair
Bronchial Thermoplasty System, the first non-drug therapy for
severe asthma approved by U.S. regulators, according to the
statement. The catheter-based system heats tissue of the airway
wall to prevent it from constricting. Uncontrolled asthma
results in about 2 million emergency room visits and 4,000
deaths per year, the companies said.  
 “With clinical trial data and FDA approval in hand” for
the Asthmatx product, the deal is “very positive news” for
Boston Scientific,  Rick Wise , an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co.
in New York, said in a note to clients today. “We expect there
will be other deals of this type in coming months.”  
 Boston Scientific, of Natick, Massachusetts, rose 12 cents,
or 2.2 percent, to $5.54 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  
 Inflamed Airways  
 Asthma occurs when narrow or inflamed airways cause
wheezing, coughing, chest tightness and shortness of breath. No
cure exists, although the disease often can be managed with
inhaled steroids, such as Symbicort, sold by London-based
 AstraZeneca Plc . The rate of asthma in the U.S. more than
doubled to 7.1 percent of the population in 2004 from 3.1
percent in 1980, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, an Atlanta-based agency.  
 “The acquisition of Asthmatx represents an important step
in the execution of our strategy to realign Boston Scientific’s
portfolio,”  President and Chief Executive Officer Ray Elliott 
said in a statement. “Given the large underserved patient
population and this innovative technology, we expect this
transaction to provide meaningful revenue growth.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        