-- Brazilian Wealth Fund Dollar Purchases Could Stem Real's Rally, ICAP Says
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-09-21T13:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/brazil-sovereign-wealth-fund-may-now-buy-foreign-currencies-ministry-says.html
Brazil’s plan to step up dollar
purchases in the local foreign-exchange market through its
wealth fund may stem a rally in the real before a $78 billion
share sale by Petroleo Brasileiro SA planned for this week,
according to ICAP Plc’s Brazilian unit.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva yesterday authorized
the country’s 17.9 billion reais ($10.3 billion) wealth fund to
buy an unlimited amount of dollars for reais. The real has
gained 34 percent since the beginning of 2009, the third-best
performance among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “In the short term, there could be some recovery of the
dollar,”  Felipe Brandao , director of emerging markets at ICAP
Brasil, the fourth-largest currency broker in Brazil’s futures
exchange, said in an interview from Sao Paulo. “It won’t change
the dollar inflows and the appreciation trend of the real in the
long term.”  The wealth fund will add to interventions by the central
bank, which bought about $4 billion in the first four days of
last week as the real jumped to the strongest since December,
according to estimates by BGC Liquidez DTVM, the second-biggest
currency broker on Brazil’s futures exchange. The purchases
would be the largest over a four-day period since October 2008,
when policy makers bought a record $4.6 billion.  Petrobras plans to carry out its share sale Sept. 23.  The  real  had its biggest drop in almost a month yesterday
after the government announced the plan for its sovereign wealth
fund. At 8:58 a.m. New York time today, the real exchanged hands
at 1.7298 per dollar, a 0.2 percent gain.  ‘No Limit’  The fund will have “no limit” on foreign-currency
purchases, the Finance Ministry said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement, which didn’t say when the fund may start buying
dollars. The strategy was approved Sept. 17 by the Finance and
Planning ministries and the central bank, the ministry said.  Currency traders will take defensive positions as they wait
to learn the extent of the fund’s dollar purchases, ICAP’s
Brandao said.  Before the wealth fund decision was made public yesterday,
central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said there’s very
little policy makers can do to prevent the dollar from weakening
given the sluggish growth in the U.S. economy.  The real is closely tied to the currencies of other
commodity-exporting countries such as Canada, New Zealand and
Australia, Meirelles said.  “They’re trying to create some noise in the foreign
exchange market,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco
WestLB do Brasil SA, said in phone interview from Sao Paulo. “I
doubt they are going to be very aggressive in using this kind of
device, but it creates the uncertainty that they could act at
any time.”  Currency Comparison  Since the beginning of the month, the Australian dollar,
the best performer among the 17 most traded currencies, has
jumped 6.6 percent against the U.S. dollar, while the real has
gained 1.5 percent. The New Zealand and Canadian dollars are up
4.2 percent and 3.5 percent respectively.  “No country in the world can hold the dollar,” Meirelles
said during a speech in the city of Curitiba. He said his
comments weren’t specifically tied to the Brazilian currency’s
value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  