-- Brazil's Bovespa Will Rally 16% to Record by Year-End, Goldman Sachs Says
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-09-20T15:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/brazil-s-bovespa-will-rally-16-to-record-by-yearend-goldman-sachs-says.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index will
gain 16 percent to a record 78,000 by yearend as “obstacles”
are removed, including presidential elections and  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA ’s share sale, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  
 The central bank’s signal that it will hold borrowing costs
through 2010 also boosts the prospects for Brazilian stocks,
 Stephen Graham  and  Andre Rezende , analysts at Goldman Sachs in
Sao Paulo, wrote in a note to clients today. The benchmark
equity gauge may rally 31 percent to 88,000 by mid-2011, they
said.  
 “Timing for a rally seems propitious because obstacles
that have blocked markets are being removed, while earnings are
robust and estimates we think will rise further,” the analysts
wrote. “The implications of flat rather than rising interest
rates into 2011 are sinking in.”  
 The  Bovespa  slumped 2.2 percent this year before today on
concern the $78 billion stock offering by  Petrobras , which
accounts for 12 percent of the index weighting, will dilute
earnings. Petrobras plans to price the share sale Sept. 23.
Speculation that swelling budget deficits could cause a debt
default in Europe also damped demand for riskier assets, while
concern that growth is slowing in the U.S. and China dimmed the
outlook for commodities.  
 ‘Robust Chapter’  
 “Brazil is typically seen as a healthy part of the long-
term BRICs story,” Graham and Rezende wrote, referring to
Brazil, Russia, India and China. “After 11 months of flattish
trading, late 2010/early 2011 is shaping up to be an especially
robust chapter of the story” as rising global confidence boosts
the appetite for stocks, they wrote.  
 Dilma Rousseff , the chosen successor of President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, may bring “continuity” and seek to
contain government spending if she wins elections next month,
according to Goldman Sachs. Support for the former cabinet chief
is at 51 percent, compared to 25 percent for her closest
competitor, according to an Ibope poll published Sept. 17.  
 The Bovespa rose 1 percent to 67,748.24 at 11:16 a.m. New
York time today. Goldman Sachs previously estimated the Bovespa
would rise to 85,000 by the end of the year.  
 Not including retail and consumer-goods stocks, Brazilian
stock valuations are “undemanding” compared to other emerging
markets, Goldman Sachs said. The Bovespa is trading at 14.9
times reported earnings, compared to a ratio of 14.5 for the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index , weekly data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  
 Domestic Growth  
 The companies that benefit most from domestic growth should
continue to outperform other Brazilian stocks through 2010,
despite “stretched” valuations, Banco Santander SA said. The
outlook for slower interest-rate increases especially benefits
industries including transportation, banks and real estate,
 Marcelo Audi  and  Leonardo Milane , analysts at Santander, wrote
in a note to clients today.  
 “An expected softer monetary tightening makes a hard
landing in 2011 GDP growth less likely,” said the analysts,
based in Sao Paulo. “If anything, a new positive risk is for a
stronger economic momentum for longer.”  
 Brazil’s gross domestic product may expand 7.5 percent this
year and 4.5 percent in 2011, according to the median forecast
in the weekly central bank survey of about 100 economists
published today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        