-- James Bond Producers Said to Join Sahara Bid for MGM Studio
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-09-20T18:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/broccoli-family-said-to-join-sahara-as-james-bond-takes-aim-at-mgm-studio.html

          
          
             The Broccoli family, producers of
the James Bond movies and co-owners of the franchise with  Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. , are involved in Sahara India Pariwar’s $2
billion bid to buy the debt-laden studio, said a person with
knowledge of the offer.  
 Barbara Broccoli and her stepbrother Michael G. Wilson are
part of the Sahara India offer and would receive an undisclosed
equity stake in MGM if it succeeds, said the person, who sought
anonymity because the discussions are private.  
 EON Productions, the London-based producer of the Bond
movies run by Broccoli and Wilson, said today it isn’t involved
in Sahara India Pariwar’s bid for the studio.  
 “EON Productions tonight confirmed they have never had any
contact with Sahara India Pariwar and are in no way involved in
the Sahara India Pariwar bid for MGM,” spokeswoman Stephanie
Wenborn said in a statement.  
 It wasn’t clear whether Broccoli and Wilson would have a
management should Sahara India acquire the Los Angeles-based
studio, the person said. Sahara India, based in Lucknow, offered
$2 billion for MGM’s more than $3.7 billion in debt, the
Associated Press reported on Sept. 17.  
 The overture comes as MGM’s creditors are scheduled to vote
this week on a pre-packaged bankruptcy plan to restructure the
company’s debt by converting it to equity in a merger with
Hollywood producer Spyglass Entertainment. Sahara India has
interests in finance, infrastructure and housing, media,
consumer products, manufacturing and services, according to its
 website . Its entertainment operations include cable-television
channels, film production and cinema chains.  
 ‘Mutual Interest’  
 The talks involve Sahara India’s “mutual interest” with
MGM, Abhijit Sarkar, head of corporate communications at Sahara
India Pariwar, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. He
declined to add to the statement today, saying “it’s too early
to comment on the issue.”  
 Susie Arons , an outside spokeswoman for MGM, declined to
comment.  
 Under MGM’s pre-packaged bankruptcy plan that creditors
will vote on, Spyglass Entertainment co-chairmen  Gary Barber  and
 Roger Birnbaum , who produced “The Sixth Sense” and
“Seabiscuit”, would operate the studio and swap the rights to
their film library for a 5 percent stake in the new company.  
 Film Delayed  
 On April 19, EON Productions, the James Bond production
company controlled by Broccoli and Wilson, said it would suspend
development on the next installment in the 007 series, which was
previously scheduled for release in late 2011.  
 “Due to the continued uncertainty surrounding the future
of MGM and the failure to close a sale of the studio, we have
suspended development on Bond 23 indefinitely,” EON said then
in a statement.  
 EON has produced 22 Bond films since 1962. Broccoli and
Wilson have run the studio since 1995, when they took over from
the late Albert “Cubby” Broccoli, who initially controlled the
franchise rights. The family owns a 50 percent stake in the
franchise, with MGM’s United Artists studios owning the other 50
percent. EON controls the merchandise rights while the studio
handles film-related distribution.  
 Broccoli and Wilson asked Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros.
film unit to stay involved in the MGM bidding, people with
knowledge of the situation said in May. A $1.5 billion bid by
Time Warner was rejected as too low, people with knowledge of
the matter said in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bond Producers Said to Join Sahara Bid for MGM Studio  
                       
                         
                           Jay Maidment/ Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Actor Daniel Craig as James Bond in the movie "Casino Royale," 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Actor Daniel Craig as James Bond in the movie "Casino Royale," Photographer: Jay Maidment/ Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on breaking media news in today's edition of Media Monday. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
