-- Bundesbank Sees `Restrained Profitability' for Germany's Lenders This Year
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-09-20T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/bundesbank-sees-restrained-profitability-for-german-lenders-this-year.html

          
          
             Earnings at German lenders will
probably be hurt by further loan-loss provisions following last
year’s economic recession, according to the Bundesbank.  
 “Despite the currently favorable macro-economic
conditions, a rather restrained profitability development is to
be expected for the business year 2010,” the country’s central
bank said in its monthly report published today. “The earnings
situation will likely continue to be shaped by noticeable loan-
loss provisions in the credit business amid the lingering
impacts of the global recession last year.”  
 German lenders’ total pretax losses narrowed to 2.9 billion
euros ($3.8 billion) in 2009, helped by larger profits in
trading and fewer writedowns, according to the Bundesbank.  
 The central bank also said new regulation by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  will improve the stability and
crisis resistance of the financial system without hurting
economic growth. German banks will be able to raise the
additional capital needed to comply with the new rules through
retained earnings or capital increases, without reducing
lending, it said.  
 Germany’s 10 biggest lenders, including Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank AG and  Commerzbank  AG, may need about 105 billion
euros in fresh capital because of new rules, the  Association of
German Banks  said on Sept. 6.  
 Regulators from 27 nations said earlier this month that
they more than doubled banks’ minimum capital ratios and gave
lenders as much as eight years to comply in full. The  Basel
Committee ’s main governing body said banks worldwide need to
have common equity equal to at least 4.5 percent of assets,
weighted according to their risk profiles. Regulators will
introduce a further 2.5 percent buffer.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ,
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        