-- Burkle Wins ISS Support in Bid for Barnes & Noble Seats Before Proxy Vote
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-09-20T20:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/burkle-wins-iss-support-in-bid-for-barnes-noble-seats-before-proxy-vote.html

          
          
             Ron Burkle’s  Yucaipa Cos. received
a boost in its bid to gain seats on  Barnes & Noble Inc. ’s board
after Institutional Shareholder Services said investors should
vote for its three nominees next week.  
 ISS sided with Yucaipa, the second-largest shareholder,
after two proxy adviser firms recommended last week to vote for
Barnes & Noble’s nominees, which include the re-appointment of
chairman and largest shareholder  Leonard Riggio . Investors
should also support a Yucaipa amendment to increase the maximum
shares allowed under the company’s takeover defense, ISS said.  
 “Dissident nominee Burkle has invested a significant
amount of his own wealth buying his stake in the company, and
for that reason alone might be perceived as more aligned with
the interests of outside shareholders than any of the incumbent
directors,” ISS said today in a report to clients.  
 Barnes & Noble , the largest U.S. bookstore chain, and
Yucaipa have sent press releases and letters to shareholders to
make their case since Los Angeles-based Yucaipa filed a proxy on
Aug. 12, a few hours after losing a lawsuit to overturn the so-
called poison-pill provision. The proxy vote will take place
Sept. 28 in New York.  
 Barnes & Noble, based in New York, rose 31 cents, or 2
percent, to $16.19 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . The shares have dropped 15 percent this year.  
 Barnes & Noble Support  
 ISS also recommended shareholders vote to increase the
amount of shares that can be owned under the pill to 30 percent
from 20 percent.  
 “While ISS has a track record of supporting dissidents, we
believe its analysis is flawed and not in the best interest of
our shareholders,” Barnes & Noble said in a statement.  
 Yucaipa, in a separate statement, reiterated that it deems
Barnes & Noble “significantly undervalued” and said that “the
right changes can unlock significant value for the benefit of
all stockholders.”  
 Glass Lewis & Co. and Egan-Jones Ratings Co. backed the
company last week and advised voting against amending the pill.
Both firms said the position of Aletheia Research and Management
Inc. as the company’s third-largest shareholder after Riggio and
Burkle, with 15 percent, was a reason for siding with the
retailer. If the threshold is increased to 30 percent, Aletheia
could form a group with Yucaipa and buy Barnes & Noble without
paying a premium, the companies said.  
 ‘No Clear Path’  
 “This doesn’t clear anything up,”  Michael Souers , an
analyst for Standard & Poor’s in New York who advises holding
Barnes & Noble shares, said of ISS’s recommendation. “If these
proxy adviser firms had come out and backed one side or the
other, it might have swayed investors, but the fact that it’s
split is telling them there is no clear path.”  
 Peter Eichler , founder of Santa Monica, California-based
Aletheia, testified in a deposition for the trial over the pill
that he met with Burkle twice last year. The Barnes & Noble
board was concerned about Aletheia collaborating with Yucaipa
before it enacted the pill, court documents show.  
 Burkle started to buy  Barnes & Noble shares  in November
2008 and by January 2009 owned 8.3 percent of the company. After
Barnes & Noble purchased Barnes & Noble College Booksellers Inc.
from Riggio for $514 million in August, Burkle criticized the
deal in a letter to Riggio.  
 Burkle owned 19 percent of Barnes & Noble as of May 5. The
pill exempted Riggio, who held 28 percent as of August.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        