-- Buying $1 Billion a Day Swells `Fiscal Cost' for Meirelles: Brazil Credit
-- Andre Soliani
-- 2010-09-20T12:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/buying-1-billion-a-day-swells-fiscal-cost-for-meirelles-brazil-credit.html

          
          
             Brazilian central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  is making his boldest bid in 11 months to
contain gains in the real as traders estimate he’s buying as
much as $1 billion a day in the foreign-exchange market.  
 The central bank purchased about $4 billion in the first
four days of last week as the real jumped to the strongest since
December, according to estimates by BGC Liquidez DTVM, the
second-biggest currency broker on Brazil’s futures exchange, and
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada. The purchases would be the
largest over a four-day period since October 2008, when policy
makers bought a record $4.6 billion.  
 While central banks from Japan to Colombia are beginning to
weaken their currencies, Meirelles faces additional pressure as
investors move money into Brazil to take part in a $78 billion
share sale by state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA . The real, the
biggest gainer among all currencies since the end of 2008,
touched a nine-month high of 1.7031 per dollar last week ahead
of the offering, which will be the world’s largest share sale.  
 “The central bank intervention helps ease the appreciation
of the real but doesn’t solve the problem,” said  Felipe Brandao , director of emerging markets at ICAP Brasil, the
fourth-biggest currency trader at the futures exchange in Sao
Paulo. There are “a lot of inflows,” he said.  
 The central bank, which is seeking to shore up exports as
the  current account deficit  climbs to a record, is slated to
release details on last week’s dollar purchases on Sept. 22. It
bought $815 million the first 10 days of September.  
 Budget Deficit  
 In stepping up intervention, Meirelles, 65, is adding to a
 budget deficit  that reached its widest level in eight months in
July. As the dollar purchases swell the central bank’s foreign
 reserves  to a record $267 billion, the government turns over
bonds to the bank that allow it to operate in financial markets
and prevent the money supply from surging.  
 With Brazilian two-year notes yielding 11.49 percent, or 11
percentage points more than similar-maturity U.S. debt, the
country loses money on the transaction, tacking about 24 billion
reais a year to its deficit, according to  Nathan Blanche , co-
founder of Tendencia, a Sao Paulo-based economic research
company.  
 The cost is about double the amount President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s government spends on its flagship anti-poverty
program, known as Bolsa Familia. Intervening in the futures
market to weaken the real would be more cost effective, Blanche
said.  
 Sovereign Fund  
 The current “policy has a direct impact on gross debt,”
Blanche said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Even
with the dollar purchases, the real is gaining and this shows
the pressure is stemming from the futures market,” he said.  
 Policy makers last sold contracts allowing them to buy
dollars in the futures market, known as reverse currency swaps,
on May 5, 2009.  
 Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , speaking at an event in Rio
de Janeiro on Sept. 15, mentioned intervening in the futures
market as one option the country has to slow the real’s rally.
He said the government can also use its sovereign wealth fund to
purchase dollars. He vowed to stem the real’s advance to help
exporters, saying “we’re not going to lose this game.”  
 The central bank said in an e-mailed response to questions
that it “doesn’t comment on possible future actions or on
market rumors.”  
 Four-Month Rally  
 The real gained 0.1 percent last week to 1.7213 per dollar,
extending its rally over the past four months to 9.4 percent as
the country posts the fastest economic expansion in two decades.
The real has surged 34 percent since the end of 2008, the most
among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar-
denominated government bonds instead of Treasuries fell 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, last week to 199, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years dropped 7 basis points to 117, according to CMA
DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 Yields on the interbank rate futures contract due in
January held at 10.66 percent last week, indicating traders
expect the central bank will keep its benchmark rate at 10.75
percent through year-end.  
 Petrobras Sale  
 Central bankers have held two auctions to buy dollars in
the foreign-exchange market each day since Sept. 8 as investment
poured in ahead of the Petrobras sale this month.  
 Petrobras plans to pay the government about $42.5 billion
in shares for the rights to develop 5 billion barrels of oil
reserves. The company plans to offer as much as $35.5 billion of
stock to minority investors, including additional allotments.  
 The central bank  bought  $18.6 billion in the foreign-
exchange market in the first eight months of the year, up from
the $7.3 billion it purchased in the year-earlier period,
according to the bank’s website.  
 Economists expect the real to weaken to 1.75 per U.S.
dollar by year end, compared with a 1.80 per U.S. dollar
forecast four weeks earlier, according to the median estimate in
a Sept. 17 central bank  survey  of about 100 economists published
today.  
 “The central bank will continue to drain dollars in the
market, as they are doing,” said  Francisco Carvalho , head of
currency trading at Liquidez. “They are buying $1 billion a
day. If the unbalances continues after the Petrobras share sale,
they may” step into the futures market, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Henrique Meirelles, president of the central bank of Brazil  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Henrique Meirelles, president of the central bank of Brazil. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Henrique Meirelles, president of the central bank of Brazil. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
