-- Cable Warns of `Enormous Kickback' If U.K. Banks' Bonuses Are Too Large
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-09-20T18:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/cable-warns-of-enormous-kickback-if-u-k-banks-bonuses-are-too-large.html

          
          
             Business Secretary  Vince Cable  told
British banks that paying out big bonuses this year will lead to
an “enormous kickback” from lawmakers of all parties.  
 “There’s a potential train crash ahead if there’s a very
generous bonus round,” Cable told a fringe meeting sponsored by
the City of London Corporation at his Liberal Democrat party’s
annual  conference in Liverpool, northwest England. He said his
feelings were shared by both parties in the ruling coalition.
“I’m not just talking about the Lib Dems -- some of the
Conservatives are on the warpath as well.”  
 The business secretary  was responding to a warning from
 Stuart Fraser , director of  Brewin Dolphin Securities , that “the
industry is about to shoot itself in the foot” with big payouts
just as public-sector spending cuts planned by the coalition
government hit the rest of the country.  
 A few hours earlier, Cable said that the government was
still considering implementing a bank tax proposed by the
International Monetary Fund if lending to businesses doesn’t
increase and if banks don’t moderate their behavior and pay.  
 Cable said the public was outraged at the sight of “people
paying themselves enormous sums of money when they’re
underwritten by the taxpayer. We are the lenders of last resort
-- I don’t think bankers understand that.”  
 Cable said concern will continue until the government finds
a way to remove the issue of banks being “too big to fail,”
something he described as “a major, major problem that hasn’t
gone away.”  
 He also renewed his attack on the appointment of  Bob Diamond  as chief executive officer of Barclays Plc. Paying
tribute to former Barclays CEO  Martin Taylor , who now sits on
the government’s independent commission on the future of
banking, as a model of a good banker, he added: “Unfortunately
he brought in Bob Diamond, who subsequently transformed it into
the kind of bank he disapproved of.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Liverpool, northwest England, at
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        