-- Cable Says a Bank of England Rate Increase Would Be Difficult for Economy
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-09-20T13:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/cable-says-a-bank-of-england-rate-increase-would-be-difficult-for-economy.html

          
          
             A decision by Bank of England
policy makers to raise the benchmark interest rate “would be a
problem,” U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said.  
 “That would be a problem if they do,” Cable said in
answer to a question at a fringe meeting at the Liberal Democrat
party conference in Liverpool, northwest England. The central
bank has kept its rate at a record low of 0.5 percent since
March 2009.  
 U.K.  inflation  unexpectedly exceeded the government’s 3
percent limit for a sixth month in August, stoked by the
weakness of the pound and higher commodity costs. Bank of
England Monetary Policy Committee member  Andrew Sentance  has
argued for an interest-rate increase to tame consumer prices,
while other officials say more stimulus may be needed.  
 “There’s one member of the MPC who says inflation’s coming
back,” Cable said. “He’s just one. It’s very clear that the
inflation we have in the system is largely imported. You don’t
deal with imported inflation by shoving up interest rates.”  
 While Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said on Aug. 17
that the bank’s central view is that inflation will be “close
to, or a little below” the 2 percent target in the medium term,
policy maker  David Miles  said last week that inflation will
likely be volatile in the coming months.  
 Inflation is “uncomfortably” above the goal, and while
there is a “lot of spare capacity” in the economy that may
“keep inflationary pressure in check,” there is “a great deal
of uncertainty about that,” Miles said on Sept. 15.  
 Cable also said “it’s very clear from their analysis”
that policy makers share the view “that there is a problem”
with the budget deficit and action is required.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Liverpool, England at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        