-- Canada July Wholesale Sales Unexpectedly Drop as Vehicle Shipments Decline
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-09-20T14:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/canada-july-wholesale-sales-unexpectedly-drop-as-vehicle-shipments-decline.html

          
          
             Canadian wholesale  sales 
unexpectedly fell in July, the fourth straight decline, as
shipments of motor vehicles dropped.  
 Sales declined 0.1 percent to C$43.9 billion ($42.6
billion), Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists
expected a 0.1 percent increase, based on the median of 10
responses in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Canada’s  economy expanded  at a 2 percent annualized pace in
the second quarter after growing at a 5.8 percent rate in the
previous three-month period. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said earlier this month the recovery from last year’s recession
will be “slightly more gradual” than the bank expected in
July.  
 “Add another downside to estimates for monthly growth in
July GDP,”  Derek Holt , vice-president of economics at Bank of
Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto, said in a note to
clients. The statistical agency will report July economic growth
on Sept. 30.  
 While Carney has raised his  benchmark interest rate  three
times since June 1 to 1 percent, he also has said further
increases would need to be “carefully considered” given
uncertainty around the outlook.  
 The Canadian currency appreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0292
per U.S. dollar at 10:47 a.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0330
on Sept. 17. One Canadian dollar buys 97.16 U.S. cents.  
 Auto Shipments Drop  
 Wholesale sales have been restrained by a rising dollar,
which has gained 3.75 percent against the U.S. dollar over the
past 12 months. A strengthening currency reduces the Canadian
dollar value of goods that are priced in U.S. dollars.  
 Motor vehicle and parts wholesalers  saw shipments drop by
3.2 percent in the month. Total sales excluding that category
increased 0.6 percent. Four of seven categories posted declines,
with farm product sales falling 6.5 percent, the largest in
percentage terms. Food, beverage and tobacco sales recorded the
biggest gain, rising 2.3 percent to C$8.65 billion.  
 The volume of wholesale sales, which removes the effect of
price changes, fell 0.3 percent, Statistics Canada said. Overall
wholesale sales were 4.9 percent higher in July than the same
month a year earlier, the agency said.  
 Wholesale inventories rose 0.5 percent in July to C$53.1
billion in July, bringing the inventory-to-sales ratio to 1.21
from 1.20 in June.  
 ‘Ill-Prepared’  
 “Rising inventories in the Canadian economy are a risk
factor to future growth in production and jobs as they are
occurring in key sectors like manufacturing and wholesale
trade,” Scotia Capital’s Holt said. “That leaves businesses
ill-prepared for downsides to growth.”  
 Statistics Canada didn’t revise its estimate of June’s 0.3
percent wholesale sales decline, and revised the figure for May
to a 0.1 decline from an earlier report that sales were little
changed.  
 In a separate report, Statistics Canada said global demand
for Canadian financial assets rose in July as investors outside
the country bought a net C$5.48 billion of  Canadian securities 
in the month, led by C$5.17 billion of bonds, the 19th
consecutive monthly net purchase for such securities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        