-- Canadian Stocks Gain as Gold, Oil Advance; Manulife Rallies
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-09-20T20:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/canadian-stocks-advance-as-gold-producers-and-manulife-financial-increase.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose to a four-
month high as gold and oil prices gained and Manulife Financial
Corp. advanced after Desjardins Securities Inc. boosted its
rating on the shares.  
 Kinross Gold Corp., Canada’s third-biggest producer,
climbed 2 percent as the metal rallied on speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve may consider more measures to keep borrowing
costs low. Cenovus Energy Inc., Canada’s seventh-largest energy
company by market value, rose 1.9 percent as crude oil futures
added 1.6 percent, the first gain in five days. Manulife, North
America’s third-biggest insurer, increased 3.8 percent after
analyst  Michael Goldberg  at Desjardins Securities raised his
rating on the company to “buy” from “hold.”  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  advanced 69.95
points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,234.51, the highest since April 26.  
 “Gold is continuing to reflect the potential weakness of
the U.S. dollar, and we have oil back, which certainly helps,”
said  David Cockfield , who helps oversee C$300 million ($292
million) as a money manager at MacNicol & Associates Asset
Management Inc. in Toronto. “People are looking at the amount
of money being printed and thinking there are more U.S. dollars
around than there should be.”  
 The S&P/TSX has surged  5.9 percent  since Aug. 24 as gold
futures climbed 3.7 percent to a record high and economic data
from the U.S. allayed concerns that the economy may dip back
into recession.  
 Dollar Drops  
 Gold futures rose for a third day, gaining 0.3 percent to
$1,280.80 an ounce. The U.S. dollar dropped against 14 of 16
other major currencies after touching a five-week low against
the euro last week on speculation the Federal Open Market
Committee will say tomorrow that it’s considering more measures
to keep borrowing costs low as American unemployment remains at
its highest since the 1980s.  
 “Because unemployment has been very sticky, the feeling is
more has to be done,” said  Irwin Michael , who helps manage
about C$1 billion as a money manager at ABC Group of Funds in
Toronto.  
 Kinross gained 2 percent to C$19.31. Goldcorp Inc.,
Canada’s second-largest gold producer, advanced 2 percent to
C$44.91. Barrick Gold Corp., the  world’s largest producer  by
revenue, climbed 0.6 percent to C$47.80.  
 The  S&P 500  rose 1.5 percent after Lennar Corp., the third-
largest U.S. homebuilder, beat analysts’ earnings estimates and
International Business Machines Corp. said it would buy business
software maker Netezza Corp. for $1.7 billion.  
 Cenovus climbed 1.9 percent to C$28.41. Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd., the country’s second-biggest energy company by
market value, increased 0.9 percent to C$34.58.  
 Drilling Technology  
 Petrobank Energy and Resources Ltd., which produces oil and
gas in Canada and Colombia, jumped 3.7 percent to C$40.22 after
Barron’s said the company may rally as production increases in
its oil-sand fields and demand for its efficient drilling
technology expands.  
 Ivanhoe Energy Inc., which, like Petrobank, is developing
technology to make heavy oil production more economically
efficient, surged 6.6 percent to C$1.77 to  lead the S&P/TSX .  
 Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. climbed for a sixth day, increasing 5.4
percent from a record close to C$22.13. Ivanhoe Mines has
rallied 19 percent since Sept. 10, the last trading day before
it announced Rio Tinto Group’s stake in the company had
increased to 35 percent. Ivanhoe Mines’ chairman,  Robert Friedland , is co-chairman and chief executive officer of Ivanhoe
Energy.  
 Rating Raised  
 Manulife Financial Corp. gained for the first time in five
days, advancing 3.8 percent to C$13.48. Desjardins Securities’
Goldberg raised his  rating  on the company to “buy” today after
demoting it two notches to “hold” last month. In a note to
clients, he cited the company’s efforts to reduce its
sensitivity to equity markets. Manulife has soared 15 percent
since Aug. 26 after falling to a 17-month low.  
 Open Text Corp., Canada’s biggest software maker, climbed
5.8 percent to C$48.45 after receiving a “buy” rating in new
coverage from  Richard Tse  of Cormark Securities Inc.  
 Chartwell Seniors Housing Real Estate Investment Trust,
which owns retirement and long-term-care homes in Canada,
rallied 3.6 percent to C$8.61. In a note dated Sept. 17,  Pammi Bir , an analyst at Bank of Nova Scotia, said Ontario is “highly
unlikely” to try to freeze or suspend shareholder payouts at
for-profit seniors’ residences.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        