-- Carney Shouldn't `Prejudge' Voluntary Census, Industry Spokesman Says
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-09-20T21:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/carney-shouldn-t-prejudge-voluntary-census-industry-spokesman-says.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
shouldn’t “prejudge” the outcome of a new voluntary  census 
before it is implemented, a spokesman for Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said in a letter today.  
 “We have offered to work with the Bank of Canada” on
possible concerns, Erik Waddell, director of communications for
Clement, said in a letter to the editor of the Globe and Mail
newspaper that was sent today. Waddell provided a copy of the
letter to Bloomberg News.  
 The government earlier this year said it was replacing a
mandatory questionnaire that has been sent to one-fifth of
households with a similar, voluntary form for the 2011 census.
The new form will be sent to more people to make up for
potentially lower response rates, Clement has said.  
 Carney said in  an interview  with the Globe last week that
the voluntary form could affect a “non-trivial range of data,”
that include the country’s labor force survey, productivity
data, national accounts, and “some of our longer-term
research.”  
 “The proposed adjustments in the long-form census could
have implications for some of the data that we use, and we’re
going to work through with StatsCan to understand them, so that
Canadians can be assured that we’re using reliable data to
fulfill our important responsibilities,” Carney said, according
to a transcript of the interview provided by the central bank.  
 Telephone Call  
 Clement told lawmakers today he spoke with Carney by
telephone last week. Speaking to reporters outside Parliament,
Clement said he assured Carney “we were going to be doing a lot
to make sure that the data was valid, that we weren’t just going
to let the chips fall where they may.”  
 Carney spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  confirmed that a phone
call took place, but declined to provide details of the
conversation. Harrison also declined to comment on the letter to
the editor.  
 Munir Sheikh , Canada’s chief statistician until his
resignation in July, and former Bank of Canada Governor  David Dodge  have said the new census form won’t be an acceptable
substitute and may lead to distortions in data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        