-- Chevron Expands Into Turkey Under Black Sea Venture With State Oil Company
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-09-20T20:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/chevron-expands-into-turkey-under-black-sea-venture-with-state-oil-company.html

          
          
             Chevron Corp. , the second-biggest
U.S. energy company, expanded its exploration operations into
Turkey by signing an agreement with the country’s state oil
company to jointly drill wells in the Black Sea.  
 Chevron will buy a 50 percent stake in a western portion of
License 3921, an exploration block about the size of New Jersey
in waters 220 miles (354 kilometers) northwest of the Turkish
capital of Ankara, according to a statement today by the San
Ramon, California-based company.  
 State-owned Turkiye Petrolleri AO will be operator of the
initial well currently being drilled and of a well that may be
drilled in 2012, said  Chevron , which would take over as operator
thereafter. The U.S. company is expanding into new oil provinces
to keep production rising as access to petroleum reserves around
the world becomes more difficult.  
 “This is an opportunity to build on recent positions we’ve
acquired in other locations in West Africa, Asia and Europe, and
it’s a highly prospective new basin for Chevron,”  Kurt Glaubitz , a company spokesman, said today in a telephone
interview.  
 Turkiye Petrolleri plans three wells through the venture
with Chevron that will cost about $750 million,  Mehmet Uysal ,
chief executive officer for the state oil company, told
reporters at a signing ceremony in Ankara. He said Turkiye
Petrolleri will get a $50 million bonus from Chevron if oil is
found.  
 Chevron  rose $1.44, or 1.8 percent, to $79.90 as of 4:10
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp. , which also has a Black Sea venture with
Turkiye Petrolleri, is the largest U.S. oil company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        