-- Chicago Man Is Charged by U.S. in Bomb Plot, Alleged to Be Angry at Mayor
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/chicago-man-charged-by-u-s-in-plot-to-bomb-city-s-north-side-neighborhood.html
A 22-year-old man who allegedly
spoke of wanting to assassinate Chicago’s mayor was charged by
federal prosecutors with plotting to detonate a bomb near
Wrigley Field, home to the Chicago Cubs baseball team.  Sami Samir Hassoun blamed  Richard M. Daley  for
“weakening” the city’s security and planned to use the attack
to drive him from office, according to the complaint against
him. He was arrested Sept. 19 by members of the Chicago-area
Joint Terrorism Task Force.  “He wanted to transform the City of Chicago. He wanted to
make a statement,” Robert Grant, special agent in charge of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Chicago office, told reporters
after Hassoun appeared before a federal magistrate yesterday. He
intended to “kill as many people as he could” by planting the
explosive in a neighborhood full of bars, clubs and restaurants,
Grant said.  Hassoun, who is identified in an FBI statement as a
Lebanese citizen living legally in Chicago, is charged with
attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction and with trying to
destroy real property using an explosive. The first charge
carries a maximum penalty of life in prison, while the second
has a top term of as long as five years.  Daley Plaza  Hassoun discussed the possibility of an assassination
attempt on the mayor with the FBI’s confidential source,
prosecutors said. The location near Wrigley Field was chosen
after Hassoun talked about other plots with the FBI source,
including a biological weapons attack at the Richard J. Daley
Plaza, the state courthouse forecourt named for the incumbent
mayor’s father.  Hassoun hoped he would be paid for a sustained campaign,
Grant said. Investigators believe Hassoun acted alone and isn’t
affiliated with a terrorist organization, Grant said.  Lance Lewis, a spokesman for Daley, declined to comment.
Daley said Sept. 7 that he wouldn’t seek a seventh term as mayor
next year.  Hassoun, wearing an orange prison jumpsuit and blue canvas
slip-on shoes, appeared yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Susan Cox. The suspect, who was accompanied by Federal Public
Defender Dan McLaughlin, wasn’t required to enter a plea.
Hassoun told the court he will hire a private lawyer.  Cox scheduled a bail hearing and a so-called probable-cause
hearing for Sept. 22. After yesterday’s appearance, Hassoun was
remanded to the custody of federal marshals.  Trash Can  Hassoun planted an inert device in a trash can south of
Wrigley Field at about 12:10 a.m. on Sept. 19 and was
immediately arrested, according to the criminal complaint. The
FBI informant had shown Hassoun the device, which appeared to be
a bomb, prosecutors said.  The device, concealed in a backpack, had a timer that
Hassoun set for 20 minutes, Grant said.  The case is U.S. v. Hassoun, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 