-- Children Exposed to Virus Weigh 52 pounds More, Obesity Researchers Find
-- Nicole Ostrow
-- 2010-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/children-exposed-to-virus-weigh-more-in-possible-obesity-link-study-finds.html

          
          
             Children who tested positive for a
virus strain that causes respiratory and gastrointestinal
illness weigh more than those who didn’t, suggesting that
infections may cause or contribute to  obesity , a study showed.  
 Obese children who were found to have been exposed to a
strain called  adenovirus 36  weighed about 35 pounds more on
average than obese children who tested negative, researchers
said today in the journal  Pediatrics . Children, whether obese or
not, who tested positive were 52 pounds heavier on average than
those showing no evidence of the virus, according to the study
of 124 kids, including 67 who were obese.  
 While the number of obese children in the U.S. has tripled
since 1980, the proportion of kids with the condition appears to
have leveled off during the past decade, at about one in five,
U.S.-sponsored researchers said in January. The latest study
provides a possible link between obesity in children and a
strain of adenovirus, author  Jeffrey Schwimmer  said.  
 “Our study is one example of the complexity of obesity,”
said Schwimmer, an associate professor of pediatrics at the
University of California, San Diego, in a telephone interview on
Sept. 14. “It can’t simply be reduced to eating too much and
moving too little. That’s not the whole story.”  
 Schwimmer said more studies are needed to determine what
role adenovirus 36 infections play in causing people to gain
weight.  
 “This work is really a starting point,” he said.  
 Many Questions  
 While the findings are “novel,” they aren’t likely to
solve the puzzle of childhood obesity, said  Evan Nadler , co-
director of the Children’s National Obesity Institute at
Children’s National Medical Center in Washington, who wasn’t
involved in the research.  
 “Even in the event that this particular virus may
predispose certain children to obesity, it’s not going to be the
magic bullet to change the course of the obesity epidemic,”
Nadler said in a telephone interview on Sept. 16. “There will
be some patients who are obese for genetic reasons, some obese
for environmental reasons and perhaps some that are obese
because of infection. I don’t think we’ll ever likely find one
cause of obesity.”  
 Almost 20 percent of 6- to 11-year-olds were considered
obese in 2007-2008, while 18 percent of those ages 12 to 19 were
deemed so, according to the Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention . Obesity is measured as a ratio between
height and weight.  
 Seeking New Drugs  
 Two-thirds of American adults are overweight or obese,
raising their risk of diabetes, heart disease, high blood
pressure and cancer, according to the 2008  National Health &
Nutrition Examination Survey .  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  and
 Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. , both of San Diego, and Mountain
View, California-based  Vivus Inc.  are vying to sell obesity
drugs that are under review by the Food and Drug Administration.  
 Adenovirus 36, one of more than 50 strains of the virus,
appears to infect immature fat cells, making them develop more
quickly and increasing the number of fat cells in the body,
Schwimmer said. The strain also appears to make it harder to
break down mature fat cells, causing more fat to be stored in
the body, he said. The virus typically causes short-term
illnesses.  
 Studies  in animals and in adults showed an association
between adenovirus 36 and obesity, the authors wrote.  
 Researchers in the study published today tested 124
children ages 8 to 18 for antibodies specific to adenovirus 36.
Sixty-seven participants were obese.  
 The researchers found that 19 children, or 15 percent,
tested positive for the antibodies. Of those, 15 were obese.  
 “The reality is that the development of obesity is much
more complicated then what we used to think,” said Schwimmer,
who has run an obesity program for children for eight years.
“If people understand that something uncontrollable like a
viral infection can be a cause or contributor to obesity,
perhaps that will enable people to be more open minded to how
they approach the issue or to people who have it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Children Exposed to Virus Weigh More  
                       
                         
                           Justin Sullivan/Getty Images 
                         
                         While the number of obese children in the U.S. has tripled since 1980, the proportion of kids with the condition appears to have leveled off during the past decade, at about one in five. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     While the number of obese children in the U.S. has tripled since 1980, the proportion of kids with the condition appears to have leveled off during the past decade, at about one in five. Photographer: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
