-- China Stocks Drop to Five-Week Low on Economic Growth, Loan Curbs Concern
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-20T08:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/china-s-stock-futures-advance-after-ubs-bnp-upgrade-property-developers.html

          
          
             China stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to a five-week low, as investors speculated the
nation’s economic expansion may weaken at the same time as the
government maintains lending curbs to avert asset bubbles.  
 Jiangxi Copper Co.  slid 3.6 percent after Morgan Stanley
said China’s potential economic growth is set to slow.  Poly Real
Estate Group Co.  and Gemdale Corp. led declines for developers
as Russell Investments said China’s policy tightening cycle
isn’t over. Tsingtao Brewery Co. rose to the highest since
January 2008, leading gains for consumer stocks, as an adviser
to the central bank said the nation needs to increase domestic
consumption.  
 “We need to pass this low patch of growth between now and
the end of the year,”  Todd Martin , equity strategist in Asia
for Societe Generale, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“Things will probably start picking up better into next year.
We could get into a patch of relative no man’s land.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 9.98, or 0.4 percent, to
2,588.71 at the 3 p.m. close, the lowest since Aug. 12. The
gauge declined 2.4 percent last week, the most in more than two
months, amid concern government measures to curb lending and
energy consumption will slow economic and earnings growth.  
 The  CSI 300 Index  lost 0.4 percent to 2,849.83 today.
China’s markets will be closed from Sept. 22 to Sept. 24 for the
Mid-Autumn Festival holiday, and Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 for National
Day.  
 Stocks Rebound  
 China’s stocks may remain “range-bound” before the
National Day holiday amid uncertainty about policies on banking
and property, according to Citic Securities Co. The government
is expected to “strictly” implement existing measures against
the property market instead of introducing a second round of
tightening measures, analysts led by Xi Feng wrote in a report.  
 The Shanghai index has rebounded 9.5 percent from this
year’s low on July 5 on signs the nation’s economic slowdown is
stabilizing. The measure plunged 27 percent in the first half
after last year’s 80 percent surge as the government imposed
tightening measures ranging from restrictions on multi house
purchases to a 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) annual limit on
new lending by banks.  
 China’s economy may grow at a “sustainable” level of 8
percent per year through 2020, Morgan Stanley said in a note to
clients.  
 Outside of China, the Federal Reserve will cut its growth
forecasts and Europe’s economic bailout is failing, said  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive at Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond  fund .  
 Property Stocks  
 Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
dropped 3.6 percent to 30.73 yuan.  Yunnan Copper Industry Co. ,
the fourth largest, slid 2.6 percent to 20.63 yuan. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., the listed unit of nation’s biggest maker
of the lightweight metal and better known as Chalco, slipped 1.3
percent to 9.67 yuan.  
 A gauge of property stocks fell 1.2 percent, the most among
the five industry groups in the Shanghai Composite, even after
UBS AG and BNP Paribas upgraded developers today. Poly Real
Estate, China’s second-largest developer by market value,
dropped 1.9 percent to 10.80 yuan. Gemdale, the fourth biggest,
retreated 3.1 percent to 5.92 yuan, the lowest since May 17.  
 “It appears that a soft landing is most likely, though it
is clear that the central government’s tightening cycle is not
over,” said  Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief market
strategist for Russell Investments, which manages $140 billion,
“Perhaps toward the end of 2010 or early 2011, we may have a
clearer indication from Chinese authorities about when they will
end this phase.”  
 Real Estate Prices  
 Property prices in urban China are “too high” and
“difficult to accept,” according to a third-quarter survey of
urban households by China’s central bank. The percentage of
Chinese urban households that expect further house price gains
rose 7.2 percentage points from the second quarter to 36.6
percent, the central bank said over the week-end.  
 BNP Paribas said the government will probably not introduce
further measures to curb the real estate market as they focus on
implementing existing policies, according to a report by
analysts including  Frank Chen . UBS raised its rating on China’s
real industry to “overweight” from “neutral.”  
 The nation’s stocks will enter a “bull rally” in the next
three to six months, driven by discussions of the next five-year
economic plan and rising property sales, according to UBS.  
 Tsingtao Brewery rose 5.2 percent to 40 yuan, the highest
since Jan. 14, 2008. Beijing Yanjing Brewery Co., China’s third-
biggest brewer, gained 2.9 percent to 21.80 yuan.  GD Midea
Holding Co. , China’s second-biggest publicly traded appliance
maker, climbed 1.9 percent to 14.69 yuan.  
 Stronger Yuan  
 The country needs to increase domestic consumption to help
survive in a global economic environment that is growing more
challenging,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of China,
said at a financial forum in Beijing yesterday.  
 Air China Ltd.  gained among airlines as the yuan
strengthened, easing dollar-denominated fuel bills and overseas
debts gathered from buying Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. planes. The
stock rallied 2.9 percent to 12.40 yuan, its highest close since
Aug. 9.  
 China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier
by fleet size, gained 2.8 percent to 8.35 yuan. China Eastern
Airlines Corp., the second biggest, added 5.6 percent to 8.08
yuan.  
 The yuan climbed 0.21 percent to 6.7091 per dollar as of
3:19 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. That’s the strongest level since the central bank
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Todd Martin, equity strategist at Societe Generale, talks about his investment strategy for Asian stocks.
     Asian stocks fell, led by raw-material producers, after an unexpected drop in U.S. consumer confidence. Martin also discusses U.S., Chinese and Indian economies. He talks with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television's "On the Move Asia." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
