-- Chinese Companies See Protectionism in EU Investigation of Modem Imports
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-20T10:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/chinese-companies-see-protectionism-in-eu-investigation-of-modem-imports.html

          
          
             Chinese companies said they may not
get fair treatment in a European Union trade investigation of
exports of wireless modems from the Asian nation.  
 “We worry that there may be overly protective actions in
this probe,” Wang Guiqing, vice chairman of the  China Chamber
of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic
Products , said at a briefing in Beijing today. “In this
environment, we are concerned whether the European Commission
can reach a fair conclusion in this case.”  
 The European Union last week stepped up a fight against
alleged Chinese subsidies to manufacturers, threatening tariffs
on wireless modems to help Belgium’s  Option NV  counter import
competition. The EU opened an inquiry into whether Chinese
makers of wireless wide-area networking modems receive trade-
distorting government aid.  
 Option is the EU’s sole producer of so-called WWAN modems.
The anti-subsidy case increases the likelihood of European
levies on Chinese WWAN modems because it is on top of an EU
inquiry opened in June into whether China sells them in the 27-
nation bloc below cost, a practice known as dumping.  
 The probe involves China’s exports valued at more than $2
billion, the chamber’s Wang said today, adding that actions
against Chinese products will also hurt European consumers and
other telecommunication companies.  
 China’s Ministry of Commerce said Sept. 16 the nation is
“seriously concerned” and Chinese industries are “strongly
dissatisfied,” according to a  statement  on the ministry’s
website.  
 Huawei, ZTE  
 The chamber and officials from Huawei Technologies Co. and
 ZTE Corp. , the two Chinese makers of phone equipment that say
they are most affected by the investigation, said Option is in
no position to complain because the Belgium company has
outsourced data-card production to China.  
 “Option’s decline in market share is not due to Chinese
companies’ sales in Europe, but its failure to foresee the
market potential for 3G businesses and data cards and high
production costs, which limited its production capacity and
technology development,” Guo Jianjun, a legal director at ZTE,
told reporters today.  
 Guo and Emil Cheung, an assistant legal director at Huawei,
said their companies will respond to the probe.  
 China’s industry group will appeal to the government to
file a complaint with the World Trade Organization should the
probe fail to comply with WTO rules, the chamber’s Wang said.  
 -- Li Yanping . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Matthew Oakley .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        