-- China National Nuclear in Talks to Build 1-Gigawatt Pakistan Atomic Plant
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-09-20T19:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/china-national-nuclear-in-talks-to-build-1-gigawatt-pakistan-atomic-plant.html

          
          
             China National Nuclear Corp. , the
country’s biggest builder of reactors, is in talks to construct
a one-gigawatt atomic plant in Pakistan, prompting a U.S.
reminder that such a deal would need international approval.  
 The China-Pakistan talks follow the two nations signing two
reactor-supply contracts, the Pakistani newspaper the Nation
said today,  citing   Qiu Jiangang , China National Nuclear’s vice
president.  Pan Jianmin , a Beijing-based spokesman for the
Chinese atomic-plant builder, couldn’t be immediately reached on
his office phone for comment.  
 As a member of the  Nuclear Suppliers Group , which forbids
exports to nations lacking strict  International Atomic Energy
Agency  safeguards, China would have to get approval to proceed
with the deal, said acting U.S. State Department spokesman  Mark Toner .  
 “We would ask China as a member of the Nuclear Suppliers
Group to live up to its commitments,” Toner said. He added that
China had not confirmed with the U.S. that it had entered into a
new nuclear deal with Pakistan.  
 China, a user of nuclear power since 1994, is seeking to
build its own brand of atomic technology for export to benefit
from rising global demand. Its sale of reactors to Pakistan has
drawn criticism from the U.S., which said additional deals may
violate international rules for nuclear non-proliferation.  
 Additional Reactors  
 State-controlled China National Nuclear had constructed two
reactors in Chashma, Pakistan, and signed in February an
agreement to finance two additional units, each with a
generation capacity of 340 megawatts, the Chinese company said
in March.  
 In July, during a trip to Pakistan, Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said Pakistan will have to address international
concerns before it gets approval to acquire the two Chinese
reactors.  
 At the time, Clinton said worries exist over Pakistan’s
export controls and because Pakistan is alone in raising
objections to the fissile material cutoff treaty. That accord,
which is being pursued by the United Nations  Conference on
Disarmament , would prohibit the production of plutonium and
highly enriched uranium for nuclear weapons purposes.  
 Other factors that raise concern about Pakistan’s nuclear
capability include instability in the country as it battles the
militant Taliban group on its borders. History is also a factor:
Pakistani nuclear scientist  Abdul Qadeer Khan  confessed in 2004
to selling nuclear technology to Iran, North Korea and Libya.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        