-- Citigroup Plans More Sukuk Sales From Turkey After Kuveyt Turk Bond Issue
-- Ercan Ersoy
-- 2010-09-20T12:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/citigroup-plans-more-sukuk-sales-from-turkey-after-kuveyt-turk-bond-issue.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  plans to arrange
more sales of Islamic bonds, or sukuk, from Turkey after
managing a $100 million issue for Kuveyt Turk Katilim Bankasi
AS, an executive at the company said.  
 Citigroup is having talks with other potential sellers of
Shariah-compliant debt in the country, said Hulusi Horozoglu,
director of global Islamic banking at Citigroup, in an e-mailed
response to questions. He said there was “significant
appetite” from investors for the Kuveyt Turk sale last month.  
 Citigroup and Liquidity Management House, a unit of  Kuwait
Finance House KSC  which is the owner of Kuveyt Turk, acted as
arrangers in Kuveyt Turk’s sukuk sales, the first in Turkey
after regulators allowed companies to offer Islamic bonds in
April. The three-year notes paid a coupon of 5.25 percent.  
 Global Islamic bond offerings may accelerate in the next 18
months, led by countries new to the market,  Mohamed Damak , a
Paris-based credit analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said on Aug. 2.
Total sales may reach about $30 billion this year as the global
economy recovers and nations build infrastructure, Kuwait
Finance House, the nation’s biggest Islamic bank, said on Aug.
22. Global sukuk sales in the year to date fell 13 percent from
a year ago to $10.1 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Turkey’s government is considering selling sukuk “in the
future,” Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in an interview
with Bloomberg HT television on Aug. 25, without elaborating.
The country’s constitution mandates that religion be kept out of
politics.  
 ‘Significant Appetite’  
 “We believe there is significant appetite for sukuk
issuances, both on the issuer and investor sides, and we would
expect to see greater volumes going forward,” Horozoglu said.
“A key driver for this market will be the growth in Islamic
banking at the retail level, which has shown tremendous growth
over the preceding few years.”  
 Istanbul-based Kuveyt Turk is one of four Islamic banks in
Turkey. The others are  Asya Katilim Bankasi AS , Turkiye Finans
Katilim Bankasi AS and  Albaraka Turk.  Albaraka last week
borrowed $240 million in a Shariah-compliant syndicated loan.  
 Kuveyt Turk may sell more than $100 million of five-year
sukuk, Chief Executive Officer  Ufuk Uyan  said in an interview on
Aug. 25. He said last month’s sale attracted bids worth 1.5
times the amount of debt on sale.  
 The bonds were backed by a portfolio of Islamic financial
contracts, and Islamic banks bought half of them, Horozoglu
said. European and Middle Eastern investors made up 95 percent
of all buyers, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        