-- Clegg Slams Bankers, Urges His Party to Hold Its Nerve Over Spending Curbs
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-09-20T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/clegg-slams-bankers-urges-his-party-to-hold-its-nerve-over-spending-curbs.html

          
          
             U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  attacked bankers and bond traders as he told his Liberal
Democrat party to hold its nerve in the face of criticism of
coming government spending cuts.  
 Clegg said he will not be following the previous Labour
government in “kowtowing to the banks” and that he is
determined bankers will pay to “fill the black hole they helped
create.” Cutting the deficit created by the financial crisis is
essential to stop debt interest payments “lining the pockets of
bond traders,” he said.  
 “The spending review is about balance and responsibility,
not slash and burn,” Clegg told delegates in his keynote speech
at his party’s  conference  in Liverpool, northwest England. “Of
course, I wish there was a pain-free alternative. Who wouldn’t?
But whatever Labour say now, there isn’t one.”  
 The Liberal Democrat leadership’s acceptance of immediate
spending cuts has drawn criticism both from party members and
the Labour opposition who argue the Conservative-led coalition
government’s program to cut a record  budget deficit  will hit the
poor hardest. The party’s opinion-poll ratings have slumped
since it entered the government in May.  
 In a ComRes Ltd. poll for the  Independent on Sunday
newspaper , half of those who voted for Clegg’s party in the May
6 election said it “sold out” by joining Prime Minister  David Cameron’s  Conservatives in power.  
 Separate Identity  
 Clegg sought to reassure delegates that the party will
retain its identity and be strengthened by working in coalition
with Conservatives at a time when government will have to make
unpopular decisions. He said voters will reward the Liberal
Democrats for doing the right thing.  
 “The Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives are and
always will be separate parties, with distinct histories and
different futures,” Clegg said. “But for this Parliament we
work together: To fix the problems we face and put the country
on a better path. This is the right government for right now.”  
 He said bankers and the rich will have to pay more to help
reduce the U.K.’s debt and that the banking levy due to be
introduced Jan. 1 is one of the government’s best achievements.  
 “I know you will be thinking: Why should you have to make
any sacrifices to deal with a recession you didn’t cause?”
Clegg said. “Why are the bankers who helped create the mess not
taking more of the blame? Why should you have to accept a pay
freeze, or changes to your pension, when the richest still get
away with paying little or no tax at all? I agree.”  
 ‘Ludicrous Pay’  
 Those questions had motivated the introduction of the
banking levy, work with other European countries to introduce a
financial-activities tax, transparency on “ludicrous pay and
bonuses” and a banking commission to look at splitting retail
from investment banking “to keep our economy safe,” Clegg
said.  
 Business Secretary  Vince Cable  held out the possibility
earlier today of implementing a bank tax proposed by the
International Monetary Fund if lending to businesses doesn’t
improve. “It remains an option,” he told a fringe meeting at
the conference. “Particularly if banks decide to spray out lots
of money in bonuses and dividends.”  
 Clegg also echoed  Danny Alexander , the chief secretary to
the Treasury, who used his speech to the conference yesterday to
announce a 900 million-pound ($1.4 billion) plan to reduce tax
evasion and avoidance.  
 High Earners  
 The plan is to increase fivefold the number of prosecutions
for tax evasion, form a team of investigators to find money
hidden offshore and target those who avoid paying the top 50
percent tax rate on incomes above 150,000 pounds a year. A unit
of the U.K. tax authority that currently monitors 5,000 high
earners will be given resources to look more closely into the
tax affairs of 150,000 people.  
 “We all read the headlines about benefit fraud, we all
agree it’s wrong when people help themselves to benefits they
shouldn’t get,” Clegg said. “But when the richest people in
the country dodge their tax bills, that is just as bad. Both
come down to stealing money from your neighbors.”  
 The party leadership today suffered its first rebellion
from the rank and file, with the conference voting to pass a
motion attacking the government’s education program. That vote
won’t directly affect the behavior of Liberal Democrat
lawmakers, as the relevant laws have been passed. It does commit
Liberal Democrat-controlled local authorities to opposing the
new “free schools” proposed by Conservative Education
Spokesman  Michael Gove .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in Liverpool, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Liverpool, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        