-- Britain's Clegg, Cable Warn Banks of `Train Crash' Over Bonuses
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-09-21T12:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/clegg-cable-tell-u-k-liberal-democrats-bankers-still-government-target.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and Business Secretary  Vince Cable  told activists at the
Liberal Democrat party’s annual conference that bankers remain a
target for the government even as the financial crisis ebbs.  Clegg used his keynote speech in Liverpool, northwest
England, yesterday to say he will not follow the previous Labour
government in “kowtowing to the banks” and that he is
determined bankers will pay to “fill the black hole they helped
create.” Cable said later that banks face “a potential train
crash” if they pay out big bonuses this year.  Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, and Cable, the party’s
second-most-senior minister, promised a crackdown on tax evasion
and threatened a new levy on banks this week. They’re aiming to
reassure party activists that they made the right decision in
joining a coalition government with Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives after the May 6 election and helping to
make the biggest government spending cuts since World War II to
narrow a  record budget deficit .  “It’s incredibly important that the banks understand you
cannot possible award yourself ludicrously sky-high bonuses,”
Clegg told BBC Radio 4 today. “If the banks pay themselves
unjustified bonuses, we reserve the right to take very serious
action.”  ‘Global Market Rates’  The  British Bankers’ Association  responded by defending pay
structures. “Bankers’ pay and bonuses are linked to the long-
term success of the business and do not reward staff in ways
which encourage undue risk taking,” the London-based BBA said
in an e-mailed statement. “The U.K. is a major international
financial centre and to remain in that position we need to
attract and retain the top people and that means paying global
market rates.”  Cable told Radio 4 today that he was aware of the threat
that banks would move operations out of Britain. “It’s a careful
balancing act,” he said. “We can’t be blackmailed by constant
threats that they will walk away.”  Figures released today showed banks paid 40 percent more
than predicted in a one-off bonus tax to the government,
suggesting the levy on payrolls in force from December 2009 to
April 2010 failed to limit executive pay.  Lenders paid 3.5 billion pounds ($5.4 billion) by Aug. 31.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in June he
expected to raise 2.5 billion pounds from the tax.  ‘Enormous Kickback’  “If there’s a very generous bonus round, there will be an
enormous kickback” from lawmakers of all parties, Cable told a
fringe meeting at the  conference  last night on the challenge for
the financial-services industry. “I’m not just talking about
the Lib Dems -- some of the Conservatives are on the warpath as
well.”  The business secretary said the government was still
considering implementing a bank tax proposed by the
International Monetary Fund if lending to businesses doesn’t
increase and if banks don’t moderate pay.  “At a time of austerity when an awful lot of people are
faced with a very difficult future, people in the banking
community are going to be walking away with outrageously large
sums despite the fact that that sector caused the crisis that
caused the hardship,” Cable told Radio 4.  ‘Obscene Bonuses’  The Liberal Democrats’ deputy leader,  Simon Hughes , said in
his conference speech today that the party would continue
“campaigning against obscene profits and obscene bonuses whilst
others struggle to make ends meet.”  Clegg’s speech yesterday focused on defending his decision
to join the government. A ComRes Ltd. poll for the  Independent
on Sunday newspaper  last week found half of those who voted for
Clegg’s party in the May 6 election said it had “sold out.”  Delegates listened mostly in silence to the sections of his
speech devoted to the reasons for cutting the deficit, though
there was applause when he attacked the financial-services
industry, as when he said debt interest payments were “a
criminal waste of money that shouldn’t be lining the pockets of
bond traders.”  Britain posted the largest  budget deficit  for any August
since records began in 1993, the Office for National Statistics
said in London today. Net borrowing was 15.3 billion pounds,
compared with 13.5 billion pounds a year earlier.  Clegg said bankers and the rich will have to pay more to
help reduce the U.K.’s debt and that the banking levy due to be
introduced Jan. 1 is one of the government’s best achievements.  “I know you will be thinking: Why should you have to make
any sacrifices to deal with a recession you didn’t cause?”
Clegg said. “Why are the bankers who helped create the mess not
taking more of the blame? Why should you have to accept a pay
freeze, or changes to your pension, when the richest still get
away with paying little or no tax at all? I agree.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in Liverpool, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Liverpool, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 