-- Clipper Considering Share Sale Amid Liquidity Strain, Sending Stock Lower
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-09-20T08:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/clipper-windpower-considers-share-sale-amid-significant-liquidity-strain-.html

          
          
             Clipper Windpower Plc , the London-
traded wind-turbine manufacturer, said it’s considering ways to
raise money and improve a “significant” strain on its cash
position. The shares fell the most in five years.  
 Clipper is considering “numerous alternatives” including
private and public equity sales and acquiring lines of credit
from United Technologies Corp., its main shareholder, and other
unidentified “financial institutions,” the company said today
in a statement. The stock  tumbled  17 pence, or 37 percent, to 28
pence at 9:35 a.m. in London.  
 “Discussions with UTC are ranging from providing credit
support for a working capital line to equity purchases,” the
company said in the statement. Clipper expects “significant
liquidity strain” because of lower receipts of deposits and
payments from customers for existing orders.  
 The company said it will likely report a loss of $26
million to $30 million in the first half, while its consolidated
cash has declined to $86 million at the end of August from $140
million at the end of June. Financing for wind farm development
has been undermined by the global economic and credit crisis and
Clipper’s customers have also reduced investment and delayed
projects, the company said.  
 Clipper’s shares have declined 84 percent this year,
valuing the company at about 60 million pounds ($94 million).  
 Investments in wind turbines will probably increase this
year, led by a doubling of sales in China, Bloomberg New Energy
Financing estimates.  
 United Technologies  submitted a non-binding indication of
interest to buy all the ordinary shares of Clipper that it
doesn’t already own. Clipper also said it’s in “advanced
negotiations” for sales on development assets, including
turbine sales agreements.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising Clipper.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        