-- Cnooc Falls as China-Japan Dispute Threatens Undersea Oil, Gas Development
-- John Duce
-- 2010-09-20T09:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/cnooc-falls-in-hong-kong-as-china-japan-dispute-in-east-china-sea-worsens.html

          
          
             Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest
offshore energy producer, fell in Hong Kong trading as a growing
territorial dispute between China and Japan in the East China
Sea threatens to disrupt oil and gas development in the area.  
 The shares dropped 0.4 percent to close at HK$14.66,
compared with the less than 0.1 percent gain in the benchmark
Hang Seng index.  China Oilfield Services Ltd. , which counts
Cnooc as its largest customer, declined 0.7 percent.  
 China severed senior-level government ties with Japan over
the detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain after a
collision with two Japanese coast guard vessels near a group of
disputed islands in the East China Sea. Sovereignty would give
the holder rights to undersea petroleum reserves and Cnooc is
already producing oil and gas to the west of the disputed area.  
 “This could dampen sentiment toward any prior rhetoric of
joint oil and gas development in the region and trigger kneejerk
profit-taking in Cnooc,”  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities in Hong Kong, said in e-
mailed comments.  
 A prolonged dispute in the East China Sea would have a
limited impact on Cnooc, according to Kwan. Less than 1 percent
of the company’s oil production and about 6 percent of its gas
output comes from the area, he said. One percent of Cnooc’s
proven oil reserves are in the East China Sea, according to Kwan.  
 Japan said earlier this year it may take a dispute with
China over developing the Chunxiao natural gas field in the East
China Sea to an international maritime tribunal.  
 Asia’s two biggest economies have failed to implement an
agreement signed in June 2008 to develop the field together and
Japan has objected to Chinese drilling near a contested border,
former Chief Cabinet Secretary  Hirofumi Hirano  said on Feb. 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        