-- Colombia `Symbol of Terror' Mono Jojoy Is Killed in Attack on FARC Rebels
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-09-23T18:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/colombia-kills-at-least-27-farc-rebels-as-president-santos-steps-up-fight.html
Colombian forces killed  Mono Jojoy ,
a “symbol of terror” who served as second-in-command of the
country’s biggest rebel group, in an attack that may change the
direction of the nation’s armed conflict, analysts say.  “This means we can achieve peace more quickly,” President
 Juan Manuel Santos  said in an interview in New York where he is
attending the United Nations General Assembly. “Mono Jojoy was
the symbol of terror in Colombia.”  Colombia’s armed forces killed the rebel leader in an air
and ground assault in central Meta province yesterday, more than
two years after the death of  Raul Reyes , who was then the No. 2
commander of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. A
separate operation by Colombia’s armed forces three days ago
killed 27 members of the rebel group, known as the FARC.  Santos, who as defense minister led the 2008 raid that
killed Reyes in a rebel camp in Ecuador, took office Aug. 7. He
has pledged to continue former President  Alvaro Uribe ’s policies
aimed at ending almost 50 years of violence by the FARC and
other drug-funded groups.  “The death of FARC commander Mono Jojoy is a major event
that can change the dynamics of the armed conflict in Colombia
and change the equation for a negotiated solution,” said  Aldo Civico , a director of the Center for the Study of Genocide,
Conflict Resolution & Human Rights at Rutgers University in
Newark.  Military Chief  Mono Jojoy, considered the FARC’s bloodiest leader and also
known for wearing a black beret that matched his moustache, was
the group’s chief of military operations and the second-highest
commander after  Alfonso Cano .  He was responsible for the kidnapping in 2003 of three U.S.
military contractors and held former presidential candidate
 Ingrid Betancourt  hostage for six years.  The guerrilla leader, whose real name was Victor Julio
Suarez Rojas, set up cages and kept dozens of prisoners chained
by the neck for as long as a decade to pressure the government
to release jailed FARC members.  “He caused so much pain in Colombia,” said Consuelo
Gonzales, an ex-congresswoman held captive six years in his
jungle camps. “He was inhumane. I was terrified of him.”  Yesterday’s raid, called “Operation Sodom,” employed 30
airplanes and 27 helicopters, Santos said. Five members of the
armed forces were injured and an anti-explosives dog was killed
in the attack, Defense Minister  Rodrigo Rivera  told reporters.  Tunnels and Bunker  Mono Jojoy’s hideout was “the strategic heart of the
FARC” and “the mother of all FARC camps,” Rivera said. It was
300 meters long, with tunnels and a concrete bunker.  “This is another step toward peace,” Armando Benedetti,
president of Colombia’s congress, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The FARC needs to understand they must cease their terrorist
activities, release all captives and negotiate without
conditions.”  The FARC has suffered blows in the last few years including
the death of four of its highest-ranked leaders, the desertion
of dozens of its most seasoned commanders and the betrayal of at
least one of its senior security chiefs.  Uribe and Santos’s policy of stepped-up attacks on the
rebels and paying informants has been central to the offensive
against the FARC, whose numbers have been reduced by more than
half to about 8,000 since 2002, when Uribe took office,
according to  Defense Ministry  data.  Weaker Insurgency  “The long-term trend continues to be for a weakening in
the insurgents’ capability,” said Robert Munks, senior analyst
at Englewood, Colorado-based defense researcher IHS Jane’s, in
an e-mailed message. “The FARC has now passed a point of no
return that will see it decompose further into smaller, local
outfits involved more heavily in drug trafficking than
ideological struggle.”  The FARC, which is considered a terrorist organization by
the U.S. and the European Union, was founded in 1964 as a rural,
peasant, Marxist insurgency. Its founder,  Manuel Marulanda , died
in 2008 of a heart attack, days after Reyes was killed.  The FARC traffics in cocaine for the bulk of its revenue,
according to the U.S., which has sent Colombia about $7 billion
since 2000 for its anti-insurgency campaign. The guerrillas
control most of Colombia’s production of coca, a key ingredient
of cocaine, the State Department says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 Hmurphy1@bloomberg.net .
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  