-- Commerzbank Wins Appeal on Bonus Claims by Employees of Dresdner Kleinwort
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-09-20T13:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/commerzbank-wins-bonus-appeals-case-by-dresdner-workers-in-frankfurt-court.html

          
          
             Commerzbank AG , Germany’s second-
biggest bank, won dismissal of appeals cases filed by 14 former
Dresdner Kleinwort investment bank employees over their bonuses.  
 The Frankfurt labor appeals court today backed a lower
tribunal which dismissed the suits last year. The employees seek
bonuses for 2008 ranging from about 29,000 euros ($37,987) to
450,000 euros. Commerzbank acquired Dresdner Bank AG last year
and faces similar suits in London.  
 Commerzbank, which was forced to tap Germany for 18.2
billion euros of capital during the credit crisis, cut
prospective 2008 bonuses for Dresdner employees by as much as 90
percent after the unit posted an operating loss of 6.3 billion
euros that year.  
 “Like the lower court, we think that the Dec. 19 letter
didn’t say that the lender wanted to promise a specific amount
as bonus,” Presiding Judge Georg Schaefer said. “Quite the
contrary, in a very clear manner it expressed that the prospect
to get a bonus was a preliminary one which was subject to a
later review of the results.”  
 Today’s ruling is the first by a German appeals court over
the dispute and Manuel Rhotert, a lawyer for some the
plaintiffs, said he will appeal the decision.  
 “This is an important legal issue that needs to be
clarified by Germany’s top labor court,” said Rhotert.  
 Commerzbank spokesman Thomas Bonk said the bank welcomed
the ruling “which totally backs our view of the issue.”  
 Rejected Argument  
 The court rejected the employees’ argument that Frankfurt-
based Commerzbank was obliged to pay higher bonuses because
employees on Dec. 19, 2008, received a letter from Dresdner Bank
AG, the former parent of Dresdner Kleinwort, informing them of
the value of bonuses they may receive.  
 The letter, which set preliminary bonuses as much as 90
percent higher than the amount paid out later by Commerzbank,
merely informed employees of the bank’s tentative plans on bonus
payments and wasn’t binding, according to the court.  
 “Neither based on the wording of the letter, nor from the
context and the lender’s statements made in context with handing
out the letters, could the plaintiffs believe this would be the
last word about the amount of bonus they would get,” Schaefer
said. “That’s why Commerzbank was allowed the cut them by 90
percent when it reviewed the results.”  
 Allianz SE, the insurer that sold the Dresdner to
Commerzbank, in early 2008 had earmarked about 400 million euros
for Dresdner bonuses, including retention payments. In October
of that year the bank told the employees their bonus would be
individually set on Dec. 19.  
 “Preliminary”  
 The letter they received that day used the term
“preliminary” several times and added that the final amount
would only be determined after a review of results in February
2009.  
 A London court in May dismissed a bid by Commerzbank to
halt a similar case brought by 100 former and current Dresdner
employees saying it hadn’t been given enough evidence to dismiss
the matter. The court also ruled workers’ claims based solely on
events prior to a December letter to staff regarding bonuses
would have “no realistic chance of success” if they went to
trial.  
 Commerzbank lost several other London cases brought by
former senior staff of Dresdner and settled others. Most of
those managers, whose bonuses and severance payments were also
withheld after the takeover, were on the bank’s executive
committee and had agreements that guaranteed the payments.  
 Commerzbank in October last year was ordered by the
Frankfurt labor court to pay 1.5 million euros in severance to
 Jens-Peter Neumann , the former head of capital markets at
Dresdner. Neumann had been promised the payment by Dresdner as
part of an agreement to leave the investment bank after the
Commerzbank takeover.  
 Today’s cases are Hess. LAG, 7 Sa 2082/09 u.a.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Frankfurt via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Commerzbank Wins Frankfurt Appeals Case  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Commerzbank AG headquarters. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Commerzbank AG headquarters. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
