-- Confidence in Rupee Is Growing on $25 Billion Fund Inflows: India Credit
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2010-09-21T06:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/confidence-in-rupee-is-growing-on-24-billion-fund-inflows-india-credit.html
Investors are the most confident in
India’s rupee since May 2009 as global funds pour an
unprecedented $25 billion into the nation’s stocks and bonds.  One-month options conferring the right to sell the rupee
against the dollar cost 63 basis points more than contracts to
buy as of today, down from 600 on May 25 and below the level for
both Brazil’s real and Russia’s ruble, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The rupee rose 3 percent this month, more than
any currency in Asia except the South Korean won and the
Philippine peso.  The appreciation marks a turnaround for India’s currency,
which fell 1.1 percent in the first eight months of the year, as
government plans to sell state-owned company shares and central
bank interest rate increases spur speculation the budget deficit
will narrow and inflation will ease. Global funds pumped $15.8
billion into equities this year, up 54 percent from the same
period in 2009, and $9.2 billion into debt, more than the
combined amount in the previous eight years, exchange data show.  “India’s growth prospects remain strong and the outlook
for equities is quite positive,”  Rajeev De Mello , the
Singapore-based head of Asian debt at Western Asset Management
Co., the Pasadena, California-based fixed-income unit of Legg
Mason Inc., said in an interview yesterday. “The Reserve Bank
of India must be quite happy that the rupee is strengthening
because that is supporting its efforts to contain inflation.”  Policy Rates  The rupee’s decline in the first eight months lagged behind
only the 3.5 percent drop in the South Korean won in Asia.
India’s currency, which traded at 45.73 per dollar as of 11:11
a.m. in Mumbai, will climb 5.4 percent to 43.250 by the end of
2011, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
12 analysts.  The premiums paid by options investors for protection
against possible declines are lower than the 250 basis points,
or 2.5 percentage points, for the ruble and 353 basis points for
the real. The so-called risk-reversal rate for the yuan is a
positive 57 basis points, meaning investors are more bearish on
the dollar than on China’s currency.  Implied volatility on one-month dollar-rupee options fell
as low as 7.3 percent last week, the lowest level since April,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Traders quote the gauge of
expected swings in exchange rates as part of option prices.  Interest Rates  The Reserve Bank of India raised interest rates on Sept. 16
for a fifth time since March to slow inflation. India’s
benchmark reverse repurchase rate of 5 percent is the highest in
Asia excluding Indonesia and compares with benchmark rates of
0.25 percent in the U.S., 7.75 percent in Russia and 10.75
percent in Brazil. Asia’s third-biggest economy grew 8.8 percent
last quarter from a year earlier, the most since 2007 and the
fastest pace among major economies after China and Brazil.  India’s central bank will decide on raising its policy
rates depending on the pace of price increases as borrowing
costs are near their “neutral” level, Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao told reporters in the southern city of Hyderabad
yesterday.  “Inflation has started to come down although some numbers
are still worrisome,” he said.  Local-currency government bonds due in 10 years yield 7.98
percent in India, compared with 11.85 percent in Brazil, 7.61
percent in Russia and 3.23 percent in China, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Similar debt offer 2.69 percent in the
U.S. and 1.04 percent in Japan.  Yield Difference  The  difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries widened to 529 basis
points today from 526 a week ago. The measure, which has
averaged 317 basis points in the past decade, reached a two-year
high of 556 on Aug. 26.  Returns from Indian government bonds fell 0.25 percent this
month, the biggest decline after Singapore and Hong Kong among
10 local-currency debt markets outside Japan, indexes compiled
by London-based HSBC Holdings Plc show. The notes returned 2.8
percent this year, the worst performance in the region excluding
Japan, as average inflation in the first eight months jumped
sevenfold to 9.8 percent.  Adani Power Ltd., an Indian power project development
company, borrowed $100 million for project finance last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Reliance Infrastructure
Ltd., controlled by billionaire  Anil Ambani , approached banks
for a 70 billion-rupee ($1.5 billion) loan to fund a new rail
project in Mumbai, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  Currency Forecast  Gains in the rupee may be limited as concern grows that
India’s current-account  deficit  may widen, according to  Rajeev Malik , a senior economist at CLSA Asia Pacific Markets. The
deficit grew to $13 billion in the three months ended March 31
from $12.2 billion in the previous quarter, data published by
the central bank show. The gap may reach 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ending March 2011, according to
CLSA, from 2.9 percent last year.  “The deficit offsets a significant portion of the
appreciation pressure from capital inflows,” Singapore-based
Malik said in an interview yesterday. “The rupee will still
appreciate, but the pace is going to be gradual unless the
magnitude of capital inflows is overwhelming.”  Share Sales  Western Asset bought the rupee this month and purchased
Indian government bonds to gain from the nation’s higher yields,
according to De Mello. Standard Chartered Plc recommended last
week that investors buy the rupee against the dollar and the
euro. The London-based bank, which earns most of its profit from
emerging markets, forecasts the rupee will rise to 45.5 per
dollar by Dec. 31 and to 43.5 by the end of 2011.  “Capital inflows may surprise on the upside as India’s
economic prospects remain positive,”  Priyanka Chakravarty , a
Mumbai-based foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered,
said in an interview yesterday. “The rupee is poised to extend
recent gains as sustained portfolio investments may overwhelm
trade-deficit concerns.”  The government said in January it may sell shares in 68
companies to shrink the budget deficit to 5.5 percent of GDP in
the year ending March 31 from an estimated 6.9 percent last year.  Coal India Ltd ., based in the eastern city of Kolkata, may
raise 150 billion rupees next month, in what would be the
country’s biggest initial public offering, according to two
people with knowledge of the transaction who declined to be
identified.  Steel Authority of India Ltd ., the nation’s second-
largest producer and located in New Delhi, may sell stock in
November, Chairman C.S. Verma said in an interview last week.  Foreign Interest  Ninety-eight Indian companies have raised 716 billion
rupees in share sales so far this year, set to surpass a record
782 billion rupees raised in all of 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We do see a big IPO pipeline in India and we think that
might lead to foreign interest rising again,”  Rahul Bajoria , an
economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore, said in a Sept. 20 phone
interview. “The IPOs are probably going to help the rupee over
the next month, but beyond that the current account is a major
problem.” The currency may decline to 47.5 per dollar in the
next six months, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  