-- Durbin Wants Focus on Jobs, Not Deficit, Until U.S. Jobless Rate Under 9%
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/congress-shouldn-t-tackle-deficit-until-unemployment-below-9-durbin-says.html
Congress shouldn’t make cutting the
federal  deficit  a greater priority than creating jobs until the
U.S. unemployment rate falls to 9 percent or lower for at least
half a year, the second-ranking Senate Democrat said in an
interview.  “If we have two or three quarters of 9 percent or less”
then Congress can “breathe a sigh of relief” and “move
forward on what we need to do on this deficit,” Senate
Democratic Whip  Dick Durbin  said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  Durbin, of Illinois, said he didn’t have a timetable for
when economic factors, including job-growth measures passed by
Congress, would push  unemployment  down from the current 9.6
percent rate to less than 9 percent.  The House plans to vote this week on Senate-passed
legislation to create a $30 billion loan program to spur small-
business lending by community banks. President  Barack Obama  has
also proposed new tax breaks for businesses, such as a permanent
extension of the tax credit for research and development.  The National Bureau of Economic Research said yesterday the
worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in June
2009.  Policy makers in Congress and the Obama administration
should use joblessness as one of the “indicators of when this
recession is truly over,” and “9 percent may be the
standard,” Durbin said. “We better take care not to hit the
deficit brake too soon, or we are going to find ourselves going
into a second trough in this recession.”  Survey of Economists  The U.S. unemployment rate won’t drop below 9 percent until
2012, the year Obama must stand for re-election, according to a
Sept. 1-8 Bloomberg survey of 61 economists. The average jobless
rate prediction for 2011 is 9.2 percent and 8.3 percent in 2012.  Durbin predicted the Senate will vote on Obama’s proposal
to extend Bush-era tax cuts for middle-class taxpayers before
Congress adjourns early next month to campaign for the November
elections.  Obama has proposed extending the tax cuts for household
incomes up to $250,000 and individual incomes up to $200,000 and
letting the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for about 3 percent of
Americans in higher income brackets expire on Dec. 31.  Durbin accused Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky of fiscal recklessness for advocating a permanent
extension of the tax cuts for all income levels.  “How could he credibly stand up and even refer to our
deficit problem after introducing” the tax-extension, Durbin
said.  $680 Billion  The Office of Management and Budget has estimated it would
cost $680 billion over a decade to extend current rates for the
upper-bracket taxpayers.  Durbin said McConnell’s plan, and proposals to temporarily
extend the tax cuts for top earners, won’t gain the 60 Senate
votes needed to pass major legislation. Only Obama’s plan would
get enough support to pass the Senate, the senator said.  “Democrats predicted that unemployment wouldn’t rise above
8 percent if the stimulus became law -- we know how that turned
out,” McConnell said. With the unemployment rate near 10
percent and “an additional trillion dollars in debt,”
McConnell said that “Americans’ confidence in the
administration’s economic arguments never recovered.”  Durbin said he doesn’t expect Democratic losses in the
House and Senate this November to necessarily be worse than in
other midterm elections, when the president’s party typically
loses more than 20 House seats.  With some exceptions, off-year elections “are never good
for an incumbent president” and “this one is not likely to be
good” for Democrats, he said.  Still, Durbin said, “Republicans have not been able to
close the deal” because they haven’t spelled out “a credible
alternative to the current unhappy situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rowley  in New York at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in New York at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  