-- Copper Drops in New York on Concern Fragile U.S. Economy Will Damp Demand
-- Pham-Duy Nguyen
-- 2010-09-20T18:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/copper-fluctuates-on-bets-uneven-economic-recovery-may-damp-metal-demand.html

          
          
             Copper fell from the highest level
in almost five months on speculation that an uneven U.S.
economic recovery will damp demand for industrial metals.  
 The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence index in September held at the lowest level in more
than a year, data showed today. The U.S. is the world’s second-
biggest copper consumer. Earlier, the metal climbed as the
dollar’s slide boosted the appeal of commodities.  
 “Copper is driven by the economic engine,” said  Matthew Zeman , a trader at LaSalle Futures Group in Chicago. “The
deterioration in the economic situation leaves copper vulnerable
to the downside.”  
 Copper futures for December dropped 1.75 cents, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $3.5045 a pound at 1:35 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. Earlier, the metal reached $3.5555, the highest
price since April 26.  
 Construction accounts for a quarter of all U.S. copper
consumption, according to the Copper Development Association.
Commercial real-estate prices fell for a second straight month
in July as expectations for economic growth slumped, Moody’s
Investors Service said today.  
 Twenty-seven of 58 economists polled by Bloomberg News this
month projected growth in 2011 below the 2.5 percent to 2.8
percent pace that Federal Reserve policy makers peg as the long-
term trend. Twenty-eight said the jobless rate will top last
month’s 9.6 percent sometime in the next nine months. That
combination would constitute a growth recession.  
 Copper has gained 26 percent in the past year as
inventories dropped and demand climbed in China, the biggest
user.  
 On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months dropped $5, or 0.1 percent, to $7,715 a metric ton ($3.50
a pound).  
 Nickel, tin and lead also fell on the LME. Aluminum and
zinc climbed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        