-- Cuba Fires Industries Minister for Inefficieny, Failure to Lure Investment
-- Blake Schmidt
-- 2010-09-20T15:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/cuba-fires-industries-minister-for-inefficieny-failure-to-lure-investment.html

          
          
             Cuban President  Raul Castro 
replaced the island’s minister of basic industries, citing
mismanagement and a failure to attract investment.  
 The move to dismiss Yadira Garcia Vera is part of Castro’s
reforms to reduce inefficiency that is crimping economic growth,
said Arch Ritter, professor of economics at Carleton University
in Ottawa. The minister oversees the energy and mining sectors,
including the island’s largest commodity export, nickel.  
 “There are long-term question marks over the nickel
sector,” Ritter said in an interview. “For the last 20 years,
nickel has been a bright spot in the Cuban economy.”  
 Garcia Vera had been at the post since 2004. She will be
replaced by deputy minister Tomas Benitez, according to a
statement on the website of the Communist Party newspaper
 Granma . Garcia Vera’s dismissal comes a week after the
government announced it would lay off 10 percent of its
workforce by March in a bid to reduce waste.  
 The government’s statement criticized Garcia Vera for
allowing “deficiencies” in the ministry and “weak control
over resources set aside for investment and production,”
without giving further details.  
 Garcia Vera also served as a liaison with the family of
Elian Gonzalez in 2000 when Cuba negotiated the child’s return
to the island from Miami, according to a  biography  posted on the
website of the University of Miami’s Cuba Transition Project.  
 Nickel Demand  
 Demand for refined nickel has dropped worldwide due to
China’s increased production of nickel pig iron, a substitute
used in stainless steel production, Ritter said. Cuban
production of nickel products fell 2 percent in 2009 to 8,648
metric tons, according to government statistics.  
 Michael Edmonds, spokesman for Toronto-based Sherrit
International Corp., Cuba’s largest nickel producer in a joint
venture with the government, didn’t respond to request for
comment.  
 Fidel Castro , 84, began transferring control to his brother
Raul in July 2006, when he underwent intestinal surgery, and
officially stepped down as president in 2008.  
 Raul Castro replaced the foreign minister, finance and
planning minister and the secretary of the council of ministers
in a March 2009 Cabinet overhaul.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 Bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        