-- Defaulted Debt Trading Sinks as Elliott Bets on Courts: Argentina Credit
-- Ben Bain
-- 2010-09-20T19:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/defaulted-debt-trading-sinks-as-elliott-bets-on-courts-argentina-credit.html

          
          
             Trading in Argentine defaulted debt
is drying up as creditors from billionaire investor  Kenneth Dart 
to Elliott Management Corp. seek to obtain full payment on their
$4.5 billion of bonds in court.  
 Investors may have traded about $1 million of defaulted
Argentine bonds once in the past three months, down from daily
trades of $5 million before the government completed a $12.9
billion debt restructuring in June, according to Exotix Ltd., a
London-based brokerage that specializes in distressed
securities.  
 President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s  debt swap
whittled the group of remaining creditors to investors Economy
Minister  Amado Boudou  called “vulture funds” on June 23.
Dart’s EM Ltd. and Elliott’s NML Capital, which are looking for
assets to seize with attachment orders from U.S. court
judgments, also form part of a group of creditors who may
prevent Argentina from selling bonds in international markets
for the first time since its 2001 default on $95 billion.  
 “You are now left with a hard core of intransigent, hold-
out investors who evidently decided that they’re in it for the
long run,” said  Arturo Porzecanski , an international finance
professor at American University in Washington. “It’s a more
professional group, it’s a more resilient group. They’re not
going to give up. They’re determined to prevent Argentina from
ever issuing bonds in the overseas market.”  
 The price of defaulted Argentine bonds sank to about 35
cents on the dollar last week from 49 cents in April, when the
government unveiled the terms of its restructuring.  
 Judgments  
 Boudou said June 23 that creditors holding $4.5 billion of
the securities were seeking to obtain payment through
litigation. Last month, a U.S. appeals court ruled that
Argentine assets administered by a U.S. bank were properly
attached to pay Dart’s EM Ltd. and Elliott’s NML Capital. NML
and EM have won judgments against Argentina that total, with
interest, $2.4 billion, U.S. District Judge  Thomas Griesa  said
in May.  
 David W. Rivkin , a lawyer for EM, and  Scott Tagliarino , a
spokesman for Elliott Management, both in New York, declined to
comment.  
 “We’re no longer in a market in which everything trades as
a commodity based on an upcoming exchange now that an upcoming
exchange is unlikely,” said  Diego Ferro , who helps manage $400
million in high-yield, emerging-market debt at Greylock Capital
Management LLC in New York. “Eventually an administration may
come in and clean up the whole problem. It’s a much more nuanced
and targeted approach now if you’re holding debt.”  
 ‘Enormous Effort’  
 Greylock participated in this year’s debt swap, according
to Ferro, who declined to say whether the fund held on to any of
its defaulted notes. Greylock isn’t pursuing litigation, he
said.  
 The next government shouldn’t rush to clear the remaining
debt, according to  Francisco de Narvaez , a congressman who last
year led a slate of candidates who beat former President  Nestor Kirchner  and his allies in mid-term congressional elections and
who said he may run for president next year.  
 “Argentina has made an enormous effort to get out of the
default with terms that, I insist, have been excessively
generous,” de Narvaez said in a Sept. 13 interview in Buenos
Aires. “It wouldn’t be a priority for me.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 659 at 3:33 p.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Debt Buyback  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose three basis points
to 771, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  
 The peso was little changed at 3.9491 per dollar.  
 Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy increased 0.26 cent to 11.83 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Argentina’s plan to buy back 8.7 billion pesos ($2.2
billion) in debt doesn’t solely target the warrants, Finance
Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  said in a Sept. 17 phone interview.
The debt buyback was included in the 2011  budget  sent to
Congress Sept. 16.  
 In 2005, Kirchner offered holders of defaulted debt a
restructuring worth about 30 cents on the dollar. Holders of
about $20 billion in bonds rejected that offer.  
 “The amount outstanding is minimal and those holding it
are holding it for a reason,” said  Amir Zada , a New York-based
director at Exotix.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Amado Boudou, economy minister of Argentina  
                       
                         
                           Diego Levy/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Amado Boudou, economy minister of Argentina. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Amado Boudou, economy minister of Argentina. Photographer: Diego Levy/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
