-- Delek Says Retroactive Raised Gas Royalty Would Threaten Offshore Efforts
-- Calev Ben-David
-- 2010-09-20T14:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/delek-says-retroactive-raised-gas-royalty-would-threaten-offshore-efforts.html

          
          
             Israel’s potential retroactive
increase of natural gas royalties would be illegal and threaten
development of offshore deposits,  Delek Energy Systems Ltd. 
Chief Executive Officer  Gideon Tadmor  said.  
 “We don’t oppose the government’s right to change
royalties in future licenses,” he said in an interview in Tel
Aviv last week. “It’s short-sighted, populist, and illegal to
change the rules retroactively.”  
 Israel proposed changes to royalties after a group
including companies controlled by Israeli billionaire  Isaac Tshuva ’s  Delek Group Ltd.  and partner  Noble Energy Ltd.  made
record gas finds off Israel’s Mediterranean coast in the past 18
months. The two finds may hold 24 trillion cubic feet of gas,
double the U.K.’s proven reserves in 2009, and the whole area as
much as 30 trillion cubic feet, Noble said in June.  
 The partners are already paying close to 50 percent when
taxes and royalties are taken into account on the gas pumped
since 2004 from the Yam Tethys site further south, Tadmor said.
“Even though we’ve found such a large amount, any change in the
law could threaten stability in this still-nascent gas market.”  
 Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  in April appointed a six-
member committee, headed by  Eytan Sheshinski , a Hebrew
University of Jerusalem professor emeritus, to consider changing
royalty and tax policies following the Tamar and Leviathan
finds. Steinitz said in June that the finds “belong to the
people of Israel and the State of Israel.”  
 Mudslinging Campaign  
 The appointment of the committee has sparked a political
and media debate in Israel, including a protest outside
Sheshinski’s home by a group accusing him of favoring “Arab
Gas” imported from neighboring Egypt.  
 A “pressure campaign is being conducted, including
personal harassment and mudslinging, against the committee and
especially its head,” Steinitz said on Aug. 25. “This is
unacceptable.”  
 Shelly Yacimovich , a parliament member from Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak ’s Labor party and chairperson of the Ethics
Committee, in an open letter this month accused Tshuva of taking
part in the campaign, asserting the government’s “full
authority to change policies: in taxes, royalties, pensions,
allowance, and salaries.”  
 Anastassia Michaeli , a member of Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman ’s Yisrael Beitanu faction, in a public response said
changing laws retroactively may weaken democracy.  
 Charles Davidson , chief executive at Houston-based Noble,
in an April letter to Steinitz said: “Any retroactive changes
in the terms of existing permits would be an egregious taking by
the government which would quickly move Israel to the lowest
tier of countries for investment by the energy industry.”  
 Apples to Oranges  
 Israel’s oil and gas royalty is 12.5 percent. In the U.S.
royalties on offshore leases run from 12.5 percent to 18.5
percent depending on the age of the leases and the amount of
taxes paid, according to the Ernst & Young  Global Oil and Gas
Tax Guide . While Norway levies no royalties, it taxes petroleum
revenue 78 percent, and allows for write-offs on exploration.  
 “You mustn’t compare apples to oranges,” Delek’s Tadmor
said. “You can’t compare us to Norway or Qatar, where the
countries fund the risk. Another example is the U.S. where the
royalties for deepwater drilling are 12.5 percent, but the
working environment is completely different than in Israel. The
government gave us the licenses and in a joint venture said you
take all the risks and we will take one-eighth in royalties if
you succeed. Now that we found, or we’re committed to find, they
want to change the rules of the game.”  
 The Finance Ministry said in an e-mail it had “no
comment” on Tadmor’s statements.  
 Israel’s current account may benefit by about $4 billion a
year, or about 2 percent of gross domestic product, from the gas
finds based on current prices, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
wrote in a report Sept. 16.  
 Tamar partners Delek Group Ltd.,  Delek Drilling LP ,  Avner
Oil Exploration Ltd . and  Isramco Negev 2 LP  are four of the top-
five performers in the past year on the benchmark  TA-25 stock 
index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  
          
          


  


        