-- Demand for Canadian Assets Rises as Foreigners Boost Bond Holdings Again
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-09-20T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/demand-for-canadian-assets-rises-as-foreigners-boost-bond-holdings-again.html

          
          
             Global demand for Canadian
financial assets rose in July as investors outside the country
continued to buy bonds.  
 Net buying of bonds, equities and money market securities
totaled C$5.48 billion ($5.32 billion) in the month, compared
with C$5.39 billion in June, Ottawa-based Statistics Canada said
today. Non-residents bought C$5.17 billion of bonds, the 19th
consecutive monthly  net purchase  for such securities.  
 Non-residents bought a net C$3.9 billion of outstanding
federal government bonds, “with a concentration on shorter
term-to-maturity instruments,” Statistics Canada said in the
report.  
 Demand for Canadian bonds and other securities has been
increasing on signs that the country is exiting the recession
faster than other Group of Seven countries, and that the
country’s debt burden will be lower in the next few years,
making the country’s bonds less risky than those of countries
with worse balance sheets.  
 Canada’s dollar gained 3.3 percent in July, as the central
bank raised its overnight target rate for a second time this
year. The Bank of Canada has since raised borrowing costs a
third time in September to 1 percent, bringing the difference
between the U.S. and Canadian official rates to its widest since
January 2009.  
 Economists predicted a C$8 billion net purchase of Canadian
securities, according the median of four estimates by Bloomberg
News.  
 Non-residents bought a net C$966 million of Canadian money-
market paper in the month. They also sold C$655 million of
stocks, the first divestment in five months, Statistics Canada
said. Foreigners have purchased C$64.6 billion of Canadian
securities so far this year, compared with C$63.7 billion in the
first seven months of last year.  
 Canadians  sold a net C$2.99 billion of foreign securities
in July, almost all bonds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        