-- DineEquity Plans Debt as Junk Bond Investor Inflows Surge: New Issue Alert
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-09-20T10:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/dineequity-plans-debt-as-junk-bond-investor-inflows-surge-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             DineEquity Inc. , the operator of
the IHOP and Applebee’s restaurant chains, is marketing
speculative-grade debt as junk bond mutual funds reported the
largest inflows in nine weeks.  
 DineEquity plans to sell senior unsecured notes that may be
used to help fund tender offers for “certain series of its
subsidiaries’ outstanding securitization notes,” the Glendale,
California company said in a Sept. 10 statement.  
 Inflows into high-yield, high-risk debt mutual funds were
$1.2 billion in the seven days ended Sept. 15, the most in nine
weeks and the third-largest total this year, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Research analysts  Mike Cho  and  Oleg Melentyev  wrote in a Sept. 16 note citing Lipper FMI data. Junk
issuance climbed to $13.8 billion last week, the second-busiest
this year after the record $14.9 billion of sales in the five
days ended Aug. 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Given the low yields on money markets, I think we’ve seen
both high-yield and emerging markets are beneficiaries of
that,” said  Edward Meigs , a money manager at Dwight Asset
Management Co. in Baltimore., who oversees $600 million of junk
debt. “High-yield should continue to perform pretty well in
sort of a muddle-along economic scenario.”  
 High-yield, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB-by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
 Junk Spreads  
 The extra yield investors demand to own junk debt instead
of Treasuries fell 1 basis point to 624 basis points, the lowest
since May 13, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
High Yield Master II index. Yields fell 2 basis points to 8.18
percent, the data show.  
 Visant Corp., the Armonk, New York-based marketing and
publishing company, helped lead $1.9 billion of junk issuance on
Sept. 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investment-
grade companies didn’t sell any debt.  
 Speculative-grade debt sales have been at least $18 billion
this month, Bloomberg data show.  
 “There’s a certain point where supply will weigh on the
market,” Meigs said in a telephone interview. “By the end of
this month, based on what we’re seeing, you’re going to sort of
get to that saturation point.”  
 DineEquity Refinancing  
 DineEquity plans to refinance about $1.6 billion of debt,
the company said in its statement. Barclays Plc and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. will arrange bonds and loans for the
transaction, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations, who declined to be identified because terms are
private.  
 Spreads on investment-grade bonds were unchanged at 184
basis points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Master index. Yields fell 2 basis points to 3.85
percent.  
 The index touched a record 3.74 percent on Aug. 24, the
lowest in the history of the measure dating to October 1986.  
 The following is a description of at least $14.6 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 GERDAU SA, Latin America’s largest steelmaker, hired HSBC
Holdings Plc, Banco Santander SA and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
sell benchmark bonds overseas, according to a person familiar
with the transaction who declined to be identified because the
terms aren’t set. Proceeds will be used to refinance debt, the
company said Sept. 16 in a regulatory filing. A benchmark sale
is typically at least $500 million.  
 TRANSPOWER NEW ZEALAND LTD., which operates New Zealand’s
electricity grid, started marketing at least $150 million of
bonds to U.S. private investors, according to a person familiar
with the plan. National Australia Bank Ltd. and Citigroup Inc.
are managing the sale, the person said, asking not to be named
as the details are private.  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The debt is likely to be for five years and is meant to
“fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance sheet,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone interview from
Doha. The bank will sell the bonds in dollars and the local
riyal currency, the CEO said in a July 25 interview.  
 Not Rated  
 SYDNEY AIRPORTS CORP. hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
arrange debt investor meetings in Asia and the U.S., according
to a person familiar with the matter.  
 ABITIBIBOWATER INC., the largest newsprint maker in North
America, plans to sell $750 million of senior secured notes due
2018, the company said in a statement distributed by PR
Newswire. The offering is part of the Montreal-based company’s
previously announced reorganization plan and emergence from
creditor protection in the U.S. and Canada, according to the
statement.  
 STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  
 High Yield  
 HARVEST OPERATIONS CORP., a unit of Harvest Energy Trust,
may sell $500 million of seven-year notes, according to a person
familiar with the offering. Proceeds may be used to repay debt
and for general corporate purposes, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The notes
may be sold as soon as Sept. 27, the person said.  
 YASAR HOLDING AS, a Turkish company that makes dairy and
meat products, paint and paper, plans to sell five-year notes
denominated in U.S. dollars, said a person familiar with the
matter. Barclays Plc is managing the sale, which will be used to
fund a senior loan to Yasar from Barclays Bank Plc, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  
 GENON ENERGY, the power producer being formed by the merger
of  Mirant Corp . and  RRI Energy Inc. , plans to sell $1.2 billion
of notes to help pay for the transaction, according to a person
familiar with the offering. The company plans to issue eight-
and 10-year notes, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The 8-year notes may yield
9.5 percent to 9.75 percent, and the 10-year securities may
yield 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, more than 8-year
notes, the person said. The company originally marketed $1.4
billion of debt, the person said. Moody’s assigned the notes a
rank of B3 and S&P graded them B, one step higher.  
 CHC HELICOPTER CORP., the provider of flights to offshore
rigs and platforms purchased by First Reserve Corp. in 2008,
plans to sell $1.1 billion of 10-year notes denominated in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
Proceeds may be used to repay bank borrowings and for breakage
fees on interest-rate swap agreements, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 EVERTEC INC., the processing unit of  Popular Inc. , a Hato
Rey, Puerto Rico-based bank holding company, plans to sell $220
million of seven-year notes, according to a person familiar with
the offering. Proceeds will help pay for the acquisition of 51
percent of the company by Apollo Management LP, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 LIBERTY TIRE RECYCLING plans to sell $200 million of six-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Proceeds may be used to repay bank debt and for general
corporate purposes, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 WEST CORP. , the call-center operator taken private by
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Quadrangle Group LLC in 2006,
plans to sell $500 million of notes due 2018 to repay bank debt,
according to Standard & Poor’s. S&P assigned the debt a grade of
B, the credit rater said in a statement. Moody’s Investors
Service ranked the notes B3, on step lower, it said in a
separate statement.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC. , the maker of tires and wheels for
off-highway vehicles, plans to sell $175 million of senior
secured notes due 2017, it said in a Sept. 15 statement
distributed by Business Wire. The Quincy, Illinois-based company
plans to buy back up to $139.9 million of notes maturing in
2012, it said in a separate statement. The company withdrew a
proposed $150 million offering announced in May because of
adverse market conditions, Chief Financial Officer  Paul Reitz 
said in a telephone interview.  
 PINAFORE LLC and PINAFORE INC., entities created by Onex
Corp. and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, plan to sell
$1.6 billion of senior secured notes in a two-part offering to
fund the acquisition of Tomkins Plc. They will offer $600
million of senior secured first-lien notes due 2017 and $1
billion of senior secured second-lien notes due 2018, according
to a statement distributed by PR Newswire.  
 VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL , the U.S. company
merging with Biovail Corp., Canada’s largest publicly traded
drugmaker, plans to offer about $1 billion of senior unsecured
notes, it said in a statement. Aliso Viejo, California-based
Valeant is also seeking $1.875 billion of loans to finance the
transaction and pay a dividend, according to a person familiar
with the situation.  
 DINEEQUITY INC., the owner of Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill
& Bar and the IHOP pancake chain, plans to sell senior unsecured
notes, the company said in a statement distributed by
Marketwire. Proceeds may be used to help fund tender offers for
“certain series of its subsidiaries’ outstanding securitization
notes,” the Glendale, California-based company said in the
statement.  
 REYNOLDS GROUP HOLDINGS LTD., the maker of Reynolds Wrap
aluminum foil, may sell $2 billion of senior secured notes and
$1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes to help pay for its
purchase of Pactiv Corp., according to a person familiar with
the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Reynolds Group is also seeking $1.5 billion in loans
to pay for the acquisition, the person said.  
 VISANT HOLDING CORP., the U.S. marketing and publishing
firm owned by KKR & Co., plans to sell $750 million of notes due
in 2017 through its Visant Corp. unit, according to a statement
distributed by PR Newswire. Visant is also seeking a $1.25
billion term loan and a $175 million revolving line of credit,
the Armonk, New York-based company said in the statement.
Proceeds from the borrowings may be used to repay debt and pay a
dividend to investors in Visant’s stock and options.  
 NBTY INC. , the maker of Nature’s Bounty and MET-Rx
nutritional supplements, may issue $900 million of bonds in
addition to seeking a $1.5 billion term loan and a $200 million
revolving line of credit to help pay for its acquisition by
Carlyle Group, according to a person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes, or borrowings under a bridge credit
facility in their place, a rank of B.  
 E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Moody’s Investors Service ranked the proposed
notes at Ba2, citing growing personal consumption in China, E-
Land Fashion’s moderate scale and significant business
volatility. Proceeds will be used mainly for capital
expenditures and general corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the
report.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said. The money would go to fund expansion  
 AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. , the insurer that’s
majority owned by the U.S., may sell bonds to help repay its
government bailout, it said in an Aug. 9 registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  
 JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  
 ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  
 RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  
 CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  
 POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  
 INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  
 SRI LANKA hired HSBC, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Royal Bank of Scotland to sell $1 billion of bonds, the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka said on its website on Aug. 12.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister  Mohammad Abu Hammour  said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        