-- Distracted-Driving Deaths Fall 6%, Remain at `Epidemic' Level, U.S. Says
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-09-20T14:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/distracted-driving-deaths-in-u-s-fell-6-last-year-to-5-474-lahood-says.html

          
          
             Traffic deaths tied to driving
while distracted by activities such as talking on a mobile phone
or eating fell 6 percent last year from the previous 12 months,
U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said.  
 Crashes linked to drivers being distracted behind the wheel
caused 5,474 deaths last year, down from 5,838 a year earlier
and accounting for 16 percent of all road fatalities in 2009,
unchanged from the previous year, according to the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration.  
 “These numbers show that distracted driving remains an
epidemic in America, and they are just the tip of the iceberg,”
LaHood said today in an e-mailed  statement .  
 Researchers think the official statistics underestimate the
number of crashes caused by distracted driving, LaHood said in
the statement. Police reports in many states don’t document
inattention as a cause, he said.  Drivers can lose focus  by using
devices such as mobile phones and portable computers, or such
activities as eating, talking and personal grooming.  
 Drivers in their 20s are the most likely to be involved in
a fatal crash tied to distractions, according to the statement.
For mobile phones in particular, the 30- to 39-year-old group
had the highest involvement.  
 NHTSA’s statistics show that distracted-driving fatalities
as a portion of all deaths increased to 16 percent last year
from 10 percent in 2005, the agency said.  
 The National Safety Council, an Itasca, Illinois-based
nonprofit group, found in a January study that 1.4 million
crashes a year are caused by drivers using mobile phones and at
least 200,000 more by drivers who are texting.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        