-- Dodgers Owner's Wife Testifies She Didn't Read Postnuptial Pact
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-09-20T20:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/dodgers-owner-s-wife-testifies-she-didn-t-read-postnuptial-pact.html

          
          
             Jamie McCourt , the estranged wife
of Los Angeles Dodgers’ owner  Frank McCourt , testified that she
didn’t read a 2004 postnuptial agreement her husband claims
makes him the sole owner of the Major League Baseball team.  
 Jamie McCourt, 56, resumed her testimony today after a two-
week break in the divorce trial in state court in Los Angeles.
She claims the 2004 marital property agreement that purports to
make the Dodgers Frank McCourt’s separate property and the
couple’s residences her separate property can’t be enforced.  
 California Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon will decide
whether the 2004 agreement is valid. Frank McCourt, 57, has said
that his wife was the driving force behind the postnuptial
agreement because she didn’t want to be exposed to the financial
risk he assumed when he bought the then-money-losing baseball
team.  
 “I can’t tell you who told me to sign it,” Jamie McCourt
said during cross-examination by Frank McCourt’s lawyer,  Stephen Susman . I was told, “Sign this. ‘It does what you asked us to
do.’”  
 Jamie McCourt said under questioning from Susman that she
wasn’t coerced and that she often doesn’t read estate-planning
documents because she finds them “boring.” The 2004 agreement
was only meant to continue a practice whereby they put title to
the business assets in her husband’s name to protect their
homes, which were in her name, against business creditors, she
said.  
 ‘Inappropriate Behavior’  
 Jamie McCourt filed for divorce Oct. 27, six days after her
husband fired her as chief executive officer of the baseball
team. Frank McCourt accused her of insubordination and of
“inappropriate behavior with regard to a direct subordinate.”  
 The $421 million acquisition of the Dodgers from  Fox
Entertainment Group Inc.  closed on Feb. 13, 2004. The team is
now worth about $727 million, according to Forbes.  
 Frank McCourt testified earlier this month that his wife
sought $250 million in cash in 2008 when he wanted to put the
Major League Baseball team in a trust with their four sons as
beneficiaries. His wife’s demand was “ridiculous,” Frank
McCourt said.  
 The couple had a fundamental disagreement about his plans
to create the trust that didn’t make her a beneficiary, Frank
McCourt said. She wanted him to make all his business assets
their shared property, said Frank McCourt, who contends that
those assets were his alone under the 2004 agreement.  
 Jamie McCourt claims that two conflicting versions of the
2004 agreement were signed, one including the Dodgers as her
husband’s separate assets and one excluding the team as her
husband’s separate asset. Because the two versions are
contradictory, the couple didn’t enter into any contract, Jamie
McCourt said.  
 In addition, Jamie McCourt claims the postnuptial agreement
can’t be enforced because nobody explained to her what it would
entail under California community property law if they were to
divorce.  
 The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jamie McCourt  
                       
                         
                           Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images 
                         
                         Jamie McCourt, Former Los Angeles Dodgers CEO, arrives at Los Angeles County Superior Court for day two of a non-jury divorce trial on Aug. 31, 2010 in Los Angeles. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jamie McCourt, Former Los Angeles Dodgers CEO, arrives at Los Angeles County Superior Court for day two of a non-jury divorce trial on Aug. 31, 2010 in Los Angeles. Photographer: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 1 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Vincent Kaplan, an attorney with Kaplan & Simon LLP, discusses the divorce trial of Jamie and Frank McCourt and the outlook for the ownership of the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team.
     Judge Scott M. Gordon will determine whether a 2004 post-nuptial agreement, which Frank McCourt says makes him the sole owner of the Major League Baseball team, can be enforced. Jamie McCourt has argued that the agreement is invalid and that she should be co-owner of the team. Kaplan talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
