-- Dollar Is Near Five-Week Low on Risk Appetite Before Fed's Policy Meeting
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-09-20T20:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/dollar-is-near-five-week-low-on-risk-appetite-before-fed-s-policy-meeting.html

          
          
             The dollar fell against most of its
major trading partners as stocks and commodities gained,
boosting investor appetite for higher-yielding currencies.  
 The greenback touched a five-week low against the euro last
week as traders speculated the Federal Open Market Committee
will say after a meeting tomorrow that it’s considering further
measures to keep borrowing costs low. Demand for the euro was
tempered by widening spreads between so-called peripheral
nations’ bonds versus European benchmarks before debt auctions
this week. Australia’s dollar climbed as policy makers said they
may raise interest rates as the economy strengthens.  
 “It’s a matter of whether or not the Federal Reserve will
wait or whether they will actually follow through with
quantitative easing through the end of the year,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with online currency trader
GFT Forex in New York. “The stock-market rally indicates that
investor appetite has improved. That dollar weakness pushed the
euro higher.”  
 The dollar depreciated 0.1 percent to $1.3068 per euro at
4:13 p.m. in New York, from $1.3050 on Sept. 17, when it slid to
$1.3159, the weakest level since Aug. 11. The U.S. currency fell
0.2 percent to 85.69 yen. The yen was at 111.98 per euro,
compared with 112.06 at the end of last week.  
 The Swiss franc strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.0048 per
dollar. It reached past parity with the U.S. currency, touching
99.33 centimes, on Sept. 14. The franc appreciated 0.4 percent
versus the euro to 1.3136, after climbing as much as 0.5 percent
earlier today.  
 Watching Portugal, Ireland  
 The  MSCI World Index  of stocks added 1.3 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.5 percent. The
 Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of raw materials was little changed
after gaining as much as 0.5 percent.  
 The yield spread between Portuguese 10-year bonds and
similar-maturity bunds widened to 392 basis points, the most
since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1997. The Irish 10-
year yield spread to bunds reached a record 399 basis points.
Ireland and Portugal will auction debt this week.  
 “There’s continued concern about risk in the peripheral
euro-zone countries, and that’s driving the euro-dollar lower
and creating some risk-off sentiment in the market,” said
 Amelia Bourdeau , a currency strategist in Stamford, Connecticut,
at UBS AG.  
 Investors should sell the euro against the dollar as the
16-nation currency heads toward a one-month low against the
greenback, Citigroup Inc. said, citing technical indicators.  
 The Fed is likely to affirm its pledge to keep interest
rates low for an “extended period” and maintain the floor on
its holdings of securities, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 Policy Gathering  
 The FOMC will refrain at its meeting tomorrow from
expanding its balance sheet by purchasing securities, according
to 60 of 64 analysts surveyed Sept. 16-17. Fifty-four of 63
economists said the Fed will leave unchanged a sentence in its
statement saying high unemployment and low inflation warrant
“exceptionally low” rates for an “extended period.”  
 “The prospect of an expansion of quantitative easing by
the Fed is supporting risky assets while weighing on the U.S.
dollar,” currency analysts led by  Raghav Subbarao  at Barclays
Plc in London wrote in a note to clients.  
 Asian currencies rose, building on three weekly advances, on
speculation global funds will boost their holdings of regional
assets to profit from the world’s fastest economic growth.  
 Asian Currencies  
 The  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, climbed to
a two-year high. The Philippine peso gained 0.3 percent and
India’s rupee was up 0.4 percent. China’s yuan climbed 0.1
percent to 6.7121 and reached 6.7085, its strongest since
official and market exchange rates were unified at the end of
1993.  
 “Asian equities have been a market darling this year, but
the pace of inflows have increased in recent weeks,”  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to clients.  
 India and South Korea saw the biggest gains in equity
inflows this week. Cumulative flows into the nations’ equity
markets totaled two times the average amount compared with the
previous year, according to iFlow data from BNY Mellon, the
world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in
assets under administration.  
 Sweden’s krona appreciated 0.9 percent to 9.1479 against
the euro after Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  won a second
term. The currency earlier slumped to 9.2610, the weakest since
Sept. 9. The krona gained 1 percent to 7.0015 per dollar.  
 Australia Reserve Bank  
 Australia’s dollar climbed against its U.S. counterpart
after Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled policy makers
may need to resume raising interest rates as a mining boom
stokes the economy. His comments spurred traders to raise  bets 
he will increase rates at the central bank’s next meeting.  
 The Aussie appreciated 1.2 percent to 94.73 U.S. cents, the
strongest level since July 2008.  
 Australia’s dollar, this quarter’s best-performing major
currency against the dollar, is the most overvalued, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Purchasing power parity, a
measure of the cost of goods relative to other countries, shows
the Aussie is 27 percent too expensive.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        