-- Dow Unit Faces Trial Over Illinois Cancer Cluster
-- Jef Feeley
-- 2010-09-20T17:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/dow-unit-caused-illinois-brain-cancer-cluster-lawyer-says-as-trial-begins.html

          
          
             A  Dow Chemical Co.  unit caused
about 30 residents of an Illinois community to develop brain
cancer because of industrial pollution from one of its plants, a
lawyer told jurors.  
 A plant operated by Dow subsidiary Rohm & Haas dumped and
leaked vinyl chloride, a byproduct of the plastics-making
process, poisoning the air and water around McCullom Lake in
northwestern Illinois,  Aaron Freiwald , the residents’ lawyer,
told a Philadelphia jury today. Dow bought Philadelphia-based
Rohm & Haas for $15.7 billion last year.  
 For 17 years, Rohm & Haas workers dumped “toxic chemical
waste that causes cancer” into a pit at the Ringwood, Illinois-
based plant, Freiwald, who represents the family of Franklin
Branham, said in opening statements of a lawsuit over his death.  
 McCullom Lake residents contend the brain cancers suffered
by Branham and others resulted from decades of exposure to
carcinogenic vinyl chloride. Branham died in 2004 at age 63,
according to court filings. Rohm & Haas officials dispute
assertions that pollution from the plant fouled area wells or
that the community is suffering from a pollution-related cancer
cluster.  
 “The science will show chemicals from the Ringwood plant
did not cause Mr. Branham’s cancer,”  Kevin Van Wart , Rohm &
Haas’s lawyer, told jurors in his opening statement.  
 Rohm & Haas Acquisition  
 Dow, the world’s second-biggest maker of chemicals, bought
Rohm & Haas to expand its specialty-chemicals business.
Germany’s BASF SE is the world’s largest chemical maker. The
Rohm & Haas deal was the chemical industry’s largest in 2009 and
Midlands, Michigan-based Dow’s biggest-ever acquisition,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Branham’s case is the first of about 30 cancer claims to go
to trial in Philadelphia over the pollution allegations against
the Illinois plant.  
 McCullom Lake residents contend studies of the plant,
located a mile north of the lake, found chemical waste was
dumped for almost two decades into an eight-acre waste pit,
Freiwald told jurors. It created a mile-long pollution plume
that led to the spate of brain cancers in the lakeside
community, he added.  
 The Rohm & Haas plant produces polymers and other products
used in plastic wraps, Freiwald said. Vinyl chloride is a
byproduct from vinylidene chloride, a chemical used to make the
wraps, he added.  
 Waste Pit  
 If vinylidene chloride winds up in groundwater, it converts
to vinyl chloride, Freiwald told jurors today. Residents’
lawyers uncovered documents showing the chemical was dumped into
the plant’s waste pit from 1960 to 1977 and also was spilled
from a rail car in 1978, he added. Other documents show the
company knew about the leaks as early as 1973 and “turned a
blind eye,” the lawyer said.  
 U.S. health regulators have identified vinyl chloride as
“a known carcinogen,” Freiwald said in an interview before the
trial. The more than two dozen cases of brain cancer in a
community of about 1,000 residents “is not a great big
coincidence,” Freiwald told jurors today.  
 Van Wart countered doctors haven’t been able to
specifically identify the cause of residents’ cancers and
plaintiffs can’t show a single well that has any evidence of
vinyl chloride pollution.  
 ‘Courtroom Invention’  
 The pollution plume that allegedly caused residents’
cancers is a “courtroom invention” created by Freiwald to
buttress his case, Van Wart said. He noted no state or national
agency has certified the residents’ illnesses as a cancer
cluster.  
 Regulators have monitored wells in the area and “never
said anyone in McCollum Lake village has been exposed to
hazardous levels of vinyl chloride,” Van Wart said.  
 The storage basin in which manufacturing waste was stored
at the facility in the 1950s and 1960s was a commonly used
method for handling such byproducts at the time and was
“engineered” by outside experts to insure its safety, the
lawyer added.  
 Judge  Allan Tereshko , who is presiding over the case in
Philadelphia Common Pleas Court, told jurors today the trial
could last as long as 10 weeks.  
 The case is Joanne Branham v. Rohm & Haas Co., May Term
2006, 003590, Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County
(Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Philadelphia at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        