-- Hedge Funds Are Running Out of Reasons to Exist: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-09-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/hedge-funds-have-run-out-of-reasons-to-exist-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             Defending hedge funds isn’t the
easiest way to make a living. It ranks somewhere between the
tobacco lobbyist who tries to convince people that smoking isn’t
so bad for you, and the automobile manufacturer who pretends
that cars have nothing to do with melting polar ice caps. Jobs
don’t come much more thankless.  
 Even so, the way the hedge-fund industry has been defending
itself in the past few months has been truly lamentable.  
 As it comes under closer regulatory scrutiny, the trade
associations that are meant to be fighting in their corner have
been working from a script that sounds increasingly ridiculous.  
 An industry that doesn’t know how to defend itself, and has
forgotten how to justify its existence, is in crisis. Hedge
funds are now in that position.  
 They need to find a way of showing that they somehow help
the global economy -- and they need to do it fast.  
 On both sides of the Atlantic, hedge funds have been busy
trying to hold their own against the tide of fresh regulations
sweeping through capital markets.  
 The Washington-based Managed Funds Association, the U.S.
hedge-fund industry’s biggest trade group, has been campaigning
against proposed curbs on high-frequency trading. That would, it
says, reduce liquidity and increase costs for all investors.  
 ‘Increases Liquidity’  
 Likewise, the London-based Alternative Investment
Management Association is trying to hold the line against
European Union regulations on short-selling. It claims selling
shares you don’t own increases liquidity and aids price
discovery, which means there should only be more transparency,
not a clampdown.  
 Please, guys. This script just won’t work anymore. If you
want to defend the industry, you need some new lines.  
 These two representations, by themselves, don’t matter
much. They are just a couple of examples. But there will be
dozens of proposals for new rules from the U.S., the EU and U.K.
regulators in the next few years. The problem is that the
arguments put forward by the hedge funds haven’t moved forward
at all. It is as if the credit crunch never happened.  
 First, stop going on about “liquidity” all the time. It
just isn’t plausible that holding stocks for milliseconds --
which is all that high-frequency trading amounts to -- makes the
market work better in any way. There is, of course, a
disadvantage in highly illiquid markets. You may well be
reluctant to buy shares in a small Ukrainian minerals company,
no matter how great its prospects look, because you don’t know
if you can sell them again. But  Vodafone Group Plc ? Nestle SA?
Citigroup Inc.?  
 High-Frequency Trading  
 Can anyone seriously say investors are deterred from buying
these stocks because the market in their shares isn’t  liquid
enough ? Do we really need a lot of high-frequency hedge funds
buying and selling their shares several times a minute to ensure
there is a market in them? Of course not.  
 Likewise, short-selling. It’s perfectly legitimate in
certain circumstances to short-sell a share. Occasionally, it
will make the market a bit more efficient if there are more
buyers than sellers. But again, none of the major markets is
hard to trade. Nor are any of the big stocks really mispriced --
and, even if they were, it’s not much of a problem. If your sole
contribution to humanity is that you help the share prices of
large banks collapse over a morning rather than a whole day, it
isn’t much of a justification for your existence.  
 Next, stop talking about how hedge funds help make markets,
or aid price discovery, or smooth out differences in prices.  
 Bigger Isn’t Better  
 The key problem here is the basic assumption. The hedge
funds are taking it as a given that a bigger and busier capital
market is a better one, and one that creates a healthier
economy. But surely the main lesson of the last two years is
that this isn’t true. The capital markets got bigger and bigger,
trading became more frenetic -- and we ended up with the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  
 So, what the hedge-fund industry needs to do is start
making a case that it is channeling funds to productive
investment. It has to demonstrate that it is providing the
capital that ultimately allows roads to get built, products
designed, and jobs created. And it must show it is doing so in a
more efficient way than banks and stockbrokers did 30 years ago.  
 How? If they were collecting money from the wealthy and
investing it in industries or countries where capital is short,
that would be a good argument. Or if they were creating markets
in commodities or asset classes where none existed before, that
would work. If they were smoothing out returns so people’s
pensions were protected, or swapping currencies so they got
cheaper mortgages, that would also make sense.  
 True, it may be impossible. The industry might well be a
giant parasite that does nothing more than siphon vast wealth
from the economy, while doing little in return.  
 But it should at least try. Just bleating about liquidity
isn’t going to work. And if it can’t come up with a better way
of justifying itself, it deserves to get hammered.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Matthew Lynn talks about his latest column on hedge funds' defense of their industry against increased regulation.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Ken Heinz, president of Hedge Fund Research Inc., talks about the hedge fund industry.
     Funds of hedge funds closures globally dropped to the lowest level since the first quarter of 2008 in the three months to June, according to HFR. Heinz talks in Hong Kong with Phillip Yin on Bloomberg Television. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
