-- Medvedev Backers Provoke Battle for Moscow, Mayor's Billionaire Wife Says
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-09-20T13:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/medvedev-backers-provoke-battle-for-moscow-mayor-s-billionaire-wife-says.html

          
          
             Backers of President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s re-election in 2012 are behind a campaign to unseat
 Yury Luzhkov  because his loyalty isn’t guaranteed, said  Yelena Baturina , the Moscow mayor’s billionaire wife.  
 “Several functionaries” in the Kremlin have ordered
damaging media reports against Luzhkov to force Medvedev to fire
the 73-year-old mayor, Baturina said in an interview published
today in the Moscow-based news magazine  The New Times .
Baturina’s development company  ZAO Inteco  confirmed her
comments.  
 “My father always said: if you tell someone for three
years that he’s a pig, he’ll start to oink,” said Baturina, 47,
referring to a second weekend of documentary-style films
broadcast on national television blaming Luzhkov for corruption
and favoritism toward his wife.  
 Luzhkov, who has weathered past clashes with the federal
government, is facing his biggest challenge since becoming mayor
of Europe’s largest city in 1992. The Russian capital is a
crucial prize in any national election, and Luzhkov has
consistently delivered the city for Medvedev and his predecessor
 Vladimir Putin , now prime minister.  
 Moscow Bond Sale  
 The possibility Luzhkov may support Putin instead of
Medvedev in the run-up to the 2012 election is the reason people
in the presidential administration want him removed, Baturina
said.  Natalya Timakova , Medvedev’s spokeswoman, didn’t answer
repeated calls to her mobile phone.  
 The “media campaign” against Luzhkov hasn’t affected the
city’s debt trading and won’t influence the results of a Sept.
22 auction, said  Sergei Pakhomov , head of the capital’s state
debt committee.  
 Moscow plans to sell 17 billion rubles ($547 million) of
bonds due November 2015 at a yield of 7.4 percent to 7.48
percent in the auction, Pakhomov said by telephone today.  
 “This is an attempt to force him to make a decision that
he isn’t ready to make because there’s simply no basis for it,”
Baturina said, referring to Medvedev. “I don’t understand why
both of the country’s top leaders are pretending that nothing is
going on.”  
 It’s impossible for all sides to save face in the showdown
over the mayor’s office, Baturina said.  
 Austrian Vacation  
 Luzhkov joins Baturina in Austria to celebrate his 74th
birthday tomorrow, the mayor’s spokesman Sergei Tsoi said on
 Ekho Moskvy  radio yesterday. Luzhkov is taking a week off after
a meeting with the presidential administration,  Kommersant 
reported today, citing an unidentified Kremlin official. He has
been given time to contemplate his resignation, the Moscow-based
newspaper said.  
 Luzhkov was prepared to step down two years ago after
Medvedev said that any regional leaders who insisted on direct
elections rather than being essentially appointed by the Kremlin
should resign, according to Baturina. When Luzhkov approached
the president with his resignation letter, Medvedev told him he
had “completely other people in mind,” she said. Long-standing
leaders of regions such as Tatarstan, Bashkortostan and
Sverdlovsk have since left office.  
 Her family won’t leave Russia and will continue doing
business even if Luzhkov is forced to step down, said Baturina,
the only woman on Forbes magazine’s list of Russian
billionaires.  
 ‘Preferential Treatment’  
 Baturina said it’s “100 percent wrong” to think that
there’s a conflict of interest between her husband’s position
and her development business. Inteco won only one city building
tender and was forced to abandon it because local authorities
didn’t meet their obligations, according to the businesswoman.
All of Inteco’s other deals were with the federal government or
private people, she said.  
 “As long as I don’t break the law, I have the right to do
what I do,” Baturina said. “I have no idea what preferential
treatment I’m supposedly getting.”  
 Luzhkov said on Sept. 18 that he had never given special
treatment to his wife’s company, RIA Novosti reported. He said
Baturina would be “even richer” if she hadn’t been the mayor’s
wife, the state-run news service reported.  
 Baturina said she’s been threatened with criminal cases
“more than once” in her 20 years as Luzhkov’s spouse. If it
goes that far this time, she said she’s prepared to seek justice
in a court of law.  
 What’s disturbing about the conviction on fraud and tax
evasion charges of  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , once Russia’s richest
man, is the “selectivity” of the case, she said. Baturina said
she first met Khodorkovsky in 1987, when she and Luzhkov worked
on the Moscow city committee on cooperatives, the Soviet Union’s
belated experiment with free market capitalism.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Baturina Says Medvedev Team Provoked Moscow Battle  
                       
                         
                           Mmitry Astakhov/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, right and Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov . 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, right and Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov . Photographer: Mmitry Astakhov/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
