-- Egypt Property Companies See Foreigners Exit After Lawsuits on Land Sales
-- Zainab Fattah
-- 2010-09-20T15:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/egypt-property-companies-see-foreigners-exit-after-lawsuits-on-land-sales.html

          
          
             Foreign investors are selling
shares of Egyptian real-estate companies on concern that court
decisions may force developers to pay more for land they already
purchased, according to two analysts.  
 A court on Sept. 14 upheld a ruling canceling the sale of
33 million square meters (355 million square feet) of government
land on Cairo’s outskirts to  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding , the
country’s biggest publicly traded developer. A separate case was
filed against  Palm Hills Developments SAE , the second-biggest
developer seeking to annul a land purchase in New Cairo. Both
cases were linked to irregularities in selling government land.  
 “We’re seeing a sell-off by foreign and institutional
investors,” said  Osama Mahmoud , team head of the foreign sales
desk at Cairo-based Prime Holding. “Some people are panicking,
but most are selling part of their holdings and waiting to see
what’s going to happen.”  
 Egypt’s government has appointed a seven-member committee
to make Talaat’s Moustafa’s land purchase legal without
“jeopardizing the interests of investors,” Cabinet spokesman
 Magdi Radi  said in an interview today. Other lawsuits that may
arise will be handled on a case-by-case basis, he said.  
 Foreign investors, who were the net buyers of 126.7 million
shares on the Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30 Index  until Sept. 14,
became net sellers of 54.3 million shares in the three days
after the ruling against Talaat Moustafa, according to data
compiled by Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. Talaat Moustafa
and Palm Hills accounted for more than a quarter of trading
volume during the period, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 Share Price Volatility  
 Shares of Talaat Moustafa, based in Cairo, lost 16 percent
in the three sessions following the court ruling, the  most over 
a similar stretch since October 2008. Palm Hills declined 4.8
percent. The  EFG-Hermes  Real Estate Index, which measures the
eight biggest and most traded stocks, fell 8.7 percent in the
same period.  
 “We’re gradually exiting Egypt,” said Dubai-based  Tariq Qaqish , who helps manage around $100 million at Al Mal Capital
PSC. “There are a lot of stories that we need transparency on.
Those issues are reflected in high volatility in the market.”  
 Egypt’s real estate developers such as Talaat Moustafa and
Palm Hills have reported better than expected sales in the
second quarter, citing economic recovery which has fuelled
consumer spending.  
 The economy of the most populous Arab country expanded 5.3
percent in the fiscal year through June, from 4.7 percent in the
previous 12 months. The government expects gross domestic
product to grow 5.8 percent this year, according to the Economic
Development Ministry.  
 Still, growth remains below the average of 7 percent
achieved in the three fiscal years through June 2008 due to the
global financial crisis.  
 Talaat Moustafa  shares gained for a second day on the
government’s move effort to protect investors, rising 2.3
percent to 6.68 pounds in Cairo, valuing the company at 13.6
billion pounds ($2.38 billion).  Palm Hills  lost 0.6 percent to
5.28 pounds, giving it a market value of 5.5 billion pounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        