-- Policy Makers Can Do Little To Halt Dollar Slide, Brazil's Meirelles Says
-- Andre Soliani
-- 2010-09-20T19:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/meirelles-says-brazil-can-t-control-dollar-weakness-due-to-u-s-economy.html

          
          
             Brazilian central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  said the dollar is weakening because of
problems in the U.S. economy and there’s very little policy
makers can do about it.  
 “No country in the world can hold the dollar,” Meirelles
said today during a speech in the city of Curitiba. He said his
comments weren’t specifically tied to the Brazilian currency’s
value.  
 Brazil’s real has gained 34 percent against the dollar
since the beginning of last year, the second-best performer
among the world’s 16 most-traded currencies. A stronger real
makes the country’s exports more expensive in dollar terms,
cutting into companies’ profits.  
 Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , speaking at an event in Rio
de Janeiro last week, vowed to take measures to prevent the real
from strengthening to prevent damage to exporters. He said that
the Treasury had “unlimited” resources from its sovereign
wealth fund to buy dollars.  
 The central bank purchased about $4 billion in the first
four days of last week as the real jumped to its highest level
since December, according to estimates by BGC Liquidez DTVM, the
second-biggest currency broker on Brazil’s futures exchange, and
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada. The purchases would be the
largest over a four-day period since October 2008, when policy
makers bought a record $4.6 billion.  
 The real dropped 0.4 percent to 1.7283 per U.S. dollar at
3:26 p.m. New York time.  
 Commodity Currencies  
 The real’s price is closely tied to the currencies of other
commodity-exporting countries such as Canada, New Zealand and
Australia, Meirelles said today.  
 Since the beginning of the month, the Australian dollar,
the best performer amid the 16 most traded currencies, has
jumped 6.4 percent against the dollar, while the real has gained
1.7 percent. The New Zealand and Canadian dollars are up
4.4 percent and 3.6 percent respectively.  
 Meirelles said the current account deficit, the broadest
measure of international trade, will affect the currency’s value
in the long term. The  gap  rose to a record $43.8 billion in the
12 months through July, according to central bank figures.  
 Meirelles also said the central bank is committed to its
inflation target and is ready to take the “necessary steps” to
ensure consumer prices gains will remain in line with the
4.5 percent target in 2011.  
 Yields on interest rate futures contracts due in January
2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, rose 6 basis points to 11.51
percent at 3:20 p.m. New York time.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        