-- Billionaire Lemann Rises to Burger King Boss From `Joe Schmo'
-- Fabiola Moura
-- 2010-09-20T20:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/lemann-takes-burger-king-after-rise-to-brazil-billionaire-from-joe-schmo-.html

          
          
             Jorge Paulo Lemann  lost his first
job, as a financial columnist at  Jornal do Brasil , after
graduating from Harvard University in 1961. Then a brokerage he
started almost failed during a Brazil stock rout.  
 “Right after that, his career just took off,” said
Alberto Dines, 78, the former managing editor of the Rio de
Janeiro-based newspaper. “If he had continued being a
journalist, he was going to be a Joe Schmo.”  
 In three decades of deal-making, Lemann, 71, engineered the
$52 billion takeover of Anheuser-Busch Cos., founded a firm that
became Brazil’s largest investment bank and amassed $11.5
billion to become the nation’s second-richest man after EBX
Group Ltd. owner  Eike Batista , according to Forbes magazine. His
latest transaction is a $3.3 billion takeover of  Burger King
Holdings Inc. , the biggest restaurant acquisition in at least a
decade.  
 The man behind the buyout of the No. 2 U.S. hamburger
chain, with his partners at New York-based  3G Capital , is a
former tennis champion who started his own investment bank at
32. Lemann declined to comment through his outside public
relations firm in Sao Paulo.  
 “It takes the same effort to think small than to think
big,” Brazilian magazine Epoca quoted Lemann as saying in an
April 8, 2008 article. “But to think big frees you from the
insignificant details.”  
 ‘Spartan Style’  
 Former colleagues describe Lemann as a frugal executive who
shuns publicity and prizes simplicity. “He always had a very
Spartan style,” said  Arminio Fraga , the former Brazilian
central bank president who took his first job in finance at
Lemann’s brokerage and securities firm, Banco de Investimentos
Garantia SA, when he was 28. Lemann has a “very simple,
objective view of things and of life in general,” he said.  
 Lemann and his partners at 3G, Brazilian billionaires
 Marcel Herrmann Telles  and Carlos Alberto da  Veiga Sicupira ,
agreed on Sept. 2 to acquire Miami-based Burger King for $24 a
share, 46 percent more than the Aug. 31 close. The stock  fell  3
cents to $23.77 at 4:10 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading.
The shares had fallen 13 percent this year before the deal was
announced.  
 3G is taking over a fast-food chain battered by falling
profits and sales growth that has slowed for two straight years
in the recession. The firm’s tender offer for Burger King shares
began on Sept. 16 and expires on Oct. 14.  
 ‘Simple Habits’  
 The transaction underscores Lemann’s strategy of investing
in consumer companies. He and his partners own stakes in
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV  of Leuven, Belgium, the world’s biggest
brewer, and Rio de Janeiro-based  Lojas Americanas SA , Brazil’s
largest discount retailer with 479 stores. It’s also a
shareholder in Curitiba-based  America Latina Logistica SA ,
Brazil’s No. 1 railroad operator.  
 Lemann has “very simple habits and is extremely
disciplined,” traits likely learned on the tennis court, said
 Claudio Haddad , president of Ibmec business school in Sao Paulo
and a former chief executive officer for Garantia.  
 “He was Brazilian champion five times, Rio de Janeiro
champion about 20 times and veterans’ world champion three
times,” said Haddad. “He doesn’t drink, goes to bed early,
wakes up early, exercises every day.” Haddad, 64, said he has a
“small investment” in a 3G fund, declining to disclose the
amount.  
 No ‘Star’  
 “By the way I used to play, I realized it would be hard
for me to be among the 10 best in the world,” Lemann said in
the Epoca article. “So I decided to stop. I realized I would
not be a star.”  
 Lemann can best be described as “Calvinist,” Haddad said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. His employees learned
exactly what that meant after brewer InBev NV, which was
controlled in part by Lemann and his partners, took over St.
Louis-based  Anheuser-Busch  in 2008.  
 About 1,400 quickly lost their jobs and perks ranging from
business-class flights and BlackBerrys to free cases of beer
were eliminated, according to a person familiar with the
business who said he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. Even
Brazilian-born CEO  Carlos Brito  was asked to fly economy class.  
 “They are not about showing off,” Fraga, 53, the founder
of hedge fund firm Gavea Investimentos Ltda in Rio, said of
Lemann and his partners. “They are fantastic managers and
entrepreneurs.” Gavea owns a stake in Buenos-Aires based Arcos
Dorados, the operator of some  McDonald’s Corp.  franchises in
Latin America, and has a share in Lojas Americanas.  
 Swiss Father  
 Lemann, ranked by  Forbes  as Latin America’s third-richest
man and the 48th wealthiest in the world, is the son of a Swiss
businessman who grew up in Rio and went to Harvard in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, to study business.  
 In 1961, he graduated with a degree in economics and later
returned home to work in finance. Dines said he asked Lemann to
write a stock market column at Jornal do Brasil even though he
had never worked as a journalist. Soon after, Dines canceled the
gig because Lemann was establishing a brokerage.  
 In 1971, Lemann, who also has a master’s in business
administration from Harvard, founded Garantia in Rio and it soon
became a place where talent vied to get jobs. Garantia landed
assignments for multinationals including  Philip Morris
International Inc.  and  Colgate-Palmolive Co. , both based in New
York, helping them make acquisitions in Brazil to expand in
Latin America’s largest economy.  
 Entrepreneurial Spirit  
 “He always led by example while trying to give us room to
be entrepreneurial and grow,” said Fraga, the chairman of Sao
Paulo-based  BM&F Bovespa SA , the operator of Latin America’s
biggest stock exchange. “It was clearly a meritocracy, capable
of attracting and keeping people with great talent and energy.”  
 His early success was almost marred by failure. In 1971,
Lemann and his partners paid $800,000 for a seat on the Rio de
Janeiro stock exchange, according to a December 1996 report in
Forbes magazine. Several weeks later, the market fell 60 percent
and they almost lost all their capital, Forbes said.  
 Garantia bounced back and, in 1998, was acquired by  Credit
Suisse  First Boston for almost $1 billion, including later
payments tied to performance, according to Haddad. Lemann went
on to found an investment firm with Sicupira and Telles called
GP Investimentos. Among its first moves was to buy a stake in
 Lojas Americanas . By the time they sold their stake in GP
Investimentos in 2004, the partners had boosted assets to 3.6
billion reais ($2.1 billion) and delivered an average annual
return on investments of 23 percent in dollar terms.  
 Lemann has used some of his wealth to help improve
education in Brazil, where the illiteracy rate was 9.7 percent
last year, establishing two foundations working on different
fronts.  
 ‘Better World’  
 Fundacao Lemann , founded in 2001, provides courses to
public school directors and municipal education secretaries to
help them cope with the challenges of working in Brazil’s school
systems. It has a budget of about 10 million reais.  
 “His view is clearly that what moves the world are the
people,” says Ilona Becskeházy, 45, managing director at
Fundacao Lemann, in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The
country depends on the quality of these people -- and the
intrinsic qualities they learned through education.”  
 Fundacao Lemann’s website opens with a phrase signed by its
founder: “To help people achieve their potential and support
them so they, on their turn, can help others in the future is a
way to make a better world.”  
 Beach Trip  
 Another Lemann foundation,  Fundacao Estudar , was started in
1991 and offers scholarships to Brazilians to study economics,
business, public policy and law, said Managing Director Thais
Junqueira Franco Xavier. “The idea is to form efficient and
capable people,” she said.  
 Even as he uses his wealth to shape Brazilian society,
Lemann is known for his proletarian values. Haddad recalled a
popular story told about Lemann from the 1980s -- when Lemann
was traveling in his Volkswagen for a weekend at the beach and
stopped to refuel his car. As he was pumping gas, bandits rolled
up to rob the place, completely overlooking the billionaire in
their midst.  
 “As he was dressed with simplicity and had an old Passat,
they thought he was a nobody,” said Haddad. “If they knew he
was Garantia’s main shareholder, Lojas Americanas’s main
shareholder, they would have probably tried to do something with
him.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jorge Paulo Lemann  
                       
                         
                           Fundacao Lemann via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jorge Paulo Lemann, second left in the first row, sits for a photo with Lemann fellows at Harvard University. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jorge Paulo Lemann, second left in the first row, sits for a photo with Lemann fellows at Harvard University. Source: Fundacao Lemann via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 25 (Bloomberg) -- Burger King Holdings Inc. Chief Executive Officer John Chidsey talks about the company's financial results and business outlook.
     Burger King, the second-largest U.S. hamburger seller, reported a fourth-quarter profit of 36 cents a share. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a profit of 34 cents a share. Chidsey speaks from Miami with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jorge Paulo Lemann  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Jorge Paulo Lemann, center, poses with Professor Werner Baer, left, and Professor David Fleischer during the inauguration of The Lemann Institute for Brazilian Studies at IllinoisSource: Fundacao Lemann via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jorge Paulo Lemann, center, poses with Professor Werner Baer, left, and Professor David Fleischer during the inauguration of The Lemann Institute for Brazilian Studies at IllinoisSource: Fundacao Lemann via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
