-- Emerging Market Equities Climb, Led by Consumer Shares on Profit Outlook
-- Jack Jordan
-- 2010-09-20T21:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/emerging-market-stocks-advance-led-by-consumer-shares-on-profit-outlook.html

          
          
             Developing-nation stocks rose,
sending the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  to a five-month high, as
consumer and technology shares advanced amid signs corporate
earnings growth will weather a U.S. economic slowdown.  
 Tsingtao Brewery Co. , the Chinese beermaker, jumped 5.2
percent in Shanghai after an adviser to China’s central bank
said the nation needs to increase domestic consumption. Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest custom
manufacturer of chips, climbed 1.3 percent in Taipei after
placing two orders for equipment.  Energy Development Corp.  led
Philippine equity gains after Deutsche Bank AG said the
benchmark index will surpass its record high on earnings growth.  
 The  MSCI gauge  of 21 developing countries rose 0.8 percent
to 1,044.18, with a measure of consumer discretionary stocks
rising the most among 10 industry groups. The  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index , the best performer among the 15 biggest Asia
Pacific markets this year, increased 1.9 percent. South Africa’s
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index  climbed 1.1 percent. Brazil’s
 Bovespa  index rose 1.6 percent.  
 “Funds are shifting away from developed markets to
emerging economies,” said  Paul Joseph Garcia , who manages $1.7
billion as chief investment officer at the Manila unit of ING
Investment Management Ltd. “Corporate earnings and economic
prospects in emerging markets are better than in developed
markets.”  
 Bovespa Record  
 Flows into emerging-market equity funds and high-yield
bonds reached a six-week high in the week to Sept. 15 as higher
risk appetite sustained a global rally, EPFR Global said last
week. Developing-nation equity funds received about $3.3 billion
as Chinese industrial output gains bolstered sentiment, EPFR
said. Flows into Asia excluding-Japan equity funds hit a seven-
week high.  
 Brazil’s Bovespa stock index will gain 16 percent to a
record 78,000 by yearend as “obstacles” are removed, including
presidential elections and Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s share sale,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  
 The central bank’s signal that it will hold borrowing costs
through 2010 also boosts the prospects for Brazilian stocks,
Stephen Graham and  Andre Rezende , analysts at Goldman Sachs in
Sao Paulo, wrote in a note to clients today. The benchmark
equity gauge may rally 31 percent to 88,000 by mid-2011, they
said.  
 The Federal Reserve is likely to lower its forecasts for
U.S. economic growth at tomorrow’s meeting,  Mohamed A. El-Erian ,
chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
wrote in an opinion piece published on Pimco’s website.  
 Consumption  
 China needs to increase domestic consumption to help
survive in a global economic environment that is growing more
challenging,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of
China, said at a financial forum in Beijing yesterday.  
 India’s benchmark  Sensitive Index  advanced 1.6 percent.
Reliance Communications Ltd., the nation’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator, jumped 5.3 percent.  
 The Jakarta Composite index lost 0.4 percent.  PT Bank
Mandiri , Indonesia’s biggest bank by assets, fell 4.4 percent,
the most in three months. The nation’s central bank said on
Sept. 17 it may require lenders to disclose their prime-lending
rates each month starting November to boost competition.  
 Mol Nyrt. led Hungary’s BUX index 1.2 percent lower as oil
declined.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        