-- Lennar Reports Third-Quarter Profit as Margins Widen
-- John Gittelsohn
-- 2010-09-20T20:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/lennar-reports-profit-as-cost-cuts-contribute-to-wider-home-sale-margins.html

          
          
             Lennar Corp.  reported a better-
than-estimated third-quarter profit as margins on house sales
improved and revenue grew at its distressed-investing division.
The stock climbed the most in four months.  
 Profit for the three months ended Aug. 31 was $30 million,
or 16 cents a share, compared with a loss of $171.6 million, or
97 cents, a year earlier, the Miami-based homebuilder said in a
statement today. The average  estimate  from a Bloomberg survey of
16 analysts was for a profit of about 3 cents a share.  
 Lennar is cutting costs and expanding its distressed-
investing unit as demand for houses slumps after the April
expiration of a tax credit for homebuyers. The company’s orders
fell 15 percent in the third quarter, a smaller decline than
estimated by analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc., Citigroup Inc. and Ticonderoga Securities LLC.  
 “Given the weak housing market post tax credit, we believe
this is a respectable result,”  Stephen East , an analyst with
Ticonderoga Securities in New York, wrote in a note to clients.
He had predicted Lennar’s orders would fall 27 percent.  
 Lennar gained 8.2 percent, the biggest gain since May 10,
to $15.14 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange Composite
trading. The stock has climbed 19 percent this year, the biggest
increase in the 12-member  Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index .  
 Revenue Rise  
 The company’s third-quarter revenue climbed 14 percent to
$825 million. Home completions rose 10 percent to 2,950. Orders
fell to 2,624 homes from 3,104 a year earlier.  
 U.S.  new home sales  dropped in July to the lowest rate
since Commerce Department records began in 1963. Sales for
August, to be released Sept. 24, will be at a pace of 295,000,
the third-lowest on record, according to a Bloomberg survey of
50 economists.  
 Traffic from prospective homebuyers has begun to improve,
Lennar President and Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said
during a conference call with analysts and investors.  
 “The slowest month of the third quarter was June, and July
and August were a little less horrible,” he said. “As we’ve
gone into September, we’re seeing a little bit of pickup in our
traffic, but that shouldn’t be a cause to have a sigh of
relief.”  
 Margin Gains  
 Operating margins on home sales, a measure of
profitability, increased by about 1.5 percentage points in the
third quarter to 7.2 percent, the company said.  
 Margins may decline in the fourth quarter as Lennar
increases incentives for homebuyers by as much as $5,000, Miller
said on the conference call. Incentives in the previous three
months averaged $30,600, he said.  
 Lennar’s Rialto Investments division, which focuses on
managing and restructuring distressed real estate, contributed
$7.7 million in operating profit during the period, Miller said.
Rialto’s role expanded after February, when Lennar bought a 40
percent stake in a $3 billion portfolio of loans auctioned by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  
 About 1,500 of 3,300 new lots acquired during the quarter
came through Rialto, Miller said on the call.  
 “About half of our opportunities came through the back
door as part of Rialto,” he said. “There are outsized returns
in distressed vehicles.”  
 Bidding competition for distressed properties has declined
recently, Miller said. Opportunities for distressed investing
will probably end in less than two and a half years, he said.  
 “It’ll be shorter than people anticipate,” Miller said.  
 The earnings show Lennar “should lead its peers in EPS and
operating margins over the next 12 to 18 months,”  Michael Rehaut , a homebuilding analyst with JPMorgan, wrote in a note to
investors. “The sector continues to discount an overly negative
outlook regarding home price deflation and impairment charges.”  
 Lennar reported a profit in two of the three previous
quarters, ending almost three years of losses. The company
benefited from demand from homebuyers seeking to take advantage
of the government incentive, as well as a tax refund in the
quarter ended Nov. 30.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lennar Reports Third-Quarter Profit  
                       
                         
                           Lori Moffett/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lennar gained 8 percent after the homebuilder topped projections as margins wideneed. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lennar gained 8 percent after the homebuilder topped projections as margins wideneed. Photographer: Lori Moffett/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- David Goldberg, an analyst at UBS Securities LLC, discusses Lennar Corp.'s third-quarter earnings reported today and the outlook for U.S. homebuilders.
     Lennar said profit for the three months ended Aug. 31 was $30 million, or 16 cents a share, compared with a loss of $171.6 million, or 97 cents a share, a year earlier. Goldberg talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
