-- Environmental Groups Sue European Union for Lack of Biofuels Transparency
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2010-09-20T11:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/environmental-groups-sue-european-union-for-lack-of-biofuels-transparency.html

          
          
             Four environmental groups are suing
the regulator of the 27-nation European Union for lack of
transparency on its biofuels policy.  
 The lawsuit was filed today in the European Union’s General
Court in Luxembourg by ClientEarth,  Transport and Environment ,
the  European Environmental Bureau  and BirdLife International,
the groups said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The suit “challenges the commission’s failure to release
documents containing previously undisclosed information on the
negative climate impacts of widespread biofuels use in the
European Union,” according to the statement.  
 The EU requires at least 10 percent of energy for road and
rail transport in 2020 to come from renewable sources in every
member country. Biofuels offer the prospect of reducing the use
of fossil fuels blamed for climate change. They also help the EU
to diversify its energy mix and lessen dependency on oil- and
natural-gas-producing countries.  
 Marlene Holzer, a spokeswoman for EU Energy Commissioner
Guenther Oettinger, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  
 Today’s lawsuit is the second by the four groups, which
started legal action against the EU’s Brussels-based regulator
on March 8 over its refusal to release documents revealing the
negative consequences of biofuels production, including the
conversion of forests and other natural areas into cropland. The
first suit is ongoing.  
 Biofuel Policy  
 “Our efforts to understand and influence EU biofuel policy
have been repeatedly hampered by attempts to restrict access to
documents,” Tim Grabiel, a  lawyer  at ClientEarth, said in the
statement. “The commission is running an opaque operation.
Citizens are being denied the right to participate in decisions
that affect flagship climate policies and will not only affect
their lives but those of future generations as well.”  
 The EU legislation with the 10 percent target for renewable
energy in land transport also aims to raise the share of green
energy including wind and solar power in the EU to an average 20
percent by 2020. The 20 percent average goal in the bloc’s law
is also based on varying general renewable-energy targets for
individual member states.  
 Separately, ClientEarth is suing EU governments for “the
refusal to release a key document about the review of EU
transparency rules,” according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        