-- Lernout, Hauspie Get Prison Sentences in Belgian Corporate-Fraud Case
-- John Martens
-- 2010-09-20T17:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/lernout-hauspie-get-prison-sentences-in-belgian-corporate-fraud-case.html

          
          
             Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products
NV’s  co-founders and former top executives were sentenced to as
many as five years in prison for artificially inflating revenue
in Belgium’s biggest case of corporate fraud.  
 Jo Lernout  and  Pol Hauspie , who together founded LHSP
in 1987, as well as  Nico Willaert , former vice chairman, and
 Gaston Bastiaens , former chief executive officer, each face
three years in jail with an additional two years of probation.
Dexia Bank Belgium and KPMG Bedrijfsrevisoren, auditor of the
bankrupt maker of speech-recognition software, were both
acquitted.  
 “When it became apparent by mid-1999 that they couldn’t
find operational capital to fund the development of applications
at the Language Development Companies, LHSP management continued
to set up LDCs with the sole purpose of inflating revenue
through license payments,” Judge Robert Pieters of the appeals
court in the Belgian city of Ghent ruled today.  
 The acquittal of both Dexia Bank and KPMG Bedrijfsrevisoren
leaves LHSP investors and receivers with little prospect of
recovering damages. Dexia said it’s aware of claims totaling
almost 1.09 billion euros ($1.42 billion), with the biggest
claim coming from the Belgian receivers of LHSP, according to
its latest  annual report .  
 Dexia’s involvement in the case stems from its purchase of
Artesia Banking Corp. for 3.24 billion euros in stock in 2001.
Artesia granted loans to Lernout, Hauspie and Willaert and those
funds were used for improper revenue recognition, according to
the prosecutor’s office.  
 The bank agreed to pay $60 million in 2007 to settle a
class-action suit in the U.S. that was brought against the
company by former LHSP investors. KPMG paid $115 million in a
similar case in 2004.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Ghent, Belgium at  jmartens1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        