-- EU Agriculture Officals Says More Transparency Needed on Futures Positions
-- Rudy Ruitenberg
-- 2010-09-20T11:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/eu-s-dacian-ciolos-says-more-transparency-needed-on-positions-in-futures.html

          
          
             European Union Agriculture
Commissioner Dacian Ciolos urged more disclosure about which
investors hold futures contracts in agricultural markets and
urged position limits to curb price swings.  
 “The role of futures markets is not to feed speculation
and the profits of a few actors,” according to an e-mailed copy
of a speech the commissioner is scheduled to give today in
Brussels. Markets “have to be a tool at the service of all the
actors in the food chain.”  
 EU Finance Commissioner  Michel Barnier  is proposing greater
transparency and position limits for futures as part of a
financial-markets overhaul, Ciolos said. The farm commissioner
said he’ll make further proposals in talks over the 27-nation
bloc’s Common Agricultural Policy, which last year provided 45.7
billion euros ($59.9 billion) in subsidies and expires in 2013.  
 November-delivery milling wheat futures jumped 68 percent
in the past three months in Paris as Russia stopped grain
exports after its worst drought in at least a half century. The
gain was “disproportionate” because Europe had a good harvest
and world stocks are sufficient, Ciolos said.  
 “The magnitude and speed of this surge are a serious
menace to all industries that use wheat, especially for the pork
industry,” Ciolos said. “Finance must serve the real economy.
Speculation shouldn’t jeopardize farm businesses that are
perfectly profitable in normal times.”  
 Between July and September, open interest in the Paris
milling wheat contract more than doubled, and the increase
continues, the commissioner said.  
 “A precise analysis of the situation shows the
disproportionate character of the developments observed these
past weeks,” Ciolos said. “The harvest in Europe is good.
Global stocks are at a largely sufficient level.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        