-- Dollar Falls for Second Day Versus Euro Before Housing Data; Kiwi Declines
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-09-21T08:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/euro-retreats-from-near-five-week-high-before-ireland-portugal-debt-sales.html
The dollar fell for a second day
against the euro and the yen before reports this week that may
show the U.S. housing market remains fragile, adding to signs
that growth in the world’s largest economy is slowing.  The U.S. currency approached a six-week low versus the euro
on concern the Federal Reserve will today affirm its pledge to
keep interest rates low for an “extended period” and signal it
is open to increasing debt purchases. The yuan climbed to the
highest level since 1993 after President  Barack Obama  criticized
China for not letting the currency strengthen. New Zealand’s
dollar dropped against all major currencies on speculation the
nation’s central bank will refrain from raising interest rates.  “There are lingering worries over the sustainability of
the U.S. recovery,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of
foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd., Japan’s
largest currency broker. “This may be a dollar-selling
factor.”  The dollar declined to $1.3115 per euro as of 9:05 a.m. in
London from $1.3061 in New York yesterday, after falling to
$1.3159 on Sept. 17, the weakest since Aug. 11. The U.S.
currency traded at 85.45 yen from 85.69. The yen was at 112.04
per euro from 111.93. The New Zealand dollar dropped 0.3 percent
to 72.87 U.S. cents, and lost 0.5 percent to 62.27 yen.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency’ monthly index for U.S.
house prices fell 0.2 percent in July, following a 0.3 percent
decline in June, according to a Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s report. A Commerce Department report today will show
growth in housing  starts  slowed to 0.7 percent in August from
1.7 percent the month before, a separate survey showed.  Fed Meeting  The Fed will keep its benchmark rate at between zero and
0.25 percent at today’s meeting, where it has been since
December 2008, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Fifty-four of 63
economists surveyed said the central bank will leave unchanged a
sentence saying high unemployment and low inflation warrant
“exceptionally low” rates.  Dollar loans remained cheaper than those for the euro. The
three-month Euro Interbank Offered Rate, or  euribor , stood at
0.876 percent yesterday, according to the European Banking
Federation. Same-dated dollar Libor was at 0.290 percent
yesterday, according to the British Bankers’ Association data.  “It’s an ugly parade and the least ugly currency at the
moment is the euro,” said  Robert Rennie , head of currency
research in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-
largest lender. “If you look at movements in euribor versus the
euro-dollar or yield spreads there’s little doubt that’s moved
in favor of the euro.”  Yuan Appreciation  The yuan advanced for a ninth day against the dollar, its
longest winning streak since Aug. 9, ahead of scheduled talks
between President Obama and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  at this
week’s United Nations General Assembly in New York.  China’s leaders haven’t done “everything they said would
be done” to allow appreciation, Obama said yesterday at an
hour-long town hall discussion in Washington.  “The yuan’s quicker appreciation is related to the
political game between China and the U.S. on the currency
policy,” said  Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP
Paribas. “It’s also related to the dollar’s broad weakness
because the yuan is managed against a basket of currencies.”  The yuan gained 0.2 percent to 6.7025 per dollar, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System.  New Zealand’s dollar slid the most against the greenback of
the 16 most-active currencies as investors cut bets the Reserve
Bank of New Zealand will raise interest rates.  New Zealand Rates  The RBNZ left its  overnight cash rate  unchanged on Sept. 16
after increasing borrowing costs in June and July. The central
bank lowered its inflation forecasts on estimates the Sept. 4
earthquake in the city of Christchurch may reduce growth by 0.3
percentage point this quarter.  “Local fundamentals will not warrant a significantly
stronger New Zealand dollar,” said  Khoon Goh , head of market
economics and strategy in Wellington at ANZ National Bank Ltd.  There is a 2 percent  chance  New Zealand’s central bank will
boost borrowing costs next month, compared with a 4 percent
probability last week, according to an index compiled by Credit
Suisse AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  