-- European Stocks, U.S. Stock-Index Futures Rise; BP Advances
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-09-20T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-shares-of-roche-bp-may-be-active.html

          
          
             European stocks rallied, snapping
four days of losses for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as investors
speculated that the economy will avoid another recession.
       BP Plc  rallied 2.1 percent after saying its Macondo well
in the Gulf of Mexico has been permanently sealed. Brit
Insurance N.V. jumped 4.1 percent after Apollo Global Management
teamed up with CVC Capital Partners Ltd. to make a sweetened
offer for the company. SGS SA rose to a record.  
 The benchmark  Stoxx 600  gained 1.3 percent to 266.22 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, as all 19 industry groups advanced.
The gauge remains 2.2 percent below its high for 2010 in April
amid conflicting reports about the state of the economy as
Europe’s most indebted nations slash spending and China moves to
cool growth. Still, the measure has rallied 15 percent since its
low this year on May 25 on signs that the debt crisis won’t
choke off the recovery.  
 “Investors are getting more confident about macro-economic
developments and global growth is still solid overall,” said
 Markus Steinbeis , head of equity portfolio management at the
Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of Pioneer Investments KGmbH,
which oversees about $221 billion globally. “Sentiment is
supportive for risky assets. I’m still positive for the mid-
term.”  
 Ireland, Portugal  
 The Stoxx 600 retreated 0.7 percent last week as the cost
to insure Irish government bonds jumped amid concern that the
nation’s banks may need further government aid. Stocks rebounded
today as Moody’s Investors Service said the U.K.’s top credit
rating will withstand the challenging economic outlook as the
government stabilizes the public finances.  
 Even so, Portuguese and Irish bonds fell again today, with
the yield premium investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese
and Irish debt instead of bunds reaching a record. Ireland’s
central bank governor  Patrick Honohan  said the government needs
to cut the country’s budget deficit at a faster pace to shore up
investor confidence.  
 National benchmark indexes advanced in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 rose 1.8 percent, while the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 1.7 percent. Germany’s DAX Index gained 1.4
percent. Greece’s ASE Index led declining indexes, losing 2.1
percent, and Portugal’s PSI-20 slipped 0.2 percent.  
 BP gained 2.1 percent to 411.35 pence as U.S. officials
said the company killed its Macondo well after creating another
cement seal, plugging the source of the largest offshore oil
spill in U.S history.  
 Hammerson, Brit  
 Hammerson Plc climbed 3.3 percent to 395.3 pence, leading a
gauge of European real estate shares to the second-biggest gain
among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. Hammerson and Oman
may try to sell its office and retail site at Bishop’s Square in
London for about 550 million pounds ($860 million), the
Financial Times reported, without saying where it got the
information.  
 Brit Insurance  jumped 4.1 percent to 1,028 pence, the
highest level since April 2008. Brit expects to accept the offer
of 10.75 pounds a share in cash and a further 25 pence a share
depending on the value of its assets at the end of the year, the
insurer said in a statement after the close of markets on Sept.
17. Without the 25 pence contingent value right, the private
equity firm’s bid is worth 851 million pounds ($1.3 billion).  
 SGS , the world’s biggest goods inspector, gained 5.4
percent to 1,694 Swiss francs after saying it plans to reach
revenue of 8 billion Swiss francs ($7.9 billion) by 2014. The
company also aims for earnings per share of about 140 francs,
helped by “strong organic growth,” it said today in a
statement.  
 Valeo SA rallied 5.5 percent to 31.42 euros. The French
markets regulator said Pardus Capital Management LP’s stake in
the auto-parts maker is now 5.14 percent.  
 Boost in Earnings  
 Suedzucker AG  climbed 4.5 percent to 15.68 euros, the
biggest advance in eight months. The world’s largest sugar
refiner said it expects full-year operating profit to increase
to more than 450 million euros from 403 million euros last year.  
 “The boost in earnings will be driven predominantly by the
segments sugar and CropEnergies,” Suedzucker said in a
statement today.  
 CropEnergies AG , majority owned by Suedzucker, jumped 14
percent to 3.48 euros, the biggest increase this year. The
company raised its full-year forecasts after what it said was a
“strong” first half.  
 Safran, Fiat  
 Safran SA  rose 5.2 percent to 20.4 euros. The company still
wants to buy Zodiac Aerospace, Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Paul Herteman  said on a conference call today. Safran, which today
said it’s buying most of the assets of L-1 Indentity, sees
synergies of $30 million from the purchase.  
 Fiat SpA  climbed 4.7 percent to 10.85 euros, the highest
price since January. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. upgraded the
Italian carmarker to “outperform” from “market perform.” The
brokerage increased its price estimate to 15 euros from 12
euros.  
 K+S AG, Europe’s largest potash producer, soared 4.7
percent to 45.22 euros. China is close to a decision on a rival
bid to BHP Billiton Ltd.’s for control of Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., the Globe and Mail reported, citing people
familiar with the situation.  
 Halfords Group Plc  tumbled 4.6 percent to 441 pence, a
seventh day of declines for the longest falling streak in 15
months. The U.K.’s biggest seller of car parts and bicycles was
downgraded to “neutral” from “buy” at Redburn Partners LLP.  
 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc sank 5.2 percent to 726 pence,
the worst performance in the Stoxx 600. The Jordanian drugmaker
listed in London was downgraded to “sell” from “reduce” at
Numis Securities Ltd.  
 Actelion Ltd.  dropped 3.9 percent to 44.06 Swiss francs.
Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company said U.S.
prosecutors asked for documents related to marketing and sales
practices for the Tracleer lung medicine.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       European Stocks, U.S. Stock-Index Futures Rise; BP Advance  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Transocean Ltd. Development Driller II rig works to drill a relief well at the BP Plc Macondo site in the Gulf of Mexico. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Transocean Ltd. Development Driller II rig works to drill a relief well at the BP Plc Macondo site in the Gulf of Mexico. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Willem-Mark Nabarro, head of European equities at Exane BNP Paribas Ltd., talks about his investment strategy for European stocks.
     Nabarro also discusses debt concerns in Portugal and Ireland. He talks from Singapore with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
