-- Ex-AIA Finance Chief Steve Roder Seeks Funds for Hong Kong-Based Reinsurer
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-09-20T09:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/ex-aia-finance-chief-steve-roder-seeks-funds-for-hong-kong-based-reinsurer.html

          
          
             Steve Roder , the former chief
financial officer of  American International Group Inc. ’s main
Asia life unit, and two insurance executives are seeking to
raise funds for a new reinsurer based in Hong Kong.  
 The company will focus on Asia, Nomura Holdings Inc., which
is acting as an adviser to the three reinsurer founders, said in
an e-mailed statement. It is trying to raise $500 million to $1
billion of capital from institutional and corporate investors,
said two people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified as the information is private.  
 Roder, who left AIA Group Ltd. in April, will be the CFO
and deputy chief executive officer, with  Franz Josef Hahn , a
former executive at Swiss Reinsurance Co. and Munich Re, as the
chief executive officer. Eckart Roth, a former global risk
officer at White Mountains Re, will assume the role of chief
underwriting officer, according to Nomura.  
 Asia and Australia accounted for 10 percent of global
reinsurance premiums in 2008, compared with 42 percent for North
America and 37 percent for Europe, according to data from the
International Association of Insurance Supervisors.  
 “We believe there is an opportunity to form an Asian
reinsurer and to play a significant role in the growth of the
region’s reinsurance market,” Hahn said in the statement. “The
founders are extremely excited by the opportunity and by the
reaction so far of potential investors.”  
 Backup Protection  
 Reinsurers, which sell backup protection to insurance
companies, could benefit from the return to profitability of
non-life insurers in the region. PICC Property & Casualty Co.,
China’s largest non-life insurer, expects to swing back to
underwriting profitability this year as payouts on natural
disasters abate, Chairman Wu Yan said in an interview on Jun. 26.  
 “They must have spotted opportunities or a niche in the
market specializing in Asian risks and the forecast growth in
reinsurance,” said  Paul Clarkson , a Hong Kong-based analyst for
rating company Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. “It
could be easier access to markets as a reinsurer rather than a
direct underwriter.”  
 Most of the focus in the industry is “on establishing
relationships, understanding the markets and being able to
adequately price the risks within the region,” Clarkson said.  
 AIA IPO  
 Roder oversaw the preparation for Hong Kong-based AIA’s
first attempt at an initial public offering in the city before
it was aborted in March when Prudential Plc made a $35.5 billion
offer for the AIG unit. AIG, the New York insurer bailed out by
the U.S. government, revived plans for a Hong Kong IPO for AIA
after Prudential dropped the bid amid opposition from
shareholders who said the offer was too expensive.  
 Roder declined to comment when contacted by phone today.  
 Hahn spent 24 years in the industry and Roth is an 18-year
veteran who held senior positions at companies including Munich
Re, the Nomura statement said.  
 The team planning to set up the reinsurer “is being
received warmly by potential investors,”  Peter Goulston , head
of insurance in Nomura’s Asia ex-Japan investment banking
division, said in the statement.  
 The statement didn’t give a date for the planned start of
the new company, which awaits regulatory approval.  
 Financial Times  reported  the plan earlier today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        