-- Ex-Capstone Investment Trading Head Yashar to Start Volatility Hedge Fund
-- Saijel Kishan
-- 2010-09-20T17:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/ex-capstone-investment-trading-head-yashar-to-start-volatility-hedge-fund.html

          
          
             Stephen Yashar , the former global
head of trading at New York-based Capstone Investment Advisors
LLC, plans to start a hedge fund focusing on options contracts.  
 Cosyne Capital Management LP, based in Stamford,
Connecticut, will begin trading next month, Yashar said today in
an interview. The hedge fund will use options to bet that stock
 price swings  will increase or decrease, he said.  
 “There are a lot of idiosyncratic opportunities in the
single-stock space, especially with the increase in activity in
corporate mergers and acquisitions and special situations,”
said Yashar, 45. He declined to say how much money the firm will
have at the start.  
 U.S. equity options volume is headed for a seventh straight
annual record, according to data from the Chicago-based Options
Clearing Corp., which clears and settles all trading of
exchange-listed contracts. Volume for contracts linked to stocks
and exchange-traded funds totaled 2.36 billion this year through
August, up 5 percent from the year before.  
 Cosyne Capital will also make statistical-arbitrage trades,
or bets that securities prices will hold to a historical trend,
and wager on special situations such as corporate
restructurings, Yashar said.  
 Yashar is opening the fund with  Frank Erven , 39, who also
worked at Capstone, and  Hamid Zanganeh , 50, who worked at
Gladius Investment Group and Pardus Capital Management LP.  
 Yashar left Capstone in May after working at the hedge-fund
firm for three years. Before that he worked at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in its equity proprietary trading group, and Bankers Trust.  
 Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the
price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or
bet that  volatility  will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        