-- Flybe Pursuing Two Purchases as It Seeks to Build European Bases, CEO Says
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-09-20T13:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/flybe-says-its-pursuing-two-purchases-as-it-seeks-to-build-european-bases.html

          
          
             Flybe, the U.K.’s biggest domestic
carrier since it bought assets of British Airways Plc in 2007,
said it’s in talks over two more purchases as Chief Executive
Officer  Jim French  seeks to build bases in continental Europe.  
 The acquisitions being considered are “digestible” rather
than “transformational,” according to French, whose 521
million-pound ($811 million) takeover of the BA Connect unit
added more than 50 routes and doubled Flybe’s passenger total.  
 Flybe, whose regional planes serve less busy routes than
larger jetliners, plans to grow in Europe through a combination
of takeovers and agreements with major carriers, French said in
an interview. The Exeter, England-based company starts code-
sharing with Air France next month and is talks with Finnair Oyj
about co-operation on routes to Scandinavia and the Baltic.  
 “We’ve got two projects running with regard to
acquisitions,” French said, without disclosing a likely value
for the transactions. “We’re looking for regional purchases. I’d
describe them as bridgeheads into Europe. We see the next phase
of development for Flybe very much to be in continental Europe.”  
 Founded in 1979 as Jersey European Airways -- after the
island in the English Channel to which it flew -- the company
was renamed British European in 2000 and took on its current
identity two years later after switching to a low-cost strategy.  
 While the purchase of BA Connect made Flybe Europe’s
largest regional carrier by passenger numbers, all routes are
currently to or from the U.K. or entirely domestic. The next
growth phase will change that by establishing “bases” overseas
at which the company will build networks, French said today.  
 Embraer Order  
 Flybe in July ordered 35 88-seat Embraer 175 regional jets
worth $1.3 billion from Brazil’s Empresa Brasileira de
Aeronautica SA, together with options for 65 planes and
“purchase rights” for a further 40.  
 The contract will allow for expansion, as well as allowing
the return of hired aircraft if demand starts to ebb, French
said. Flybe operates a fleet of 14 Embraer 195 jets and 54
Bombardier Inc. Q400 turboprops, which are mostly leased.  
 Pretax profit for the year ended March 31 fell 36 percent
to 6.8 million pounds as the recession curbed demand for
business travel, Flybe said today in a statement, with sales
little changed at 570.5 million pounds and passenger numbers
maintained at about 7.2 million.  
 Yields, a measure of average fares, have since picked up,
with trading “strong,” the carrier said.  
 Closely held Flybe will consider an initial share sale once
“the markets are right,” Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Knuckey 
said by telephone, adding that other ways to realize shareholder
value will also be considered.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Flybe CEO Jim French  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The purchases being considered are “digestible,” French said by telephone, without disclosing a likely value. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The purchases being considered are “digestible,” French said by telephone, without disclosing a likely value. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
