-- LG Electronics, Viacom, Sony, Real American Brands: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-09-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/lg-electronics-viacom-sony-real-american-brands-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             LG Electronics Inc.  won a patent-
infringement ruling in a bid to block U.S. imports of flat-panel
televisions made by Vizio Inc.  
 U.S. International Trade Commission Judge E. James Gildea
said Vizio infringed an LG patent. Three other patents weren’t
violated. The decision is subject to review by the six-member
commission. If the commission finds there was a violation of any
patent, it could ban U.S. imports of certain Vizio televisions.  
 LG claimed that some televisions made by closely held Vizio
infringed U.S. patents for display controls, signal transmission
for remote controls, and on-screen program guide data. Vizio,
based in Irvine, California, vies with  Samsung Electronics Co. 
for the lead in U.S. sales of LCD televisions.  
 Seoul-based LG said Sept. 4 that it aims to sell 35 million
LCD televisions next year, 40 percent more than the projected 25
million this year. Sales including plasma TVs may reach 40
million sets next year from 29 million this year, according to
 Simon Kang , president of LG’s home entertainment division.  
 LG filed a patent complaint Sept. 16 against Vizio at the
ITC, claiming infringement of three other LG patents. Also named
in both complaints was Taipei-based  AmTran Technology Co. , which
makes Vizio televisions. LG televisions are assembled in Mexico,
and the company has facilities in Alabama and California,
according to the complaint filed Sept. 16.  
 The case is In the Matter of Video Displays, 337-TA-687,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington). The new case
is In the matter of Certain Digital Televisions and Components
Thereof, 2755.  
 Cajun Chickcan Claims Patent for Chicken Roasting Rack Infringed  
 Cajun Chickcan of Texas LLP, holder of two patents for a
chicken-roasting rack, sued a competitor for patent
infringement.  
 The dispute has its origins in a method of roasting a
chicken by inserting an open, half full can of beer into the
bird’s body cavity before putting it into the oven. This dish is
frequently called “ Beer Butt Chicken ,” “Drunken Chicken,” or
“Beer Can Chicken.”  
 Patents 6,503,551, issued in January 2003, and patent
6,557,460, issued in May 2004, are in dispute, according to the
complaint filed Sept. 16 in federal court in Houston. The
patents cover vertical chicken-roasting racks.  
 Cajun Chickcan, of Houston claims the patent is infringed
by the Vertical Chicken Roaster made and sold by  Brinkmann Corp. 
of Dallas.  
 The Houston company asked the court for money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs and a court order barring
future infringement of the patent.  
 Cajun Chickcan is represented by David Fink of Fink &
Johnson of Houston.  
 The case is Cajun Chickcan of Texas LLP v. Brinkman Corp.,
4:10-cv-03323, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 MTV Turkish Distributor MCD Files Counterclaim in Contract Case  
 Multi Channel Developers Inc.,  a Turkish television
distribution company that is being sued by  Viacom Inc. ’s MTV
Networks, said it filed a counterclaim against Viacom in London.  
 Paul Renney, MCD’s U.K. lawyer, said the company filed a
defense and counterclaim to the Viacom suit at the High Court in
London on Sept. 15.  
 MTV claims in two lawsuits that MCD reneged on an agreement
to pay for MTV and Nickelodeon content. MTV is seeking
unspecified damages for misuse of its programming and a court
order blocking the channels from being aired.  
 “MCD considers that both claims are incorrect and the
agreement with respect to both channels was properly renewed,”
Renney, a lawyer at Keystone Law, said in a telephone interview.  
 The cases are MTV Networks -and- MCD, HC 10C02362 and HC
10C2363.  
 Sony Corp. Unit, Robert Bradley Sued Over Music Copyrights  
 Sony Corp. ’s RCA Music Group and R&B performer  Robert
Bradley  were sued for copyright infringement by a Michigan music
promoter and manager.  
 Shalan Samona of Farmington Hills, Michigan, claims a 1990
partnership agreement with Bradley entitles him to a 50 percent
interest in any song created by the musician, according to the
complaint filed Sept. 16 in federal court in Detroit.  
 At issue are copyrights for four songs Bradley created
while under the management contract with Samona, the former
manager said. They are “For the Night (Baby),” “ I Remember ,”
“Willie Lee” and “ Born in America .”  
 Samona claims that two songs on Bradley’s “ Blackwater
Surprise ” album are “substantially similar, if not identical”
to “For the Night” and “I Remember.”  
 He said that the performing and recording of these songs
without his permission by Bradley and RCA constitutes copyright
infringement, since the 1990 contract gave him 50 percent
ownership. Samona also objects to the form of Bradley’s
registration of the copyright for these songs.  
 Samona claims some of the registrations are invalid because
Bradley failed to state that those songs were derived from
earlier works created when he was under contract to Samona. He
asked that the registration for these songs be declared invalid
and improperly filed.  
 He also requested money damages for what he says is
Bradley’s performance of the four disputed songs, an order
barring the singer from future performances of the work, and the
seizure and destruction of all allegedly infringing material.
Additionally, he requested awards of litigation costs and
attorney fee.  
 Samona is represented by Jeffery P. Thennisch of Pontiac,
Michigan’s  Dobrusin & Thennish PC .  
 The case is  Shalan Samona v. Robert Bradley, 2:10-cv-13691-
RHC-RSW, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
(Detroit).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Masco Sued for Infringement by Owners of ‘Make a Mess’ Mark  
 Masco Corp. , the maker of Delta faucets and Behr paint, was
sued for trademark infringement by a New Hampshire company that
provides children’s education and entertainment centers.  
 Make A Mess LC and  Gigunda Group Inc. , sister companies who
share an address in Manchester, New Hampshire, object to the
“ Make a Mess”  ad campaign presently used for the Delta Touch
02 faucet.  
 The New Hampshire companies claim their “make a mess”
trademarks are infringed by this ad campaign. They also object
to the Make a Mess app now available in Apple Inc.’s iTunes App
Store, and also available through Research in Motion Inc.’s
Blackberry online store.  
 Sherman Oaks, California-based eModeration Inc., which the
New Hampshire companies claim created the campaign for Delta, is
named as a defendant in the complaint along with Taylor,
Michigan-based Masco and its Delta unit.  
 Although Delta was sent a cease-and-desist notice in July,
the company continues its alleged infringement, and told the
plaintiffs it wouldn’t halt its campaign, according to the
complaint filed Sept. 16 in federal court in Concord, New
Hampshire.  
 The alleged infringement causes the public to be deceived
into believing an affiliation exists between the faucet company
and the two New Hampshire entities, according to court papers.  
 Make A Mess and Gigunda asked the court to order the faucet
company and the ad agency to stop their alleged acts of
infringement. Additionally, they seek money damages, and asked
they be tripled and that extra damages be added to punish the
defendants for the actions. They also asked for attorney fees
and litigation costs.  
 The two New Hampshire companies are represented by  Teresa
C. Tucker  and  Kevin J. Carroll  of  Grossman, Tucker, Perreault &
Pfleger PLLC  of Manchester, New Hampshire.  
 The case is Make A Mess LLC v. Masco Corp., 1:10-cv-00409,
U.S. District Court, District of New Hampshire (Concord).  
 Taiwan Director’s Trademark Opposed by Sediq Aboriginal Group  
 Taiwan’s aboriginal  Sediq  people are objecting to the
issuance of a trademark to a production company involved with a
film about their 1930 uprising against Japanese rule, Taiwan
Today  reported .  
 Director Wei Te-Sheng’s production company owns the right
to the “Sediq Bale” mark and plans to use it with merchandise
associated with his movie by the same name, according to Taiwan
Today.  
 Bale told Taiwan Today his company’s rights to the name
extend only to movie-related merchandise, and the trademark was
sought to bar unauthorized use of the film’s name.  
 The head of Taiwan’s Intellectual Property Office said the
Sediq people could continue to use their name for such things as
traditional contests, artifacts or clothing, according to Taiwan
Today.  
 Real American Brands To Register ‘Green Blues’ Trademark  
 Real American Brands Inc. , a sportswear company, received
notice that the U.S. Patent and Trademark office will register
“Green Blues” as a trademark, the Rancho Mirage, California-
based company said in a  statement .  
 The brand will be used for an American-made eco-friendly
line of denim apparel, the company said. Although the clothing
line will compete in the “premium denim category,” the company
said it won’t be sold at premium prices.  
 Some of the company’s other clothing trademarks include
“Brown & Bred in the USA,” “Lasso” “Lariat” “Riata” and
“ Billy Martin’s .”  
 Real American applied for the Green Blues trademark in May,
2009, with the assistance of  John Alumit  from  Patel & Alumit PC 
of Encino, California.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 IP Moves  
 Idaho State Hires AMI Semiconductor Ex-GC for Tech Transfer  
 Idaho State University hired IP specialist Darlene Gerry
for its office of general counsel, the Pocatello, Idaho-based
school said in a Sept. 15  statement .  
 Gerry, whose background is in IP creation and licensing,
will work in the technology transfer area.  
 She is a former senior counsel at  International Business
Machines Corp. , and was the senior vice president, general
counsel and secretary at AMI Semiconductor Inc. of Pocatello.  
 Gerry has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Southern Maine and a law degree from Western New England
College.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        