-- GM China Partner SAIC May Buy Stake in Automaker's IPO, Chairman Hu Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-20T14:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/general-motors-ipo-to-be-open-to-overseas-investors-u-s-government-says.html

          
          
             SAIC Motor Corp.  said it may invest
in the initial public offering of partner  General Motors Co. ,
cementing ties between the biggest U.S. and Chinese automakers.  
 SAIC will consider investing in GM if “conditions are
favorable,” Chairman  Hu Maoyuan  said in Shanghai. The company
hasn’t yet made a decision whether to make the investment and is
waiting for the details of the share sale, he said today.  
 “GM is our important strategic partner,” Hu said. “We
are not clear about the details of its IPO. We will make the
right decision once we know details.”  
 The automakers, which have made cars together in China for
more than a decade, said in December they would also sell low-
cost vehicles in India. GM filed for an IPO in August as the
U.S. government seeks to pare the 61 percent stake it gained in
the company through its bankruptcy and $50 billion taxpayer
bailout last year.  
 “It would be a political hot potato if the already-
unpopular bailout of GM was followed by a Chinese company
acquiring a stake,”  Aaron Bragman , an analyst with IHS
Automotive in Northville, Michigan, said in a telephone
interview.  
 GM’s initial public offering will be open to overseas
investors, the U.S. Treasury said in a statement on its  website .
Retail and institutional investors will be offered shares, and
the Treasury “will not involve itself in decisions regarding
allocation of shares to specific buyers,” the department said.  
 GM “cannot comment on speculation surrounding a public
offering,” Shanghai-based spokesman Mike Albano said in an e-
mailed statement on Sept. 18.  
 Chinese Sales  
 The Detroit-based automaker, whose partners in China also
include Wuling Motors Co. and China FAW Group Corp., sold 1.2
million vehicles in the nation during the six months ended June
30, according to a company filing related to the IPO.  
 Combined income from the joint ventures with SAIC and
Wuling rose to $734 million in the first six months of the year
from $298 million a year earlier.  
 “It’s not a bad idea for GM and SAIC to further their ties
if it means getting GM better ingrained in the Chinese market,”
IHS Automotive’s Bragman said. “That’s where the money is going
to be made for the industry.”  
 China’s wholesale deliveries of passenger cars increased
18.7 percent to 1.02 million units in August, compared with 13.6
percent growth in July, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said in an e-mailed statement on Sept. 9.  
 China Offsets Slump  
 Sales in markets such as China and India are helping offset
slumping demand in the U.S. and Europe. China’s auto sales may
rise to 16 million this year, the association said last month,
boosting its forecast from a previous estimate of 15 million.  
 GM is “in great shape” to hold an offering, United Auto
Workers President  Bob King  said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  
 “It will actually help them sell more product when they’ve
done the IPO,” King said. “I think the American public will
see that they’re a strong and healthy company.”  
 Carlos Ghosn , the head of the Renault SA-Nissan Motor Co.
alliance, said today that he isn’t interested in investing in
GM. He spoke at a plant opening in Zhengzhou, central China.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sookyung Seo  in Seoul at 
 Sseo10@bloomberg.net ;
 Liza Lin  in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        