-- German Lenders May Pay 70% of Earnings for Levies, Bank Association Says
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-09-20T11:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/germany-s-banks-may-forfeit-70-of-earnings-to-pay-for-levies-group-says.html

          
          
             German lenders  may be forced to
forfeit as much as 70 percent of their profits for the financial
transaction tax, a bank levy and deposit guarantee funds as well
as normal taxes, the  Association of German Banks  said.  
 The proposed financial transaction tax may cost lenders
about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), the bank levy 900 million
euros and higher fees for national deposit guarantee funds 1.2
billion euros, the group said at a press conference in Frankfurt
today. German banks had average earnings of 7.6 billion euros
from 1998 to 2008, which were taxed about 30 percent. The
additional measures could raise that ratio to 70 percent,
according to the banking association.  
 The potential additional costs of 3.1 billion euros may
make it more difficult for German banks to raise capital levels
with retained earnings to meet new regulatory requirements from
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . Regulators from 27
nations on Sept. 12 said they more than doubled banks’ minimum
capital ratios and gave lenders as much as eight years to comply
in full.  
 “If banks can’t raise additional capital with retained
earnings or on the market, they’ll be forced to scale back
business,” the association’s managing director,  Manfred Weber ,
said today. “Therefore, we’re convinced that Basel III is right
at the core, but certain risks for the economy remain -- even if
the longer transition periods help.”  
 Fresh Capital Needed  
 Germany’s 10 biggest banks, including Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank AG and  Commerzbank  AG, may need about 105 billion
euros in fresh capital because of new rules, the group said on
Sept. 6. The banking association hasn’t revised its forecast for
capital needs since the Basel announcements, Weber said today.  
 The Basel III rules will improve the stability and crisis
resistance of the financial system without hurting economic
growth, the Bundesbank said today. German lenders will be able
to raise the additional capital needed to comply with the new
rules through retained earnings or capital increases, without
reducing lending, the central bank said.  
 Earnings at German lenders this year will probably be hurt
by further loan-loss provisions following last year’s economic
recession, the Bundesbank also said in its monthly report
published today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        