-- Ghana to Use Gas for Power, Chemicals to Expand Beyond Oil
-- Philip Sanders
-- 2010-09-20T14:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/ghana-to-use-natural-gas-for-power-chemicals-in-expansion-beyond-crude.html

          
          
             Ghana, the African nation that’s
set to become an oil exporter next year, is examining plans to
use natural gas from offshore fields for power generation and
petrochemicals.  
 There is an “opportunity for value additions using gas,”
Deputy Energy Minister  Emmanuel Armah-Kofi Buah  said in an
interview at the  International Growth Centre conference  
today in London. “We can really transform our country.”  
 Ghana National Petroleum Corp., the country’s state energy
producer, will announce joint ventures for gas projects soon, he
said. GNPC, as the company is known, has identified a location
to receive offshore gas and the country may also consider
fertilizer production.  
 London-based  Tullow Oil Plc , which plans to produce its
first oil in Ghana this year, agreed to supply the first 200
billion cubic feet of gas to GNPC “at zero cost” to help the
country build pipelines to pump the fuel. Deliveries from the
offshore Jubilee field will start in mid-2011, Tullow has said.  
 “We are looking beyond oil,” Buah said. “There has been
a lot of interest expressed by so many countries, by so many
companies,” he said, without elaborating.  
 Gas will also be available from a venture between Italy’s
Eni SpA and Vitol Group and another project that includes OAO
Lukoil of Russia and Vanco Energy Co., according to Tullow. The
 West African Gas Pipeline Co. , of which Chevron Corp. is the
largest shareholder, already supplies gas to Ghana from Nigeria,
according to Tullow.  
 Ghana wants gas for power generation to reduce use of crude
oil and cut electricity tariffs, Buah said. “Gas could be used
for domestic purposes. We need more energy.”  
 Demand for gas in Ghana may more than double to 500 million
cubic feet a day in 2015, Tullow forecasts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  and  Philip Sanders  in London at +44-
   egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        