-- U.K. Pound Falls Against Euro, Yen as House-Price Drop Threatens Recovery
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-09-20T15:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/gilts-yields-stay-near-highesr-in-month-as-stock-gains-damp-safety-demand.html

          
          
             The pound fell against the euro and
the dollar amid signs the U.K.’s housing market weakened,
threatening to undermine the country’s recovery from its deepest
recession on record.  
 The British currency slid against all 16 major peers after
a report showed mortgage approvals by the nation’s six largest
banks dropped to the lowest level since April 2009. U.K. home
sellers lowered asking prices for a third month in September,
wiping out half of the gains made since the start of 2010,
according to Rightmove Plc. The pound stayed lower even as
Moody’s Investors Service said the U.K. can meet its financial
“challenges” and maintain its Aaa credit rating.  
 “The data from the U.K. is continuing to disappoint with
many warning signals now suggesting that it is heading towards a
significant slowdown,”  Ian Stannard , a currency strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in London, wrote in an e-mailed note. “We would
continue to recommend caution over the medium term.”  
 The pound depreciated 0.6 percent against the euro to 84
pence as of 4:25 p.m. in London. It weakened 0.4 percent to
$1.5572. The pound slipped 0.5 percent to 133.51 yen.  
 Gilts rose, sending the 10-year yield near the highest
level in more than a month, as stocks advanced, reducing demand
for assets considered a refuge.  
 The yield on the 10-year gilt climbed 4 basis points to
3.15 percent. It reached 3.184 percent on Sept. 13, the highest
since Aug. 11. The yield on the two-year note advanced 3 basis
points to 0.73 percent.  
 U.K. government bonds lost 2.6 percent this month amid
gains by stocks, trimming their return for the year to 7.8
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds are down 2 percent in the period, with U.S. Treasuries
slipping 1.2 percent.  
 Risk-On  
 The benchmark FTSE 100 Index rose 1.7 percent while the
MSCI World Index rose 1.1 percent. The Bank of England will
publish minutes of its last policy meeting on Sept. 22.  
 “Equities are recovering quite nicely from last week and
that’s taking a shine off bonds,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker
for banks and money managers. “It appears to be another risk-on
day. I expect the market to trade in a narrow range ahead of the
Bank of England’s policy meeting announcement later this week.”  
 Moody’s’ assessment of the U.K. outlook backs the
government’s approach to reducing the budget deficit, the
Treasury said.  
 “This supports the government’s approach to cutting the
deficit,” the Treasury said in a statement.  
 Housing Market  
 The number of mortgage loans dropped to 45,000 in August
from 47,000 in July, the Bank of England said today in London.
The value of home loans fell to 5.9 billion pounds from 6.1
billion pounds.  
 A recovery in Britain’s housing market earlier this year
has stalled as banks restrict lending and a glut of supply curbs
home-price inflation. Central bank Governor  Mervyn King  said
last week “it will be some time” before banks are in a
position to finance an economic recovery.  
 BNP Paribas also predicted that the Bank of England is
“likely” to resume buying bonds, a policy tool known as
quantitative easing, early next year to support the economy.  
 The pound has lost 3.5 percent against the dollar and 11
percent against the yen this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        