-- GM Cuts Prices in Brazil, Profit Margins as Competition Grows, Ardila Says
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-09-20T11:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/gm-cuts-prices-in-brazil-profit-margins-as-competition-grows-ardila-says.html

          
          
             General Motors Co.  is reducing
profit margins and prices in Brazil as competition grows in the
world’s fourth-largest auto market, said  Jaime Ardila , who runs
company’s Latin American unit.  
 “Margins in this industry have come down,” Ardila said in
an interview on Sept. 17 in Sao Caetano do Sul, Brazil.
“Everybody for the time being is happy giving priority to
volume growth over profitability.”  
 Carmakers are investing in Brazil to enter the world’s
second-fastest-growing auto market. Brazil had record new
vehicle sales in March of 337,381 units, an increase of 29
percent from the same month a year ago. Sales also increased 21
percent to 312,812 in August, according to the country’s dealer
federation.  
 Chery Automobile Co. , a Chinese automaker, signed an
agreement with Sao Paulo state government last week to invest as
much as $400 million in a plant to produce 150,000 cars annually
in Jacarei, Brazil.  Tata Motors Ltd. , an Indian manufacturer, is
considering building a plant in Brazil or Mexico, the O Estado
de S. Paulo newspaper reported Sept. 16.  
 GM pledged to invest more than 5 billion reais ($2.9
billion) in Brazil through 2012. In August, the company had 20.5
percent of the country’s auto market, second to Volkswagen with
22.5 percent. Ardila forecast earlier this year that sales in
Brazil will grow by 68 percent to 1 million vehicles by 2014.  
 Competition from other companies meant prices didn’t rise
when a government tax cut on industrial products aimed at
boosting domestic demand ended in March.  
 Real Appreciation  
 “We all expected it to go back, but it didn’t happen,” he
said. “The difference is being absorbed by the companies. That
is a factor of competition.”  
 Latin America’s biggest economy will grow 7.3 percent this
year, central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said in a Sept.
14 speech. The real rose to a nine-month high last week and
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  pledged the government could use
“unlimited resources” from its sovereign wealth fund to step
up dollar purchases to avoid appreciation.  
 GM’s international operations, which exclude  North America 
and Europe, reported net revenue of $16.7 billion, about 26
percent of the company’s total sales worldwide through the first
six months of the year. The company created in June a regional
organization for South America that is based in Sao Paulo and
headed by Ardila. GM South America has about 29,000 employees.  
 Labor Costs  
 Brazil is among GM’s “medium-cost” countries for labor
costs, which are between $15 and $30 per hour, according to a
regulatory filing. That puts the country between lower-cost
locations such as China and more costly areas such as the U.S.  
 The real’s strength may also make it hard for companies to
be competitive in Brazil. The real is “strong on capital
inflows,” Ardila said. “I expect the real to be one of the
strongest currencies in the world.”  
 Competitors such as Tata will mean a better “playing
field” in the country once they have plants in the region, he
added.  
 GM is planning an initial public offering in the U.S. to
begin repaying government stakes that were acquired as part of
its $50 billion bailout. The company said in a filing related to
the offering that it expects “strong sales in China and
Brazil” to offset a “challenging sales environment resulting
from the global economic slowdown” for the remainder of 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecilia Tornaghi  in Sao Paulo at 
 ctornaghi@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        