-- Greece Aims for Return to Bond Market as Budget Deficit Shrinks
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-09-21T02:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/greek-default-would-be-tragedy-papandreou-says-vowing-it-won-t-happen.html

          
          
             Greece Prime Minister  George Papandreou  renewed the country’s pledge to return to
international capital markets as soon as possible and ruled out
any plans to restructure debt.  
 “We are not going to default,” Papandreou said yesterday
during an interview with  Betty Liu  at the New York Stock
Exchange. “Default would be a tragedy.”  
 Critics, including  Nouriel Roubini , the New York 
University professor who predicted the global financial crisis,
have said that an orderly restructuring of Greece’s public debt
is required in order to avoid an inevitable default.  
 “If we were going to default, we would have decided that
many months ago,” Papandreou said. “It would be wrong for the
Greek economy, it would be wrong for the European economy, it
would make things worse in the end. That’s why we’re taking the
pain and making these structural reforms, and we’re on target.”  
 The economy will likely contract 4 percent this year,
according to European Union, International Monetary Fund and
government forecasts. That compares with the 1.7 percent
expansion that the European Commission forecast last week for
the euro region this year.  
 “By the end of 2011, according to the program, if
everything goes well, we’ll be seeing growth,” Papandreou said.  
 Austerity Plans  
 Greece imposed a series of austerity measures this year,
including wage and pension cuts and higher sales taxes in
exchange for a 110 billion-euro ($142 billion) rescue package
from the EU and IMF. The country was shut out of the bond market
after a surge in its yields made the cost of selling long-term
debt prohibitive. There is no timetable for issuing debt,
Papandreou said.  
 Choosing to default rather than take austerity measures
“could have a contagion effect in the European Union and in the
end it would also be creating much more pain for the people of
Greece,” Papandreou said.  
 Through cutbacks, “we did contain contagion,” Papandreou
said. “We contained that with this very strong package and
intervention.”  
 Greece would like to pay borrowing costs that are “under
the interest rates we’re paying right now for the IMF-EU
loans,” Papandreou said.  
 Fund managers are still reluctant to buy  Greek debt  after
the country was forced to seek a bailout. The  extra yield  that
they demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds compared with  German
bunds  remained 909 basis points, still shy of the euro-era,
intraday high of 973 basis points on May 7.  
 Budget Deficit  
 Greece’s budget gap shrank 32.3 percent in the first eight
months of the year, beating a 26.5 percent target for the period,
as cuts in state wages and pensions offset slower-than-forecast
increases in revenue.  
 The deficit, which doesn’t include spending by state-owned
institutions and companies, contracted to 14.5 billion euros
from 21.4 billion euros a year earlier, according to a statement
yesterday from the  Finance Ministry  in Athens. The government is
targeting an annual decline of 39.5 percent, the ministry said.
The figures are broadly the same as preliminary data released on
Sept. 10.  
 “If Greece did not follow this program, it would have been
to the detriment of Germany and the whole euro” region,
Papandreou said. “The German taxpayer will be profiting from
this. We’re getting loans, we’re not getting free money.”  
 Second Installment  
 The EU and IMF delivered 9 billion euros last week of the
emergency loans to Greece, the second installment of the aid
package. While they praised Greece’s efforts to cut spending and
overhaul its pension system, they signaled concern that revenue
collection was falling short of forecasts.  
 Investors dumped Greek bonds after the country’s budget
shortfall spiked to 13.6 percent of gross domestic product in
2009, the second highest in the EU, sparking speculation it may
default on about 300 billion euros of national debt. Greece
plans to cut the deficit to 8.1 percent of GDP this year and 7.6
percent in 2011.  
 “The deficit reduction is characterized by the
accumulation of interest payments in July and August 2010, which
make up 40 percent of yearly interest payments as well as by a
lag in revenue,” the ministry said. The Finance Ministry begins
talks today with representatives of business groups on plans to
offer terms to companies to pay past tax debts, according to an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 Net ordinary budget revenue rose 3.4 percent, compared with
a targeted 13.7 percent annual increase, while spending fell 7.6
percent compared with an annual 5.5 percent decrease target,
according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Greece's Prime Minister George Papandreou  
                       
                         
                           Craig Ruttle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks to reporters at the New York Stock Exchange in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks to reporters at the New York Stock Exchange in New York. Photographer: Craig Ruttle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou talks about the country's austerity measures and plans to create a so-called diaspora bond to attract investment from Greeks living abroad.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Greece’s Prime Minister George Papandreou talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about the country's economy and sovereign debt crisis.
     Papandreou says Greece ruled out any plans to restructure debt and repeated that the country plans to return international capital markets as soon as possible. Papandreou also discusses Greece's austerity program. Bloomberg's Matt Miller also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
