-- High-Frequency Trades, Commodities Are Targeted by EU Commissioner Barnier
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-09-20T14:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/high-frequency-trading-may-face-regulation-eu-commissioner-barnier-says.html

          
          
             Michel Barnier , the European
Union’s financial services commissioner, said he would have a
“very, very close look” at high-frequency trading in an
overhaul of EU market rules.  
 “Hyper speculation” in commodities markets and dark
pools, which are trading platforms that allow investors to buy
and sell securities away from regulated exchanges, will also be
targeted by EU regulators, the financial services chief said.  
 The review of the EU’s Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive, or Mifid, is part of a wider overhaul of financial
regulation following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The  European Commission  proposed laws last week that
would limit naked short selling and some derivative trading.  
 Since Mifid was implemented three years ago, “the
financial world has witnessed deep changes,” which may need to
be reflected in new rules, Barnier said in a  speech  in Brussels
today. These include “new ways of dealing with processing of
transactions,” and “the emergence and multiplication of new
players including high-frequency traders,” he said.  
 High-frequency trading entails hedge funds and other firms
using powerful technology and complex computer programs to
execute orders in milliseconds to profit from fleeting
discrepancies in the prices of shares across different trading
venues.  
 Wall Street  
 U.S. lawmakers have questioned whether the practice is
benefiting Wall Street at the expense of individual investors.
The  Securities and Exchange Commission  sought input from
securities professionals on strategies used by high-frequency
traders in January. EU officials met financial companies the
same month to gather information.  
 Barnier said the commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive
body, is looking at how speculation may increase volatility in
some markets. Commodities market “hyper speculation” is
“scandalous,” he said.  
 Dacian Ciolos , the EU’s agriculture commissioner, told the
conference he’s working with Barnier to prepare regulatory
measures for futures markets, including those for commodities.  
 Wheat traded in Chicago, a global benchmark, almost doubled
in the past three months as the drought in Russia, flooding in
Canada and parched fields in Kazakhstan and the European Union,
ruined crops.  
 Ciolos said earlier this month the EU may use its grain
inventories of about 3 million metric tons to intervene in the
market.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        