-- U.K. Stocks Retreat as Xstrata Leads Mining Stocks Lower; Wellstream Soars
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-09-21T16:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/highland-gold-jd-sports-minerva-xstrata-plc-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks declined, reversing
earlier gains on the FTSE 100 Index in the final 15 minutes of
trading, amid concern the Federal Reserve may highlight how the
recovery for the world’s largest economy is stagnating.  Xstrata Plc led a retreat among mining companies as metals
prices declined in London. Cairn Energy Plc climbed 2.3 percent
after saying an exploration well being drilled in Greenland has
found its first pockets of oil as well as gas.  Wellstream
Holdings Plc  surged 29 percent as it received a number of
preliminary takeover approaches.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  lost 26.35, or 0.5 percent, to
5,577.19 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, paring yesterday’s
1.7 percent rally. The  FTSE All-Share Index  gained 0.4 percent
and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  rose 0.6 percent today.  “There is much anticipation that the Fed is considering
further stimuli for what is appearing to be an increasing
struggling U.S. recovery,” said  Giles Watts , the head of
equities at City Index Ltd. in London. “Investors seem
reassured by recent gains in the markets but as we have seen
over recent months, optimism can turn bearish very quickly, and
any more worrying noise from the U.S. could be the catalyst.”  Fed policy makers are meeting today to consider whether new
measures to boost economic growth are needed. The FTSE 100 has
rallied 17 percent from this year’s low in July as concern eased
that efforts by European nations to slash budget deficits will
stifle economic growth.  Britain posted the largest budget deficit for any August
since records began in 1993, underscoring the challenge facing
the coalition government as it tries to cut record borrowing.  Weathered Crisis  Three out of five global investors say the world economy
has weathered the financial crisis and has stabilized two years
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Few believe
the economy is recovering, with only one in six of those
surveyed describing it as expanding, according to a global
quarterly poll of 1,408 investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers. Forty-one percent aren’t convinced the
financial situation is stable and say further turbulence is
likely.  Basic resources shares declined. Xstrata dropped 2 percent
to 1,167.5 pence. Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. lost 2.7
percent to 889.5 pence. Copper, nickel, tin and zinc prices
retreated on the London Metal Exchange.  Cairn Energy climbed 2.3 percent to 436.5 pence as it said
an exploration well being drilled in Greenland has found its
first pockets of oil and gas.  “The presence of both oil and gas confirms an active,
working petroleum system in the basin and is extremely
encouraging at this very early stage of our exploration campaign
for the Sigguk block and the entire area,” according to  Bill Gammell , Cairn’s chief executive officer, who commented in a
Regulatory News Service statement today.  Wellstream  Wellstream  soared a record 29 percent to 785 pence as the
company said it received a number of preliminary approaches
regarding a possible offer for the company.  “There can be no certainty that an acceptable offer will
ultimately be made,” the company wrote in the statement today.  Biocompatibles International Plc  surged 7.8 percent to 353
pence. The drugmaker said it has received a “preliminary
approach” that may lead to an offer being made for the company.  Dolphin Capital Investors Ltd.  gained 7.3 percent to 36.75
pence. The developer of holiday resorts in southeastern Europe
said its first-half loss narrowed to 8.4 million euros from 93.9
million euros a year earlier as its properties increased in
value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 