-- Hurricane Lashes Bermuda, Cuts Power to Two-Thirds of Island
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-09-20T18:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/igor-passing-bermuda-as-category-1-hurricane-julia-dissipates-in-atlantic.html

          
          
             Hurricane Igor lashed Bermuda with
winds gusting up to 93 miles an hour, cutting power to two-
thirds of the Atlantic island colony, before moving off into the
Atlantic to threaten Newfoundland with a close call.  
 Bermuda dropped its tropical storm warnings while a warning
was posted in Newfoundland, where moisture from Igor is forecast
to mix with other systems to produce as much as 6 inches (15
centimeters) of rain tomorrow, according to the Canadian
Hurricane Centre in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia.  
 Igor passed within 40 miles (64 kilometers) of Bermuda
early today and was 350 miles north of the British territory
with 75-mph winds at 2 p.m. East Coast time, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said in an  advisory . It was moving northeast at
26 mph.  
 “Hurricane Igor wasn’t catastrophic -- it’s more branches
and leaves down so now we’ve got some tidying up to do,” Tom
Lamb, owner of the Pompano Beach Club in southwest Bermuda, said
today in a telephone interview. “The biggest thing here is a
lot of beach erosion and most of the island is without power.”  
 About 21,500 customers were still without power as of 1
p.m., according to Bermuda Electric Light Co.’s website.
Bermuda’s sole supplier of electricity says it has 35,558
metered connections on the island, which has 68,000 residents
and is a financial services and tourism center. The airport
causeway, closed by the storm, reopened at 3 p.m. local time,
the  Bermuda Emergency Measures Organization  said.  
 Canadian Alerts  
 In advance of Igor’s arrival, Canada issued a tropical
storm warning for Newfoundland from Stones Cove to
Charlottetown.  
 The U.S. center forecasts Igor will bypass Newfoundland
tomorrow, then veer northward toward Greenland while still at
tropical-storm strength on Sept. 24. The system is predicted to
lose its cyclone characteristics tomorrow, an indication the
ocean is no longer its main source of energy.  
 For now, the storm remains “large” with hurricane-force
winds of at least 74 mph stretching 90 miles from its center and
tropical-storm-force winds of at least 39 mph extending out
about 380 miles, the Miami-based center said. Igor is a Category
1 storm, the lowest on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale.  
 East of  Igor , a low-pressure system 450 miles west of the
Cape Verde Islands has an  80 percent chance  of becoming a
tropical cyclone during the next two days, the center said. A
cyclone is a rotating storm ranging from a depression to a
hurricane.  
 The hurricane center ceased issuing advisories on storm
Julia today when the former Category 4 hurricane lost its
cyclonic features.  
 Five hurricanes with Category 3 winds of 111 miles per hour
(178 kilometers per hour) or more have formed in the Atlantic
this year, part of a total of 11 named storms with winds of 39
mph or more. The average Atlantic season produces 11 named
storms from June through November, two of them major hurricanes,
the center said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hurricane Igor  
                       
                         
                           NOAA via Getty Images 
                         
                         In this satellite image provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Hurricane Igor gets stronger as it turns west-northwest in the direction of Bermuda. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     In this satellite image provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Hurricane Igor gets stronger as it turns west-northwest in the direction of Bermuda. Source: NOAA via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
