-- U.S. Stocks Advance as Lennar Tops Forecast, IBM Plans Takeover
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-09-20T20:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/index-futures-advance-best-buy-climbs-diamond-hill-shares-may-be-active.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a four-month high, after Lennar
Corp. beat analysts’ earnings estimates and International
Business Machines Corp. announced a $1.7 billion takeover.  
 Lennar  gained 8.2 percent after the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue topped projections as margins widened.
Netezza Corp. surged 15 percent following IBM’s bid for the
analytics-technology company.  Apple Inc.  climbed 2.9 percent
after Kaufman Brothers LP raised its share-price estimate to
$374.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  increased 2 percent
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised buying the shares.  
 The  S&P 500  advanced 1.5 percent to 1,142.71 at 4 p.m. in
New York, the highest since May 13. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average rose 145.77 points, or 1.4 percent, to 10,753.62. Eleven
stocks rose for  every  two that fell on U.S. exchanges.  
 “It’s a confluence of positive news,”  Wasif Latif , vice
president of equity investments at USAA Investment Management
Co., which oversees $45 billion in San Antonio. “The fear of a
double-dip recession is receding. News of better-than-expected
earnings is a positive. Companies with healthy balance sheets
are announcing takeovers, dividends and buybacks. That’s a good
indication of corporate confidence.”  
 U.S. stocks last week posted their third weekly rally, led
by technology companies amid speculation Microsoft Corp. will
sell debt for share buybacks and after Cisco Systems Inc. said
it will begin paying a dividend. The S&P 500 had  plunged  as much
as 16 percent from its April 23 high on concern that U.S.
unemployment and less spending by indebted European nations
would stall the global economic recovery.  
 More Buybacks  
 Record-low interest rates are stoking the biggest increase
in U.S. share buybacks ever.  
 American companies announced $55.9 billion in repurchases
since June, data compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc. show. That
adds to $93.5 billion in the second quarter and $108.3 billion
during the first three months of the year, compared with $125
billion in all of 2009. Corporations are using debt to pay for
buybacks after the average yield on U.S. investment grade bonds
fell to an all-time low of  3.70 percent  last month, data from
London-based Barclays Plc show.  
 The rally in Lennar shares drove a  gauge  of 12 homebuilders
in S&P indexes up 4.6 percent. Lennar jumped 8.2 percent to
$15.14. Profit excluding some items was 16 cents a share during
the third quarter, beating the average analyst estimate of 3
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Homebuilder Confidence  
 Stocks rose even after a measure of confidence among U.S.
homebuilders unexpectedly held at the lowest level in 18 months,
a report showed today, underscoring that the housing market
remains depressed following the expiration of a government tax
credit. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence  index was unchanged at 13, matching the reading from
August that was the lowest since March 2009. The gauge was
projected to rise to 14, according to the  median forecast  of 50
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Netezza surged 15 percent to $28.27. IBM, the world’s
largest computer-services provider, agreed to buy the
Marlborough, Massachusetts-based company for about $1.7 billion
to gain analytics technology. Netezza investors will receive $27
a share in cash, IBM said today in a statement.  
 Data-storage companies rallied. Teradata Corp. had the
third-biggest gain in the S&P 500, rising 7.5 percent to $37.05.  
 IPad Demand  
 Apple rose 2.9 percent to $283.23. Kaufman Brothers raised
its share-price estimate to $374 from $350, citing strong demand
for the company’s iPad tablet-computer device.  
 Freeport-McMoRan  rose 2 percent to $83.35 after Goldman
Sachs raised its rating to “buy” from “neutral,” saying the
company may return cash to shareholders through dividends or
share buybacks.  
 Discover Financial Services  added 3.8 percent to $16.16.
The payments processor whose stock has outperformed its three
larger U.S. rivals this year posted a third-quarter profit that
exceeded Wall Street estimates as card spending increased.
Discover reported a profit of 47 cents a share, beating the
average analyst prediction of 38 cents a share.  
 American Express Co. , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, rose 4.2 percent to $43.12 for the biggest gain in
the Dow.  
 Futures on the S&P 500 pared gains earlier as the  extra
yield  investors demand to own Ireland and Portugal’s government
debt jumped to records. The premium on Irish bonds versus German
bunds exceeded 400 basis points for the first time, while the
Portuguese spread reached 393 basis points.  
 ‘Still a Concern’  
 “The European situation is still a concern,” said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.2 billion as co-chief
investment officer at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois.
“Anything that affects the region will weigh on investors’
expectations in the U.S.”  
 International Paper Co . slumped 6.4 percent to $21.97. The
industry failed to sustain an August price increase, according
to Deutsche Bank AG, which cited Pulp & Paper Week.  
 A limited risk of inflation and a slowing economy may
prompt the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent when the Federal Open Market Committee
meets tomorrow. The FOMC will refrain from expanding the balance
sheet by purchasing securities, according to 60 of 64 analysts
surveyed Sept. 16-17.  
 Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
U.S. central bankers may wait beyond their meeting tomorrow to
announce additional steps to sustain the expansion.  
 Office Depot Inc.  surged 10 percent, the most in the S&P
500, to $4.43. The second-largest U.S. office-supply chain is
managing its balance sheet “effectively” while focusing on
investment that will prepare the company for an economic
recovery, Janney Montgomery Scott LLP said in a note after
meeting with the management team.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Best Buy Shares Climb in German Trading  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Shoppers enter a Best Buy store. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Shoppers enter a Best Buy store. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a four-month high, after Lennar Corp. beat analysts’ earnings estimates and International Business Machines Corp. announced a $1.7 billion takeover. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Dennis Hynes, chief market strategist at RW Pressprich & Co., talks about the outlook for Federal Reserve monetary policy.
     Hynes also discusses U.S. stocks, Treasuries, gold and his investment strategy. He talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) --  Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, talks about his investment strategy and the outlook for the U.S. stock market.
     He speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Antonio Garcia Pascual, an economist at Barclays Capital, discusses Ireland's fiscal policies and bank health.
     Pascual speaks from London to Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
