-- India's IPOs May Draw More Foreign Investors, Oppenheimer Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-09-20T23:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/india-s-ipos-may-draw-more-investors-after-china-sales-oppenheimer-says.html

          
          
             Indian share sales are drawing more
interest from overseas investors following a flood of equity
issuances by Chinese companies this year, according to
Oppenheimer Investments Ltd.  
 As many as four Indian companies may sell shares in the
U.S. in the next 12 months after  MakeMyTrip Ltd.  became the
first Indian IPO in the U.S. since 2006,  Chetan Bhatia , managing
director of Oppenheimer, said in an interview in Singapore
yesterday. Oppenheimer helped manage the $70 million share sale
for the Gurgaon, India-based online travel company, whose shares
surged 89 percent on the first day of trading last month.  
 “Indian deals seem to be more palatable to investors right
now than some of the Chinese deals,” Bhatia said. “There’s
been lots of a heating up of capital there and in part, there’s
maybe some flight of capital from China to India.”  
 Indian companies may raise about $12.3 billion from equity
issuances by yearend, lagging behind only China in Asia,
according to estimates by Citigroup Inc. A total $116 billion
will be raised between now and the end of 2010 from IPOs and
other offerings in the region, taking the total this year to a
record $291 billion, the brokerage said.  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s largest
lender by customers, raised $22.1 billion in a July initial
public offering, the world’s largest ever. The shares yesterday
closed at 2.6 yuan in Shanghai, below the IPO price of 2.68 yuan
and at HK$3.75 in Hong Kong, compared with the HK$3.20 paid by
IPO investors.  
 SouFun  
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. , the operator of China’s biggest
property website, surged 73 percent in New York Stock Exchange
trading on its Sept. 17 debut. The company raised $125 million
selling shares at the top of its price range. At least three
other Chinese companies are scheduled to price U.S. IPOs this
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The conduit from China to the U.S. is much more
established,” Oppenheimer’s Bhatia said. Over the next 12
months, about 10 to 15 Chinese companies will sell shares in the
U.S., with further capital raising by firms that are  already
listed , he said.  
 Oppenheimer is seeking to bring industrial, education and
health-care companies from China to the market and is planning
deals for Indian infrastructure, medical-related, travel and
consumer companies that can benefit from the nation’s economic
growth and spending patterns, Bhatia said. He didn’t name
specific companies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        