-- Individual Investors May Be Coming Back to Stocks, Bespoke Says
-- Joanna Ossinger
-- 2010-09-20T16:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/individual-investors-may-be-returning-to-stocks-bespoke-investment-says.html

          
          
             Individual investors may be moving
back into stocks, as gains in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
this month occur at the start of the trading day, the time when
they enter most transactions, Bespoke Investment Group LLC said.  
 The S&P 500’s average hourly change between the prior close
and 10 a.m. is 0.45 percent, higher than the 0.18 percent that
occurs in the next 60 minutes until 11 a.m., according to a Sept.
17 report sent to clients by Bespoke. The difference during the 
remaining one-hour segments of a session is less than 0.1
percent. The benchmark index for American equities has risen more
than 8 percent this month.  
 The increase in the hourly percent change is a reversal
from the last two weeks of August, when most of the declines
happened in the first half hour of trading, Bespoke said. The
S&P 500 averaged a drop of 0.43 percent each day through 10 a.m.
during that period, while no subsequent hour had a mean decline
of more than 0.1 percent. It  fell  6.5 percent during that time.  
 “The individual investor either can’t make up his/her mind,
or simply doesn’t even want to,” according to the report from
Bespoke, which was founded by  Paul Hickey  and  Justin Walters .
Investors are “looking out of the side window and reacting to
the financial news of the day (or hour, for that matter).”  
 The declines in the early part of the sessions in August
created a bullish signal in the “Smart Money Indicator,” the
report said. The SMI says retail investors, or individuals,
trade near the start of sessions, while institutional investment
actions are carried out mainly near the close.  
 Lack of Conviction  
 “Lack of conviction in the marketplace can certainly cause
the long-term investor to become frustrated with the market’s
ups and downs,” Bespoke said, “but it can also lead to
temporary dislocations in the market that create enormous
opportunities.”  
 Almost $57 billion was withdrawn from U.S. stock mutual
funds from May through August, the most during any four-month
period since 2008, according to data compiled by the Investment
Company Institute. At the same time, more than $590 billion was
stashed in bond funds.  
 Indicators such as  cash flow  and dividend yields suggest
equities are cheap, and S&P 500 companies are forecast to post
the fastest profit growth since 1988. That has been ignored in
the past few months by investors burned by the 2008 financial
crisis, who got another reason to be wary on May 6, when $862
billion was erased from share prices in 20 minutes.  
 Sustained job growth, consistent improvement in the housing
market or stabilization in the European Union economies may lure
money back to stocks, said  Alan Gayle , senior investment
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
Virginia, which oversees $63 billion.  
 “For a lot of retail investors, investing in equities has
been like slogging through the rain the past 10 years,” he said.
“They need a sign. They want something they can see, they can
touch, they can feel. The question is what the catalyst is, what
is it that’s going to generate that sustained growth?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joanna Ossinger  in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Larry Kantor, head of research at Barclays Capital in New York, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said yesterday, as a slowdown in economic growth raises the possibility of another slump. The decision came as Federal Reserve policy makers meet this week to consider whether new measures to boost growth are needed and the Obama administration proposes additional fiscal stimulus. Kantor talks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
