-- Vedanta Billionaire Agarwal Risks 30% Returns by Mimicking BHP
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-09-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/india-s-only-scrap-trading-billionaire-risks-30-returns-by-mimicking-bhp.html

          
          
             Mining billionaire  Anil Agarwal ,
who delivered 30 percent gains to shareholders in the past five
years, plans to spend $9.6 billion to replicate the strategy of
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , a rival that’s posted smaller returns.  
 Agarwal’s Vedanta Resources Plc plans to buy a controlling
stake in  Cairn India Ltd.  and get access to the nation’s biggest
onshore oilfield. His first foray into petroleum will echo the
structure of BHP, the Australian mining company that first
ventured into oil in 1967 and delivered average annual gains of
20 percent since 2005.  
 The acquisition may compromise Vedanta’s growth after the
company takes on $6.5 billion in  debt  to finance the purchase,
said  Jeremy Cave , an analyst at MF Global Securities Ltd. in
London. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are
reviewing Vedanta’s  credit  ratings, and its shares slid 14
percent in the two weeks following the deal’s announcement.  
 BHP’s “diversification is spread around the world, whereas
Vedanta’s assets are concentrated in India so there’ll be more
risk attached,” said  Walter Rossini , a fund manager at Aletti
Gestielle Sgr SpA in Milan, who helps manage $350 million
including shares in Vedanta’s Sterlite Industries and in Cairn
India. “From the point of view of a shareholder, I would prefer
a bit of the cash on Vedanta’s books comes to me.”  
 Founding Vedanta  
 Agarwal, 56, was born in Patna in Bihar state as the son of
a cable and wire maker. Leaving school at 15, he took charge of
his father’s business before establishing Vedanta in 1976 as a
scrap-metal dealership in Mumbai, a job that showed him the
importance of raw materials in industry, he said in an August
interview in London.  
 Agarwal began to build his metals empire by acquiring
copper-cable producer Shamsher Sterling Corp. from the king of
Nepal in 1979, obtaining a bank loan for the $1,070 purchase.
Adding Australian copper mines in 1999, aluminum and zinc
producers over the next three years and iron-ore exporter  Sesa
Goa Ltd.  for $981 million in 2007, the entrepreneur parlayed his
scrap-metal startup into a $30 billion group of companies.  
 BHP also began as a minerals producer, focusing on silver,
lead and zinc before moving into energy, and now has oil and gas
 operations  from the Gulf of Mexico to Pakistan. The expansion
proved lucrative, with underlying profit from its petroleum unit
almost doubling since 2005. BHP bought Billiton Plc in 2001 for
$11.6 billion.  
 BHP succeeds by buying “very large assets” to supply a
significant chunk of a commodity, keeping production costs down
and forcing out smaller rivals, said Cave at MF Global.  
 Financing Costs  
 Vedanta, which intends to fund part of the Cairn deal with
cash from its Sesa Goa unit as well as bank loans, faces higher
financing costs in pursuit of an expansion into oil.  
 Companies with credit ratings below investment grade, such
as Vedanta, pay average loan interest margins of 413 basis
points over benchmark rates, compared with 307 basis points in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The cost of borrowing for investment-grade companies such
as BHP has dropped. BHP, bidding to acquire Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., is paying a margin of 70 to 140 basis points
on a $25 billion one-year loan that can be extended by a year,
it said Aug. 20. BHP has cut debt by 41 percent to $3.3 billion.  
 Vedanta, which agreed in May to pay Anglo American Plc
$1.34 billion for zinc mines in Africa and Ireland, is snapping
up assets even after announcing a doubling in its share buyback
program. The London-based company this year raised its buyback
plan to $825 million from $350 million, Agarwal said in
Vedanta’s annual report.  
 Shift to Oil  
 “Why do a deal?” said  Paul Cliff , a London-based analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc., after the Cairn deal was announced.
“There is no previous experience in oil and gas. It’s a concern
for investors because Vedanta is a metals and mining house with
one of the most aggressive organic-growth profiles.”  
 Vedanta has an $8 billion plan to increase its aluminum
smelting and refining capacity sixfold. The company also intends
to spend $20 billion in India over four years on mines and power
plants, it said in 2008.  
 “We struggle to identify synergies from the transaction
and see little link between Cairn India and Vedanta’s existing
energy-generation assets, and we do not view it as a hedge on
energy,”  Fawzi Hanano , an analyst at UBS AG, said last month.  
 Worker Protests  
 Agarwal is no stranger to opposition to his expansion
plans. His acquisition of Indian state companies Bharat
Aluminium Co. and Hindustan Zinc Ltd. in 2001 prompted protests
from opposition parties and workers, who staged a two-month
strike on concern the new owner may cut jobs.  
 “Each time, he has managed to settle” these conflicts,
said Jagannadham Thunuguntla, chief strategist at SMC Capitals
Ltd. in New Delhi. He has a “very compelling rags-to-riches
story that has been tested many times.”  
 The mining mogul is yet to convince India’s political elite
that he’s best-placed to develop the country’s petroleum and
mineral riches. The Oil Ministry responded to Vedanta’s Cairn
bid by asking state-owned  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  to study a
counter-offer.  
 Buying Cairn India would give Vedanta access to Rajasthan’s
Mangala oilfield, which produces about 125,000 barrels a day,
equivalent to about 19 percent of the country’s annual output.  
 “India is always hungry for energy and that makes it a big
market,”  Alex Mathews , head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas
Financial Services Ltd. in Kochi, India, said Sept. 7. Still,
“investors would be concerned because this is a new business
for them. Success is not guaranteed.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Vedanta Billionaire Agarwal Risks 30% Returns  
                       
                         
                           Scott Eells/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Anil Agarwal, chairman of Sterlite Industries India Ltd. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Anil Agarwal, chairman of Sterlite Industries India Ltd. Photographer: Scott Eells/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
