-- Mining Waste Sales May Help Hindustan Copper Raise $1 Billion Next Year
-- Abhishek Shanker
-- 2010-09-20T11:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/mining-waste-sales-may-help-hindustan-copper-raise-1-billion-next-year.html

          
          
             Hindustan Copper Ltd. , India’s sole
miner of the metal, plans to sell excavated waste rock used to
lay roads and railway tracks, raising as much as 60 billion
rupees ($1.3 billion), traders estimate.  
 The company  is seeking buyers for about 200 million metric
tons of rocks accumulated over the past four decades from mines
at the Malanjkhand copper complex in the central state of Madhya
Pradesh, Chairman  Shakeel Ahmed  said today in an interview. The
waste sells for 200 rupees to 300 rupees a ton, according to
local rock traders and road consultants.  
 “They’ll sell like hot cakes and should generate good
money for us,”  Ahmed  said, without giving a price estimate
ahead of the company’s planned share sale. “The large
quantities of rock wastes had gone unnoticed and the money could
be used to meet our expansion needs.”  
 Ahmed, who turned Hindustan Copper profitable after taking
charge in October, is looking for untapped resources to help
expand capacity more than six-fold to 20 million tons by 2015.
The sale of waste would account for almost five times Hindustan
Copper’s revenue in the last fiscal year.  
 “It’s a fortune the company is sitting on,” said  Alex K. Mathews , research head at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services
Ltd. in Kochi, southern India. “Apart from partially funding
their expansion plans, they may consider rewarding their
shareholders.”  
 Shares  of Kolkata-based Hindustan Copper fell 0.2 percent
to 439.95 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai.
The benchmark Sensitive Index rose 1.6 percent.  
 Stake Sale  
 India’s government , which owns 99.6 percent of Hindustan
Copper, plans to sell a 10 percent stake, while the company will
sell an equivalent proportion of new shares.  
 The company turned to a profit of 1.55 billion rupees in
the year ended March 31 from a loss of 103 million rupees the
previous year. Sales rose 9 percent to 13 billion rupees.  
 Demand for waste rock is rising as India aims to spend 1.74
trillion rupees this fiscal year to upgrade roads, railways and
other infrastructure.  
 The waste could fetch 250 rupees to 300 rupees a ton,
according to D. C. Saha, an adviser of roads at  STUP Consultants
Ltd.  in Mumbai. The price could range from 200 rupees to 300
rupees a ton, said R. Vidya, the owner of Blue Aggregates, a
supplier of rocks to road and airport builders.  
 “The infrastructure projects have pushed up demand for
rocks and prices are likely to remain high in the coming
months,” Vidya said. “It’s pretty much a supplier’s market
today.”  
 Hindustan Copper plans to select buyers of the rocks by
December and clear it by the end of the next fiscal year, Ahmed
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Rock waste, produced in the process of mining, at Hindustan Copper Ltd.'s Malanjkhand mine in the central state of Madhya Pradesh. Source: Hindustan Copper Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
