-- IntraLinks Seeking Partnerships in China to Aid New-Region Entry, CEO Says
-- Joseph Galante
-- 2010-09-20T14:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/intralinks-seeking-partnerships-in-china-to-aid-new-region-entry-ceo-says.html

          
          
             IntraLinks Holdings Inc. , the
provider of software that lets companies exchange confidential
documents online, is looking to expand in countries including
China through partnerships.  
 Linking up with businesses such as  Digital China Holdings
Ltd. , a technology distributor, would help it enter new regions,
IntraLinks Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Damico  said in an
interview. The company has partners that help sell and support
its services in countries including Japan, India and Brazil.  
 IntraLinks has risen 19 percent in New York  trading  since
 going public  six weeks ago. More than 30 percent of its revenue
comes from outside the U.S. and the company is looking to grow
faster in Asia, Damico said. New York-based  IntraLinks  provides
a secure way for companies including banks and law firms to send
confidential documents online so they don’t have to ship them.  
 “There is a multibillion-dollar opportunity doing exactly
what we’re doing today but bringing it to other industries,”
Damico said.  
 Revenue  fell 1.9 percent to $140.7 million last year and
its loss widened to $24.8 million, according to an Aug. 3
 filing . The company, which started in 1996, raised $143 million
through an initial public offering last month to pay down debt
that helped finance its buyout in 2007 by private equity firms
TA Associates and Rho Capital Partners Inc.  
 IntraLinks  fell 18 cents to $15.30 at 10:10 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock had gained 19
percent before today.  
 Damico joined  IntraLinks  in 2001 and has served as CEO of
since 2007. Previously, he was a senior vice president at Radnet
Inc. and worked for Lotus Development Corp. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        