-- Ireland Tries to Stem Bond-Market Selloff With Debt Auction
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-09-21T07:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/ireland-tries-to-stem-bond-market-selloff-with-eu1-5-billion-debt-auction.html
Ireland will sell as much as 1.5
billion euros ($1.96 billion) of bonds today as the government
attempts to convince investors the country can avoid a European
Union bailout.  One day after the  premium  on Irish 10-year debt over German
equivalents rose to a record, the  Dublin-based National Treasury
Management Agency  is offering between 1 billion euros and 1.5
billion euros of four- and eight-year bonds. The auction results
will be announced after 10 a.m.  Investors’ concerns about the fiscal health of some euro
nations are resurfacing four months after the EU announced an
almost $1 trillion rescue package to stamp out contagion from
Greece’s fiscal crisis. The spread on Irish debt over bunds
yesterday exceeded 400 basis points as the government struggles
to cap the cost of bailing out its banking system. In  Portugal ,
the spread climbed as high as 399 basis points.  “This can’t go on,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at
Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin, referring to Ireland. “We can’t
afford rising bond yields indefinitely. If events keep
deteriorating rapidly, then the risk that we need outside help
rises.” At the same time, there will be “decent demand” at
today’s Irish auction “as the yield is so high,” he said.  Irish Default?  Contracts insuring against an Irish default rose to a
record 450 basis points yesterday from 421, according to data-
provider CMA. Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told
reporters in Dublin he’s “concerned” about the jump in Irish
spreads, which rose as high as 404 basis points yesterday and
fell back to 395.7 basis points today.  The yields on bonds due to be sold today are “very good,”
 Willem Buiter , chief economist at Citigroup Inc., said in an
interview with Dublin’s RTE Radio today. “People should realize
that Ireland isn’t Greece and get the stuff.”  Portugal’s deficit widened in the first eight months of the
year, the government said late yesterday, climbing to 9.19
billion euros from 8.74 billion euros a year earlier. By
contrast, Spain cut its seven-month deficit in half.  Investors are selling Irish bonds partly on concern about
the rescue of  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , which was nationalized
last year. Standard & Poor’s said in August that Ireland may
have to inject as much as 35 billion euros “over time” into
the bank. That’s equivalent to about a fifth of Irish gross
domestic product. The government has injected 22.9 billion euros
to date.  Narrow Range  Thirty-seven percent of those surveyed say Ireland is
likely to default, more than double the rate three months ago,
according to a quarterly poll of 1,408 investors, traders and
analysts.  An assessment of  Anglo Irish ’s rescue that’s underway will
help “narrow the range” of the estimated burden the banking
system will place on the country’s finances, Irish Central Bank
Governor  Patrick Honohan  said yesterday. The total Anglo Irish
cost will be less than the numbers “touted around,” he said.  “Our base case remains that the government will not turn
to the EU and IMF for a funding package,” said  Gillian Edgeworth , an economist at UniCredit in London. That “would
change very rapidly in the event that the banking sector as a
whole in Ireland experienced a significant deposit outflow,”
she said.  Edgeworth said that may occur if the government fails to
pass a budget or banks announce further “significant
writedowns.”  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s government has been cutting
public salaries as part of an austerity drive aimed at narrowing
its deficit to 3 percent of GDP by 2014.  Leadership Style  The push comes as members of Cowen’s government express
doubts about his leadership style.  Tom Kitt , a lawmaker for
Ireland’s ruling Fianna Fail party, said the party should meet
to discuss its leadership. Lenihan, flanking Cowen at a press
conference in Dublin late yesterday, said bond markets haven’t
been affected by doubts over Cowen’s future.  “The most important rumblings around here are the
rumblings we are seeing in international markets,” Lenihan
said. He criticized opposition parties for “unhelpful”
comments about the possibility of negotiating with Anglo Irish
bondholders.  “Political instability as much as financial instability is
what is now undermining Ireland’s position,” said  Michael Noonan , finance spokesman for Fine Gael, the largest opposition
party. “Political stability will not be restored by rearranging
the deck chairs on the Titanic. ”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  