-- Japanese 20-Year Government Bonds Climb on Speculation BOJ to Ease Policy
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-09-21T06:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/japanese-government-bonds-may-advance-on-speculation-boj-to-ease-policy.html
Japanese  bonds  rose, following the
biggest weekly gain in 10 months, on speculation the central
banks of Japan and the U.S. will announce additional measures to
keep borrowing costs low.  Longer-term bonds led the advance as U.S. Treasuries
rallied for a third day on expectations the Federal Reserve will
use its meeting today to indicate it is open to increasing debt
purchases if economic growth slows. Bonds also climbed on
speculation Japan’s first currency intervention since 2004 will
fail to stem the yen’s appreciation, pressing the nation’s
central bank to increase purchases of government bonds.  “Japan’s situation is no better than the U.S., so if
there’s speculation about further easing in the U.S., it’s not a
surprise that such speculation is arising here as well,” said
 Ayako Sera , who helps oversee about $310 billion as a strategist
at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. in Tokyo. “Should the Bank of
Japan ease policy, bonds will gain further.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond dropped 2.5 basis
points to 1.045 percent as of 3:14 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1
percent security due September 2020 added 0.225 yen to 99.593
yen. Japanese markets were closed yesterday for a holiday. The
yield declined eight basis points in the five days through Sept.
17, the biggest weekly drop since Nov. 13.  The benchmark 20-year yield tumbled six basis points to
1.795 percent. Ten-year bond futures for December delivery
advanced 0.26 to 142.38 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange.  At its meeting today, the Fed will hold off expanding its
balance sheet by purchasing securities, according to 60 of 64
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank will prepare
investors for more purchases of securities to keep borrowing
costs low, said  Richard Clarida  of Pacific Investment Management
Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond funds.  Limited Effect  The yen strengthened versus the dollar for a second day,
after weakening to a one-month low of 85.93 on Sept. 16. Japan
unilaterally sold the yen on Sept. 15 after it climbed to a 15-
year high of 82.88 as a stronger yen reduces the value of
overseas sales at Japanese companies when repatriated.  “Prospects for further easing by the Bank of Japan will
rise once it becomes clear that intervention in currency markets
had a limited and temporary effect,”  Shinji Nomura , chief debt
strategist at Tokyo-based Nikko Cordial Securities Inc., wrote
in a report. “Government pressure on the BOJ will inevitably
increase to take such measures as boosting purchases of long-
term government bonds.”  Purchases of so-called super-long bonds by Japanese city
banks exceeded sales of such securities by 217.2 billion yen
($2.54 billion) in August, according to a  report  from Japan
Securities Dealers Association today. The net purchase climbed
to a record 395.4 billion yen in July,  Akihiko Inoue , chief
strategist at Mizuho Investors Securities Co., wrote in a report
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  