-- Carter Shows Where Obama Needs to Go: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-09-20T05:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/jimmy-carter-shows-where-obama-needs-to-move-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  and the
Democrats are spinning out of control.  
 Their characterization of the causes of the financial
crisis is inconsistent with historical reality, as is their
characterization of the records of the two major political
parties.  
 As broken as American politics seems, the fix may be as
simple as beginning the next conversation with an honest
assessment of recent policy history and the role that each party
played in guiding it. The fact is that the Democrats have
governed far more sensibly than today’s leftists want to admit,
and Obama’s biggest political problem may simply be that his
preferred story line fails to acknowledge that legacy.  
 Listen to Obama, and it is recent Republican policies that
caused the financial meltdown. George W. Bush and the
Republicans did so by recklessly cutting taxes and aggressively
deregulating. “If you want the same kind of skewed policies
that led us to this crisis, then the Republicans are ready to
offer that.”  
 The assertion is suspect at best. If Bush’s tax cuts had
lead to  unmanageable deficits  that caused a collapse in
confidence in U.S. Treasuries, then Obama might have an argument.
Nothing of the sort happened.  
 And on regulation, Bush changed little. The uncomfortable
truth is that bad things happened, and there is plenty of blame
to go around.  
 Popular Conception  
 Obama’s rhetoric plays to the misconception that the
Republicans are the party of irresponsible deregulation, small
government and tax cuts that favor the rich, while the Democrats
are the reverse. But the policy history back to  Jimmy Carter  is
inconsistent with that view.  
 Let’s look at each key component, spending, regulation, and
taxes, in turn. Contrary to popular belief, the relationship
between the party in the White House and government outlays is
the opposite of what one might expect.  
 Under Carter, total government outlays as a percent of
gross domestic product averaged a relatively stable 20.8 percent.
Over the next 12 years, when Republicans  Ronald Reagan  and
George H.W. Bush resided in the White House, spending increased,
averaging 22.2 percent of GDP.  
 The trend reversed under the Democratic leadership of  Bill Clinton . Government on average consumed 19.8 percent of GDP
during his term.  
 Finally, Republicans under  George W. Bush  undid the
progress made during the Clinton years with spending rising from
just 18.2 percent of GDP in his first year, to 20.7 percent by
the time he left office.  
 Shifting Balance  
 Digging deeper into the breakdown of government outlays
reveals that the parties allocated spending differently during
their reigns. For example, while Carter and Reagan both spent
the same 9.9 percent of GDP on discretionary items, Carter split
this spending evenly between defense and domestic programs (4.8
percent and 4.7 percent, respectively), while Reagan raised
defense spending (5.9 percent) and cut domestic (3.6 percent).
Clinton reduced defense spending, while the younger Bush did the
opposite.  
 A Martian who sifted through the spending data would
probably conclude that the Democratic Party is the party of
small government, and that it accomplishes this in part by
reducing defense spending.  
 The regulation story is more complicated, and at odds with
the Obama rhetoric. In his 2005 book, “ The Competition
Solution ,” former Clinton adviser Paul A. London shows that a
bipartisan consensus around deregulation existed for many years,
and that measures that began in the late 1970s and continued
thereafter were largely the cause of the prosperity of the 1990s.  
 1990s Boom  
 London suggests that the competition fostered by
deregulation was more responsible for ending inflation and
encouraging investment than monetary policy or tax cuts. In his
view, “credit for the 1990s is due to many changes and many
tough decisions taken by political leaders from both parties
over a much longer period of time.” Presidents  John F. Kennedy ,
 Lyndon Johnson  and  Richard Nixon  supported the notion of
deregulation, but had been unwilling to confront entrenched
interests, according to London.  
 The first president to take real action was  Gerald Ford ,
who put more pressure on regulatory agencies to foster
competition and enforce antitrust policies, but stopped short of
proposing legislation.  
 Carter’s Legacy  
 The deregulation movement truly began with the Carter
administration. Under Carter, three major deregulatory acts were
passed by Congress -- the  Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 , the
Motor Carrier Act of 1980, and the Staggers Rail Act of 1980. If
these courageous steps hadn’t been taken and then proven so
successful, one wonders if subsequent measures by Reagan to
continue the Carter legacy would have had any chance of success.  
 In the Reagan era, deregulation efforts can be clearly seen
through the reduction of federal regulatory employees -- roughly
16,000 jobs, or 14 percent of the regulatory corps. Regulatory
staffing returned to its pre-Reagan levels during the first Bush
administration, but declined slightly under Clinton as he
endeavored to reduce the  deficit .  
 Lastly, contrary to the accepted narrative, not only did
the second Bush not preside over a decrease in regulation, his
administration actually saw an increase in the regulatory
workforce.  
 On taxes, the story is inconsistent with the history as
well. Carter didn’t increase  taxes  much. His major move was a
so-called windfall profits tax on oil companies. Reagan did
reduce the top marginal income tax rate in his first term from
70 percent to 50 percent, and then to 28 percent in 1988. But he
increased taxes in 1982, and again in 1983 when he allowed the
payroll tax to go up to help save  Social Security , and again in
1984.  
 Tax Increases  
 The first Bush famously increased the tax rate, as did
Clinton, while George W. Bush brought them back down. On balance,
then, one would have to say that Republicans did reduce taxes,
but they have been willing in the past to increase them when
needed to reduce deficits. This even applies to the Republican
demigod Reagan.  
 Putting it all together, it would be easy to make the case
that a bipartisan consensus like the one that prevailed for
three decades would entail government spending equal to about 20
percent of GDP, regulation as limited as prudence allows and tax
rates that are low unless long-term deficits are high. Obama has
deviated from this consensus, but a return to it could easily
define a path back to sanity.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        