-- Natural Gas Drops as Threat of Storm Disruptions Eases in Gulf of Mexico
-- Moming Zhou
-- 2010-09-20T19:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/natural-gas-drops-as-threat-of-storm-disruptions-eases-in-gulf-of-mexico.html

          
          
             Natural gas futures fell the most
in almost five months as Atlantic storms moved away from
production regions in the Gulf of Mexico and milder weather
reduced demand from power plants.  
 Gas dropped 5 percent as Hurricane Karl was downgraded over
the weekend and dissipated in southern Mexico. Hurricane Igor
passed Bermuda and was moving northeast, while former Hurricane
Julia in the Atlantic lost its tropical characteristics,
according to the National Hurricane Center. Gas gained 3.6
percent last week on storm threats.  
 “People came back in today and saw no damage from Karl,
and other storms are not going through the Caribbean basin,”
said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige Economics LLC, an
Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “All of that removed any
of the risk premiums that have been placed in the market.”  
 Natural gas for October delivery lost 20.2 cents to settle
at $3.822 per million British thermal units on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the largest one-day percentage drop since
April 29. The futures have declined 31 percent this year, the
biggest loser in the  S&P GSCI Index  of commodities.  
 A low-pressure system 450 miles west of the Cape Verde
Islands has an  80 percent chance  of becoming a tropical cyclone
during the next two days, according to the center.  
 All five major Atlantic hurricanes this year stayed away
from major Gulf gas production facilities.  
 Storm Projections  
 A total of 7.9 billion cubic feet of gas production was
shut in from June through August because of storms, lower than
the projection of 57.4 billion, the Energy Department said in
its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook on Sept. 8.  
 “This hurricane season hasn’t quite lived up to
expectations so there is probably some deflation of some of
those fear premiums,” said  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst in
Houston at Canaccord Genuity. Cooling demand “is falling off
and you are transitioning toward heating demand but you are not
quite there.”  
 New York will have a high of around 80 degrees Fahrenheit
(27 Celsius) this week, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State
College, Pennsylvania. The city had highs mostly above 90
degrees in the first week of September.  
 About 23 percent of U.S. electricity is generated using
natural gas, according to the Energy Department.  
 “You are in between the air-conditioning season and
heating season and there is not much demand,” said  Tom Saal ,
senior vice president of energy trading at Hencorp Becstone
Futures in Miami.  
 Drilling Rigs  
 The number of U.S. gas drilling rigs rose 2 to 982 last
week, up 39 percent from a year earlier, Baker Hughes Inc. data
showed last week. Horizontal rigs, which are mostly used in
drilling for shale gas, rose 1 to a record 912.  
 U.S. gas stockpiles jumped 103 billion cubic feet in the
week ended Sept. 10 to 3.267 trillion, the Energy Department
reported last week. The storage increase was the  biggest weekly
gain  for this time of the year since 2006.  
 The inventory increase exceeded the five-year average for
the first time since April. A surplus to the five-year average
rose to 6.2 percent from 5.5 percent the previous week.  
 Wholesale natural gas at the benchmark  Henry Hub  in Erath,
Louisiana, declined 10.56 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $4.0053 per
million Btu on the Intercontinental Exchange.  
 Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
237,678 as of 2:38 p.m., compared with a three-month average of
254,000. Volume was 253,737 on Sept. 17. Open interest was
830,910 contracts, compared with the three-month average of
805,000. The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting
open interest and full volume data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        