-- New Zealand Economy Will Grow at Slower Pace Than Predicted, Survey Shows
-- Victoria Batchelor
-- 2010-09-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/new-zealand-economy-will-grow-at-slower-pace-than-predicted-survey-shows.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s economy will expand
at a slower pace than previously predicted amid a delayed
recovery in the labor market and weaker export growth, according
to a survey of economic forecasters.  
 Gross domestic product will increase by 2.8 percent in the
year ending March 31, 2011, according to the average estimate of
10 economists surveyed by the Wellington-based New Zealand
Institute of Economic Research Inc. Three months ago, they
forecast a 3.2 percent expansion. Growth will be 3.1 percent
in the year through March 31, 2012, less than the previous
prediction of 3.3 percent, according to the survey.  
 The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged
last week and said further increases will be slower than
previously anticipated as the nation rebuilds from its worst
earthquake in 80 years. The institute said today not all
forecasters in the survey incorporated the possible effects of
this month’s earthquake in the South Island city of Christchurch.  
 “The growth outlook remains positive, no double-dip
recession, but the outlook is a little less optimistic than in
June,” the institute said. “Interest rates will rise gradually
over the next two years, but less sharply than previously to
support the economic recovery.”  
 Exports will increase 2.8 percent in the year ending March
31, 2011, according to the survey. That’s slower than the 3.5
percent pace predicted in the June survey. Exports will grow 5.2
percent in the year through March 2012, the survey showed.  
 The quarterly survey includes the forecasts of the Reserve
Bank, Treasury Department, seven bank economists and the
institute.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Batchelor  in Wellington at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        