-- New York City Police Will Monitor 500 More Subway Cameras, Bloomberg Says
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-09-20T20:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/new-york-city-will-get-500-more-subway-cameras-under-surveillance-system.html

          
          
             New York City police will extend
surveillance into major subway stations at Times Square,
Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal with 500 video
cameras, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  
 The cameras, installed by the Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, which operates the subways, will become part of a
surveillance system covering lower and midtown Manhattan at a
maximum cost of $200 million from federal Homeland Security and
city funds, Bloomberg said. The city already scans 1,159 public
and private cameras, and plans to integrate about 3,000 image-
capturing devices.  
 “As multiple attacks worldwide show, terrorists target
mass transit systems for maximum casualties,” said Police
Commissioner  Raymond Kelly , who accompanied the mayor at a news
conference in a downtown Manhattan video-monitoring center.
“Having access to these MTA cameras gives us another crucial
tool with which to protect New York’s transit system.”  
 When finished in 2013, the areas between 30th and 60th
streets and Manhattan below Canal Street, which are the city’s
centers of finance, commerce, government and transportation,
will be watched over by a network of cameras, license-plate
readers and radiation detection sensors. They will feed data
into a lower Manhattan coordination center, Kelly said.  
 The city’s network can accept feeds from as many as 10,000
cameras, the mayor said.  
 “We will take whatever steps necessary, regardless of cost
in federal or city funds, to protect New York from terrorists,”
Bloomberg said during the news conference.  
 ‘No Particular Safeguards’  
 Donna Lieberman , director of the  New York Civil Liberties
Union , said the city embarked on the increase in surveillance
cameras “without any particular safeguards for citizens’
privacy and without any real evidence that video surveillance
will prevent terrorism.”  
 Surveillance footage is destroyed after 30 days unless
impounded for investigation out of privacy concerns, Kelly said
during the news conference.  
 Video analysis software will permit police to isolate the
color of clothes a suspect may have worn, or to monitor
“potentially suspicious objects or activities,” the mayor’s
office said in a news release.  
 The monitors may be programmed to spot unattended parcels,
movement in restricted areas and loitering, with several cameras
able to track a moving person or object simultaneously, Kelly
said.  
 The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        