-- New York Man Gets Five Years Probation in Foreign-Exchange Ponzi Scheme
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-09-20T17:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/new-york-man-gets-five-years-probation-in-foreign-exchange-scheme.html

          
          
             A New York man received five years’
probation for defrauding his customers of more than $66 million
they thought was invested in the foreign-exchange market and
instead was spent on art and an Aston Martin car.  
 Bradley D. Eisner was sentenced today by U.S. District
Judge  Dora Irizarry  in Brooklyn, New York. He pleaded guilty in
July 2008 after turning himself in and cooperating with the
government.  
 “This is an extraordinary case,” Irizarry said. “But for
Mr. Eisner coming forward, we wouldn’t be sitting here today.”  
 Michael R. MacCaull, Eisner’s partner in Great Neck, New
York-based Razor FX, was sentenced in March to 15 years and
eight months. MacCaull, who also pleaded guilty in the Razor FX
case, spent 13 months in prison after pleading guilty in 2001 in
a crackdown on Sterling Foster & Co., a defunct New York boiler-
room firm that manipulated stock prices. He’s in federal prison
in Fort Dix, New Jersey.  
 Eisner and MacCaull, both 38, pretended to be investing in
the spot foreign exchange market while they retained most
investor funds for their own use, according to prosecutors. The
Ponzi scheme operated from January 2001 to January 2008,
according to prosecutors.  
 “This is an extraordinary sentence in a case that is
obviously quite unique, and I commend the court for rewarding
the defendant for having the courage to stop a massive fraud
simply because he didn’t want to be a criminal,” Eisner’s
lawyer  Benjamin Brafman  said after the hearing.  
 Federal Guidelines  
 Federal guidelines called for a sentence of between 12
years and seven months and 15 years and eight months.  
 Irizarry said she had never before sentenced “someone who
has cooperated with the government where he has come forward to
report the crime even before it was on the government’s radar”
and the scheme was not about to collapse.  
 “Mr. Eisner brought to light a complex scheme that likely
would have gone undetected for quite some time,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Sarah Coyne told Irizzary today. “The government, of
course, does not excuse Mr. Eisner’s criminal conduct.”  
 Coyne said Eisner pocketed $10 million and Brafman said
Eisner lost about $1 million of that gambling. As part of his
sentence, he’s not allowed to gamble or visit places with
casinos such as Las Vegas or Atlantic City, New Jersey.  
 Picasso, De Kooning  
 At his sentencing, MacCaull blamed Eisner for concocting
and reaping the benefits of their fraud. MacCaull claimed not to
know the extent of the scheme, saying that Eisner kept most of
more than $110 million that Razor FX took from investors to
trade in currencies and used the money to buy a $3 million home
in Long Island, New York, and artworks by  Picasso  and  Willem De Kooning .  
 Both men “were simply depositing the money in a bank
account from which they paid their living expenses,” then-
Brooklyn U.S. Attorney  Benton Campbell  said when MacCaull was
arrested in 2008.  
 Eisner and MacCaull allegedly used Razor FX investor funds
to pay their salaries and personal expenses, including what
officials described as MacCaull’s “luxurious apartment” in
Northport, New York, and the Aston Martin. Eisner and MacCaull
received about $70 million from investors in 2007 alone,
prosecutors said.  
 To conceal their scheme, they created fictitious account
statements and returned tens of millions of dollars to investors
with money from new ones, prosecutors said.  
 Father’s Laundromat  
 Eisner and MacCaull must pay back $66.3 million to the
victims. Eisner works in his father’s laundromat, Brafman said
at the hearing.  
 “I’m truly sorry for what I did,” Eisner told the judge
today. He apologized to his victims and said he wanted to stop
his “criminal conduct” while there were still assets to return
to investors. Irizzary said people got back about half of what
they gave Razor FX.  
 Prosecutors said 272 investors were victimized by the
scheme, several of whom wrote letters to Irizarry about the
impact of Eisner’s fraud.  
 “We lost our future financial security to Mr. Eisner, the
public face of Razor FX,” David B. Dringman and Evi Remp-
Dringman wrote on July 20. “Ultimately we were forced to make
the decision to sell our home in California that we had hoped to
keep for our future.”  
 The couple had invested $250,000 of home-equity money with
Razor FX in December 2007, a month before Eisner and MacCaull
were arrested, according to the letter.  
 The case is U.S. v. Eisner, 08-cr-401, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        