-- New Jersey May Divert $2.5 Billion Hudson Tunnel Money to Roadwork Fund
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-09-20T17:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/new-jersey-may-use-2-5-billion-of-hudson-tunnel-money-for-other-projects.html

          
          
             New Jersey officials are discussing
the possibility of diverting money for the Hudson River rail
tunnel toward other transportation projects.  
 James Weinstein , executive director of New Jersey Transit,
said there have been talks in Governor  Chris Christie’s 
administration of using $2.5 billion in state money earmarked
for the project for replenishing the  Transportation Trust Fund ,
which finances road and rail work.  
 “There have been those discussions, but there have been no
decisions,” Weinstein said today at an Assembly transportation
committee hearing in Trenton.  
 New Jersey Transit last week froze new spending on an $8.7
billion rail tunnel into Manhattan for a month after the federal
government estimated the project may run $1 billion over budget.  
 “There’s now fear that’s there’s going to be significant
higher costs,” Christie, 48, said in a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “If it’s going to be
that expensive, we’re going to have to go in another
direction.”  
 Trust Fund  
 New Jersey’s Transportation Trust Fund will run out of
money to pay for anything other than debt service on its $12
billion of bonds outstanding by mid-2011. Christie, a Republican
who took office in January, said this month he would soon
present a plan for replenishing the fund.  
 Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined to
comment on the possible diversion of tunnel money. Weinstein,
after the committee hearing, declined to tell reporters whether
he supported a diversion of the tunnel money.  
 “You talk about a range of things,’ Weinstein said. “In
the end the governor will make the decision.”  
 New Jersey broke ground in June on the tunnel to carry
trains under the Hudson River in and out of Manhattan, a
passageway that officials said would help ease delays for
hundreds of thousands of commuters. The decision to suspend new
spending follows a five-month review to finalize the federal
government’s $3 billion contribution to the project.  
 Diverting the tunnel money would be an “economic disaster
for New Jersey,” Assemblyman  John Wisniewski , chairman of the
transportation committee, said in a statement.  
 The tunnel would create 6,000  jobs  and take 22,000 cars off
New Jersey’s congested roads daily, Wisniewski said. The project
is “too valuable to be tossed aside,” he said.  
 “The idea that Governor Christie and his administration
would even consider halting this tunnel project so he could
avoid making the tough decision to come up with a transportation
funding plan is as inexplicable as it is irresponsible,”
Wisniewski said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        