-- Nissan Plans to Almost Double China Capacity by 2012, Ghosn Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-20T09:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/nissan-plans-to-almost-double-output-capacity-in-china-by-2012-ghosn-says.html

          
          
             Nissan Motor Co.  will almost double
its production capacity in China to 1.2 million cars by 2012,
accelerating earlier plans as economic growth spurs demand,
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said.  
 “China is now the second-largest economy in the world, and
our ambitions and actions are aligned with the current
reality,” Ghosn said today in  Zhengzhou  city, central China.
Nissan plans to open another factory in the southern city of
Guangzhou’s  Huadu district  in 2012, he said.  
 Nissan, Japan’s third-largest automaker, will build more
factories and expand its facilities to meet a goal of increasing
its China market share to 10 percent from 6 percent, Ghosn said,
without giving a timeframe. Volkswagen AG and Yokohama, Japan-
based Nissan are among companies expanding in China, whose
economy grew 10.3 percent in the quarter to June, helping boost
car purchases in the world’s biggest auto market.  
 “We are systematically increasing our capacity in order to
make sure we are not only keeping our market share but also
trying to grow our market share,” Ghosn said at a media
briefing after the opening ceremony of its second Zhengzhou
factory.  
 The new Zhengzhou plant cost 1 billion yuan ($149 million)
to build and has an annual capacity of 180,000 cars, Ghosn said.
It will create 1,400 jobs by year-end, he said.  
 Nissan makes the Teana and Sylphy sedans with Wuhan, Hubei-
based  Dongfeng Motor Group Co.  in mainland China, where it
already has three car factories and one producing engines.
Mainland China doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.  
 Renault Plans  
 Renault SA  plans to expand in China in future and will do
so in partnership with Dongfeng Motor Group, said Ghosn, also
the chief executive of the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
company, which owns 43 percent of Nissan.  Renault , France’s
second-largest carmaker, currently exports to China and doesn’t
have any production facilities in the country, he said.  
 Renault rose 0.3 percent to 36.22 euros as of 11:25 a.m. in
Paris trading. Dongfeng Motor climbed 5.3 percent to HK$14.60 at
the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong, the highest since it was listed
in December 2005.  Nissan  rose 0.6 percent to 718 yen in Tokyo
trading on Sept. 17. Japanese markets are shut today for a
public holiday.  
 Ghosn said in April that Nissan, which currently has an
annual production capacity of 670,000 cars in China, aims to
increase that ability to 900,000 by 2012.  
 NV200 Production  
 Nissan said it plans to move production of its X-trail
sport-utility vehicle and  Qashqai  crossover from another factory
in Guangzhou to the Zhengzhou plant to help ease capacity
constraints. The  NV200  light-commercial vehicle may be made at
the new Zhengzhou factory from next year, said  Kimiyasu Nakamura ,
president of Dongfeng Motor Co., the companies’ joint venture.  
 Nissan makes passenger vehicles with Dongfeng Motor Group,
according to its  website . Commercial vehicles are built through
 Dongfeng Automobile Co.  and Zhengzhou Nissan Automobile Co.,
both of which Nissan controls with Dongfeng Motor Group.  
 China surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest economy
in the three months ended June. Passenger-car deliveries in
China accelerated in August, and its automobile sales are on
course to outpace the U.S. for a second year.  
 Nissan is in talks with Dongfeng Motor Group about the
“best way” to introduce electric cars in China, which will
help meet demand for vehicles in the nation while limiting
pollution, Ghosn said.  
 “The future of electric vehicles in China is very
bright,” he said.  
 -- Liza Lin . With assistance from  Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo.
Editors:  Lena Lee ,  Kenneth Wong .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nissan Motor Co CEO Carlos Ghosn  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “China is now the second-largest economy in the world, and our ambitions and actions are aligned with the current reality,” Ghosn said today. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “China is now the second-largest economy in the world, and our ambitions and actions are aligned with the current reality,” Ghosn said today. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
