-- TNK's Fridman Aims to Buy BP Oil Fields in Push Beyond Russia
-- Stanley Reed
-- 2010-09-20T07:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/tnk-s-fridman-ready-to-buy-bp-oil-fields-in-push-beyond-russia.html

          
          
             Mikhail Fridman , executive chairman
of Russian oil producer  TNK-BP , said the company is ready to buy
fields in Venezuela, Vietnam and other countries BP Plc is
selling to cover costs for the Gulf of Mexico spill.  
 TNK-BP, an equal partnership between  London-based BP  and a
group of Russian billionaires, should “expand broadly in the
world,” Fridman, who is also interim chief executive officer,
said in an interview at his Moscow office. BP “has no need to
sell to a competitor and make them stronger.”  
 The board will consider buying BP assets at the end of the
month. The meeting will be the first to include  Tony Hayward ,
appointed as a director of TNK-BP after he resigned as BP’s
chief executive officer because of the U.S. spill. BP is selling
$30 billion of oil and gas production assets over the next 18
months.  
 Fridman, Russia’s third-richest man and head of the Alfa
Group whose businesses range from banking to mobile phones along
with oil and gas, said the Russian shareholders’ relationship
with BP has changed since a dispute in 2008 came close to ending
the partnership.  Bob Dudley , who headed TNK-BP at the time and
was forced to leave Moscow, takes the helm at London-based BP
next month. Dudley and Hayward recently met Fridman in his
office, the billionaire said.  
 “We didn’t think we should be a BP branch,” Fridman said.
“TNK and BP had an intense dispute. It’s over.”  
 Talks to buy assets in Venezuela and Vietnam are furthest
along, TNK-BP Chief Financial Officer  Jonathan Muir  said in an
interview. The company is also looking at BP assets in North
Africa, he said. BP has production in Algeria and Egypt and
exploration acreage in Libya. UBS AG is advising TNK-BP.  
 Heavy Oil  
 In Venezuela, BP has stakes in the Petroperija and Boqueron
oil fields and the Petromonagas heavy oil-upgrading project,
which produces 110,000 barrels of oil a day, according to BP’s
website.  Bill Schrader , TNK-BP’s chief operating officer, said
that the heavy oil unit would fit well with a TNK-BP investment
in a planned Venezuelan heavy oil development called Junin 6.
ING Wholesale Banking values BP’s Venezuelan assets at about
$850 million.  
 BP also plans to sell a stake valued at $1 billion in the
Nam Con Son gas project in Vietnam.  
 TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer behind state-
owned  OAO Rosneft  and OAO Lukoil, accounts for about a quarter
of BP’s output and a fifth of reserves. TNK-BP produces about
1.9 million barrels of oil equivalent a day. Muir said he wants
to overtake Lukoil to become Russia’s largest private producer.  
 Fridman said that TNK-BP is interested in investing in Iraq
and that AAR, the Russian partnership that holds 50 percent of
TNK-BP, is planning to sell its investment in the Kurdistan
region of northern Iraq in order to clear the way to participate
in deals in the rest part of the country.  
 Fridman would eventually like to see TNK-BP grow
internationally to a size where Russia accounts for 50 percent
or less of production, but concedes that goal will not be
achieved for many years.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stanley Reed  in Moscow at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       TNK-BP Executive Chairman Mikhail Fridman  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         TNK-BP, an equal partnership between London-based BP and a group of Russian billionaires, should “expand broadly in the world,” Fridman, said in an interview at his Moscow office. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     TNK-BP, an equal partnership between London-based BP and a group of Russian billionaires, should “expand broadly in the world,” Fridman, said in an interview at his Moscow office. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
