-- Stiglitz Says European Fiscal Efforts May Undermine Confidence
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-09-20T11:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/nobel-winner-stiglitz-says-europe-fiscal-efforts-may-undermine-confidence.html

          
          
             Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph Stiglitz  said European governments’ efforts to push down
budget deficits are threatening to undermine the region’s
economic recovery and hurt investor confidence.  
 “If Europe goes down the route it’s going, which is
austerity measures, the result will be a  growth slowdown , which
will mean tax revenues will go down and the forecast that people
have made will then come and disappoint,” Stiglitz told
Bloomberg News in an interview in Zurich today. “When that
happens, markets will react. This austerity approach poses a
great deal of risk for market disappointment.”  
 The European Union last week forecast a more “moderate”
 euro-area expansion  in the second half as governments from
Ireland to Spain raise taxes and cut spending. The yield spreads
of Europe’s most-indebted nations widened today as concern
resurfaced they may struggle to finance deficits and Stiglitz, a
Columbia University professor, said the worst of Europe’s fiscal
crisis may not be over.  
 Euro-region growth may weaken to 0.5 percent in the current
quarter before slowing to 0.3 percent in the three months
through December, the European Commission, the EU’s Brussels-
based executive, said on Sept. 13. The recovery remains
“fragile” and financial markets have only “partly recovered”
from May when EU leaders were forced to announce a rescue
package to prevent the Greek fiscal crisis from spreading across
the 16-nation region, the commission said.  
 ‘Irrational’ Markets  
 In Ireland, which had the euro region’s biggest budget
shortfall in 2009, Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Sept.
17 that there’s “no truth to a rumor” that the country may ask
for financial aid from the EU. The  yield spread  for Irish bonds
over German bunds jumped to a record today.  
 Stiglitz said that while markets are “often irrational”
and there’s a “very high risk” of Ireland asking for external
aid, he doesn’t expect the country’s crisis to spread across the
currency bloc.  
 “The fact that the bubble was worse in Ireland obviously
has no direct implications for the management of the banking
system, fiscal policies in other countries,” he said. “You
have to look at each of them separately. But the market doesn’t
always do that in a careful way.”  
 Euro-region governments may not be able to count on faster
global growth to help push down budget deficits. Stiglitz said
that he sees only “very limited growth” in Europe, while a
U.S. expansion won’t be strong enough to boost hiring.  
 In the U.S., “we’ll have markedly slower growth at the end
of 2010, beginning of 2011,” he said. “The world has already
become partially decoupled.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.ne   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nobel-prize winning economist Joseph Stiglitz  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “If Europe goes down the route it’s going, which is austerity measures, the result will be a growth slowdown , which will mean tax revenues will go down and the forecast that people have made will then come and disappoint,” Stiglitz said 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “If Europe goes down the route it’s going, which is austerity measures, the result will be a growth slowdown , which will mean tax revenues will go down and the forecast that people have made will then come and disappoint,” Stiglitz said Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Antonio Garcia Pascual, an economist at Barclays Capital, discusses Ireland's fiscal policies and bank health.
     Pascual speaks from London to Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
