-- Nokia's Green Seeks R&D Edge Back From IPhone, Android
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-09-21T08:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/nokia-cto-green-aims-to-regain-r-d-edge-from-apple-android-in-smartphones.html
Nokia Oyj  Chief Technology Officer
 Rich Green  says he wants his team to be in “dirty jerseys” as
the Finnish company seeks to regain the edge in smartphones from
Apple Inc. and Google Inc.  “They should be in the game, playing, and not on the
sidelines with a clean jersey telling people what to do,” Green
said in an interview.  The former  Sun Microsystems Inc.  executive, who was named
to the position four months ago, is charged with making choices
that get products to market faster and attract third-party
application writers. Apple’s iPhones and devices based on
Google’s Android have eroded Nokia’s dominance as they rolled
out regular upgrades and built large apps portfolios.  Green is among the top executives Nokia Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Elop , who takes the helm today, will lean on to
revive the fortunes of the world’s biggest maker of mobile
phones as analysts predict Android-based devices will overtake
the Finnish company in smartphones. Green, like the new CEO,
will have to find the right pace to roll out features to lure
developers and win back users.  Green wants to “futureproof” the software interfaces
programmers use “so that when developers make an investment in
writing applications on our platform they know they’ll be long
lived.” Nokia wants “to radically grow our developer community
and the contents of our apps store,” he said.  Nokia shares slid as much as 2.5 percent in Helsinki today
on reports it is delaying shipment of the N8, its latest
smartphone. Nokia denied there were any delays.  Biggest Budget  Concern over its shrinking market share and margins has
pulled shares down more than 26 percent in the past 12 months,
making Nokia the worst-performer on the Euro Stoxx 50 index.  Nokia’s  research and development budget  of 5.9 billion
euros ($7.7 billion), including 3 billion euros for devices and
services, is the largest in the industry. The company spent
almost six times as much as Apple on R&D last year. Although it
employed more than 17,000 R&D workers in devices and services,
Nokia still isn’t leading the charge in smartphone innovation.  “Why can you not see that they have the biggest R&D budget
when you get their products?” said  Bengt Nordstroem , the CEO of
Stockholm-based consulting company Northstream AB. “Something’s
not working when the people who have the biggest budget and the
most resources cannot translate that strength into something
that means something to customers.”  Nokia’s R&D efforts are symptomatic of the broader
structural challenges that lie ahead for Green and Elop, both
newcomers to the Espoo, Finland-based company. It may be among
operations that risk being shrunk as competition intensifies.  Research Center  “If financial pressures on the company increase, Nokia may
be obliged to review its software R&D strategy, perhaps
partnering, outsourcing or even selling off selected elements,”
said  Gavin Byrne , an analyst with researcher Informa Telecoms &
Media in London.  Nokia may need to continue the effort announced last year
to cut the smartphone product lines and platforms so that apps
can run on the largest number of models with the least rework.  The  Nokia Research Center , which conducts research with a
horizon of three to 10 years in a dozen locations from Berkeley
to Nairobi, employs 500 people. Headed by  Henry Tirri , the labs
come under corporate development and their projects have
included everything from  Chinese character and speech
recognition  and  more efficient spectrum use  to  wearable devices .  ‘Herding Cats’  Nokia also has projects with universities such as the
University of California Berkeley, where it studied using mobile
phones to collect traffic data. The company recently opened a
lab with  Intel Corp.  at Finland’s University of Oulu working on
3-D visuals that could include simulations like “Second Life”
and holographic projections reminiscent of “Star Wars.”  The devices and services research teams are also spread
around the world, including Beijing and Bangalore. Some of the
Ovi cloud services are now run with Yahoo! in Silicon Valley,
while there are maps groups in Germany, music in Denmark and
design in the U.K. and Finland.  “Herding cats geographically is really, really tough,”
Green said. Nokia needs to “focus the charter in specific areas
to one locale instead of smearing the responsibility for a given
task or product across too many regions,” he said.  The company’s smartphone development efforts have also been
split among three potentially competing platforms, Symbian 3,
Symbian 4 and MeeGo. It’s also expanding the Series 40 platform
for the low-end phones that make up the bulk of its shipments
and are gradually approaching smartphones in sophistication.  R&D Centers  A plethora of devices with varying software and interfaces
has turned off developers. For Elop -- who said at the Nokia
World event last week in London that like his “supervisor” at
Microsoft Corp., CEO  Steve Ballmer , his credo is “developers,
developers, developers” -- making handsets, services and apps
work together seamlessly will be critical.  Nokia in July posted a 40 percent drop in second-quarter
 profit . It said that the operating margin in devices could fall
as low as 7 percent in the third quarter. The margin was 12.5
percent last year and 18.2 percent in 2008.  “We expect R&D to decline at least slightly from the 3
billion euro figure invested over the past few years” as
Symbian 3 is completed, Barclays wrote in a Sept. 13 note.  Some see more drastic measures.  “I do expect Elop to take the axe to the R&D headcount,”
said  Tero Kuittinen , an analyst with Greenwich, Conn.-based MKM
Partners. “It’s difficult to do now, though, because this is
such a critical phase for Nokia smartphone development.”  Apple’s Example  Nokia is concurrently handling the rollout of Symbian 3 as
well as two systems that will appear in next year’s products,
Symbian 4 and MeeGo. It’s also retraining developers in a new
version of the Qt tools that will let them reuse code between
platforms.  “It’s clear they are not too efficient in research and
development now, and they will probably do more with that, but
it’s a bit early to speculate how and whether it will affect
headcount before we know what they will do about platforms,”
said  Michael Schroeder , a Helsinki-based analyst at FIM Bank.  Elop may need to follow the example set by  Steve Jobs , who
 slashed  R&D costs after he returned to Apple in 1997. Jobs
 argued  that Apple should use its best brains to build snazzy new
Mac products rather than futuristic gee-whiz technologies.  “My job is to take the organization through a period of
disruption and ensure that we are meeting the needs of customers
while delivering superior financial results,” Elop said at a
press briefing in Espoo, Finland, on Sept. 10.  ‘Silicon Valley-Type’  Green, who’s based in Palo Alto, California, as well as
Espoo, said Nokia’s likely to keep the research centers going,
although he said he’s prodding them to be more relevant to
products Nokia can deliver soon.  “My role is to catalyze certain aspects of technology
transfer from research to product,” he said.  Green, who said he doesn’t know Elop, says he can’t say
what the new CEO will want to do. For now, he’s just “looking
forward to having another Silicon Valley-type to talk to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  