-- Nomura Sees U.S. Investors `Inevitably' Investing in China Property Bonds
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-09-20T08:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/nomura-says-u-s-investors-inevitably-have-to-buy-china-property-bonds.html

          
          
             U.S. investors in speculative-grade
corporate debt will “inevitably” have to buy China developers’
bonds if they aim to beat benchmarks such as Barclays Plc’s
high-yield indexes, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 Money managers have avoided China property bonds on concern
over the notes’ structure and the outlook for recoveries in the
event of defaults, Nomura analysts led by  Pradeep Mohinani  said
in a note to clients today after investor talks in the U.S.  
 “If the demand for yield remains insatiable for a
sustainable period, the U.S. investor base will inevitably have
to go long the Chinese high-yield property segment,” Hong Kong-
based Mohinani said. “There is likely to be capitulation once
the yield crosses a certain point.”  
 BNP Paribas SA raised its view on the China property sector
to “positive” from “neutral” today, saying the government
will probably hold back from further measures to curb
appreciation. The percentage of urban households that expect
house prices to keep rising increased 7.2 percentage points from
the second quarter to 36.6 percent, China’s central bank said in
a report.  
 Barclays’ Global High-Yield Index returned 6.6 percent in
the past three months while its U.S. Corporate High-Yield Index
returned 4.9 percent. High yield ranks below Baa3 at Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  
 Country Garden Holding Co., which builds condominiums in
China, has $550 million of 11.25 percent bonds due 2017 that it
sold at 99.408 cents on the dollar in April. The notes traded as
high as 106 cents to yield 9.982 percent on Sept. 14, ING Groep
NV prices show, and they may rise further, according to Mohinani.  
 Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd.’s $350 million of 13.5 percent
bonds due 2015 were sold at par in the same month and last
traded at 101 cents to yield 13.193 percent, ING prices show.
Kaisa develops property in China’s Pearl River Delta.  
 “We reminded investors that Chinese high-yield property
names have benefited tremendously from onshore bank liquidity
and strong bids from private banking accounts in Asia,”
Mohinani said after meetings in New York, Boston and San
Francisco this month. “Through the global financial crisis
there were no defaults to emerge from the sector.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        