-- North Korea to Hold Party Congress to Choose Leaders
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-09-21T08:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/north-korea-to-hold-party-congress-next-week-kim-may-name-son-successor.html
North Korea will hold its first
party congress in 30 years next week, setting the stage for a
possible power transfer in the Stalinist state from  Kim Jong Il 
to his youngest son.  The Workers Party of Korea will meet Sept. 28 in the
capital of Pyongyang to choose “its supreme leadership body,”
the official Korean Central News Agency reported today. Kim will
attend the meeting as a delegate, KCNA said.  The party congress is significant because it’s taking place
as Kim’s failing health forces him to pass on leadership
responsibilities, U.S. and South Korean officials have said. The
last such gathering in 1980 secured Kim’s position as heir to
his father, North Korean founder  Kim Il Sung .  “That succession was well planned and the son was groomed
for a lengthy period, giving the regime time to shore up his
legitimacy,” said  Jeff Kingston , head of Asian Studies at
Temple University’s Tokyo campus. “This succession has been
poorly planned and hastily arranged.”  The regime may also use the congress to announce new
policies to reinvigorate the country’s faltering economy, which
was dealt a further blow this year after floods wiped out crops
and damaged houses. The changes could include policies that
signal an economic warming to South Korea.  “As North Korea’s economic situation is not good and they
are having a food shortage amid a flood, there’s a possibility
that new policies will be proposed as part of North Korea’s new
line of policy for economic development,” said  Kim Yong Hyun ,
professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul.  ‘Open the Gate’  North Korea restored economic reformist  Pak Pong Ju  to its
leadership in August, Yonhap News reported at the time. The
government has focused recent propaganda around the target to
“open the gate to a great, prosperous and powerful nation in
2012,” the centenary of Kim Il Sung’s birth.  North Korea said on June 26 it would hold the congress in
early September. The missed deadline led to speculation of
internal divisions over who should head the party, as well as
reports that the two months of floods had prevented delegates
from gathering.  Kim may not publicly declare his son Kim Jong Un as heir if
it weakens his grip on power amid reports of his ailing health,
said Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean
Studies.  Kim, 68, has already named his youngest son as successor,
the Tokyo Shimbun newspaper reported on Sept. 19, citing a
photograph of an official ruling party document. Other media
have carried similar reports.  International School  Little is known outside North Korea about Jong Un, who may
be in his late 20s. He attended the International School of
Berne in Switzerland, according to media reports, including the
Seoul-based Dong-A Ilbo newspaper.  The party congress was delayed because Kim hadn’t fully
recovered from his five-day trip to China last month, Seoul-
based YTN news channel reported on Sept. 13, citing a South
Korean intelligence official it didn’t name.  Open Radio for
North Korea , a Seoul group with contacts in the communist
country, carried a similar report the same day.  In a speech to Chinese leaders during his visit to
northeast China last month, Kim praised the development of the
region, saying that “all the changes the area has undergone go
to show that the validity” of the Chinese Communist Party’s
policies. China’s economic growth began to accelerate after the
country experimented with market-oriented economic policies.
North Korea, which until the 1970s was more developed than both
China and South Korea, has stagnated.  Declining Health  Since Kim reportedly suffered a stroke in 2008, there have
been varying reports of his declining health. The latest picture
of Kim from a meeting with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in August
published in South Korean newspapers showed his hair was thinner
than when he was last seen in May. Television images of Kim
during his May trip to China showed he was limping and dragging
his left foot.  Kim’s efforts to prove his control of the government and
ensure succession may have led to an increase in the country’s
bellicose behavior, according to a South Korean official who
briefed reporters last year.  North Korea walked out of international talks aimed at
dismantling its nuclear program in April 2009 and launched a
ballistic missile technically capable of reaching Alaska before
conducting a second nuclear test on May 25 the same year.  The North Korean leader signaled to Hu during his last trip
to China in late August that he is willing to resume six-party
talks to dismantle his country’s nuclear weapons program,
China’s state-run Xinhua News Agency reported Aug. 30. The forum,
which also includes Japan, the U.S., Russia and South Korea,
hasn’t met since December 2008.  Kim’s regime on Aug. 27 freed a U.S. citizen imprisoned for
seven months for an illegal border crossing after former
President  Jimmy Carter  flew to Pyongyang. South Korea’s Red
Cross on Aug. 31 offered North Korea 10 billion won ($8.5
million) of food, medicine and other goods for flood victims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ; 