-- NYSE Liffe Has `Urgent' Need for U.S.-Style Regulation, Cocoa Group Says
-- Chris Kay
-- 2010-09-20T17:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/nyse-liffe-has-urgent-need-for-u-s-style-regulation-cocoa-group-says.html

          
          
             NYSE Liffe, the derivatives arm of
NYSE Euronext, needs rules governing the disclosure of positions
in futures markets and limits on how many contracts can be held,
the International Cocoa Organization said in an internal report.  
 The need for such U.S.-style rules is “urgent” and the
exchange is “far behind” the New York market in terms of
regulation, the group of 43 cocoa-buying and -growing countries
said in the report, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. The report was distributed internally and will be sent to
Liffe,  Sarah Sharp , a spokeswoman for the ICCO, confirmed.  
 A group of 16 cocoa consumers wrote to Liffe on July 2 to
complain about a lack of transparency, warning that they may
transfer trading to  ICE Futures U.S. , according to a copy of the
letter obtained by Bloomberg News. The exchange said earlier
this month it would issue position reports in cocoa, coffee and
sugar traded in London similar to those already produced for
U.S. markets by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  
 “The London market should, at the very least, match the
current regulations of the New York market,” the ICCO said in
the report dated Sept. 6. “London is far behind New York in its
efforts to maintain transparency.”  
 Liffe’s July cocoa future expired at a 12 percent premium
to the next available contract, and the bourse said 240,100
metric tons of beans were delivered into it, the most since
1996. Responding in a July 8 letter to the cocoa consumers, the
exchange said it found no evidence of “abusive behavior.”  
 ‘Price Risks’  
 “It is easy to see that, if New York trading rules had
been in place in the London futures market the squeeze of the
July 2010 contract would most probably not have occurred,” the
ICCO said in its report. “The squeeze may also have done
lasting damage to the London market as a place for efficient
hedging of price risks.”  
 The bourse has yet to receive the ICCO report,  Caroline Denton , a spokeswoman for Liffe in London, said by phone. She
declined to comment further.  
 The exchange will consult with its customers and regulator
to determine if further changes are needed,  James Dunseath , a
spokesman for Liffe, said Sept. 17.  
 “We will also be mindful of the broader developments on
the subject of market regulation including proposed regulations
on EU derivatives markets, covering both market transparency and
the potential imposition of position limits,” he said.  
 European Union Agriculture Commissioner  Dacian Ciolos  today
urged more disclosure about which investors hold futures
contracts in agricultural markets and urged position limits to
curb price swings.  
 “The role of futures markets is not to feed speculation
and the profits of a few actors,” according to a copy of a
speech the commissioner was scheduled to give today in Brussels.  
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
said today that “hyper speculation” in commodities markets
would be one area targeted by regulators.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        