-- Obama Among `Small Businesses' Bearing Share of Tax Hike
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-09-20T19:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/obama-soros-are-among-small-businesses-bearing-share-of-tax-on-wealthy.html

          
          
             Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  says President  Barack Obama  wants to subject  half  of
all small-business income to a tax increase, a move that he says
would strike a blow at the U.S. job-creation engine.  
 McConnell’s numbers add up only if you consider people like
billionaire investor  George Soros , most movie stars and Obama
himself small-business owners, tax experts say.  
 That’s because the lawmaker is basing his figure on a broad
definition of the term that experts say includes authors, actors
and athletes who employ few if any workers. It also encompasses
businesses that many people wouldn’t consider small, such as
Soros’s hedge-fund firm and major law partnerships.  
 “Every student who is a part-time Web designer, partner in
a law firm with a billion dollars of revenue and investor in a
hedge fund gets lumped together in the data, along with real
small businesses,” said  Edward Kleinbard , a former staff
director of the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation and
now a law professor at the University of Southern California.
“We are being over-inclusive in our use of small-business
income.”  
 McConnell and other Republicans have thrust small business
to the center of the fight over whether to extend Bush-era tax
cuts or limit the break to individuals earning less than
$200,000, as Obama wants. That would affect about 3 percent of
American taxpayers, according to the Internal Revenue Service.
The tax cuts for all income levels will expire Dec. 31 unless
Congress acts. (For an interactive chart of the tax debate,
click  here .)  
 ‘Most Productive’ Firms  
 Obama and congressional Democrats contend that 97 percent
of small businesses will be unaffected by increasing the top two
marginal rates, which would go to 39.6 percent from 35 percent,
and to 36 percent from 33 percent. The 97 percent figure itself
is too broad, since it includes unprofitable firms, consulting
income and investment conduits, says Roberton Williams, a senior
fellow at the  Tax Policy Center  in Washington.  
 McConnell, House Minority Leader  John Boehner  and other
Republicans say even if only 3 percent of small businesses will
be hit with the tax increase, they are the “most successful”
and generate most of the real business activity.  
 “The last thing you would want to do is raise taxes in the
middle of a recession on our most productive small businesses,”
McConnell, of Kentucky, said in a Sept. 15 Fox News interview.  
 No Employees?  
 While tax experts such as Kleinbard, Williams and the Obama
administration itself say McConnell’s 50 percent figure
exaggerates the share of income earned by traditional small
businesses, they say they’re unable to rebut the percentage with
an accurate one of their own.  
 The reason is the debate revolves around three types of
businesses: partnerships, sole proprietorships and so-called  S
corporations , which often have one or two shareholders. These
structures are popular because they allow profits and losses to
be reported on business owners’ personal tax returns without
first going through a layer of corporate tax.  
 Yet the IRS can’t tell if the income comes from a small or
large business or whether the entity had any employees at all.
Obama, who  last year earned  more than 10 times as much from his
work as an author as he did from his $400,000 presidential
salary, reports that business income on his personal tax return
the same way as does a shareholder in a machine shop with 50
employees.  
 Freezing the Rates  
 McConnell introduced legislation on Sept. 13 that would
freeze the current tax rates across-the-board for the next year.
He bases his argument on a July 12  finding  by the joint tax
committee that 50 percent of about $1 trillion of “business
income” in 2011 will be reported on about 750,000 tax returns
that pay the top marginal rates. He says those are small
businesses.  
 “We believe the nonpartisan joint tax committee is the
final authority on the matter,” said McConnell’s spokesman,  Don Stewart .  
 Yet the committee staff report said the data “do not imply
that all of the income is from entities that might be considered
‘small.’” Almost 20,000 of those businesses had receipts of
more than $50 million, it said.  
 A Sept. 3 report by the Congressional Research Service, a
nonpartisan agency that analyzes issues for lawmakers, said the
tax committee also counted many businesses that have no
employees other than the owner. More than 21 million of the
country’s 27 million businesses have no workers, according to
the U.S. Census Bureau; 1.9 million pay taxes as corporations
and wouldn’t be affected by increases in individual tax rates.  
 Poor Targeting  
 Jane Gravelle , who wrote the research service report, says
small businesses with employees will pay 12 percent of the taxes
generated by increasing the top marginal rates.  
 “Across-the-board tax cuts for high-income individuals are
not efficiently targeted to small businesses,” Gravelle wrote.  
 The Tax Foundation, a Washington research group that favors
lower taxes, calculated differently, on an assumption that
income is always taxed at the owners’ top rate, and concluded
the small businesses will pay 39 percent of the share.  
 “Small business is whatever you want it to be,” said
 Mitchell Kopelman , chairman of the tax group at Habif, Arogeti &
Wynne LLP, an Atlanta-based accounting firm. His firm, which he
called “middle-market,” would be counted under McConnell’s
definition, he said.  
 Kopelman said his firm represents many bona fide small
businesses whose owners earn enough to face higher taxes under
Obama’s proposals.  
 “They’re concerned,” he said. “Some are going to spend
less, they’re going to save less, they’re going to invest
less.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         McConnell and other Republicans have thrust small business to the center of the fight over whether to extend Bush-era tax cuts or limit the break to couples earning less than $250,000 as Obama wants. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     McConnell and other Republicans have thrust small business to the center of the fight over whether to extend Bush-era tax cuts or limit the break to couples earning less than $250,000 as Obama wants. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
