-- Obama Says China Hasn't Kept Pledge to Allow Yuan Gains
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-09-21T12:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/obama-says-china-hasn-t-taken-steps-it-agreed-upon-to-let-yuan-strengthen.html
President  Barack Obama  criticized
China’s currency policy, praised his economic team and called
predictions of a Republican takeover of the House of
Representatives “premature.”  China’s leaders haven’t done “everything they said would
be done” to allow the nation’s currency to rise in value, Obama
said yesterday, echoing the views expressed by administration
officials and lawmakers at congressional hearings last week.
“What we’ve said to them is you need to let your currency
rise,” he said in an hour-long town hall discussion on the
economy broadcast on CNBC television.  The yuan is “valued lower than market conditions say it
should be” and that gives China “an advantage in trade,” the
president said ahead of scheduled talks with Premier  Wen Jiabao 
at this week’s  United Nations General Assembly  in New York.  In response,  Jiang Yu , a Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman, called U.S. criticisms of the exchange rate
“unwise and short-sighted.” Appreciation of the yuan cannot
solve the U.S. trade deficit and America should focus on
economic recovery, she said today on a  government website .  China’s currency rose to the highest level since 1993 today,
with yuan forwards gaining for a fourth day.  ‘Irresponsible’  Obama used the forum to defend his administration’s
handling of the economy and insist that he doesn’t harbor any
bias against Wall Street or business. Still, he said it would be
“irresponsible” for Congress to extend tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans, and he pleaded for time to create more
jobs. The recession, while officially over, is “still very
real” for too many Americans, he said.  Obama repeated arguments that his decisions to press for a
stimulus package and help bail out the auto industry, however
unpopular, were necessary to rescue the economy. Obama also
praised two remaining members of his core economic team,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and National Economic
Council Director  Lawrence Summers .  They “have done an outstanding job, as has my whole
economic team,” Obama said.  He declined to say whether Geithner and Summers would serve
for the remainder of his four-year term and hinted that he would
understand if they decide to leave.  “I have not made any determinations about personnel,”
Obama said. “They have been at it for two years. They are going
to have a range of decisions about families that will factor
into this as well.”  ‘Healthy Skepticism’  As for the Tea Party’s success in some primaries leading up
to November’s congressional elections, Obama said Americans have
a “healthy skepticism about government.” He urged the Tea
Party, which promotes limited government spending, to offer
concrete ideas about reforming entitlement programs.  “The challenge for the Tea Party movement is to identify
specifically what would you do to help turn around the economy
and produce jobs,” he said.  Obama also pointed to his differences with Republicans on
taxes, saying rates are at historic lows.  “Our tax rates are lower now than they were under
 Ronald Reagan ,” he said. “The federal government is probably
less intrusive now than it was 30 years ago.”  Criticizes Republicans  Obama has proposed initiatives to spur economic growth
and hiring and supports extending Bush-era tax cuts for
individuals earning less than $200,000 a year and up to $250,000
for couples. The president’s approach would mean the marginal
tax rate would increase to 39.6 percent from 35 percent for the
highest earners.  He criticized Republican demands to extend the tax cuts for
the highest earners, saying it would cost the government $700
billion in revenue at a time of record budget deficits.  With elections to decide control of Congress less than two
months away, Obama is heading for a confrontation with
Republicans over his stewardship of the world’s largest
economy. The biggest fight may be over the tax cuts passed under
former President  George W. Bush  and set to expire at the end of
the year.  House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio and
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky
support extending tax cuts for everyone, including the top
earners. Boehner also has proposed to freeze federal spending at
the 2008 level, except for defense, national security and
veterans’ programs.  ‘Premature’  Asked if he would agree to debate Boehner as the possible
future House speaker, Obama said, “It’s premature to say that
John Boehner is going to be speaker of the House.”  On China, Obama hinted at the kind of trade enforcement
that members of his own party have been calling for.  “We are going to continue to insist that on this issue and
all trade issues with China, it’s a two-way
street,” Obama said. “Our trade relationship has to be fair.
You can’t just sell to us and we can’t sell to you.”  The yuan gained 0.2 percent to 6.7085 per dollar as of 3:24
p.m. in Shanghai, earlier touching a high of 6.6987, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards climbed 0.5 percent to 6.5818, reflecting
bets the currency will strengthen 1.8 percent from the spot rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s central bank set the daily reference rate stronger
than 6.7 per dollar for the first time since July 2005, when it
started managing the exchange rate against a
basket of currencies. The currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5
percent either side of the fixing rate, set at 6.6997 today.  Geithner last week said the U.S. will use every available
tool to urge China to let the yuan rise more quickly. Calls to
let the currency strengthen will grow as China faces swelling
trade protectionism against its
exports,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of China,
said on Sept. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  