-- Obama Says It Would Be `Irresponsible' to Extend Tax Cuts for Wealthiest
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-09-20T21:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/obama-says-it-would-be-irresponsible-to-extend-tax-cuts-for-wealthiest.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said it
would be “irresponsible” for Congress to extend tax cuts for
the wealthiest Americans and voiced support for Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and National Economic Council
Chairman  Lawrence Summers .  
 “I can’t give tax cuts to the top 2 percent of Americans”
and “lower the deficit at the same time,” the president said
during an hour-long town-hall discussion on jobs and the economy
on CNBC television from the Newseum in Washington.  
 To give “tax relief primarily to millionaires and
billionaires” would be “ an irresponsible thing for us to
do,” Obama said. “Those folks are least likely to spend it.”  
 With elections that will decide control of Congress less
than two months away, Obama is heading for a confrontation with
Republicans, who are seeking to take control of the House and
Senate from Democrats by making the Nov. 2 vote a referendum on
his stewardship of the world’s largest economy. The biggest
fight may be over tax cuts passed under former President  George W. Bush  that are set to expire at the end of the year.  
 Obama is challenging congressional Republicans to make only
middle-class tax cuts permanent. He wants lawmakers to find
agreement on initiatives to spur economic growth and hiring, and
on extending Bush-era tax cuts for individuals who make less
than $200,000 a year and couples earning less than $250,000,
about 97 percent of taxpayers, according to Internal Revenue
Service figures.  
 Hard Choices  
 In the town-hall-style meeting, Obama defended his
administration’s handling of the economic crisis, saying he had
made hard, and sometimes unpopular, choices that were necessary
to rescue the economy. Asked if he was vilifying business, Obama
responded: “Absolutely not.”  
 “Let’s look at the track record here,” he said. When he
was inaugurated, “the economy was on the verge of collapse.”  
 “Those same businesses now are profitable. The financial
markets are stabilized. We haven’t increased taxes on
businesses,” he said.  
 Geithner and Summers “have done an outstanding job, as has
my whole economic team,” Obama said. He declined to say whether
they would serve for the remainder of his presidency.  
 “I have not made any determinations about personnel,” he
said. “They have been at it for two years. They are going to
have a range of decisions about families that will factor into
this as well.”  
 Tea Party  
 He suggested that his administration is open to new
approaches and urged the Tea Party movement, which advocates for
limited government spending, to offer concrete ideas about
revamping entitlement programs.  
 “We’re constantly thinking, is what we’re doing working as
well as it could or do we have other options or other
alternatives,” Obama said.  
 On taxes, Obama said taxation levels are at historic lows.  
 “Our tax rates are lower now than they were under  Ronald Reagan ,” he said. “The federal government is probably less
intrusive now than it was 30 years ago.”  
 House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio has proposed
extending tax cuts for everyone for two years, a proposal that’s
acceptable to Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky, according to McConnell spokesman  Don Stewart . Boehner
also proposed freezing federal spending at the 2008 level,
except for defense, national security and veterans’ programs.  
 Obama said assuming that Boehner will become speaker after
the November elections is “premature.”  
 He also criticized the Republicans’ plan to extend the tax
cuts for the nation’s top earners because it would cost $700
billion in government revenue at a time of record budget
deficits.  
 Under Obama’s plan, the top marginal rate would increase to
39.6 percent from 35 percent currently for top earners.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
