-- Obama Counterterror Aide Confers With Yemen's Saleh on Fighting Al-Qaeda
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-09-20T16:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/obama-counterterror-aide-confers-with-yemen-s-saleh-on-fighting-al-qaeda.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ’s
counterterrorism adviser,  John Brennan , conferred with Yemeni
President  Ali Abdullah Saleh  today on the fight against al-
Qaeda, administration spokesman  Mike Hammer  said.  
 Brennan met with Saleh to discuss U.S.-Yemen “cooperation
against the continuing threat of al-Qaeda,” and to offer U.S.
“condolences to the Yemeni people for the loss of Yemeni
security officers and citizens killed in recent al-Qaeda
attacks,” according to Hammer, a spokesman for the White House
National Security Council.  
 During the visit, Brennan gave Saleh a letter from Obama
that Hammer affirmed U.S. “support for a unified, stable,
democratic and prosperous Yemen.”  
 “I am convinced that the people of Yemen can do more than
overcome the threats that they face -- they can build a future
of greater peace and opportunity for their children,” Obama’s
letter said, according to Hammer.  
 Hammer declined to release the full letter.  
 The U.S. is concerned about the region as a potential
center of terrorist training and operations. Yemen borders Saudi
Arabia, the Middle East’s largest oil producer and a major
supplier of crude to the U.S.  
 Four alleged al-Qaeda militants, including a German and an
Iraqi, appeared before a Sanaa court today, charged with
planning attacks on foreign, government and military targets,
Agence France-Presse reported.  
 Truce in North  
 Brennan’s meeting also included discussions of U.S.
economic and humanitarian support for the Yemeni people,
parliamentary elections, the protection of human rights and
compliance by all sides with the cease-fire in the north of
Yemen, Hammer said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The government and Yemeni rebels known as the Houthis
agreed to a truce in February. The Houthis, a Shiite Muslim
group, claim they are being discriminated against by Yemen’s
majority Sunnis. The government accuses the rebels of trying to
impose a Shiite religious leadership.  
 Obama has stepped up military support to Yemen as the
international terrorist threat emerged.  
 The U.S. Defense Department said last month it will finish
spending $155 million by the end of September on equipment to
help Yemen’s army commandos fight al-Qaeda, more than double
last year’s military aid to that country.  
 The Pentagon notified Congress it plans to pay for four
Huey helicopters made by Textron Inc.’s Bell Helicopter unit,
upgrades to 10 Russian-made MI-17 helicopters already owned by
Yemen, 50 AM General LLC Hummer vehicles, night-vision goggles
and transport aircraft.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        