-- OECD Says U.S. Economy is Recovering, Jobless Rate Will Be Slow to Shrink
-- Alex Kowalski
-- 2010-09-20T15:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/oecd-says-u-s-economy-recovering-jobless-rate-will-be-slow-to-shrink.html

          
          
             Unemployment in the U.S. may hold
above pre-recession levels until at least 2013 as the economic
recovery is restrained by Americans paying down debt and a
decline in household net worth, according to the  Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development .  
 The rebound in the world’s largest economy from the worst
recession since the 1930s has been made easier by fiscal
stimulus, monetary policy support and improving financial
conditions, the OECD said today in its “Economic Survey of the
United States.”  
 The economy will expand 2.6 percent on average this year
and next, slower than in past recessions because of tighter
credit conditions and a drop in households’ net worth, the OECD
said.  
 Angel Gurria , secretary-general of the OECD, said in New
York that he doesn’t see a recovery that is sufficiently robust
to bring the U.S. unemployment rate down to pre-crisis levels in
the next couple of years.  
 “We therefore believe that macro-economic support ought to
be maintained in the short term,” Gurria said at a news
conference. “In this regard, we welcome the announcement of
Chairman Bernanke that the Federal Reserve would be prepared, if
necessary, to provide additional stimulus.”  
 Gurria said the U.S. budget deficit needs to return to a
“more sustainable path.”  
 Safe Haven  
 The market treats the U.S. as a “safe haven” and the
nation needs to address its deficit “for the sake of the world
economy at large,” Gurria said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today.  
 “The market is more tolerant with the United States than
any other market in the world,” Gurria said. “You should deal
with the issues just like everybody else. Don’t get
complacent.”  
 The administration’s goal to slash the deficit to 3 percent
of Gross Domestic Product by 2015 is “an essential step to
boost confidence,” Gurria said at the press conference earlier
today.  
 The jobless rate will average 9.7 percent this year and 9.0
percent in 2011, according to OECD. In a Bloomberg News survey
from Sept. 1 to Sept. 9, economists said unemployment will
average 9.6 percent in 2010 and 9.2 percent next year, according
to the median of 59 estimates.  
 The Paris-based OECD has 33 member countries, according to
the organization’s website. The OECD’s goals include supporting
sustainable economic growth, boosting employment and raising
living standards while providing “a setting where governments
compare policy experiences, seek answers to common problems,
identify good practice and coordinate domestic and international
policies,” according to the website.  
 Government Support  
 Some additional government support for the labor market may
be warranted, the OECD said. While extending unemployment
 benefits  has helped the economy, phasing them out as the labor
market improves will support growth and employment, encouraging
more jobless Americans to seek work, according to the OECD.  
 Government policies, including reductions on employer
social security contributions taxes, tax cuts for new hires and
expanded hiring subsidies targeted at the long-term unemployed,
could encourage private-sector hiring.  
 People whose skills degraded during long periods of
unemployment or do not match the needs of employers will also
require job training and education to reintegrate into the
workforce, the survey said.  
 The OECD report also said the government needs to take
additional steps to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio. Spending
restraint alone, according to the OECD, is “unlikely to
suffice.”  
 “Barring cuts in entitlements and defense spending, which
are currently not on the policy agenda, taxes will likely have
to increase to stabilize the debt-to-GDP ratio by the middle of
the decade and put it on a downward path thereafter,” the
survey said.  
 Raising taxes on consumption, including the introduction of
a value-added tax, or on the income of people in the top deciles
could generate revenue, the OECD said.  
 Deductions on mortgage interest and state and local taxes
need to be reduced as well, according to the survey.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.com ;
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Angel Gurria, secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, talks about the state of the U.S. economy and the outlook for the labor and housing markets.
     Unemployment in the U.S. may hold above pre-recession levels until at least 2013 as the economic recovery is restrained by Americans paying down debt and a decline in household net worth, according to the OECD. Gurria speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
