-- Oil Supplies Tumble in Survey on Enbridge Halt: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-09-21T21:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/oil-supplies-hit-five-week-low-in-survey-on-enbridge-halt-energy-markets.html
U.S. crude-oil  supplies  probably
fell to a five-week low after an Enbridge Energy Partners LP
pipeline, the largest linking Canada and the U.S. Midwest, shut
for eight days following a leak, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Inventories slipped 1.75 million barrels, or 0.5 percent,
in the seven days ended Sept. 17 from 357.4 million a week
earlier, according to the median of 18 analyst estimates before
an Energy Department report tomorrow. Seventeen forecast a drop
and one a gain. It would be the third consecutive decrease.  The closure of Enbridge’s 6A oil pipeline, which can move
670,000 barrels a day, came as U.S. imports declined 19 percent
since July. Canada was the  largest exporter  of oil to the U.S.
in June, the latest month for which Energy Department figures
are available. Enbridge started the line Sept. 17.  “This is all about the Enbridge pipeline,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy. “We’re going to see some impact
from that outage, particularly on the Cushing supplies. You’ll
see two weeks of this effect before it clears.”  Oil supplies at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for
New York futures, dropped 581,000 barrels, or 1.6 percent, to 35
million in the week ended Sept. 10. Inventories at the
midcontinent pipeline hub have fallen 7.6 percent in six weeks.  U.S. imports  rose 142,000 barrels, or 1.6 percent, to 9.03
million barrels a day in the week ended Sept. 10, after falling
to the lowest level since April the week before.  “The place we should get the biggest hit is from
imports,” said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks and
Opinions LLC in Houston. “The imports number will definitely
look pretty bad.”  Pipeline Rupture  Enbridge closed the pipeline after a Sept. 9 rupture at
Romeoville, Illinois, which spilled about 6,100 barrels of oil.
The conduit  transports  Canadian light synthetic, heavy and
medium crude oil from Superior, Wisconsin, to Griffith, Indiana.  A storm near oil-producing areas in Mexico may also affect
shipments to the U.S.  Mexico shut the ports of Cayo Arcas and Dos Bocas, two of
state-oil-company Petroleos Mexicanos’s three largest oil export
terminals, on Sept. 16 because of Hurricane Karl. Mexico is the
third-largest supplier to the U.S. after Canada and Saudi
Arabia. The ports reopened the next day.  Oil supplies were 13 percent above the five-year average in
the week ended Sept. 10, according to Energy Department figures.  “Refiners are gearing up for maintenance and oil
inventories are very, very high,” said  Kyle Cooper , managing
director at energy consultant IAF Advisors in Houston.  Refinery Utilization  Refineries probably operated  at 86.8 percent of capacity,
down 0.8 percentage point from the previous week, according to
the survey. It would be the  lowest  utilization rate since the
week ended April 16.  BP Plc halted a fluid catalytic cracker last week for
planned work at its Whiting, Indiana, refinery. Citgo Petroleum
Corp. said earlier this month it was shutting part of its
refinery in Lemont, Illinois, for maintenance.  “Typically, refineries start autumn maintenance programs
shortly after Labor Day and stick with them until Thanksgiving,
at which point they usually increase until the end of the
year,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc., a
trading adviser in New Canaan, Connecticut, in a report.  Crude for October delivery fell $1.34, or 1.8 percent, to
expire at $73.52 a barrel, the lowest settlement price since
Aug. 31. The more-active November futures lost $1.22, or 1.6
percent, to close at $74.97 a barrel.  API Inventories  November prices declined from the settlement after the
American Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S.
crude-oil stockpiles increased 2.23 million barrels to 364.1
million, the highest level since the week ended May 21. November
crude fell $1.46, or 1.9 percent, to $74.73 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:31 p.m.  Stockpiles  of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, climbed 100,000 barrels from 174.5
million, the survey showed, the first increase in four weeks.
Inventories in the week ended Aug. 20 were the highest since
1983. Nine of the analysts forecast an increase, eight said
supplies dropped and one estimated inventories were unchanged.  Gasoline inventories  fell 250,000 barrels last week from
224.5 million. Stockpiles in the week ended Sept. 10 were 14
percent higher than the five-year average for the period,
according to the Energy Department. Nine survey respondents
forecast a decline, seven a gain and two estimated no change.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 