-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Held in September at Lowest Level in a Year
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-09-20T15:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-held-in-september-at-lowest-level-in-a-year.html

          
          
             Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
in September unexpectedly held at the lowest level in more than
a year, showing the housing market remains depressed following
the expiration of a government tax credit.  
 The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence  index was unchanged at 13, matching the August
reading as the lowest since March 2009, data from the
Washington-based group showed today. The gauge was projected to
rise to 14, according to the  median forecast  of 50 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Home sales will be slow to improve as  unemployment  hovers
near 10 percent and foreclosures mount, preventing builders
including  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc.  from taking advantage of
record-low mortgage rates. A tax incentive of as much as $8,000
provided only temporary relief for housing, the industry that
precipitated the worst recession since the 1930s.  
 “It’s hard to see where the impetus for growth for housing
is going to come from,” said  David Semmens , an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York who forecast the index would
be unchanged. “The employment situation keeps people very much
on the back foot and remaining in their existing homes.”  
 The worst U.S. recession since the 1930s ended in June
2009, the economic cycle dating committee of the Cambridge,
Massachusetts, National Bureau of Economic Research said today.
The group is the accepted arbiter of when economic slumps start
and end.  
 Stocks climbed. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.1
percent to 1,137.7 at 11:46 a.m. in New York. The S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index climbed 3.3 percent to 238.5,
propelled by better-than-forecast earnings at Lennar Corp.  
 Bloomberg Survey  
 Index readings lower than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from 12 to 15. The measure reached a record low of 8 in January
of last year.  
 The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales was 13 in September and the measure of sales expectations
for the next six months was 18, both unchanged from August. The
gauge of buyer traffic dropped to 9, the lowest level since
March 2009, from 10.  
 “Builders haven’t seen any reason for improved optimism in
market conditions over the past month,” NAHB Chairman Bob
Jones, a homebuilder from Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, said in a
statement. “If anything, consumer uncertainty has increased,
and builders feel their hands are tied until potential
homebuyers feel more secure about the job market and the
economy.”  
 Regional Breakdown  
 The confidence gauge fell to 12 from 15 in the Midwest and
to 16 from 18 in the Northeast. It was unchanged at 8 in the
West and improved to 14 from 12 in the South.  
 Work began on 550,000 homes at an annual pace in August, up
from 546,000 the prior month, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed before a Commerce Department report
tomorrow.  Housing starts  plunged to a record-low 477,000 pace in
April 2009 after reaching a three-decade high of 2.27 million in
January 2006.  
 Reports later this week are projected to show sales of
existing and new homes climbed last month, according to the
median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys. The National Association
of Realtors is scheduled to release figures on  sales  of
previously owned houses on Sept. 23 and the Commerce Department
will report on  new home purchases  the following day.  
 Fewer Orders  
 The government’s homebuyers credit required contracts by
signed by April 30. Combined with joblessness and sagging
 consumer confidence , the end of the homebuyer credit prompted a
decline in orders at Hovnanian. The largest homebuilder in New
Jersey said on Sept. 1 its net orders dropped 37 percent in the
quarter ended July 31 from a year earlier.  
 “Job creation is the key to a housing recovery, which
makes it difficult to predict how improvements in the economy
and housing market play out,” Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said in a statement.  
 Builders and sellers are competing with rising
 foreclosures , which means homes stay on the market longer and
prices are restrained. Home seizures reached a record for the
third time in five months in August, RealtyTrac Inc. said Sept.
16.  
 Halting Foreclosures  
 Ally Financial Inc.’s  GMAC Mortgage  unit told brokers and
agents this month to halt foreclosures on homeowners in 23
states including Florida, Connecticut and New York. Brokers were
told to stop evictions, cash-for-key transactions and lockouts,
regardless of occupant type, with immediate effect, according to
a two-page memo addressed to GMAC preferred agents dated Sept.
17 and obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 Miami-based  Lennar  is among companies finding other ways to
boost earnings. The fourth-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue
today reported a third-quarter profit on widening margins on
house sales and growing revenue at its distressed investing
unit.  
 The Obama administration has said it plans to announce
proposals in the next few weeks for an emergency loan program
for the unemployed to avert default, and a government mortgage
refinancing effort to lower monthly mortgage payments to avoid
foreclosures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Homebuilder Confidence Holds at Lowest Level in a Year  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Home sales will be slow to improve as unemployment hovers near 10 percent and foreclosures mount. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Home sales will be slow to improve as unemployment hovers near 10 percent and foreclosures mount. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bernie Markstein, senior economist and vice president for economic forecasting and analysis at the National Association of Home Builders, talks with Bloomberg's Melissa Long about the group's survey showing confidence among U.S. homebuilders held at the lowest level in more than a year.
     The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index was unchanged at 13, matching the August reading as the lowest since March 2009, data from the Washington-based group showed today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Angel Gurria, secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, talks about the state of the U.S. economy and the outlook for the labor and housing markets.
     Unemployment in the U.S. may hold above pre-recession levels until at least 2013 as the economic recovery is restrained by Americans paying down debt and a decline in household net worth, according to the OECD. Gurria speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
