-- Hong Kong's Air Pollution May Climb to Third-Quarter Record
-- John Duce
-- 2010-09-20T08:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/hong-kong-s-air-pollution-may-climb-to-record-as-pressure-for-action-rises.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s roadside air pollution
reached record levels for the third quarter, putting the city’s
government under more pressure to clean up the environment.  
 The city’s Air Pollution Index was “very high” at
roadsides for 9.5 percent of the hours recorded in July, August
and the first two weeks of September, government data indicated.
With all three monitoring stations climbing to those levels
today, Hong Kong is set to outdo the previous  third-quarter
record  for very high pollution, 8.2 percent of recorded hours in
2004.  
 Hong Kong’s General Chamber of Commerce called for
“decisive” government action in Chief Executive  Donald Tsang ’s
policy address to tackle the issue. Hong Kong ranked 71st in a
 survey  this year of livable cities, compared with 28th for rival
financial hub Singapore, with pollution bringing its score down,
according to  Mercer  Consulting, a unit of New York-based
insurance broker Marsh & McLennan Cos.  
 “There’s no doubt that roadside pollution is getting
worse,” said  Prentice Koo , a spokesman for the environmental
pressure group  Greenpeace  in Hong Kong. “Much stronger measures
need to be introduced to solve this,” he said.  
 Health Warnings  
 When roadside pollution is very high, topping 100 on the
Air Pollution Index, the government warns people with heart or
respiratory illnesses to avoid prolonged stays in heavy traffic
areas. Roadside pollution reached 135 in Causeway Bay, 112 in
Central and 122 in Mong Kok as of 3 p.m. today.  
 Even if the rest of September has cleaner skies, Hong Kong
is poised to record “very high” pollution for 8.3 percent of
the hours in this quarter.  
 The pollution index only acts as a rough guide to alert the
public to levels of smog, the Environmental Protection
Department said in an e-mailed statement. Looking at figures for
short time frames can be misleading and yearly measurements of
several key pollutants in the atmosphere, which are more
reliable, are falling, the statement said.  
 Levels of some pollutants including sulfur dioxide fell by
as much as 22 percent since 1999 due to measures including
curbing emissions from Hong Kong power plants and introducing
cleaner vehicle fuels, the statement said.  
 Roadside levels of nitrogen dioxide, the pollutant which
causes most of the high readings in the pollution index, rose by
11 percent since 1999 due to higher traces of ozone in the
atmosphere, according to the statement.  
 Record Smog  
 Hong Kong’s roadside smog was the worst on record during
the six months ended March. Roadside pollution was either “very
high” or “severe” 13.6 percent of the time from January to
March and 23.8 percent of the time in the October-December
period last year. Hong Kong’s pollution is worse in winter
months, due to weather patterns trapping emissions in the city.  
 Tsang is due to give his policy address for the coming year
on Oct. 13. “The chief executive is still working on his policy
address and we cannot comment on its content before the
delivery,” a written statement from Tsang’s office said. “The
government has been making continuous efforts to improve our air
quality and these efforts rank very high on the priority list of
the administration.”  
 Measures to tackle air pollution should include further
incentives to replace older buses and trucks, and to promote
electric vehicles and the use of cleaner fuels, the chamber of
commerce said this week.  
 Widespread Dissatisfaction  
 Hong Kong people are the most dissatisfied in the world
with their air quality, with 70 percent of those polled
expressing their unhappiness about the levels of smog, according
to a Gallup  survey  of adults in 153 countries released in April.
The next most disgruntled population was in Chad, where 59
percent of adults were highly dissatisfied with their air.
Gallup said it surveyed about 1,000 adults in most of the
countries, with margins of error ranging from plus or minus 2.1
percentage points to plus or minus 5.7 percentage points,
depending on the country.  
 Hong Kong’s two biggest power companies  CLP Holdings Ltd. 
and Hongkong Electric Holdings Ltd. may have to increase the
amount of electricity they generate using natural gas to reduce
emissions. Fifty-two percent of power should be produced by gas
by 2015 compared with 39 percent now, according to a policy
document to be discussed by the city’s Legislative Council.  
 Just over half of the city’s electricity is now produced by
coal-fired generators, according to a government public
consultation document on reducing greenhouse gas emissions
released Sept. 10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hong Kong’s Air Pollution May Climb to Third-Quarter Record  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hong Kong people are the most dissatisfied in the world with their air quality, according to a Gallup survey of adults in 153 countries released in April. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hong Kong people are the most dissatisfied in the world with their air quality, according to a Gallup survey of adults in 153 countries released in April. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Lee Quane, regional director for Asia at human resources company ECA International Ltd., talks about Hong Kong's air pollution.
     The city's roadside air pollution may reach record levels during the third quarter, according to calculations by Bloomberg News, as the local government comes under increasing pressure to bolster its cleanup measures. Quane talks from Singapore with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hong Kong’s Air Pollution May Climb to Third-Quarter Record  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         When roadside pollution is very high, topping 100 on the Air Pollution Index, the government warns people with heart or respiratory illnesses to avoid prolonged stays in heavy traffic areas. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     When roadside pollution is very high, topping 100 on the Air Pollution Index, the government warns people with heart or respiratory illnesses to avoid prolonged stays in heavy traffic areas. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hong Kong’s Air Pollution May Climb to Third-Quarter Record  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hong Kong’s pollution is worse in winter months, due to weather patterns trapping emissions in the city. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hong Kong’s pollution is worse in winter months, due to weather patterns trapping emissions in the city. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
