-- Most Hong Kong Stocks Rise, Led by Developers Before Sun Hung Kai Earnings
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-09-20T09:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/hong-kong-fluctuate-as-banks-drop-on-lending-curbs-byd-gains-on-upgrade.html

          
          
             Most Hong Kong stocks rose, led by
property developers before earnings from  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd.  Chinese banks fell on speculation government will raise
capital requirements.  
 Sun Hung Kai, the world’s biggest developer by market
value, gained 1.4 percent, leading the advance among developers.
 BYD Co. , the Chinese automaker backed by  Warren Buffett , rose
5.7 percent after Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock.  China
Construction Bank Corp.  lost 1.5 percent after the China Banking
Regulatory Commission said it will adjust capital requirements
after international standards are set at the end of this year.  
 “Investors are expecting a positive surprise from Sun Hung
Kai’s earnings,” said  Danny Yan , Hong Kong-based portfolio
manager at Taifook Asset Management, which oversees about $400
million. “Demand for property in Hong Kong will continue to
rise as long as interest rates remain low and the yuan continues
to appreciate, boosting demand from mainland Chinese.”  
 Twenty-six stocks advanced and 19 fell on the 45-member
 Hang Seng Index , which rose less than 0.1 percent to 21,977.34
at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares of Chinese companies
slipped 0.1 percent to 12,164.65.  
 The  Hang Seng Index  increased 3.4 percent last week, the
most since the period ended Feb. 26, as economic reports from
China and the U.S. boosted optimism about global growth. Shares
on the gauge are trading an average at an average 14.2 times
estimated earnings, about the same as the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index’s 14.3 times.  
 Sun Hung Kai Profit  
 Sun Hung Kai climbed 1.4 percent to HK$122.10, while Cheung
Kong Holdings Ltd., the Hong Kong developer controlled by
billionaire  Li Ka-shing , gained 1.6 percent to HK$106.70. After
markets closed, Sun Hung Kai reported net income for the year
ended June 30 of HK$28.04 billion.  
 Sino Land Co. , the Hong Kong developer controlled by
billionaire Robert Ng, increased 2.2 percent to HK$15.06.
Redford Asset Management Ltd. initiated coverage of the stock
with a “buy” rating and a share-price forecast of HK$16.  
 BYD surged 5.7 percent to HK$56.30. Morgan Stanley raised
its recommendation on the stock to “overweight” from “equal-
weight” and increased its share-price forecast to HK$66 from
HK$56.  
 China Mobile Ltd. , the world’s biggest phone carrier, rose
0.8 percent to HK$79.40. ICBC International Securities Ltd
increased its rating to “buy” from “hold.”  
 Hong Kong Banks  
 HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest bank that gets 17
percent of revenue from the Chinese city, dropped 1 percent to
HK$81.80.  Standard Chartered Plc , the British bank that makes
more than half of its revenue from the Asia-Pacific region, fell
2.4 percent to HK$229.40. Bank of East Asia Ltd., Hong Kong’s
third-largest lender by market value, lost 1.1 percent to
HK$32.30.  
 The territory’s lenders fell after the Hong Kong Economic
Journal cited  Arthur Yuen , deputy chief executive officer of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority, as saying that the HKMA may
introduce extra steps to tighten mortgage lending by local banks
next year.  
 “They are trying to manage risks rather than discouraging
property demand,” Taifook Asset’s Yan said.  
 China Construction Bank, the nation’s second-largest lender,
slipped 1.4 percent to HK$6.76.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest listed lender, dropped 1.5
percent to HK$5.86.  
 Capital Requirements  
 China will publish an “overall framework and road map”
for the adjustment of capital requirements of the nation’s banks
at an “appropriate time” after discussing the matter with
lenders, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said on Sept.
17.  
 The regulator may require the nation’s biggest lenders to
boost their capital adequacy ratios to as high as 15 percent by
the end of 2012, a person with knowledge of the matter said on
Sept. 15.  
 “The potential for further lending curbs in Hong Kong and
additional fund raising for Chinese banks will have a negative
impact on the banks,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based
research director at Cinda International Holdings Ltd.  
 Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore energy producer, fell
0.4 percent to HK$14.66 as a growing territorial dispute between
China and Japan in the East China Sea threatens to disrupt oil
and gas development in the area.  China Oilfield Services Ltd. ,
which counts Cnooc as its largest customer, dropped 0.7 percent
to HK$11.18.  
 Territorial Dispute  
 China severed senior-level government ties with Japan over
the detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain after a
collision with two Japanese coast guard vessels near a group of
disputed islands in the East China Sea. Sovereignty would give
the holder rights to undersea petroleum reserves, and Cnooc is
already producing oil and gas to the west of the disputed area.  
 “This could dampen sentiment toward any prior rhetoric of
joint oil and gas development in the region and trigger kneejerk
profit-taking in Cnooc,”  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities in Hong Kong, said in e-
mailed comments.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        