-- Mongolian Mining, Winsway Seek $1.3 Billion in Hong Kong Coking Coal IPO
-- Fox Hu
-- 2010-09-20T04:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/mongolian-mining-winsway-seeks-1-3-billion-in-hong-kong-ipo.html

          
          
             Mongolian Mining Corp.  and  Winsway
Coking Coal Holdings Ltd.  are seeking to raise as much as
HK$9.74 billion ($1.3 billion) in Hong Kong initial public
offerings to fund expansion to meet Chinese coal demand.  
 Mongolian Mining Corp.  and its shareholders plan to raise
as much as HK$5.28 billion, and Winsway, with Hopu Investment
Management Co. as an investor, is seeking as much as HK$4.46
billion, according to term sheets sent to investors. The two
companies supply steelmaking coal to China from Mongolia.  
 China, the world’s biggest steelmaking nation, last year
increased  imports  of coking coal fivefold to a record as the
government closed unsafe mines. Mongolian Mining and Winsway
Coking Coal are seeking to raise funds as China is forcing mills
to shut to reach energy efficiency targets.  
 “The supply of coking coal remains in deficit over the
longer term,” said  Helen Lau , an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.
“But demand for coking coal is subdued recently as China’s
power limits reduced steel production. The market sentiment may
set the IPOs at the low-to-medium pricing ranges.”  
 Power cuts may trim Chinese steel supply by 9.6 percent for
the rest of the year, according to Mysteel Research Institute.  
 Mongolian Mining, the nation’s biggest privately owned hard
coking coal producer, and its investors are selling 20 percent
of the company, or 719.4 million shares at between HK$6.29 and
HK$7.34 apiece, according to the term sheet.  
 Boost Production  
 The company is seeking to boost production more than eight
times through 2013 to 14.7 million metric tons, according to its
preliminary share sale document. It plans to build roads and a
railway to the Chinese border, and construct Mongolia’s first
coal-wash plant.  
 Based in the Tavan Tolgoi area, Mongolian Mining has signed
5-to-10 year contracts with customers including  Jiangsu Shagang
Group . Mongolian Mining forecast profit this year of not less
than $60 million, or 1.7 cents a share, the draft document said.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Citigroup Inc. are the share sale
arrangers. The price range offered represents about 11.6 times
to 13.6 times estimated profit by the arrangers, two people
involved in the transaction said. The company is expected to
start trading on Oct. 13, the sale document said.  
 MCS Mining Group and the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development will sell 86.3 million shares and 36 million
shares, respectively, and will own 45.3 percent and 3.2 percent
after Mongolian Mining’s offering.  
 Trade at Premium  
 SouthGobi Resources Ltd. , backed by China’s sovereign
wealth fund, trades at 11.2 times consensus forecasts for 2012
profit, JPMorgan said in its research report. Mongolian Mining
should trade at a premium because it produces hard coking coal,
while South Gobi focuses on semi-soft and thermal coal,
according to JPMorgan.  
 The company sells unwashed coal, which is 35 percent
cheaper than washed products, the prospectus said. It will sell
washed coal next year when its plant becomes operational,
boosting profit margins. A one-year contract with trader Winsway
Coking Coal will expire at the end of February, according to the
draft document.  
 Mongolia’s coal exports to China may climb 41 percent to 12
million tons this year from 2009, SouthGobi said in April.  
 Winsway Coal will sell 990 million new shares at between
HK$3.25 and HK$4.50 apiece, according to an e-mail sent to
investors. Winsway has an option to sell a further 148.5 million
shares, the e-mail said.  
 Profit Forecast  
 Winsway Coal hired Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. as the sale arrangers, according to the e-mail. Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit is also underwriting the IPO,
the e-mail said. The company plans to fix the price on Sept. 29.  
 The company may post net profit of 773 million yuan ($115
million) for 2010 on sales of 8.1 billion yuan, according to an
estimate by Deutsche Bank analysts  Fred Lam  and  Nora Min .
Earnings are expected to gain 70 percent from the previous year,
according to the analysts.  
 About 75 percent of the proceeds will be used to acquire
new transport infrastructure, while 15 percent will be used to
buy coal resources and fund mining, according to the e-mail.  
 A Hopu Investment-led group that includes a unit of  China
Minmetals Corp.  and  Silver Grant International Industries Ltd. 
bought convertible bonds and preferred shares worth $110 million
in Winsway earlier this year, according to the e-mail. Hopu, a
private equity fund backed by Temasek Holdings Pte, was started
by  Fang Fenglei , a Chinese partner at Goldman Sachs.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        