-- Honohan Says Irish Government Must Cut Deficit at Faster Pace
-- Joe Brennan
-- 2010-09-20T14:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/honohan-says-ireland-must-cut-budget-deficit-at-faster-pace-as-yields-rise.html

          
          
             Irish central bank governor  Patrick Honohan  said the government needs to cut its budget deficit at a
faster pace as the perceived riskiness of the country’s bonds
jumps to a record.  
 “Some explicit reprogramming of the budgetary profile for
the coming years is clearly necessary soon,” Honohan said in a
speech in Dublin today. He said he expects “more clarity” and
“detail” on the government’s budget plans.  
 The extra yield that  investors  demand to hold 10-year Irish
bonds over German bunds today exceeded 400 basis points for the
first time as the government struggles to convince investors it
can cap the cost of bailing out its banking system.  Portugal  is
also being punished by investors, with the spread on its bonds
also touching a record today. That’s fueling concerns that both
countries may have to follow Greece and ask the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund for a rescue.  
 “We think there is a measurable risk that Ireland and
Portugal will access the EFSF and IMF, but probably only early
next year,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief European Economist
 Erik Nielsen  said in a note yesterday. The countries are still
well funded for some months, though a planned Irish bond sale
tomorrow may be a “test,” Nielsen said.  
 Contracts insuring against an Irish default rose to a
record 450 basis points from 421 today, according to data-
provider CMA. Ireland is scheduled to sell between 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) and 1.5 billion euros of four-and eight
year bonds. Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told reporters
in Dublin today’s he’s “concerned” about the jump in Irish
spreads, which rose as high as 404 basis points today.
Portugal’s spread was 399 basis points.  
 Irish Sale  
 Investors are selling Irish bonds partly on concern about
the cost of rescuing  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , which was
nationalized last year. Standard & Poor’s said in August that
Ireland may have to inject as much as 35 billion euros “over
time,” putting pressure on the national finances. The
government has injected 22.9 billion euros to date.  
 Lenihan has already there’s scope to reduce spending by
more than the 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) forecast in this
year’s budget. Honohan, a member of the European Central Bank’s
Governing Council, said he expects “reprogramming” of the
budget beyond 2011 to be “convincing.” He also said that costs
related to Ireland’s banking crisis remain “manageable.”  
 Narrow Range  
 An upcoming assessment of  Anglo Irish ’s rescue, including
both base capital and stress calculations, will help “narrow
the range” of the estimated burden the banking system will
place on the country’s finances, Honohan said.  
 The total Anglo cost will be less than the numbers “touted
around,” he said.  
 Ireland has been cutting public salaries as part of an
austerity drive aimed at narrowing its deficit to 3 percent of
gross domestic product by 2014. Lenihan said in a newspaper
interview published yesterday that Ireland won’t need European
Union aid.  
 Lenihan said today he’s not concerned about “rumblings”
about the leadership of Prime Minister  Brian Cowen , who last
week apologized for a “below par” radio interview.  Tom Kitt , a
lawmaker for Ireland’s ruling Fianna Fail party, said the party
should meet to discuss its future leadership.  
 “Political instability as much as financial instability is
what is now undermining Ireland’s position,” said  Michael Noonan , finance spokesman for Fine Gael, the largest opposition
party. “Political stability will not be restored by rearranging
the deck chairs on the Titanic. ”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Governor Of The Irish Central Bank Patrick Honohan  
                       
                         
                           Crispin Rodwell/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “Some explicit reprogramming of the budgetary profile for the coming years is clearly necessary soon,” Honohan said in a speech in Dublin today. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “Some explicit reprogramming of the budgetary profile for the coming years is clearly necessary soon,” Honohan said in a speech in Dublin today. Photographer: Crispin Rodwell/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Antonio Garcia Pascual, an economist at Barclays Capital, discusses Ireland's fiscal policies and bank health.
     Pascual speaks from London to Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
