-- Tribune, General Growth, Lehman, Tronox: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-09-20T12:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/monorail-tronox-orleans-claims-trading-tousa-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Newspaper publisher Tribune Co.
could end up being reorganized under the Chapter 11 plan filed
on Sept. 17 by Oaktree Capital Management LP and Angelo Gordon &
Co., whose funds hold what they say are several billion dollars
in senior loan claims.  
 The plan by Oaktree and Angelo Gordon would enable the
companies to emerge from reorganization while fraudulent
transfer lawsuits continue over the second part of the $13.7
billion leveraged buyout led by Sam Zell in 2007. Creditors can
file plans because Tribune’s exclusive right to propose a
reorganization expired in June after 18 months in Chapter 11.  
 The plan proponents said they will participate and are
hopeful court-ordered mediation beginning Sept. 26 will bring
agreement on a plan. If there isn’t a “fully consensual” plan,
the two said they are willing to negotiate over their proposed
reorganization. The plan they filed was 79 pages long, not
including exhibits and schedules. The accompanying disclosure
statement takes up 216 single-spaced pages to describe the plan.  
 The plan is a separate reorganization for the Tribune
parent and each of the dozens of subsidiaries. Oaktree and
Angelo Gordon said it is possible that the subsidiaries, which
have the operating companies, could emerge from reorganization
while the parent remains in Chapter 11.  
 The plan by Oaktree and Angelo Gordon would recognize the
validity of $6.6 billion in claims arising from the first part
of the LBO in June 2007. The plan would form a litigation trust
for creditors to prosecute a fraudulent transfer lawsuit aimed
at $2.1 billion in debt arising from the second part of the LBO
in December 2007. Oaktree and Angelo Gordon say that Tribune’s
examiner concluded there is a better than 50 percent chance the
second part of the LBO in December 2007 can be attacked
successfully. The first part, in June 2007, won’t be attacked
because the examiner, they say, found a less than 50 percent
probability of success.  
 The plan proponents base their proposal on the assumption
that the operating companies are worth less than the senior
loans they guaranteed. Thus, creditors with lower priorities
receive less or nothing, as the case may be. The plan proponents
hold part of the $2.1 billion in debt that would be subject to
attack.  
 The plan for the Tribune parent would provide an initial
4.2 percent recovery for $6.47 billion in senior loan claims.
The recovery would be made up of 8.8 percent of a new term loan,
8.8 percent of excess cash, and 8.8 percent of the new stock.
They would share the term loan, cash and new stock with holders
of the $1.62 billion bridge loan and the $1.28 billion in senior
notes. The new term loan would be the lesser of $1.2 billion or
twice operating cash flow for the prior 12 months.  
 The recovery would be the same 4.2 percent for the bridge
loan and the senior notes.  
 Other unsecured creditors of the parent could elect between
receiving 10 percent cash or taking a pro rata share of the
cash, debt and stock.  
 At the holding company, the $225 million in so-called EGI-
TRB LLC notes and the $761 million in so-called Phones note
claims are “likely” to receive nothing, the new disclosure
statement says. If the claims survived attack, subordination
provisions are to be enforced, and recovery on the debt would go
to senior creditors. The bankruptcy judge would decide if the
subordination provisions should be enforced.  
 At the operating subsidiaries, the senior loan claimants,
as a result of the subsidiaries’ guarantees, would see an 83
percent to 83.9 percent recovery from receiving 91.2 percent of
the new term loan, 91.2 percent of available cash, and 91.2
percent of the new stock.  
 At the subsidiary level, the $1.62 billion bridge loan
creditors wouldn’t receive anything because of the subordination
agreement.  
 General unsecured creditors at the operating companies,
with claims of as much as $150 million, are being offered 65
percent if they vote for the plan or 10 percent if the class
votes “no.”  
 Tribune told its employees that the Oaktree-Angelo Gordon
plan may become the basis for a reorganization if mediation
fails.  
 Tribune withdrew its own Chapter 11 plan in August. It was
designed to force through a settlement of claims resulting from
the LBO. Tribune abandoned the plan following the report of the
examiner, Kenneth N. Klee, who concluded that there was some
likelihood that the second phase of the leveraged buyout could
be attacked successfully as a constructively fraudulent
transfer.  
 Klee found less likelihood that the first phase of the
transaction could be unraveled as a fraudulent transfer. For a
summary of some of the examiner’s conclusions, click here for
the July 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 For details on the withdrawn plan, the proposed settlement,
and the parties’ arguments, click here for the April 13
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Updates  
 Vegas Monorail Lenders Seek Right to File Own Plan  
 While  Las Vegas Monorail Co.  won’t have a hearing on its
proposed disclosure statement until Oct. 5, bondholders will be
in bankruptcy court on Sept. 22 to argue the Chapter 11
reorganization plan is dead on arrival.  
 First-tier bondholders, owed $451 million, say they
represent more than 99 percent of creditors’ economic interest
in the case. In the motion to be argued Sept. 22, the
bondholders say they will vote against the plan, which they
claim is fatally defective.  
 The senior bondholders are asking the bankruptcy judge in
Las Vegas to allow them to file a competing Chapter 11 plan. To
read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The Monorail’s plan would give the senior bondholders new
notes totaling $18.5 million for their secured and deficiency
claims. Unsecured creditors, with claims totaling as much as
$175,000, are in a separate class and would share $175,000 cash.
The bondholders contend that carving out general creditors into
a separate class is so-called gerrymandering created to insure
that at least one class will vote in favor of the plan.  
 A plan cannot be crammed down on a dissenting class like
the senior bondholders unless at least one class votes in favor
of the plan.  
 Holders of $159 million in second-tier bonds and $48.5
million third-tier bonds would receive nothing in the plan.  
 The senior bondholders object to provisions in the plan
that carve out up to $26.6 million through 2019 that the
Monorail can use for working capital, capital improvements or
otherwise. The bondholders believe the money belongs to them.  
 The bondholders also object to how the plan cuts off their
right to realize any increase in the value of the project.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell ruled in April that
the Monorail is not a municipality and therefore can reorganize
in Chapter 11. For a discussion of Markell’s ruling, click here
for the April 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Monorail, a nonprofit corporation, began operation in
2004. It built a 3.9-mile driverless transportation system
running behind the Las Vegas Strip to the convention center.
Revenue was never enough to service debt.  
 Making seven stops, the monorail takes 15 minutes for the
entire trip. It winds behind hotels and casinos on the east side
of the Strip. There were plans for extending the monorail to the
airport.  
 The case is In re Las Vegas Monorail Co., 10-10464, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 General Growth Settles with Hughes for $230 Million  
   General Growth Properties Inc . negotiated a $230 million
settlement with former investors in Hughes Corp. General Growth
will pay $10 million cash, with the remainder in cash or stock
of the reorganized shopping mall owner, the company said in a
statement this morning.  
 General Growth has the right under the settlement to elect
whether the $220 million will be in cash or stock. The
settlement heads off a hearing that would have been held Sept.
23 where the bankruptcy judge was to decide whether the Hughes
investors should have been treated like creditors or
shareholders. The confirmation hearing for General Growth’s plan
is scheduled for Oct. 21.  
 General Growth said the Hughes settlement is one of the
“last remaining material issues impacting the capital
structure.” The Hughes investors are to be paid “shortly
after” General Growth emerges from reorganization, the
statement said.  
 Hughes Corp. owned a 22,500-acre master planned community
outside Las Vegas named Summerlin. Some of the investors include
heirs of the late Howard Hughes. In early August the bankruptcy
judge required the parties to arbitrate some of the economic
issues underlying the claim.  
 Creditors of General Growth’s four top-tier companies are
to receive full payment under the Chapter 11 plan. The plan
preserves some of the stock for existing shareholders. The plan
is financed in part with an $8.55 billion debt and equity
commitment from a group led by  Brookfield Asset Management Inc .
General Growth’s property-owning subsidiaries already confirmed
Chapter 11 plans paying their creditors in full.  
 General Growth intends to emerge from reorganization in
October and remain the second-largest mall owner in the U.S.
with 180 properties in 43 states.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  
 Lehman Cash Grows to $19.8 Billion at End of August  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. had $19.8 billion in cash at
the end of August, the holding company for the liquidating
broker said in a monthly operating report filed with the
bankruptcy court on Sept. 17. Cash grew about $535 million
during the month.  
 Cash receipts in the month were $1.85 billion.  
 Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. led the Lehman
companies with $7.37 billion in cash. In second place was Lehman
Commercial Paper Inc. with $3.52 billion, followed by the
holding company with $2.36 billion.  
 Professional fees since the case began now total $961.2
million, including $44.6 million in August.  
 Alvarez & Marsal LLC, the financial advisers, billed $16.4
million in August, bringing the total since September 2008 to
$342.4 million. The fees for Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, chief
bankruptcy counsel, now total $220.9 million, including $8.6
million in June. Attorneys for the official creditors’ committee
from Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP have been paid $69.3
million, including $8.2 million in August.  
 The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment-banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008 in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Meruelo Maddux Ordered to Retract Inaccurate Release  
 Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc. was quickly slapped down by
the bankruptcy judge after the official creditors’ committee
accused the Los Angeles-based developer and manager of
commercial and multi-family residential property of issuing a
press release that the committee characterized as “inaccurate
and materially misleading.”  
 The company issued another press release on Sept. 17 saying
that the bankruptcy judge “required that the [prior] press
release be retracted in its entirety.” Meruelo Maddox said it
will issue another statement in a form approved by the
bankruptcy judge.  
 The committee contended that the original Sept. 9 release
was an “improper and inaccurate solicitation” of votes on a
plan before a disclosure statement is approved.  
 Creditors may have the opportunity to vote on three
competing plans. One is by the company and another is from
lenders Legendary Investors Group No. 1 LLC and East West Bank.
The committee is recommending that creditors’ turn down the
company plan.  
 Another plan is from existing shareholders Charlestown
Capital Advisors LLC and Hartland Asset Management Corp. The
creditors’ committee previously said that the shareholders’ plan
would give the reorganized company more liquidity from a $30
million cash infusion at confirmation.  
 The bankruptcy court in Woodland Hills,  California , began
allowing other plans in May. The Chapter 11 petition filed in
March 2009 listed assets of $682 million against debt totaling
$342 million.  
 The case is In re  Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc ., 09-13356,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Woodland
Hills).  
 Tronox Has Approval for Backstopped $185 Million Offering  
 Tronox Inc., the world’s third-largest producer of the
white pigment titanium dioxide, received approval from the
bankruptcy judge on Sept. 17 for a revised agreement assuring
the sale of $185 million in equity to provide part of the
financing for a reorganization plan.  
 The judge will hold another hearing on Sept. 23 for
approval of the disclosure statement explaining the plan.  
 Originally, Tronox was proposing a backstopped $170 million
stock offering. Objecting shareholders argued that the fee for
the backstop was $32 million or more. The backstop agreement was
revised when a competing agreement surfaced for $185 million.  
 The revised agreement, providing a $185 million backstop,
includes an 8 percent fee which the bankruptcy judge said was
market rate. To read Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click
here.  
 There is a competing reorganization plan for Tronox
proposed by the official shareholders’ committee. To read about
the equity committee’s plan and Tronox’s plan, click here for
the Sept. 7 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For details on Tronox’s
plan, click here for the Sept. 2 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Chapter 11 petition by Tronox in January 2009 listed
assets of $1.56 billion against debt totaling $1.22 billion.
Debt includes $213 million on a secured term loan and revolving
credit, $350 million in 9.5 percent senior notes, and a $40.7
million accounts receivable securitization facility. Tronox’s
products are used in paints, coatings, plastics, paper and
consumer products. The operations outside of the U.S. did not
file.  
 The case is In re  Tronox Inc ., 09-10156, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Orleans Homebuilder Committee Not on Board with Plan  
 The creditors’ committee for  Orleans Homebuilders Inc .
hasn’t come to terms yet on a reorganization plan although the
hearing for approval of the explanatory disclosure statement is
scheduled for Sept. 23.  
 Orleans, a builder of homes and condominiums in seven
states, filed a plan in August giving stock and new secured debt
to revolving credit lenders owed $234 million. Unsecured
creditors are slated to receive lawsuit recoveries and share in
proceeds from sales of properties after secured debt is paid.  
 The committee objects to releases being given to insiders
and likewise doesn’t like what it claims is “profit margin”
the company will keep from property sales.  
 The draft disclosure statement currently on file has blank
spaces where creditors in all classes eventually will be told
their predicted percentage recoveries.  
 Orleans said it worked out the plan with holders of more
than 80 percent of the secured debt. The plan reduces debt from
more than $400 million to less than $200 million, the company
said in a statement.  
 Orleans originally intended to sell the business for $170
million to rival homebuilder  NVR Inc . Orleans dropped the sale
in favor of a plan where lenders would take ownership. NVR sued
for breach of contract.  
 The Chapter 11 filing on March 1 by Bensalem, Pennsylvania-
based Orleans resulted from the maturity of the revolving credit
in February. Approximately $325 million was owing to the banks
at maturity, not including $15 million on letters of credit. The
March 31 balance sheet listed assets of $591 million against
total liabilities of $560 million.  
 The case is In re Orleans Homebuilders Inc., 10-10684, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Watch List  
 Graceway Pharmaceuticals Misses Interest on 2nd Lien  
 Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC didn’t make an Aug. 31
interest payment on $330 million in second-lien debt, according
to a report from  Standard & Poor’s .  
 Graceway’s patent on the drug Aldera expired in February.
The Bristol, Tennessee-based company was unable to block the
introduction of generic competitors. Graceway derived 80 percent
of income from Aldera in 2008.  
 Generic competition led to “sharply declining” sales, S&P
said.  
 Aldera is used to treat skin diseases such as external
genital warts.  
 Statistics  
 Claim Trading Up in Number of Names, Down in Amount  
 The total dollar value in trading of claims against
bankrupt companies is declining now that  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc . has been in Chapter 11 for two years. With less
interest in Lehman, claims traders are swapping debt in more
companies, according to data compiled from court records by
SecondMarket Inc.  
 The face value of traded claims in August was $2.65
billion, compared with $12.7 billion in July, SecondMarket
reported. August trades exceeded June’s $2.14 billion. Most of
the decline in the face value of claims is due to Lehman, said
SecondMarket, which calls itself the largest  secondary market 
for illiquid assets.  
 With the slowdown in Lehman trading, activity is picking up
elsewhere. August had trading for 61 companies, compared with
the monthly average of 55 over the last year, SecondMarket said.  
 Claims against the Lehman holding company and broker were
responsible for $1.93 billion of August’s $2.65 billion in
trades. For the last year, trading in claims against the Lehman
broker and holding company totaled more than $31 billion.  
 With almost 2,800 transactions in the last year, claims
against  Smurfit-Stone Container Corp . were the most actively
traded in number. The Lehman companies were in second place with
1,937 trades.  
 Claims against the Lehman broker are trading in the high
single digits to the low teens, SecondMarket said. Pricing for
the Lehman holding company is in the mid to high teens. The
highest prices, in the mid-to high 40s, are for Lehman Brothers
International Europe and Lehman Brothers Commodity Services.
Lehman Brothers Special Funding is pricing in the high 30s to
low 40s, while Lehman Commercial Paper is in the low to mid-30s.  
 New Filing  
 Sheraton St. Louis City Center Files in Chapter 11  
 The owner of the  Sheraton St. Louis City Center Hotel and
Suites  on South 14th Street in St. Louis filed for Chapter 11
protection on Sept. 15 in the hometown.  
 The hotel is in a landmark building dating from 1929. Court
papers don’t give a reason for the filing.  
 The hotel is subject to a mortgage in the original amount
of $27 million, according to a court filing. The mortgage is
currently collateral for a pool of mortgage-backed securities.  
 The case is In re Breckenridge Edison Development LC, 10-
50558, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Missouri (St.
Louis).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers, Philly Papers, Verizon-Idearc: Audio  
 The potentially embarrassing transcript from a  Texas
Rangers  chambers conference, the conundrum facing secured
lenders to  Philadelphia Newspapers LLC , and the fraudulent
transfer suit against  Verizon Communications Inc . are covered in
the new bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Tousa’s Cash Slips to $473.5 Million in August  
 Liquidating homebuilder  Tousa Inc . filed an operating
report for August showing a $473.5 million cash balance at the
month’s end. Cash shrank by $2.1 million in the month. Revenue
was less than $1.5 million. Cash was $486 million at the end of
May.  
 There will be an Oct. 27 hearing for approval of the
disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan filed in
July. For a rundown on the plan, click here for the July 20
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The plan assumes appellate courts
uphold a judgment the committee won in October where the
bankruptcy judge ruled that a bailout and refinancing in mid-
2007 of a joint venture in Transeastern Properties Inc. resulted
in fraudulent transfers. The appeal will be argued in October in
U.S. District Court.  
 Tousa filed for bankruptcy reorganization in January 2008.
The Hollywood, Florida-based company listed assets of $2.1
billion against debt totaling $2 billion. At the outset of the
reorganization it was 67 percent-owned by  Technical Olympic SA .  
 The case is In re Tousa Inc., 08-10928, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  
 Dillard’s Wins Dismissal of Highland Mall Chapter 11  
 Department-store operator  Dillard’s Inc . prevailed on the
motion it filed in late July for dismissal of the Chapter 11
reorganization begun in May by the owner of the  Highland Mall  in
Austin, Texas. The bankruptcy judge signed an order last week
dismissing the case “without prejudice.” Dillard’s said that
the shopping center owner has few creditors and contended that
Chapter 11 was being used impermissibly as a litigation tactic.
The Chapter 11 case stopped Little Rock, Arkansas-based
Dillard’s from terminating the lease.  
 Highland Mall, opened in 1971, was the first enclosed, air-
conditioned mall in Austin. It is owned by a pass-through trust
for which Wells Fargo Bank NA serves as trustee. The owner is an
affiliate of a lender that made a $71 million loan for the
property in 2001.  
 The case is In re JPMCC 2002-CIBC4 Highland Retail LLC, 10-
11331, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  
 Bids Received for Bear Island, White Birch Auction  
 Bear Island Paper Co. and its Canadian parent White Birch
Paper Co. announced that they received bids for the auction
taking place tomorrow. Details on the offers weren’t provided.
The initial bid of $90 million in cash comes from affiliates of
Black Diamond Capital Management LLC,  Credit Suisse Group AG  and
Caspian Capital Advisors LLC. They hold 65 percent of the first-
lien debt. The hearing for approval of the sale will take place
Sept. 24 in  Canada  and Sept. 30 in the U.S.  
 Based in Nova Scotia, White Birch and U.S. subsidiaries
filed for reorganization simultaneously in the U.S. and Canada
in February. White Birch is the second-largest newsprint maker
in North America.  
 Secured liabilities include $438 million on a first-lien
term loan, $104 million on a second-lien term loan, $50 million
on an asset-backed revolving credit, and $51.5 million on swap
agreements. Trade suppliers are owed $9.5 million.  
 The companies had $667 million in sales during 2009, with
$125 million attributable to Bear Island. White Birch has three
pulp and paper mills in Quebec. The Bear Island plant is in
Ashland, Virginia. White Birch is controlled by Brant-Allen
Industries, according to Bloomberg Data.  
 The case is In re Bear Island Paper Co. LLC, 10-31202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  
 Downgrade  
 Aircraft Component Maker Synchronous Lowered to Caa  
 Synchronous Aerospace Group, a manufacturer of structural
components for commercial and military aircraft, was downgraded
one notch on Sept. 17 to a Caa1 corporate rating by Moody’s
Investors Service.  
 The Santa Ana, California-based company was acquired in
August 2007 when Littlejohn & Co. took a majority interest.  
 Bank Failures  
 Six Bank Failures Bring Year’s to Total to 125  
 Six banks in four states were closed by regulators on Sept.
17, bringing total bank failures for the year to 25.  
 The failed banks were in Georgia, New Jersey, Ohio and
Wisconsin. They cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. $347.6
million.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 There were 140 bank failures in 2009, five times more than
2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Bankrupt’s Fraud Prevents Trustee From Collecting Judgment  
 A trustee was precluded from collecting a $1 million
judgment in favor of the bankrupt following a Sept. 16 ruling by
Chief Judge Edith H. Jones of the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans.  
 The case involved a fireman who filed bankruptcy after he
obtained judgment in excess of $1 million against the city which
had been his employer. He repeatedly failed to disclose the
judgment in his bankruptcy papers.  
 The failure to disclose the judgment became known only
after the judgment was affirmed in the Court of Appeals and
remanded to recalculate damages. Later, the bankruptcy judge
revoked the bankrupt’s discharge.  
 The bankruptcy trustee sought to collect the judgment. In
district court, the judge created a novel remedy where the
trustee would have been allowed to collect enough to pay
creditors in the bankruptcy case, with the remainder returned to
the city.  
 On appeal, Jones reversed and allowed neither the trustee
nor the bankrupt to collect anything.  
 Jones said it was not proper to “distinguish the debtor’s
conduct from the trustee in applying judicial estoppel.”
Without citing case-law authority, Jones said that the trustee
“succeeds to the debtor’s claim with all its attributes,”
including the “potential for judicial estoppel.”  
 Jones said that the “balance of harm” prohibited the
trustee from collecting even on behalf of creditors. She noted
how there were few creditors, and most of the money would have
gone to lawyers whose fees were made larger by the bankrupt’s
deception. Jones said that equity should not permit a result
that would be “for the primary benefit of attorneys.”  
 The case is  Reed v. City of Arlington, 08-11098, 5th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 Cramdown Possible Even Absent Market for Property  
 A district judge in Las Vegas grappled with the question of
whether a company can cram down a plan on a secured lender when
there is no current market for the property.  
 The case involved a company that owed more than $17 million
on a mortgage secured by 30 acres of undeveloped land in
Henderson Nevada. Using cramdown, the bankruptcy judge in Las
Vegas confirmed a plan over the “no” vote of the lender.  
 The plan provided that interest would accrue at the 9.5
percent contract rate for three years. If the lender wasn’t
previously paid in full by a sale or refinancing, the new note
would come due in three years. By maturity, the loan and
interest would total about $21 million.  
 On appeal, U.S. District Judge Philip M. Pro ruled that the
bankruptcy judge didn’t make clearly erroneous findings of fact
when he concluded the property was intrinsically worth enough to
cover the debt at maturity with a cushion. The bankruptcy judge
admitted there was no market for the land at the time of
confirmation.  
 Pro also sided with the bankruptcy judge by ruling that the
lack of a market doesn’t preclude the use of cramdown.
Otherwise, Pro said, “a plan would not be capable of
confirmation when things are at their worst, which is not the
intent of the Bankruptcy Code.”  
 Pro found fault with the bankruptcy judge in deciding
whether the plan properly utilized one of the alternatives
allowing cramdown. Full cash payment after three years doesn’t
satisfy the first alternative, which permits cramdown if the
bankrupt makes deferred cash payments.  
 The second alternative, a sale, wasn’t applicable, so Pro
looked at the third alternative, so-called indubitable
equivalent.  
 Pro said that the bankruptcy judge hadn’t made a finding
about whether the plan provided the indubitable equivalent of
the value of the claim. He therefore sent the case back to the
bankruptcy court to decide if the plan could be confirmed.  
 The case is East West Bank v. Ravello Landing, 09-02224,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 Filing Notice Insufficient to Save Reclamation Claim  
 A supplier must do more than file a timely reclamation
demand to preserve reclamation rights, a U.S. district judge in
Richmond, Virginia ruled on Sept. 3 in upholding a decision by
the bankruptcy judge in the liquidation of  Circuit City Stores
Inc .  
 The supplier, Paramount Home Entertainment Inc., filed a
notice immediately after the Circuit City Chapter 11 filing
demanding the return of $11.6 million in goods delivered within
45 days of bankruptcy.  
 Paramount didn’t object to financing for the Chapter 11
case which was secured by all Circuit City assets, including
inventory. Paramount likewise didn’t object when Circuit City
sought authority to liquidate all stores in going-out-of-
business sales. By the time Paramount objected, there was no
inventory left.  
 The bankruptcy judge ruled that Paramount had only a
general unsecured claim. Chief U.S. District Judge James R. Spencer upheld the bankruptcy judge.  
 Citing an opinion from the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Cincinnati with approval, Spencer said a “reclaiming seller
must diligently assert its rights.” He said that once Paramount
“learned that Circuit City planned to use the goods in
connection with the post-petition DIP financing facility, it
should have objected.” “To make matters worse,” he added,
“Paramount then failed to object to Circuit City’s liquidation
of its entire inventory.”  
 By requiring reclamation claimants to file objections to
financing or seek modification of the automatic stay, Spencer
believes the bankruptcy court will ultimately be faced with less
litigation.  
 The bankruptcy judge also concluded that secured lenders
with liens on inventory rendered Paramount’s claim unsecured
because the inventory wouldn’t pay lenders in full. The
bankruptcy court ruled that 2005 amendments to bankruptcy law
didn’t create a separate federal claim for reclamation
creditors.  
 The case is Paramount Home Entertainment Inc. v. Circuit
City Stores Inc., 10-316, U.S. District Court,, Eastern District
of Virginia (Richmond).  
 Separated Spouses Must Combine Income in Chapter 13  
 When a married couple file a joint Chapter 13 petition,
they must aggregate their incomes even though they live
separately, the U.S. Court of Appeals in St. Louis ruled on
Sept. 3.  
 The Eighth Circuit said the result was commanded by the
plain language of Section 101(10A)(A) which says that currently
monthly income in a joint case includes income for the debtor
and the debtor’s spouse.  
 Consequently, the bankrupts were required to propose a plan
paying creditors over five years rather than three years.  
 The case is Harman v. Fink (In re Harman), 8th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (St. Louis).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        