-- Moody's to Raise Rating Fees to Offset New Rule Costs, Piper Jaffray Says
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-09-20T16:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/moody-s-to-hike-rating-fees-to-offset-new-rule-costs-piper-jaffray-says.html

          
          
             Moody’s Corp.  plans to raise prices
to grade debt by about 5 percent to offset increased regulatory
and compliance costs, according to  Piper Jaffray & Co.   
 Moody’s will increase fees in the “mid-single-digit
range,” Piper Jaffray’s  Peter Appert  wrote today in a note to
clients, after the San Francisco-based analyst met with Chief
Executive Officer  Raymond McDaniel  and Chief Financial Officer
 Linda Huber . A 5 percent price increase would raise about $67
million in revenue for Moody’s, the analyst said.  
 The ratings company may raise fees as borrowers seek to
refinance as much as $6 trillion in debt over the next five
years. Moody’s expects $10 million to $15 million in increased
regulatory costs after passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in July,
which contains changes to how credit ratings companies can
operate.  
 “Ironically, higher compliance costs and a tighter
regulatory environment likely further cement the dominant
positions” of Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s in the ratings
industry as smaller players find it difficult to manage these
requirements, Appert said.  
 S&P, a unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. , expects $16 million in new
costs related to the legislation, Appert said. Both ratings
companies are based in New York.  
 Moody’s spokesman  Michael Adler  couldn’t immediately
comment on the note.  
 Regulation Overhaul  
 There is “strong investor appetite for debt securities”
right now as low  interest rates  and narrow differences in the
price to buy and sell bonds are pushing demand for investment-
grade and high-yield issuance, Appert said. Refinancing needs of
$5 trillion to $6 trillion in debt bode well for the stocks,
which he rates as “overweight.”  
 Ratings companies Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch Ratings have
faced congressional and state-regulator scrutiny after they
assigned top marks to U.S. subprime-mortgage bonds just before
that market collapsed in 2007.  
 The U.S. financial-regulation overhaul enacted July 21 led
ratings companies to tell Wall Street that they will no longer
let underwriters use ratings in asset-backed bond-registration
statements because of increased risk of being sued. The new
rules eliminated credit-rating companies’ shield from lawsuits
when underwriters include their assessments in documents used to
sell debt.  
 The  Securities and Exchange Commission  said two days later
that companies could omit ratings from regulatory documents for
six months to give market participants a transition period to
comply with new laws.  
 Biggest Threat  
 Moody’s  share price  has declined 6.7 percent this year
through Sept. 17 while McGraw-Hill has  lost  8.8 percent. Moody’s
rose 76 cents, or 3 percent, to $25.76 as of 11 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. McGraw Hill gained 41 cents,
or 1.3 percent, to $30.96.  
 The biggest threat to Moody’s and other raters’ business
from the new financial rules is a lowered threshold in liability
standards they face against investors who sue the firms, Appert
said in July.  
 Another effect of the new laws is a mandate for the removal
from all government rules and regulations of any references to
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, a
designation given to credit-rating companies by the SEC,
according to Appert.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        