-- Cameron's `On Message' Coalition Aids U.K. Aaa Credit Rating, Moody's Says
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-09-20T11:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/moody-s-says-britain-s-aaa-credit-rating-to-withstand-economic-challenges.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government has shown the commitment needed for the U.K. to keep
its Aaa credit rating even though the coalition parties aren’t
“natural bedfellows,” Moody’s Investors Service analyst
 Kenneth Orchard  said.  
 “The commitment to fiscal consolidation and putting debt
on a declining path are important” to supporting the rating,
Orchard said in an interview today after Moody’s affirmed the
U.K.’s top debt grade. “The coalition has been very tight, very
on message and cooperating very well. Everything they’re doing
and saying so far is consistent with the Aaa.”  
 Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  will tell his Liberal
Democrat party today that there’s no alternative to spending and
welfare cuts, rejecting accusations he “sold out” by forming a
government with Cameron’s Conservatives. Orchard said a
deterioration in the economy could undermine the coalition and
jeopardize its commitment to spending cuts.  
 “There are political risks associated with such a large
fiscal consolidation package, and on top of that you have two
parties in a coalition government that aren’t natural
bedfellows,” he said. “Those differences could cause problems
in the event that the economy slows down significantly. If the
economy fails to grow over the next few years, it will be very
difficult for the government to stick with the fiscal
consolidation program.”  
 Standard & Poor’s has a negative outlook on its top AAA
rating for the U.K., indicating that it’s more likely to lower
the grade. Fitch Ratings has a AAA rating with a stable outlook.  
 Coalition Government  
 The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government, the
first power-sharing agreement since the end of World War II, is
preparing to cut government department budgets by a quarter on
average after stepping up the pace of deficit reduction. Details
of the plans are due on Oct. 20.  
 Moody’s said in a statement today that Britain can meet the
challenges to its Aaa rating, even after “serious long-term
damage” to the government’s finances caused by the global
crisis. The grade retains a stable outlook.  
 “The country’s economic outlook is also more challenging
because private sector deleveraging, the uncertain state of the
financial sector and slower growth in the U.K.’s main trading
partners are not conducive to allowing GDP growth to return
to its pre-crisis trend rate,” Orchard said in a statement.  
 Gross domestic product rose 1.2 percent in the second
quarter, the most since 2001. Data suggest a slower pace of
growth in the third quarter. In August, claims for unemployment
benefits rose and retail sales dropped for the first time since
January.  
 Growth Outlook  
 “The economy is sufficiently robust to grow at a moderate
rate,” Orchard said in the interview. “It’s entirely possible
that we see some negative quarters of growth in the next couple
of years. That doesn’t throw off the whole medium-term
outlook.”  
 Moody’s forecasts gross domestic product to expand in a
range of about 1.5 percent to 3 percent per year over the next
four to five years, Orchard said.  
 Clegg, speaking at his party’s annual conference in
Liverpool, will stress that the party is making a liberal
mark on government policy without losing its identity and will
work with Conservatives to “put the country on a better path.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        