-- Mortgage Security Trading Jumps in U.S. as Prices Hover Near Two-Year High
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-09-20T17:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/mortgage-security-trading-jumps-in-u-s-as-prices-hover-near-two-year-high.html

          
          
             U.S. mortgage bonds without
government backing held near the highest prices in two years
last week even as sales soared to the most in more than a month.  
 Dealers asked for bids on about $7 billion of the
securities, up from less than $2 billion the previous week as
“investors sought to take profits or clean up their balance
sheets,” according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  
 “Pricing remained more or less flat through the heavy
volume, indicating that there is strength at these levels,” the
New York-based analysts led by  Edward Reardon  and  John Sim  wrote
in a Sept. 17 report.  
 The $1.4 trillion  market  for so-called non-agency mortgage
securities has mostly gained or been little changed this year
even when economic or housing reports were worse than expected
by analysts in Bloomberg News surveys. Investors including TCW
Group Inc.’s  Bryan Whalen  say values remain low enough to
protect against renewed declines in either property prices or
the job market.  
 Non-agency mortgage bonds lack guarantees from government-
supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or the federal agency
Ginnie Mae.  
 “Even at today’s levels, these bonds could still return a
positive yield for clients even if we slip into a double-dip
recession or even depression,” Whalen, co-head of the mortgage-
bond group at Los Angeles-based TCW said in a Sept. 15 interview
on Bloomberg Television. The firm oversees about $115 billion.  
 Last year, prices for some of the debt almost doubled from
record lows reached mostly in March 2009 amid the deepest U.S.
 housing crash  and worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  
 Projected Losses  
 The bonds are generally trading near two-year highs because
they offer yields after projected losses of 6 percent to 10
percent, the JPMorgan analysts said. That compares with  average 
yields on global high-yield corporate bonds, which don’t include
loss forecasts, of about 8 percent, they said.  
 “Pent-up demand from the summer for what remain the most
attractive risk-adjusted yields” supported non-agency prices
last week, Barclays Capital analysts wrote in a Sept. 17 report.  
 “There could start to be some weakness in the near term,
especially if there is a round of profit-taking going into year-
end,” they said.  
 The New York-based analysts led by  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  said
they expect additional gains by year-end “if technical
pressures are held in abeyance.”  
 Alt-A Prices  
 Typical prices for the most-senior securities backed by so-
called Alt-A  mortgages  hovered at about 63 cents on the dollar
last week for bonds in which the underlying mortgages remain at
a fixed interest rate for homeowners for a few years. Prices for
those securities climbed 3 cents from three months earlier,
according to Barclays data.  
 The debt, backed by loans that often didn’t require
borrowers to document their incomes or live in the properties
they purchased, rallied from a record low of 35 cents on the
dollar in March 2009. The bonds traded at 100 cents on the
dollar in 2007.  
 Senior bonds backed by option adjustable-rate mortgages
typically fetched 59 cents on the dollar last week, also down
from about 100 cents in 2007. Three months ago they sold for 56
cents on the dollar, up from a low of 33 cents in March 2009,
the data show.  
 Option ARMs allow borrowers to pay less than the interest
they owe in a given month and add that amount to the loan’s
principal. Homeowners that make that choice face potential
payment increases later on.  
 Jumbo Mortgages  
 Fixed-rate jumbo-mortgage bonds have climbed to about 89
cents on the dollar, up from 86 cents three months ago and 63
cents in March 2009, the data show. Mortgages backing those
securities have balances that exceed the amount government-
supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are permitted to buy. The
cutoff is $417,000 in most areas and as much as $729,750 in the
nation’s most expensive metropolitan areas.  
 Sept. 14 was last week’s busiest  trading  day for non-agency
bonds, with dealers seeking bids on almost $1.3 billion of the
debt excluding subprime mortgages, according to New York-based
data provider Empirasign Strategies LLC. Buyers purchased 83
percent of the debt offered, according to Empirasign. The day
was the busiest since Aug. 3.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        