-- Mortgage Bonds in Canada Lure Yield Starved U.S. Investors: Canada Credit
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-09-20T16:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/mortgage-bonds-in-canada-lure-yield-starved-u-s-investors-canada-credit.html

          
          
             International investors frustrated
with some of the lowest yields on record for U.S. housing bonds
are turning to Canada for higher returns.  
 Canada Housing Trust sold C$6.25 billion ($6.1 billion) of
five-year bonds last week to yield 24.5 basis points more than
benchmark rates, almost half the 42.5-basis-point spread it paid
to issue comparable debt in June. Non-Canadians took 37 percent
of the sale, versus an average of 25 percent to 30 percent over
the past two years, said  Mark Chamie , Ottawa-based treasurer of
 Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp.   
 At the same time demand is rising for Canada housing bonds,
U.S. Federal Reserve data show the amount of so-called  agency
debt  of borrowers including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac it holds
on behalf of foreign investors and central banks has shrunk by
$35 billion since Aug. 4 to $796 billion. The spread paid by
Canada Housing represents annual interest savings of C$11.3
million, or C$56.5 million over the life of the bonds.  
 “All kinds of new names are becoming interested in Canada
and specifically in housing bonds,”  Douglas Porter , assistant
chief economist at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit,
said by phone from Toronto. “What we’ve seen is spreads come in
quite markedly in recent weeks and months across the credit
spectrum as conditions somewhat normalize.”  
 Relative Yields  
 The yield to maturity on Canada Housing bonds was 2.4
percent last week, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. That compares to Fannie Mae’s most recent five-year
benchmark bonds, which yield 1.71 percent.  U.S. agency debt 
yields 1.27 percent on average, down from 5.44 percent in mid-
2007, just before the start of the global credit crisis.  
 Foreigners bought a net C$5.48 billion of Canadian
 securities  in July, Statistics Canada said today. The buying was
led by C$5.17 billion of bonds, the 19th consecutive monthly net
purchase for such securities. Non-Canadian investors purchased
C$5.39 billion in June, the agency said.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own Canadian corporate bonds instead of government
debt ended on Sept. 17 at 147 basis points, or 1.47 percentage
points, a decline of 1 basis point on the week and the narrowest
since Aug. 30. Spreads on Merrill’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index tightened to 4 basis points to 171.  
 Overall yields for Canada company debt were little changed
at 3.83 percent, compared with 3.57 percent for the broad index.
The difference reached 29 basis points on Sept. 15, the most
since April.  
 Provincial Spreads  
 Provincial bonds’ relative yields were unchanged last week
at 56 basis points. The debt of the 10 Canadian provinces, with
about C$277 billion outstanding, has lost 0.6 percent in
September, compared with losses of 0.9 percent for governments
and 0.8 percent for corporates.  
 The yield on Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond
fell 4 basis points last week to 2.93 percent, as the price of
the 3.5 percent security climbed 35 cents to C$104.76. The  yield 
is up from 2.745 percent on Aug. 31, the lowest level since
March 2009. The bond yields about 20 basis points more than the
similar U.S. Treasury, down from 31 basis points at the end of
last month.  
 The yield advantage of Canadian 2-year bonds over
equivalent-maturity Treasuries stood at 100 basis points on
Sept. 17, from 104 basis points the day before, which was the
widest since July 15. The gap has expanded on speculation the
Bank of Canada may keep raising interest rates while the Fed
keeps its target rate costs unchanged.  
 Inflation Accelerates  
 The cost of living likely increased last month, Statistics
Canada may say tomorrow. The agency’s Consumer Price Index rose
1.9 percent in August from a year ago, the most since January
and compared with July’s 1.8 percent gain, according to the
median of 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 International investors accounted for about 37 percent of a
sale of 10-year mortgage bonds by Canada Housing last month, the
highest percentage since the agency began selling securities of
that maturity in November 2008.  
 “This represents an ongoing improvement in markets
overall, but also, we believe it’s due to the increased demand
for high-quality Canadian dollar investments,” Chamie said
Sept. 16 via e-mail.  
 Non-Canadians bought a net C$6.96 billion of Canadian  bonds 
in June, the 18th straight month they purchased more bonds than
they sold, the agency  said . That’s the longest streak since at
least 1988. The last time foreigners sold more of the nation’s
bonds than they bought was in December 2008.  
 Investors in the U.S. accounted for 23 percent of demand
for the debt in last week’s Canada Housing sale. Europeans
represented 4.5 percent of the demand while buyers in Asia and
other locations accounted for 9 percent, Chamie said.  
 Spreads on new five-year Canada Mortgage bond issues have
ranged from a low of 8 basis points in 2005 to 65.5 basis points
in September 2008, Canada Housing Trust data show.  
 “It’s a general increasing appetite for Canadian debt, and
anything that carries a Aaa rating within Canada,” Porter said.
Spreads have tightened in the last several months from levels
that were distorted because of concerns over debt levels in
Europe, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mortgage Bonds Lure Yield Starved U.S. Buyers  
                       
                         
                           Norm Betts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Construction continues on a new home outside Toronto. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Construction continues on a new home outside Toronto. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Russell Napier, a strategist at CLSA Ltd., talks about his bond strategy and the impact of Japan's decision to intervene in the currency markets yesterday.
     He speaks from Hong Kong with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
