-- Stocks, U.S. Futures Gain as U.K. Rating Affirmed; Cotton Rises
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-09-20T12:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/most-asian-stocks-fall-after-three-week-rally-yen-grains-rise-won-drop.html

          
          
             Stocks  rose to a four-month high
and U.S. index futures gained as Moody’s Investors Service said
the U.K.’s Aaa credit rating will withstand economic challenges.
The dollar weakened, gold rallied to a record and cotton climbed
to a 15-year high.  
 The  MSCI World Index  of stocks in 24 developed nations
added 0.3 percent at 8 a.m. in New York, to its highest level
since May 4. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increased 0.5 percent. The yield on the 10-year German bund
jumped 4 basis points to 2.46 percent, the Dollar Index  slipped 
0.3 percent, while Australia’s dollar matched the highest level
in two years against the U.S. currency.  
 Moody’s affirmed its U.K. debt grade today, saying the
country will be able to meet a challenging economic outlook.
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said his country won’t need
European Union financial aid. The U.S. Federal Reserve meets
tomorrow to discuss its rate policy.  
 “The key event of the week may well be tomorrow’s Irish
auctions,”  Jim Reid , a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
wrote in a report. “The Fed on Tuesday will likely attract much
attention, given the outside chance of more quantitative easing
being announced. It seems far more likely to come in November,
but the market will be carefully watching anyway.”  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index  snapped four days of declines to
rally 0.6 percent, and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index jumped 1.1
percent to the highest since April.  BP Plc  climbed 1.6 percent
after saying it permanently sealed its Macondo well in the Gulf
of Mexico. Rio Tinto Group led basic-resource shares higher,
gaining 1.6 percent.  
 Brit Insurance  
 Brit Insurance NV  rose 4.8 percent after Apollo Global
Management teamed up with CVC Capital Partners Ltd. to make a
fourth, sweetened offer for the company. SGS SA, the world’s
biggest goods inspector, rose to a record after the company said
it plans to reach revenue of 8 billion Swiss francs ($7.9
billion) by 2014.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  advanced 0.5
percent. Japanese markets are closed today for a holiday. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing countries advanced
0.4 percent, with benchmark equity gauges in India and the
Philippines rallying more than 1.5 percent.  
 The gain in U.S. futures indicated the  S&P 500  may extend
its third weekly rally. As the Fed’s Open Market Committee
prepares to meet tomorrow, record-low interest rates are stoking
the biggest increase in U.S. share buybacks ever. Corporations
are using debt to pay for buybacks after the average yield on
U.S. investment grade bonds fell to an all-time low of 3.70
percent last month, data from London-based Barclays Plc show.  
 Irish Yields  
 The yield on the Irish 10-year security climbed 4 basis
points to 6.46 percent, leaving the difference in yield, or
spread, with benchmark bunds to 391 from 387 basis points last
week. The spread and credit default swaps for Irish debt jumped
to records at the end of last week on renewed concern the
nation’s lenders may need more aid. Central Bank Governor
 Patrick Honohan  said today that costs related to the country’s
banking system remain “manageable.” Ireland will auction as
much as 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of 2014 and 2018 notes
tomorrow.  
 Portuguese 10-year bond yields rose 14 basis points,
sending the spread with German bunds to a record 375 basis
points.  
 The dollar weakened against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, depreciating 0.4 percent to $1.3096 per euro. The
yen strengthened 0.3 percent to 85.63 against the dollar,
snapping a three-day decline. The so-called Aussie climbed as
much as 1.1 percent to 94.69 U.S. cents central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  signaled policy makers need to resume raising
interest rates should economic growth pick up.  
 Task Ahead  
 “If downside possibilities do not materialize, the task
ahead is likely to be one of managing a fairly robust upswing,”
 Stevens told  a forum in the regional city of Shepparton in
Victoria state today. “Part of that task will, clearly, fall to
monetary policy.”  
 Gold for immediate delivery rose to as much as $1,283.38 an
ounce and was 0.6 percent higher at $1,281.55. Cotton for
December delivery climbed as high as $1.0198 a pound, the most
since June 1995, on ICE Futures U.S. and was last at $1.0106.
Copper for three-month delivery added 1 percent to $7,798 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. October oil futures,
which expire tomorrow, slipped 7 cents to $73.59 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Most Asian Stocks Fall After Three-Week Rally  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  slid 0.2 percent to 434.20 as of 11:24 a.m. in Hong Kong, with Japanese markets closed for a holiday. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  slid 0.2 percent to 434.20 as of 11:24 a.m. in Hong Kong, with Japanese markets closed for a holiday. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Antonio Garcia Pascual, an economist at Barclays Capital, discusses Ireland's fiscal policies and bank health.
     Pascual speaks from London to Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Milligan, the head of global strategy at Standard Life Investments, talks about his investment plans for equity and coroprate bond markets.
     He speaks from Edinburgh with Judith Bogner on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Eugen Weinberg, an analyst at Commerzbank AG, talks about the outlook for commodities including gold and silver.
     He speaks from Frankfurt with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's 
"On The Move." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Brooks, head of research and investment strategy at ETF Securities Ltd., talks about the sustainability of silver's 24 percent rise this year.
     Brooks speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Todd Martin, equity strategist at Societe Generale, talks about his investment strategy for Asian stocks.
     Asian stocks fell, led by raw-material producers, after an unexpected drop in U.S. consumer confidence. Martin also discusses U.S., Chinese and Indian economies. He talks with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television's "On the Move Asia." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
