-- Most Hedge Funds Should Escape New Swaps Regulation in U.S., ISDA Says
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-09-20T21:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/most-hedge-funds-should-escape-new-u-s-derivatives-regulation-isda-says.html

          
          
             Most hedge funds and money managers
shouldn’t fall under new derivatives rules being written by U.S.
regulators, according to the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association , a trade and lobbying group.  
 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities
and Exchange Commission are responsible for writing the new
rules governing  $615 trillion  in over-the-counter derivatives.
They should find hedge funds and money managers don’t meet the
criteria of a firm that “maintains a substantial position in
swaps,” using leverage that creates “substantial counterparty
exposure,” ISDA said today. That’s how the new law defines the
so-called major swap participant.  
 “Very few, if any, investment funds should qualify,” ISDA
said today in a letter to the CFTC and SEC. Most of the firms
aren’t systemically important to the U.S. economy, aren’t highly
levered and don’t have substantial positions in swaps, the group
said.  
 Congress sought to regulate swaps through the  Dodd-Frank
bill  passed in July after the trades complicated efforts to
solve the financial crisis. In most cases regulators have until
July 2011 to write the new guidelines.  
 ISDA members include the largest swap dealers such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. as well as firms such as China Construction Bank Corp.,
Citadel LLC, Cargill Inc., BP Plc and OAO Gazprombank, according
to a list posted on the group’s website.  
 Defining Exemptions  
 Dodd-Frank exempts certain swaps users such as grain
producers from having to use clearinghouses for their trades as
long as they are hedging commercial risk, such as a move in
wheat prices. ISDA is seeking to define that exemption for
commercial users of swaps to include financial firms.  
 Senators  Christopher Dodd  and  Blanche Lincoln  said in June
that interest-rate derivatives used to hedge exposure for global
manufacturing companies should count as commercial use of the
contracts, ISDA said.  
 “In other words, ‘financial’ risks are ‘commercial
risks,’” ISDA said. “It is important that the definition of
‘commercial risk’ captures the broadest possible forms of
commercial risk.”  
 The transaction costs of using swaps for hedge funds and
money managers would likely increase if clearinghouses are
required because they mandate that collateral be posted daily to
guarantee the transactions. In many cases, collateral costs are
lower or satisfied through other means between a fund and its
bank if no clearinghouse is utilized.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        