-- Over-The-Counter S&P 500 Index Options Will Shift to Clearinghouse in 2011
-- Jeff Kearns
-- 2010-09-20T22:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/over-the-counter-s-p-500-index-options-will-shift-to-clearinghouse-in-2011.html

          
          
             The Options Clearing Corp. plans to
begin processing over-the-counter equity derivatives based on
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  beginning in the middle of 2011,
reducing trading firms’ risks on the securities linked to the
benchmark measure of U.S. stocks.  
 Dealers will be able to clear the contracts on the S&P 500,
S&P MidCap 400 Index and S&P SmallCap 600 Index through Chicago-
based OCC, which handles all exchange-listed U.S. equity
options,  Mike McClain ,  OCC’s  executive vice president of
business development and operations, said in an interview today.
Regulatory approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission
is pending.  
 The move will bring a segment of the over-the-counter
options business into the clearing system for the first time,
reducing the financial risk trading parties face if the other
side defaults, and potentially lowering costs for firms that
transact a large number of contracts at a time. More than $1.1
trillion is directly indexed to the S&P 500 while $4.83  trillion 
in assets are benchmarked to it, according to OCC and S&P.  
 “OCC clearing of OTC options is a meaningful change,”
said  Eric Magac , head of business development at Chicago-based
Gladius Investment Group, a hedge fund focused on derivatives.
“This will allow clients to retain the attractive aspects of
OTC structures, such as being able to tailor the expiration and
strikes exactly to match their needs, while eliminating less-
favorable attributes such as counterparty risk.”  
 Shift to Clearing  
 OCC said for the first time in November that it was
considering expansion into the over-the-counter equity options
market as regulators began promoting the use of clearinghouses.
By acting as the central counterparty to every buy and sell
order they process, a clearinghouse reduces the risk that could
result if a trading firm defaults on its obligation in a
transaction. Clearinghouses are funded by their members, who
must meet capital requirements and pass operational and
technology tests.  
 The OCC would like to clear “all listed lookalike options,
all other index and share options,” McClain said.  
 The OCC plans to use its existing guarantee fund to cover
defaults in over-the-counter trades. It will likely  charge  a
similar amount for OTC trades as for listed or exchange-traded
contracts, the OCC said.  
 Options are derivatives, or securities that derive their
value from an underlying asset, and can be used to protect
against a decline or speculate on the future value of an asset.  
 $615 Trillion  
 European and U.S. regulators are seeking greater
transparency in the $615 trillion over-the-counter derivatives
market after the demise of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled
markets two years ago. The U.S. Congress completed negotiations
in July to regulate the market for the first time in its 30-year
history, while the European Union earlier this month proposed
measures to put more derivatives trades through clearinghouses.  
 The only exchange that trades options on the S&P 500 is the
Chicago Board Options Exchange, whose exclusive license for that
benchmark and the S&P 100 Index expires in 2018. The products,
which are bought and sold on the floor of the CBOE, will also be
available on the electronic C2 Options Exchange next year,
 William Brodsky , chairman and chief executive officer of CBOE
Holdings Inc., said at a conference in New York on Sept. 14.  
 Payments From S&P  
 CBOE will also be compensated by New York-based McGraw-Hill
Co.’s S&P unit for index options cleared through OCC or any
other agency, Brodsky said.  
 “CBOE and S&P recently agreed that the S&P may license one
or more clearing agencies to clear OTC options based on the S&P
500 Index,” Brodsky said at the conference. “S&P will
compensate CBOE for transactions cleared under such a license
based on the notional value of the transactions.”  Gail Osten , a
CBOE spokeswoman, said she couldn’t provide more information
about the arrangement.  
 McClain said dealers that shift to OCC clearing for over-
the-counter  S&P 500 options  will free up money they previously
had to set aside to cover margin payments.  
 When OCC brokerage members that are also dealers in over-
the-counter options products buy or sell contracts away from
exchanges, they often hedge those positions by trading on public
venues, McClain said. Clearing the products in the same place
enables the OCC to “margin the products together and give them
relief,” he added. “It’s more capital efficient.” The OCC has
about 120 clearing members.  
 Variance Swaps  
 “We don’t want to stop” with the S&P 500-related
products, McClain said. “We’re interested in variance swaps and
total-return swaps.”  
 Variance swaps are over-the-counter products whose
profitability is based on the volatility experienced by an index
or stock over a set period of time. In a total-return swap, the
economic benefits of owning an asset are transferred from one
party to another in exchange for specified payments.  
 “Listing OTC derivatives is important because it
disseminates real information that’s normally not accessible,”
said  Jason Adler , a managing member of Alphabet Management LLC,
a New York-based hedge fund that specializes in trading listed
and OTC options. “Counterparty risk will decrease because
exchanges will mandate a defined margin based on risk and size
of trade. Another positive is that more players will be able to
trade these instruments because the barrier to entry will be
lower.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        