-- Daniels Will Retire Next Year as Chief Executive of Lloyds Banking Group
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-09-20T15:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/lloyds-says-chief-executive-officer-eric-daniels-plans-to-retire-in-a-year.html

          
          
             Lloyds Banking Group Plc  Chief
Executive Officer  Eric Daniels  said he will step down in the
next 12 months, the third top British banking executive to leave
in as many weeks.  
 Lloyds will form a committee headed by Chairman  Win Bischoff  to consider internal and external candidates from the
U.K. and overseas to replace him, the London-based lender said
in a statement today. The most likely successors include
Nationwide CEO  Graham Beale  and HSBC Holdings Plc Chief
Financial Officer,  Douglas Flint , according to BGC Partners Inc.  
 Daniels, 59, led Lloyds’ takeover of HBOS Plc in September
2008, a purchase that forced the lender to seek a 17 billion-
pound ($27 billion) bailout that left the government with a 41
percent stake in the bank. Lloyds is the third of Britain’s four
biggest banks to announce a change in leadership after Barclays
Plc CEO  John Varley  and HSBC Chairman  Stephen Green  said they
would step down this month.  
 “Shareholders may view Eric Daniels as responsible for the
HBOS acquisition,” said  Shailesh Raikundlia , a London-based
analyst at MF Global Securities Ltd. with a “sell” rating on
the stock. “They’re looking for a clean slate.”  
 The  shares  jumped 2.8 percent to 77.41 pence as of the 4.30
p.m. close of trading in London today, valuing the company at
52.8 billion pounds. The shares have gained 52 percent this
year, making them the second-best performing U.K.  bank stock 
after Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 No ‘Lame Duck’  
 The stock is still down 9 percent from when Daniels became
CEO in June 2003. He will remain as CEO until a successor is
found, Bischoff, 69, told reporters on a conference call today.  
 “We don’t have any shortlist yet, this is obviously very
recent,” he said. “There is no question of a lame duck.”  
 The HBOS purchase, brokered by Gordon Brown’s government at
the height of the credit crisis, was Daniels’s biggest. All of
his previous acquisitions were valued at less than $250 million,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 HBOS racked up 20 billion pounds of losses in 2009 alone,
pushing Lloyds into a loss. Lloyds used 11.5 billion pounds of
the government bailout to prop up HBOS. Last month,  Lloyds 
reported a profit for the first time since the HBOS purchase,
posting a proforma pretax profit of 1.6 billion pounds in the
six months to June.  
 Daniels said today he was “very pleased” with the HBOS
purchase, which made Lloyds one of the world’s 10 biggest banks.  
 ‘Momentum Going Forward’  
 “Shareholders and the taxpayer will do very, very well
with their investment in Lloyds,” Daniels told reporters.
“Clearly we have strong momentum going forward.”  
 Lloyds  may now have as much as 9 billion pounds in surplus
capital, according to analysts at UBS AG. The lender raised 13.5
billion pounds in the U.K.’s largest rights offering last year
and international regulators this month gave banks more time
than expected to comply with stiffer capital requirements.  
 A U.K. government-sponsored commission this week begins
taking evidence in its inquiry into the  structure of banking . It
will examine whether lenders’ consumer operations should be
separated from their investment banks to reduce the likelihood
of a repeat of the financial crisis. The committee will also
seek to promote competition in consumer and investment banking
to benefit consumers and businesses, according to the Treasury.  
 “There is a huge amount of unfinished business,” Daniels
said. “We still have a large integration to finish off,” he
added. “Until it is done it is going to require a lot of time
and attention.”  
 Successors  
 Montana-born Daniels joined Citibank in 1975 and worked in
the U.S., South America and Europe before becoming chief
operating officer of Citibank Consumer Bank in 1998. He joined
Lloyds in 2001 as head of U.K. retail banking.  
 Daniels was paid 1.12 million pounds last year, including a
salary of 1 million pounds, according to the bank’s annual
report. He waived his bonus for the year.  
 Lloyds hired JCA Group, a London-based recruitment firm, in
March to draw up a list of candidates to replace Daniels, a
person familiar with the situation said at the time.  
 David Buik , a market analyst at BGC, gave Beale, who heads
the U.K.’s biggest customer-owned lender, and HSBC’s Flint the
shortest odds on succeeding Daniels at 3-1. Other candidates
include  Stuart Gulliver , head of HSBC’s investment bank,  Frits Seegers , Barclays’s former consumer banking chief, and  Gordon Nixon , the CEO of Royal Bank of Canada, according to Buik.  
 HSBC’s Flint and Gulliver declined to comment through
spokesman  Adrian Russell . A spokeswoman for Nationwide was not
immediately available to comment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lloyds Banking Group Plc CEO Eric Daniels  
                       
                         
                           Lloyds Banking Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         loyds Banking Group Plc said group chief executive Eric Daniels has informed the board of his
intention to retire in a year. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     loyds Banking Group Plc said group chief executive Eric Daniels has informed the board of his
intention to retire in a year. Source:Lloyds Banking Group via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lloyds Chief Eric Daniels to Retire Within 12 Months  
                       
                         
                           Frantzesco Kangaris/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A Lloyds TSB sign hangs from a branch near a traffic light. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Lloyds TSB sign hangs from a branch near a traffic light. Photographer: Frantzesco Kangaris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lloyds Chief Eric Daniels to Retire Within 12 Months  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A pedestrian walks past the Lloyds Banking Group Plc.company headquarters. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A pedestrian walks past the Lloyds Banking Group Plc.company headquarters. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
