-- Pershing, Winthrop Seek Delay of Manhattan's Stuyvesant Town Foreclosure
-- Oshrat Carmiel
-- 2010-09-20T16:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/pershing-winthrop-ask-to-delay-foreclosure-of-manhattan-s-stuyvesant-town.html

          
          
             Pershing Square Capital Management
LP and Winthrop Realty Trust sought a court order halting the
lender foreclosure of New York City’s Stuyvesant Town Peter
Cooper Village apartment complex.  
 Pershing, a hedge fund run by  William Ackman , and Winthrop
filed a request today with a state appeals court in Manhattan
seeking to stay the Oct. 4 foreclosure planned by senior debt
holders, said  Edward Weisfelner , a lawyer for Pershing and
Winthrop, in an interview. The firms are seeking to control the
residential complex on Manhattan’s east side.  
 Pershing and Winthrop, both junior debt holders, last week
lost a bid to pursue their own foreclosure sale. A lower court
judge issued a preliminary injunction saying they may only
proceed if they first pay senior creditors the $3.67 billion
that they are owed under the first mortgage.  
 “The trial court based its decision on a mistaken
interpretation of the governing contract,” according to the
court documents filed by Winthrop and Pershing’s joint venture,
PSW NYC LLC.  
 If the court grants a stay, Pershing and Winthrop will
still have to argue the merits of their appeal. Today’s motion
includes a bid for an expedited appeal. Senior lenders will
respond to the appeal on Sept. 24 and the appeals court will
decide by Sept. 29 whether to stay the planned foreclosure,
lawyers for both sides said today.  
 ‘Accelerated’ Loan  
 Pershing and Winthrop argue that they aren’t obligated to
pay senior lenders in full because those lenders have already
“accelerated” their loan by seeking foreclosure. Junior
lenders are only required to pay senior lenders in full if they
wish to avoid the acceleration of a loan toward foreclosure, the
firms said in court papers.  
 “Allowing the trial court’s ruling to stand will have a
detrimental impact on the entire mezzanine loan industry,”
according to Pershing and Winthrop’s filing. “Mezzanine lenders
have an expectation that they can foreclose on their separate
collateral without being required to fully pay off the related
mortgage loan.”  
 CWCapital Asset Management LLC, the special servicer for
the senior mortgage, is seeking to move forward with its
foreclosure after Stuyvesant Town owner Tishman Speyer
Properties LP defaulted on a $3 billion senior loan and $1.4
billion of mezzanine, or junior, debt. CWCapital’s foreclosure
would wipe out the investment by junior lenders, according to
the filing.  
 Greg Cross , a lawyer for CWCapital, declined to comment.  
 The appeals court case is Bank of America NA v. PSW NYC
LLC, 10-651293, New York State Supreme Court, Appellate
Division, First Department (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York State Supreme Court at 
4817 or  dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net 
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        