-- Pimco Favors Bonds Likely to Withstand Subpar Growth
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-09-20T15:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/pimco-favors-bonds-likely-to-withstand-subpar-growth-update1-.html

          
          
             Pacific Investment Management Co. 
says senior bank bonds, debt from companies that are more
resistant to economic swings and those that may benefit from
growth in emerging markets are “poised to outperform given the
outlook for subpar economic growth in the developed world.”  
 Secured bonds, such as airlines’ enhanced equipment trust
certificates guaranteed by aircraft, and debt of cable and
pipeline companies are an opportunity for investors as growth
slows, government regulation increases and corporations and
consumers de-lever,  Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate bond
portfolios at Pimco, wrote today in a  note  on the firm’s
website. U.S. bank bonds that are higher in the capital
structure may provide “very attractive valuations,” he said.  
 “Investors can find select, high-quality investments that
are actually poised to benefit from reregulation,” Kiesel
wrote. “Investments in companies supported by strong assets
will also likely outperform because weak economic growth in
developed economies could lead to a higher risk of default.”
Pimco, based in Newport Beach, California, is the world’s
biggest bond-fund manager.  
 “Pipelines, being both asset rich and noncyclical, may
therefore be attractive credit investments,” Kiesel said.
“Pimco continues to favor a portfolio of gas and crude oil pipe
operating companies in order to stay positioned close to the
assets.”  
 TransCanada Corp. ’s 6.35 percent junior subordinated
securities due in 2067 have returned 2.71 percent this month,
the best performing bonds in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Gas Distribution Index. The gauge has returned 9.9 percent
this year as of Sept. 17, compared with 9.74 percent for the
overall investment-grade index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        