-- Poland Ready to Take `Brutal' Steps on Foreign Currency Loans, Belka Says
-- Ott Ummelas
-- 2010-09-20T16:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/poland-ready-to-take-brutal-steps-on-foreign-currency-loans-belka-says.html

          
          
             Poland is prepared to use
“brutal” measures to control foreign currency lending to
people who don’t have protection against currency risk, central
bank Governor  Marek Belka  said.  
 Lending in foreign currencies was widespread in Poland and
other eastern European countries before the financial crisis,
with banks offering lower interest rates for loans in Swiss
francs and euros. The cost of repaying loans in Polish zloty or
Hungarian forints soared when the local currencies plunged
during the recession.  
 “This is our biggest headache now,” Belka said today at a
conference in Tallinn, Estonia. “We are determined to use all
the prudential instruments,” he said, “if necessary intrusive,
brutal, supervision, to basically kill those dangerous business
practices that are promoted by some foreign banks in Poland.”  
 Joining the euro is still a “strategic goal” for Poland,
even as public enthusiasm wanes, Belka said at the event, which
marked Estonia’s preparations to adopt the single currency Jan.
1. In the long-run, Poland needs the euro because it can’t
afford to be “incompletely integrated” in Europe, he said.  
 “Not being integrated currency-wise is very dangerous,”
Belka said. “It is a recipe for imbalances, for different kinds
of developments that we have seen in Estonia and other Baltic
states.  
 Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia are struggling to recover
from the European Union’s deepest recessions after their
economies shrank 20-25 percent from peak levels in 2008 and
2009, according to an International Monetary Fund report.  
 Polish Survey  
 Opposition to adopting the euro rose over the last year in
Poland on concern the currency may increase poverty and
inflation, according to a poll for the Finance Ministry that was
released Sept. 9.  
 About 47 percent of those surveyed said they were against
switching to the euro, 4 percentage points more than a year
earlier, the ministry said. Support for the euro dropped 5
percentage points to 38 percent, according to the poll of 1,005
adults that was conducted in June. The ministry didn’t provide a
margin of error.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        