-- PGNiG Says Poland May Face Gas Shortage Next Month Without Russia Contract
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-09-20T14:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/polskie-gornictwo-says-poland-may-face-gas-shortage-beginning-next-month.html

          
          
             Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA , the dominant Polish gas company known as PGNiG,
said it may not have adequate supplies starting next month if
Poland doesn’t sign a new contract with Russia.  
 Shortfalls could start in the last 10 days of October and
PGNiG is seeking extra gas from Germany and Ukraine, the company
said in a regulatory statement. It needs at least 1.5 billion
cubic meters of extra gas this year, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer  Radoslaw Dudzinski  said at a press conference in Warsaw
today, calling on the government to release state gas reserves.  
 Poland reached a preliminary agreement with Russia’s gas
monopoly  Gazprom  in January, a year after RosUkrEnergo AG, an
intermediary half-owned by the Russian exporter, halted
deliveries under a contract for 2.3 billion cubic meters a year.  
 The final contract hasn’t been signed as the countries wait
for the European Commission to assess the compatibility of the
deal with EU law. The three parties are scheduled to meet this
week after moving “significantly closer” to an agreement on
Sept. 18 in Moscow, Poland’s Economy Ministry said in an e-mail
two days ago.  
 Dudzinski said the new accord would raise this year’s
deliveries to Poland to 9 billion cubic meters from 7.45
billion.  
 PGNiG has completed filling its storage tanks and has about
1.3 billion cubic meters of gas in the facilities, or 85 percent
of the maximum capacity, it said in the statement.  
 Industrial Customers  
 The Warsaw-based company plans to limit gas to industrial
customers because “the number one priority is insuring supplies
to households,” Chief Executive Officer  Michal Szubski  said.
Polish gas consumption will be just above 14 billion cubic
meters this year, he said.  
 The gas company forecasts that without a new contract
Poland may also face a “very difficult” first quarter,
including possible supply shortfalls, if the tanks are empty
when 2011 begins.  
 “We should end each year with about 1 billion cubic meters
of gas in our tanks to make it safely through the winter,”
Dudzinski said.  
 PGNiG is selling 26 million cubic meters to 60 million
cubic meters of gas a day in the fall-winter season, it said in
an e-mailed statement today.  
 PKN Orlen SA , Poland’s biggest refiner,  Zaklady Azotowe
Pulawy SA  and  Zaklady Chemiczne Police SA , the country’s top
chemical companies, are among PGNiG’s largest customers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net 
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        