-- Porn Points the Way to a Brighter Digital Future: Book Review
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/porn-points-the-way-to-a-brighter-digital-future-book-review.html

          
          
             Back when the World Wide Web was
shiny and new, it seemed as though the New York Times would
discover a new online social ill every other week. There’s smut!
There’s hate! The coverage could have been collected under the
heading “The Internet -- Ewww!”  
 Now Times reporter, blogger and geek-in-residence  Nick
Bilton  has produced a belated -- well, not exactly apology, more
like an extended correction. In “ I Live in the Future & Here’s
How It Works ,” Bilton paints a vastly cheerier picture of our
digital world and how it is evolving. While his vision is
certainly a lot closer to the truth, forgive me if I’m not
entirely reassured.  
 “I Live in the Future” is a breezy, once-over-lightly
survey, intended for neither technophile nor technophobe but for
the mildly befuddled. In 293 pages, Bilton takes us on a tour
that ranges from the California porn industry to the
laboratories of great universities to make sense of where we are
and where we’re headed.  
 From printing presses to home video, he notes,
pornographers have always led the way in adopting new media and
figuring out how to make money from them. So that’s where he
begins his quest to uncover the future, and initially concludes
that this time might be different: Porn powerhouses like Playboy
and Penthouse have found themselves buffeted by many of the same
forces leveling the music and print worlds.  
 Eventually, though, he concludes that like many legacy
businesses, they simply failed to adapt to the new realities
established by the Internet: the consumer is still willing to
pay for quality, but less than before, while demanding a vastly
greater degree of convenience and especially customization.  
 The Future Is You  
 Bilton’s message is that the future is all about you. Or
me. Or him. That is, new and emerging tools are putting each of
us at the center of our own unique universe. The concept is as
simple as the location-aware mapping application on your iPhone
or Droid that moves as you do. But it has implications when
applied to media, commerce or any of the other routines of daily
life that are in the process of being upended by technology.  
 Bilton calls the social networks many use to help filter
their tastes in everything from restaurants to politics
“anchoring communities.” “By offering their own digital links
and connections, anchoring communities help us cope with the
massive numbers of people and the incalculable amount of
information online and give us neatly refined selections to sift
through together,” he writes.  
 Lacking Empathy  
 Certainly, there’s something to be said for the value of
summoning these communities. But Bilton doesn’t give enough
thought to what is lost in such a world of niches. Call it
social cohesion, or empathy -- a set of shared experiences that
transcends the interests, perceptions and input of those in our
immediate social networks.  
 For all the digital medium’s power to bring us the world,
it also makes it far too easy to retreat into a cocoon of
people, information and ideas with which we’re already
comfortable.  
 While such concerns are real, they are all too easy to
exaggerate. “I Live in the Future” is at its best as Bilton
punctures some of the most dystopian myths about digital
technology, showing how such predictions have accompanied almost
every advance through history.  
 Bilton cites the Times’s 1876 handwringing over the
telephone, which “by bringing music and ministers into every
home, will empty the concert halls and the churches” --
seemingly confounding the telephone with radio, making it
spectacularly wrong on two counts.  
 Rotting Your Brains  
 And he likens concerns over video games to the widespread
1950s belief that comic books were rotting the brains of
America’s youth. In response, he cites studies showing that
video-game-playing surgeons are more skilled and make fewer
mistakes, and that online content stimulates more of the brain
than reading a book does.  
 At the end of the day, the digital medium is still much
more a reflection of society than a shaper of it, as the recent
flap over sex-service ads on Craigslist shows. (Alternative
newspapers and other print sources have been every bit as randy
for years, with nary a headline-seeking politician heard from.)
Technology doesn’t cause what ails us, nor will technology
cure it.  
 “I Live in the Future & Here’s How It Works: Why Your
World, Work and Brain Are Being Creatively Disrupted” is
published by  Crown Business  (293 pages, $25.) To buy this book
in North America, click  here .  
 ( Rich Jaroslovsky , who founded the Online News Association,
is technology columnist for Bloomberg News and Businessweek. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "I Live in the Future & Here's How it Works"  
                       
                         
                           Random House via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "I Live in the Future & Here's How it Works" by Nick Bilton. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "I Live in the Future & Here's How it Works" by Nick Bilton. Source: Random House via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nick Bilton  
                       
                         
                           Random House via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nick Bilton who wrote "I Live in the Future & Here's How it Works." 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nick Bilton who wrote "I Live in the Future & Here's How it Works." Source: Random House via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
