-- Portuguese Budget Deficit Widens 5 Percent as Borrowing Costs Hit Record
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-09-21T08:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/portuguese-budget-deficit-widens-5-percent-as-borrowing-costs-hit-record.html
Portugal’s budget gap widened in
the first eight months of the year, indicating the government
may struggle to rein in the euro-region’s fourth-largest deficit
as its borrowing costs surged to a record.  The central government’s shortfall rose to 9.19 billion
euros ($12 billion) from 8.74 billion euros a year earlier, the
Finance  Ministry  said late yesterday. Tax revenue rose 3.3
percent, more than budgeted, and spending increased 2.7 percent,
in line with budget estimates, the ministry said.  Portugal’s  borrowing  costs rose to a euro-era record
yesterday, on concerns over the government’s ability to rein in
the region’s fourth-largest budget deficit while avoiding a
return to recession. While the extra yield investors demand to
hold Portuguese debt rather than German equivalents eased to 388
basis points today, that’s still close to the level Greek bonds
were trading at in April when the European Union offered the
country emergency loans to avoid default.  “The deficit isn’t narrowing, in contrast with the general
trend of other euro zone countries,” said  Giada Giani , an
economist at Citigroup in London. “This puts Portugal in a
worse position relative to Greece, or Spain, or Ireland.”  She sees the overall public deficit at around 9 percent of
gross domestic product at the end of 2010 unless there’s
“significant narrowing” in the last few months of the year.  The government aims to narrow the overall deficit to 7.3
percent of GDP in 2010 from last year’s 9.3 percent, the
region’s largest after Ireland, Greece, and Spain. The
government has pledged to reach the target, with Finance
Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos saying Sept. 9 that the
country “can’t afford” not to. It intends to reach the EU
limit of 3 percent in 2012.  By contrast, Spain slashed its seven-month central
government deficit in half from a year earlier, and the yield on
its 10-year  debt  fell to 4.22 percent today from 4.88 percent on
June 16. Ireland and Greece also reduced their budget deficits
in the first eight months.  Tax Increases  Portugal’s minority Socialist government, lead by Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates , has pledged to reduce hiring of public
workers, while raising taxes and postponing public
infrastructure  spending . Still, the results of its efforts are
“a bit disappointing,” said Emilie Gay, an economist at
Capital Economics in London.  Michael Meister, a senior member of German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s party, added to pressure on the government on
Sept. 14, saying Portugal must step up its efforts to overhaul
its economy.  Portugal has already funded around 90 percent of its
financing needs for this year, Teixeira dos Santos said on Sept.
10, and the country doesn’t face a bond redemption until April
2011.  No ‘Rescue’  There’s “no need to knock on the door of any kind of
special rescue program,” the minister said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong.  Klaus Regling , the head of
the bailout fund known as the European Financial Stability
Facility, said yesterday he doesn’t expect any country will need
to tap the fund. Portugal’s Treasury plans to sell four-year and
10-year bonds tomorrow.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-year
debt rather than German equivalents compares with a  risk premium 
of 398 basis points on Greek debt on April 11 when the euro
region agreed to offer that country emergency loans to avoid
default. The EU followed the Greek loan with the creation of a
750 billion-euro backstop for high-deficit nations, which has
yet to be used.  With the yield on  Portuguese  10-year bonds at 6.35 percent,
after hitting a euro-era record of 6.39 percent yesterday,
Portugal may also risk tipping the economy back into recession
as the government’s contribution to GDP shrinks. Portugal has
barely grown for a decade, with the expansion averaging less
than 1 percent annually since 2000.  Growth to Slow  “With low growth and this level of interest rates,
eventually you have a problem with the debt and that’s what
markets are nervous about,” said  Luigi Speranza , an economist
at BNP Paribas in London, who expects a return to recession in
the second half. Low growth “also makes life for the government
a bit more difficult, the commitment to fiscal consolidation can
vanish,” he said.  The  economy  grew 1.1 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months and 0.3 percent from April to June. Still,
second-quarter GDP was propped up by government spending, which
grew 3.9 percent, according to data from the National Statistics
Institute. The Bank of Portugal in July predicted annual growth
will slow to 0.2 percent in 2011 from 0.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
 Joao Lima  at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  