-- TransCanada's Oil-Sands Pipeline Would Create 12,000 Jobs, Girling Says
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-09-20T20:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/transcanada-s-oil-sands-pipeline-would-create-12-000-jobs-girling-says.html

          
          
             TransCanada Corp. ’s 2,000-mile
pipeline linking Alberta’s oil sands with Gulf Coast refiners
may add at least 12,000 jobs and provide a stable fuel source
for the U.S., Chief Executive Officer  Russell Girling  said.  
 Efforts to stop the $7 billion Keystone XL project because
lawmakers say developing tar sands may release more greenhouse
gases than other types of oil production will result in the
crude being redirected from the U.S., Girling said.  
 “Permitting our pipeline will not impact the development
of oil sands,” Girling said today in a telephone interview.
“The oil sands will be developed in any event.”  
 TransCanada’s proposal has been faulted by U.S. lawmakers
such as  Henry Waxman , chairman of the House Energy Committee,
and questioned by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Without Alberta’s oil, the U.S. will need more crude from
countries less friendly to its interests than Canada, Girling
said.  Canada  is now the biggest U.S. source of imported oil.  
 Cynthia Giles , an EPA assistant administrator, wrote in a
 July 16 letter  that the State Department failed to adequately
review the project’s potential impact on the environment. A
final decision by the State Department, which has jurisdiction
over international energy projects, may come early next year.  
 Waxman, a California Democrat, in a July 2  letter , called
the pipeline a “multibillion investment to expand our reliance
on the dirtiest source of transportation fuel currently
available.”  
 Susan Casey-Lefkowitz , the director for international
policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York,
said the U.S. should reject the pipeline because it would import
a particularly dirty type of oil and poses risks to sensitive
habitats and water resources from spills.  
 ‘Enough Tar Sands’  
 “We have enough tar-sands oil coming in right now,” she
said.  
 Girling, who replaced  Hal Kvisle  as president and CEO of
TransCanada in July, said the State Department assessment was
sufficient and he disputed conclusions that tar sands oil
creates more carbon pollution than other oil production. He said
pipelines are the safest way to transport oil.  
 Keystone XL would create 12,000 to 13,000 jobs during two
years of building, he said.  
 “We would hope those folks that are in the capacity of
approving these permits would recognize those economic and jobs
benefits,” Girling said. The political disagreement “has the
potential” to delay the project.  
 The pipeline will have a capacity to carry 500,000 barrels
of oil a day. TransCanada has “firm, 20-year contracts” for
380,000 barrels, he said.  
 Upgrades would increase capacity to 900,000 barrels, which
would roughly double U.S. imports of tar-sands fuel.  
 Bakken Oil  
 The pipeline would run from Alberta through Montana, South
Dakota and Nebraska and merge with an existing line in Kansas en
route to Texas and the Gulf.  
 TransCanada agreed to carry oil from the  Bakken oil field 
in North Dakota and Montana. Girling said as much as 100,000
barrels a day from the area may be transported by Keystone XL.  
 Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, is  urging the State Department  to
expedite approval of the permit.  
 TransCanada also negotiated terms with six labor unions for
wages and benefits for pipeline construction work.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        