-- Treasuries Rise on Speculation Federal Reserve Will Be More Accommodative
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-09-20T20:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/treasury-30-year-bonds-rise-on-speculation-fed-will-be-more-accommodative.html

          
          
             Treasuries rose on speculation the
Federal Open Market Committee will be more accommodative in its
policy statement tomorrow.  
 Longer maturities led  advances  as the central bank
purchased $5.19 billion of U.S. debt maturing from September
2016 to August 2019 to prevent money from being drained out of
the financial system. Some traders bet the Fed will announce
more purchases of Treasuries as part of a policy known as
quantitative easing.  
 “There is some positioning ahead of the FOMC meeting where
some investors are looking to see if the Fed signals more
quantitative easing sooner than expected,” said  Dan Greenhaus ,
chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.
“The meeting will be much ado about nothing. The FOMC is going
to wait and see what the economy holds.”  
 The yield on the 30-year bond dropped 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.88 percent at 4 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.875
percent security maturing in August 2040 increased 1/2, or $5
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 30/32.  
 The two-year note yield dropped less than 1 basis point to
0.46 percent after sliding 10 basis points last week in its
biggest five-day decrease since May 7. The  yield  touched the
all-time low of 0.45 percent on Aug. 24. The 10-year note yield
fell 4 basis points to 2.71 percent, compared with a 19-month
low of 2.42 percent reached Aug. 25.  
 ‘Buy a Back-Up’  
 “I see nothing in our technical work that suggests that
Treasuries need to be chased here,”  William O’Donnell , managing
director in Stamford, Connecticut, at Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, wrote in a research note to clients. “Buy a back-up into
the 2.87 percent to 3.06 percent support band in 10-years.” As
one of the Fed’s 18 primary dealers, RBS trades directly with
the central bank. Support is a level where orders to buy may be
clustered.  
 The  difference  between yields on 10- and 2-year notes
dropped to 2.24 percentage points, reflecting concern the U.S.
economic recovery is stalling. It was the narrowest on a closing
basis since Sept. 15.  
 Ten-year notes rose on Aug. 10, when the Fed said after its
policy meeting that it would keep its bond holdings level by
resuming the purchase of U.S. debt to support a recovery it
described as “more modest” than earlier anticipated. The
central bank also reiterated a commitment to keeping its target
lending rate close to zero for an “extended period.”  
 The Fed has bought $28.102 billion of Treasuries since Aug.
17 to keep holdings in the System Open Market Account at about
$2 trillion by using the proceeds of principal payments from its
agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debt.  
 Survey on Fed  
 At its meeting tomorrow, the central bank will hold off
from expanding its balance sheet by purchasing securities,
according to 60 of 64 analysts surveyed Sept. 16-17. Fifty-four
of 63 economists said the Fed will leave unchanged the sentence
in its statement saying high unemployment and low inflation
warrant “exceptionally low” rates for an “extended period.”  
 While the Fed will announce no new quantitative easing at
tomorrow’s meeting, the central bank will do so later if it
changes projections and forecasts rising unemployment or if
financial conditions worsen, according to Citigroup Inc., a
primary dealer.  
 “QE-II choices for the Fed are fairly limited,” Citigroup
analysts led by  Amitabh Arora , head interest-rate strategist in
New York, wrote in a research note. “The likely form of QE-II
is a large amount of Treasuries purchase.”  
 The Fed would have to buy $2 trillion of debt in a year to
lower 10-year note yields 50 basis points from current levels,
according to the Citigroup.  
 Slowing Growth  
 Economic growth slowed to a 1.6 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, from 3.7 percent from January through March, the
Commerce Department said Aug. 27.  
 Private payrolls rose last month by 67,000, more than
economists forecast, after a revised gain of 107,000 in July,
the Labor Department reported Sept. 3. The unemployment rate
increased to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent.  
 The central bank will prepare investors for more purchases
of securities to keep borrowing costs low when policy makers
meet tomorrow, said  Richard Clarida  of Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond  funds .  
 “The Fed’s rhetoric will get the markets ready for the
real possibility of expanding their balance sheet at a later
meeting this year,” Clarida, a Columbia University professor
and global strategic adviser for Pimco, said in a radio
interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the maturity known as the
break-even rate, was 1.79 percentage points, less than the five-
year average of 2.11 percentage points.  
 Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased in
August for a fifth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent, the
Labor Department reported on Sept. 17. The pace matched the
slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        