-- Treasury Two-Year Yield Near Record Low as Federal Reserve May Cut Outlook
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-09-20T11:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/treasury-two-year-yield-near-record-low-as-federal-reserve-may-cut-outlook.html

          
          
             Treasury two-year yields were
within 2 basis points of a record low on speculation the Federal
Reserve will scale back its outlook for economic growth at a
policy meeting tomorrow.  
 Officials will take additional steps to keep borrowing
costs low at a subsequent meeting, according to  Mohamed A. El- Erian , chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund. The Fed is
 scheduled  to buy notes maturing from September 2016 to August
2020 today as part of its effort to sustain the expansion.  
 “The main event this week for Treasuries is tomorrow’s
meeting,” said  Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London.
“Speculation the Fed will embark on another round of
quantitative easing remains elevated, keeping yields low.”  
 Two-year notes yielded 0.47 percent as of 6:40 a.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data, versus the record low
of 0.45 percent set Aug. 24. The 0.375 percent security due in
August 2012 traded at 99 26/32. The 10-year note yield was
little changed at 2.74 percent.  
 Slower than-expected economic growth has fueled speculation
the Fed will expand its program of Treasury purchases or
announce other measures as it tries to keep benchmark interest
rates low.  
 The Fed will introduce extra measures “but probably not at
this meeting,” El-Erian wrote in an  opinion piece  on ft.com’s
ftalphaville website. “It should and, I suspect, will,” trim
its growth projections, said El-Erian, who is based in Newport
Beach, California.  
 Buying Debt  
 At the central bank’s most recent meeting on Aug. 10, the
Fed said it would reinvest principal payments from its holdings
of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
maturity Treasuries.  
 The possibility of a sub-par expansion poses a dilemma for
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . While the economy isn’t so weak as
to need more stimulus, it may not be strong enough to keep
 unemployment  from increasing.  
 Twenty-seven of 58 economists surveyed by Bloomberg this
month see growth in 2011 below the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent
pace Fed policy makers peg as the long-term trend. Twenty-eight
see the jobless rate rising above last month’s 9.6 percent
sometime in the next nine months.  
 “I’m bearish on the economy and quite bullish on
Treasuries,” said  Chungkeun Oh , a fixed-income trader in Seoul
at Industrial Bank of Korea, South Korea’s largest lender to
small- and medium-sized companies. “The Fed’s intention is to
make long-term Treasury yields go lower.” Oh said he bought
Treasuries last week.  
 TIPS  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, was 1.79 percentage points, less than the
five-year average of 2.11 percentage points.  
 Signs of growth in the economy are making  Roger Bridges  at
Tyndall Investment Management Ltd. bet against Treasuries.  
 “Yields are unjustifiable here,” said Bridges, who
oversees the equivalent of $14.9 billion in Sydney at the unit
of Australia’s largest insurer. “There are a lot of positives
in the U.S. economy. People are more pessimistic than they
should be.”  
 Home sales probably increased in August, a sign the U.S.
real estate market is stabilizing, economists said before
reports this week.  
 Treasury 10-year note futures may decline to 122 30/32
should they fall below a key level, UBS AG said, citing
technical indicators.  
 ‘Still More Bearish’  
 The 10-year note futures “are still more bearish while
they trade below the 124 27/32 retracement and 125 3/32 high,”
 Richard Adcock , head of fixed-income technical strategy at UBS
in London, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  
 “The immediate risk is for a break below Friday’s 123
16/32 low,” Adcock wrote, “with such moves triggering further
downside to 122 30/32.” That’s the low from Sept. 13, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 The 10-year note contract was little changed at 124 5/32.  
 Investors in a weekly survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit
of the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, were less bearish on
Treasuries. Ried’s index on the outlook for U.S. debt through
June rose to 44 for the seven days ended Sept. 17 from 43 the
week before. A figure less than 50 indicates that investors
expect prices to fall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        