-- U.S. Stocks Advance on Lennar, IBM
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-09-20T21:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/treasuries-advance-euro-falls-as-ireland-portugal-yields-jump-to-record.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks advanced, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a four-month high, as homebuilder
Lennar Corp. beat profit forecasts and International Business
Machines Corp. announced a $1.7 billion takeover. The gains came
even as the extra yield investors demand to own  Ireland  and
Portugal’s government debt jumped to records.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.5 percent to
1,142.71 at 4 p.m. in New York. Concern Ireland will struggle to
repay debt drove the yield premium for its bonds versus German
bunds to more than 400 basis points for the first time, and
Portugal’s gap increased to 393 basis points. Treasuries rose.
Oil climbed 1.6 percent to $74.86 while cotton exceeded $1 per
pound in New York for the first time since 1995.  
 Consumer companies such as cruise operator  Carnival Corp. 
that rely on discretionary spending led the S&P 500 as investors
speculated the recovery from the U.S. recession that ended in
June 2009 will continue. While Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings affirmed their debt ratings on the U.K. and
Germany, respectively, Irish central bank governor  Patrick Honohan  said his nation must cut its deficit faster.  
 “Better news out of the U.S. has offset bad news out of
Europe,” said  John Praveen , the Newark, New Jersey-based chief
investment strategist at Prudential International Investments
Advisers LLC, which oversees $690 billion. “We’ve been watching
U.S. economic data stabilize. There’s also positive news on the
M&A front as companies are sitting on a lot of cash. There’s
concern about Europe, but they will probably make sure there
will be no major defaults. People are more convinced that we’ll
not have a double-dip recession.”  
 Erasing Loss  
 The S&P 500 erased its year-to-date slump last week and
increased 5.7 percent during its three-week gain. The benchmark
measure of U.S. equities had plunged as much as 16 percent from
its April 23 high amid concern American unemployment near the
highest since the 1980s and less spending from indebted European
nations would stall the global economic recovery.  
 The longest U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended
in June 2009, lasting 18 months, the National Bureau of Economic
Research said today. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based bureau’s
business cycle dating committee is the accepted arbiter of when
recessions start and end.  
 Lennar gained 8.2 percent, the most since May 10, after the
third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue topped projections as
margins widened. Netezza Corp. surged 15 percent to $28.27,
exceeding IBM’s $27-a-share bid for the analytics-technology
company. IBM advanced 1.2 percent. Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc. increased 2 percent to $83.35, the highest price since
April 15, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised buying the shares.  
 ‘Manageable’ Costs  
 The yield on Irish 10-year notes climbed to 6.48 percent
from 6.29 percent, compared with 2.47 percent for German bunds
that mature the same year, amid concern that nation will need
more financial aid.  
 Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said today that
costs related to the country’s banking system remain
“manageable.” Ireland will auction as much as 1.5 billion
euros ($2 billion) of 2014 and 2018 notes tomorrow.  
 Portuguese 10-year bond yields jumped to 6.39 percent from
6.09 percent.  
 “The European situation is still a concern,” said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.2 billion as co-chief
investment officer at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois.
“Anything that affects the region will weigh on investors’
expectations in the U.S.”  
 Fed Meeting  
 Treasuries rose on speculation the Federal Open Market
Committee will be more accommodative in its policy statement
tomorrow. Longer maturities led advances as the central bank
purchased $5.19 billion of U.S. debt maturing from September
2016 to August 2019 to prevent money from being drained out of
the financial system. Some traders bet the Fed will announce
more purchases of Treasuries as part of a policy known as
quantitative easing.  
 The yield on the 30-year bond dropped 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.88 percent. The two-year note yield
dropped less than 1 basis point to 0.46 percent after sliding 10
basis points last week in its biggest five-day decrease since
May 7. The yield touched the all-time low of 0.45 percent on
Aug. 24. The 10-year note yield fell 4 basis points to 2.71
percent, compared with a 19-month low of 2.42 percent reached
Aug. 25.  
 Risk Appetite  
 The dollar fell against most of its major trading partners
as stocks and commodities gained, boosting investor appetite for
higher-yielding currencies. The U.S. currency touched a five-
week low against the euro last week as traders speculated the
Federal Open Market Committee will say after a meeting tomorrow
that it’s considering more measures to keep borrowing costs low.  
 The dollar traded for $1.3066 per euro, compared with
$1.3050 on Sept. 17, when it slid to $1.3159, the weakest level
since Aug. 11. The U.S. currency fell 0.2 percent to 85.72 yen,
from 85.86.  
 Australia’s dollar climbed against its U.S. counterpart
after Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled policy makers
may need to resume raising interest rates as a mining boom
stokes the economy. Australia’s dollar, this quarter’s best-
performing major currency against the dollar, is the most
overvalued, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Purchasing
power parity, a measure of the cost of goods relative to other
countries, shows the Aussie is 27 percent too expensive.  
 July 2008  
 The Aussie appreciated 1.1 percent to 94.65 U.S. cents
after reaching 94.94 cents, the strongest level since July 2008.  
 Cotton for December delivery jumped 1.2 percent to 99.37
cents a pound in New York as supplies plunged and demand
increased from textile mills. It climbed to $1.0198 earlier, the
highest price for a most-active contract since June 19, 1995.  
 Cotton inventories monitored by ICE Futures U.S. plummeted
98 percent since June 2 to 16,569 bales on Sept. 17. China, the
world’s biggest grower and buyer, may boost imports after rain
hurt crop quality and output, according to five China-based
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News this month.  
 Gold futures rose to a record for the third straight
session on speculation that government programs to stimulate the
economy will erode the value of the dollar and boost demand for
the precious metal as an alternative investment. The price
increased to $1,285.20 an ounce.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lennar Reports Third-Quarter Profit  
                       
                         
                           Lori Moffett/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lennar gained 8 percent after the homebuilder topped projections as margins wideneed. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lennar gained 8 percent after the homebuilder topped projections as margins wideneed. Photographer: Lori Moffett/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a four-month high, after Lennar Corp. beat analysts’ earnings estimates and International Business Machines Corp. announced a $1.7 billion takeover. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Dennis Hynes, chief market strategist at RW Pressprich & Co., talks about the outlook for Federal Reserve monetary policy.
     Hynes also discusses U.S. stocks, Treasuries, gold and his investment strategy. He talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) --  Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, talks about his investment strategy and the outlook for the U.S. stock market.
     He speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- David Goldberg, an analyst at UBS Securities LLC, discusses Lennar Corp.'s third-quarter earnings reported today and the outlook for U.S. homebuilders.
     Lennar said profit for the three months ended Aug. 31 was $30 million, or 16 cents a share, compared with a loss of $171.6 million, or 97 cents a share, a year earlier. Goldberg talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Antonio Garcia Pascual, an economist at Barclays Capital, discusses Ireland's fiscal policies and bank health.
     Pascual speaks from London to Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
