-- Reliance Infrastructure Said to Approach Banks for $1.5 Billion Rail Loan
-- Suprotip Ghosh
-- 2010-09-20T12:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/reliance-infrastructure-said-to-plan-70-billion-rupee-loan-for-mumbai-rail.html

          
          
             Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. ,
controlled by billionaire  Anil Ambani , approached banks for a 70
billion-rupee ($1.5 billion) loan to fund a new rail project in
Mumbai, according to a person familiar with the matter.  
 The borrower is seeking a loan with a maturity of about 12
years, the person said, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are private. Details will be decided following talks
with lenders, he said.  
 A Reliance Infrastructure-led group in January  won  the
contract to build the second stage of a 110 billion-rupee rail
project in the nation’s biggest commercial centre, according to
an earlier company statement.  
 While India’s economy has expanded at an 8.5 percent pace
in the last five years, poor transport and other facilities
could cost 1.1 percentage points of growth, or $200 billion in
fiscal 2017, McKinsey & Co. said in a report last year. The
nation’s Planning Commission said India will need to spend $1
trillion on highways, ports, airports and utilities between
April 2012 and March 2017.  
 “If they are able to organize this loan it represents a
milestone achievement for the project and for the company,”
Harshvardhan Dole, a Mumbai-based analyst at India Infoline
Ltd., said today by phone. “It’s a very good indication that
financial institutions are comfortable with the project,” he
said.  
 Reliance Infrastructure has the equivalent of about $1.6
billion in loans that mature by end-2026, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company expects to work on 11
infrastructure projects in the financial year that began April
1, Chief Executive Officer  Lalit Jalan  said in July.  
 Reliance Infrastructure spokesman Ravi Sodhi directed a
request for comment to Mumbai Metro spokesman  Ravi Muthreja , who
did not reply to an email asking for further details.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suprotip Ghosh  in Mumbai at 
 Sghosh47@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        