-- Renewable-Power Requirement Should Be Passed by U.S. Senate, Bingaman Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-09-20T20:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/renewable-power-requirement-should-be-passed-by-u-s-senate-bingaman-says.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator  Jeff Bingaman  says
he’ll introduce legislation tomorrow requiring utility companies
to get as much as 15 percent of their electricity from renewable
sources such as wind turbines and solar panels.  
 “The votes are present in the Senate to pass a renewable
electricity standard,” Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat, said
today in an e-mail.  
 Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, said he plans to introduce the renewable-
power legislation with a bipartisan group of senators that
includes Republicans  Sam Brownback  of Kansas and  Susan Collins 
of Maine.  
 Bingaman’s committee approved an energy bill last year that
included a renewable electricity standard of 15 percent by 2021.
The legislation to be unveiled tomorrow has the same target,
Bingaman’s spokesman,  Bill Wicker , said in a telephone
interview.  
 Earlier this year, Senate Democrats debated whether to wrap
the committee’s energy bill into legislation that responded to
the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said in July the
renewable electricity standard wouldn’t be part of the oil-spill
bill because it couldn’t muster the 60 out of 100 votes that are
often required to pass legislation through the Senate.  
 Reid Bill  
 Reid’s energy bill would eliminate the $75 million
liability cap for oil spills, toughen offshore oil and gas
drilling regulation, offer federal incentives for vehicles that
run on natural gas and give rebates for energy-efficient home
renovations.  
 Reid, a Nevada Democrat, wanted the Senate to pass the oil-
spill bill before lawmakers left Washington in early August for
a monthlong break. He dropped plans for a vote after Republicans
and some Democrats said it was too harsh on oil companies that
didn’t cause the Gulf spill.  
 Jim Manley , Reid’s spokesman, declined to comment on
Bingaman’s prediction that the renewable electricity standard
has enough votes to pass the Senate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        