-- Rents on Best Streets in Tokyo, Seoul Rise as Retail Heads to Asia-Pacific
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-09-21T11:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/rents-on-best-streets-in-tokyo-seoul-rise-as-retail-heads-to-asia-pacific.html
Tokyo  and Seoul moved up in a
global ranking of the most expensive store rents as the Asia-
Pacific region’s economic outlook made international retailers
and luxury brands compete to open stores there.  Tokyo’s Ginza district rose two places to third, and
Seoul’s Myeongdong climbed to eighth from 11th, according to an
annual survey by  Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  A 9.6 percent increase
in rents kept Hong Kong’s Causeway Bay in second place after New
York’s Fifth Avenue, which had an 8.8 percent gain. London’s New
Bond Street saw a 19 percent jump in rents, replacing Paris’s
Avenue des Champs Elysees as Europe’s most expensive street.  Rents for the best locations advanced or stabilized in two-
thirds of 59 countries reviewed by the broker in the 12 months
through June after last year’s survey showed the biggest drop in
costs in 25 years. Retailers such as Spain’s  Inditex SA  and
luxury-goods maker  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  have
focused their expansion on the Asia-Pacific region, which was
hurt less by the financial crisis than Europe.  “Of the global regions, Asia-Pacific has the best growth
prospects,” said  John Strachan , global head of retail at New
York-based Cushman, the world’s largest privately held real
estate adviser.  Inditex, the world’s biggest clothing retailer, has said
that about 40 percent of new store space for its eight brands,
which include Zara, is being added in Asia. The company and
 Hennes & Mauritz AB  outbid local retailers for sites in Seoul’s
Myeongdong and Gangnam districts, lifting rents in the former by
almost 18 percent to $551 a square foot, according to Mark
Burlton, Cushman’s partner in charge of cross-border retail
transactions in EMEA and Asia.  Handbags and Watches  In addition to establishing flagship stores with
prestigious addresses, retailers are expanding via the Internet,
Burlton said. Inditex plans to start selling its Zara fashion
range online in the U.S., Japan and South Korea next year after
setting up websites in six European countries this month. H&M
and Gap Inc. have used the same strategy in Europe.  In Brazil, rents almost doubled in Sao Paulo’s Haddock Lobo
street and the  Iguatemi shopping center  advanced to the 11th
position in the global ranking from 15th, the survey showed.  Europe Slips  Gains for Asian locations were largely at the expense of
Europe, where the economic slowdown depressed prime rents on
average by 4.5 percent, according to the report.  The Avenue des Champs Elysees fell to fifth place from
third in the global rankings after a 9.5 percent rental
decrease. Milan’s Via Montenapoleone dropped to sixth from
fourth, and Dublin’s Grafton Street declined to 13th place from
eighth after rents slid almost 26 percent.  An exception in Europe was London, which has benefited from
a pickup in tourism as the pound’s slide against currencies
including the dollar and euro lured foreign visitors. In August,
retail sales in Oxford Street, Bond Street and Regent Street
increased 9.3 percent from a year earlier, according to market
researcher Springboard.  Prime rents in New Bond Street reached 925 pounds ($1,442)
a square foot, propelling it to fourth place from sixth, the
survey showed. Jeweler Piaget, a unit of Compagnie Financiere
 Richemont SA , agreed in December to pay as much as 965 pounds a
square foot for a store on New Bond Street, setting a record for
the location.  “New Bond Street remains one of the most sought-after
locations in the world for luxury brands,” said  Peter Mace ,
Cushman’s head of central London retail. “The thoroughfare
continues to witness significant rental growth.”  The two streets with the biggest drop in rents -- 50
percent -- were both in Bulgaria: Plovdiv’s Alexander Batenbeg
and Alexandrovska in Burgas. Ermou in Athens had a 15 percent
decline.  Following is a table with the top 10 rankings in the global
survey. The rent figures have been adjusted to allow for
international comparisons:  Source: Cushman & Wakefield.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 