-- Royal Bafokeng Platinum Plans to List Shares on JSE During Fourth Quarter
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-09-20T13:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/royal-bafokeng-platinum-plans-to-list-shares-on-jse-during-fourth-quarter.html

          
          
             The Royal Bafokeng Nation,
representing a 300,000 strong community in South Africa that
began more than 100 years ago buying back land taken from them
under colonial rule, will sell shares in a platinum mine.  
 Royal Bafokeng Platinum “will release a prospectus in the
next couple of weeks” for a fourth-quarter offer of shares to
be listed in Johannesburg, spokeswoman  Lindiwe Montshiwagae  said
in a phone interview from the city today. She wouldn’t say how
much the company plans to raise.  
 The platinum unit holds 67 percent of the Bafokeng Rasimone
mine and  Anglo Platinum , the world’s largest producer, the rest.
The mine will be capable of producing twice its current 200,000
ounces a year when a second shaft is dug near the town of
Rustenburg in the North West province, Royal Bafokeng Holdings
Ltd.’s Chief Executive Officer  Niall Carroll  said on June 23.  
 The nation, which also has 13.4 percent of  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. , generates revenue from mining rights to build
roads, run schools and electrify villages. Its people labored in
diamond mines almost 150 years ago and pooled funds to buy back
land snatched during white rule. The land is now the site of the
Impala Lease Area mine, the world’s biggest platinum operation.  
 Royal Bafokeng now has 18 investments worth more than 30
billion rand ($4.2 billion) in businesses from mobile phone
company  Vodacom Group Ltd.  to Zurich Insurance Co. South Africa
Ltd. The community led by  King Leruo Molotlegi , who succeeded
his brother seven years ago, converted rights to royalties from
Impala’s mine into a stake in the company in 2007.  
 Demand for platinum group metals “remains robust,”  Steve Phiri , CEO of the Johannesburg-based Royal Bafokeng Platinum and
former head of  Merafe Resources Ltd. , said in a statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        