-- Lukoil, Gazprom, ONGC to Vie for Soviet-Era Exploration `Jewel' in Arctic
-- Stephen Bierman
-- 2010-09-20T16:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/russian-oil-producers-ongc-vie-for-soviet-era-jewel-update1-.html

          
          
             Five of Russia’s largest oil
companies, including OAO Lukoil and  BP Plc ’s venture, will
compete for the rights to develop the country’s largest
undistributed fields.  
 OAO Gazprom’s oil unit and OAO Bashneft also [bn:WBTKR=GAZP:RM] said they
applied to bid for the Trebs and Titov oil fields before today’s
deadline. OAO Surgutneftegaz paid the entry fee, the Federal
Subsoil Agency said Sept. 17. India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,
known as ONGC, also paid the fee via a Russian unit, Interfax
said, citing an unidentified agency official.  
 “This is a jewel of the Soviet era and not a diamond in
the rough,” []  Alexei Kokin , an oil and gas analyst at IFC
Metropol in Moscow, said by phone.  
 OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, dropped plans
to bid for Trebs and Titov to focus on a “good set of highly
promising” projects, Chief Executive Officer Eduard Khudainatov
said in a statement.  
 The two fields, located in the Arctic, may hold more than
200 million metric tons of recoverable reserves under Russian
classification, according to the government. This is about half
the reserves of Rosneft’s Vankor, the country’s largest new oil
development. The fields fall under regulations on strategic
assets and foreign companies’ participation may be restricted,
Natural Resources Minister Yuri Trutnev said last week.  
 Surpassing Lukoil  
 “As Rosneft’s stellar performance of the past two years
was driven by successful Vankor development, we believe that the
company that ultimately wins the auction has good chances of
being re-rated by the market,”  Alexander Korneev  and  Ildar Khaziev , analysts with Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said in a note
last week. “The auction will be a litmus test to reveal the
sector winner.”  
 TNK-BP Chief Financial Officer  Jonathan Muir  said last week
he wants to see the venture overtake Lukoil to become the
second-largest oil producer in the country.  TNK-BP , which
accounts for about a quarter of BP’s output and a fifth of
reserves, produces about 1.7 million barrels of oil a day.
Lukoil’s Russian output is about 1.8 million barrels a day,
according to the Energy Ministry’s CDU TEK unit.  
 The tender for Trebs and Titov is slated for Dec. 2, with a
starting price of 18.2 billion rubles ($587 million). The price
may “increase significantly given the list of contenders,” VTB
Capital said in a note.  
 Sechin Opposition  
 The two fields are located near Lukoil’s Yuzhno-Khylchuyu
production venture with  ConocoPhillips  and its Varandei sea
terminal. A new pipeline will be needed to connect them to the
country’s oil transportation network.  
 Discovered in 1987, the fields had exploration wells
drilled and shut temporarily awaiting development. Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Sechin , who is also chairman of Rosneft, spoke out
against the tender after crude prices fell in 2008.  
 Under the terms of the tender, the winner must process at
least 42 percent of the output at its own refineries and sell at
least 15 percent of the products via a Russian commodities
exchange. President  Dmitry Medvedev  is pushing to transform the
country from an exporter of raw materials to a producer of high-
tech and processed products.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        