-- Russia Boosts Arms Spree to $613 Billion, Seeks U.S. Technology
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-09-20T22:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/russia-boosts-arms-budget-by-46-to-613-billion-seeks-u-s-technology.html

          
          
             Russia plans to spend 19 trillion
rubles ($613 billion) over the next decade to equip its armed
forces with the latest weaponry, including what may be the first
purchases of U.S. military technology since World War II,
according to Defense Minister  Anatoly Serdyukov .  
 The Defense, Finance and Economy Ministries are in the
final stages of approving a plan to increase the 2011-2020 arms
budget by 46 percent from the previous estimate of 13 trillion
rubles, Serdyukov said yesterday, after returning from talks
with U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in Washington.  
 “This is the minimum we need to equip our armed forces
with modern weaponry,” Serdyukov, 48, said in an interview
at his Moscow office. “We could ask for a bigger number, but
we need to understand that the budget cannot afford such 
spending, so 19 trillion is a serious amount of money that will
provide considerable orders for our defense industry.”  
 Serdyukov is looking abroad for arms Russian companies
can’t provide, breaking with predecessors who sought to keep the
country autonomous in weapons procurement. He has been lobbying
for a bigger budget since at least May, when President  Dmitry Medvedev  said the military should triple the ratio of “state-
of-the-art” equipment in its arsenal to 30 percent by 2015.  
 The Defense Ministry’s proposal will push that figure to 70
percent by 2020, Serdyukov said.  
 To achieve the targets, Russia wants to acquire technology
from its former Cold War adversaries in the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, including the U.S., Serdyukov said.  
 Helicopter Carriers  
 The  Defense Ministry  will seek bids for helicopter carrier
ships by the end of this month and expects companies from
France, Spain and the Netherlands to compete against domestic
defense contractors, Serdyukov said. The ministry has said the
winner may sell two carriers to the Russian navy and agree to
help build two more in Russia.  
 “We are not interested in buying finished products,”
Serdyukov said. “We want to gain know-how in the technologies
and produce them on Russian territory.”  
 Serdyukov became the first Russian defense minister with no
military or intelligence background in February 2007, when then-
President  Vladimir Putin  asked him to reshape the country’s 1.13
million-member armed forces. Prior to that he was federal tax
chief for three years and ran a furniture company in St.
Petersburg, where Putin was deputy mayor in the 1990s.  
 Serdyukov, who has reduced military personnel by about
130,000 since taking office, said he’s seeking to build “a
compact and mobile army” and plans to use all the tools at his
disposal, including foreign weapons. Medvedev called for an
overhaul of the armed forces and their communications systems
after the five-day war with U.S.-ally Georgia in August 2008.  
 ‘Revolutionary Development’  
 “We are interested in many things, most importantly in
communications, in everything that has to do with information
technology,” Serdyukov said. “We would also be interested in
some high-precision weapons.”  
 The Center for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies
forecast in June that Russia, the largest arms exporter after
the U.S., would spend as much as $12 billion to buy defense
technologies from European and Israeli companies over the next
five years. That estimate may be increased if Serdyukov gets
more money, said  Ruslan Pukhov , director of the Moscow-based
research firm and an adviser to Russia’s Defense Ministry.  
 “Just having the Russian defense minister publicly
expressing interest in acquiring U.S. military technologies is a
revolutionary development,” Pukhov said by phone. “The
military hasn’t bought anything legally from the U.S. since the
lend-lease program in the Second World War.”  
 U.S.-Russia Discussions  
 Serdyukov said he and Gates talked about the issue on Sept.
16 in Washington, during the first official visit by a Russian
defense minister to the Pentagon since January 2005. The two men
signed agreements on future talks, including a revision of a
1993 memorandum outlining defense ties between the two countries  
 “We discussed that our cooperation in the military and
technical sphere isn’t developing,” Serdyukov said. “We, of
course, have an interest in some American technology and, I
think, they have an interest in some of ours.”  
 The biggest hurdle to a U.S. deal is American legislation
banning the transfer of sensitive technologies, Serdyukov said.
Even if Russia can’t overcome these legal limitations, it will
pursue talks with other countries, he said.  
 Russia has reached understandings with France and Germany
and is building relations with Italy and Israel, Serdyukov said.  
 “Here we’re not talking about import but about organizing
some production on Russian territory,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Russian Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr./Bloomberg 
                         
                         “We are not interested in buying finished products,” Serdyukov said. “We want to gain know-how in the technologies and produce them on Russian territory.” 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “We are not interested in buying finished products,” Serdyukov said. “We want to gain know-how in the technologies and produce them on Russian territory.” Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr./Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Russia Boosts Arms Spree to $613 Billion  
                       
                         
                           Alexei Nikolsky/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin visits a weapons manufacturer, in Izhevsk. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin visits a weapons manufacturer, in Izhevsk. Photographer: Alexei Nikolsky/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
