-- Seasonal Flu Vaccine Lowers Heart Attack Risk in Adults, U.K. Study Finds
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-09-20T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/seasonal-flu-vaccine-lowers-heart-attack-risk-in-adults-u-k-study-finds.html

          
          
             Adults vaccinated for seasonal
influenza were less likely to suffer heart attacks, according to
 a U.K. study  that may provide additional motivation to people
considering the yearly shot.  
 People at least 40 years old who were vaccinated during the
flu season showed a 20 percent reduction in first heart attacks
within a year, compared with patients who didn’t get shots,
researchers said today in the  Canadian Medical Association
Journal . People who received vaccinations early in the season
showed the greatest benefit.  
 Respiratory infections have been shown to trigger heart
attacks, for reasons unclear to scientists. One theory is that
infections cause plaque build-up in arteries to rupture,
triggering blood clots. Earlier studies examining the protection
offered by flu shots produced mixed results. The new research
may spur more people to get vaccinated, the scientists said.  
 “Our findings reinforce current recommendations for annual
influenza vaccination of target groups,” wrote the authors, led
by A. Niroshan Siriwardena of the University of Lincoln, in
Lincoln, England.  
 The reduction in attacks was 21 percent for people who got
shots from September to mid-November, during the early part of
the flu season, compared with 12 percent for vaccinations
received later in the season, the scientists reported.  
 Pneumonia Vaccine  
 If studies confirm that giving the shot earlier in the
season reduces heart attacks, health officials may change their
recommendations for when vaccinations are offered, the authors
wrote. A vaccine against pneumonia didn’t confer a similar drop
in heart attacks, the study found.  
 The researchers examined records of 78,706 patients ages 40
and older in England and Wales from 2001 to 2007. The study
looked at vaccination rates of 16,012 people who had heart
attacks and 62,694 patients of similar age and background who
didn’t. The research excluded patients whose attacks weren’t
their first.  
 Heart attacks are more likely to occur in  winter months ,
when flu spreads and pneumonia rates are highest. Flu in the
northern hemisphere typically peaks from November through March.  
 Vaccinations are recommended for everyone in the U.S. over
six months of age. Adults with chronic health conditions and
those at risk for heart attacks are especially encouraged to get
vaccinated, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, based in Atlanta.  
 Evolving Virus  
 Influenza is a rapidly evolving virus, and the severity of
the season depends on which strains are circulating and how well
a population has been inoculated. Annual deaths associated with
seasonal flu ranged from 3,349 to 48,614 during the last 30
years, according to the CDC. About 90 percent of flu-related
deaths are in people ages 65 or older.  
 The seasonal flu vaccines made by Paris-based  Sanofi-
Aventis SA , London-based  AstraZeneca Plc  and Basel, Switzerland-
based  Novartis AG  each protect against the three strains of flu
that scientists predict are most likely to circulate. The new
H1N1 strain that emerged last year is included in this year’s
shot.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        