-- Shell, UN to Back $100 Million Plan for Clean Energy Cookstoves
-- Peter S. Green
-- 2010-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/shell-un-to-back-100-million-plan-for-clean-energy-cookstoves.html

          
          
             The  United Nations Foundation  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s   Shell Foundation  plan to help organize
an effort to raise as much as $100 million over five years to
provide clean-burning cooking stoves to the world’s poor,
according to a document outlining the plan.  
 To combat what they call a significant danger to women’s
health in the developing world, the two foundations are seeking
cooperation and funding from other corporate, government,
philanthropic and academic entities and have received “strong
expressions of interest from other donors,” according to the
document.  
 “Smoke from cooking with primitive technologies in the
developing world is among the least-known public health
catastrophes that humanity faces,” said Erik Wurster, carbon
finance manager at  E+Co , a nonprofit company in Bloomfield, New
Jersey, that invests in clean energy projects in developing
countries. “More people die each year from indoor air pollution
from cooking than from malaria, yet malaria receives much more
attention and resources.”  
 Smoke from poorly ventilated cookstoves contributes to the
early deaths of more than 2 million people a year, according to
the UN Foundation. Malaria kills 1 million people a year,
according to the World Health Organization, and 343,000 mothers
died in 2008 in childbirth or from related complications, the
British medical journal  Lancet  reported.  
 ‘Market-Based Solutions’  
 Shell’s foundation and the UN Foundation, set up by Cable
News Network founder  Ted Turner , want to encourage research,
development and manufacturing of clean-burning cookstoves and
find “large-scale, sustainable, market-based solutions” to
reducing risks from traditional cooking and heating practices in
the developing world, according to the document.  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will announce the
project, called the Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves,
tomorrow in New York at the annual meeting of the Clinton Global
Initiative, a conference on fostering development organized by
her husband, former President  Bill Clinton .  
 The backers propose establishing a revolving loan fund to
finance projects on advanced stoves and fuels, while campaigning
to raise awareness about the dangers of cooking smoke.  
 The project will work with manufacturers to develop new
stove technologies, and with governments to cut duties and
tariffs to ease the introduction of safer stoves, the document
says.  
 Darfur Stoves  
 The project would build on efforts by groups such as the
 Darfur Stoves Project , in Berkeley, California, and  Envirofit
International , a Fort Collins, Colorado, nonprofit organization,
that are developing and distributing cleaner-burning stoves.  
 Smoke inhalation is associated with lung cancer and
respiratory infections such as pneumonia.  
 There are other risks: women and girls in Darfur are
attacked while spending hours foraging for firewood in areas
suffering from chronic deforestation.  
 “It became so common that women were abused that there
became a term glibly used by aid workers -- firewood rape,”
said Gerald Martone, director of humanitarian affairs at the
 International Rescue Committee , a New York-based non-
governmental aid organization.  
 The Darfur Stoves Project, working with Boston-based Oxfam
America, supplies fuel-efficient stoves in Sudan that can cut
wood use by half or more compared with traditional cooking
methods.  
 Envirofit has sold more than 120,000 clean-burning
cookstoves in India.  
 Aid groups have tried to encourage the use of solar stoves,
which use small arrays of mirrors to focus sunlight on a pot or
cooking surface. They have found that many people cling to
traditional cooking methods, so most efforts so far have focused
on stoves that can burn wood, charcoal or other traditional
fuels more efficiently.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ted Turner  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Shell’s foundation and the UN Foundation, set up by Cable News Network founder Ted Turner, want to encourage research, development and manufacturing of clean-burning cookstoves and find “large-scale, sustainable, market-based solutions” to reducing risks from traditional cooking and heating practices in the developing world, according to the document. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Shell’s foundation and the UN Foundation, set up by Cable News Network founder Ted Turner, want to encourage research, development and manufacturing of clean-burning cookstoves and find “large-scale, sustainable, market-based solutions” to reducing risks from traditional cooking and heating practices in the developing world, according to the document. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
