-- Singapore Pledges More Regulatory Action After Winning Share Rigging Suit
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-09-20T10:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/singapore-pledges-more-regulatory-action-after-winning-share-rigging-suit.html

          
          
             Singapore’s central bank said its
victory in the country’s first civil lawsuit for stock rigging
against fund manager  Tan Chong Koay  and Pheim Asset Management
Sdn. shows its determination to enforce market rules.  
 Tan and his Malaysian fund management company were fined
S$250,000 ($187,000) each for manipulating United Envirotech
Ltd.’s  share  price in December 2004 to maintain their
performance benchmarks and boost their reputation, according to
a Sept. 17 ruling by Justice  Lai Siu Chiu .  
 The  Monetary Authority of Singapore ’s lawyer, Cavinder Bull,
had sought a fine of S$1 million each from Tan and Pheim after
they bought almost 90 percent of the traded shares of  United
Envirotech  from Dec. 29 to Dec. 31, 2004. The share purchases
had raised the net asset value of Pheim’s accounts, triggering
outperformance bonuses of S$50,790 and a management fee of S$115.
Lai said the gain sought wasn’t monetary.  
 “As this case illustrates, MAS will not hesitate to pursue
and take  stern action  against anyone who attempts to rig our
capital markets, regardless of whether the perpetrator is in
Singapore or overseas,” said  Leo Mun Wai , assistant managing
director of the capital markets group at the central bank.  
 Tan, 60, and Pheim declined to comment, saying they are
studying the judgment and working out their options before
making a decision on an appeal, according to an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 18. from Wong Soohow, Tan’s spokesman.  
 ‘Bona Fide’ Deals  
 The share price movement of United Envirotech was due to a
“proper interplay of supply and demand” and the purchases were
“bona fide” transactions, lawyers for Tan and Pheim had argued.  
 A ruling against their clients would send a signal that
investors can “no longer exercise value investing, buying
shares when others are not,” the lawyers  Michael Hwang  and Foo
Maw Shen said in a submission. That could chill trading in
illiquid stocks and push them to other markets where they are
“less exposed to unintentional incurrence of regulatory
sanctions,” the lawyers said.  
 “There are relatively few prosecutions and even fewer
convictions in the Commonwealth for market manipulation,” as
they may be difficult to detect, said  Alvin Yeo , senior partner
at Singapore-based Wong Partnership LLP. “The lesson that fund
managers might take away is that industry practices such as
window-dressing, which are assumed to be widely acceptable, may
not be.”  
 Industry Expansion  
 Singapore, which expanded its fund management industry to a
record  S$1.2 trillion  at the end of 2009, joins other financial
centers in cracking down on market misconduct. The central bank
also won its first civil lawsuit for insider trading against
former WBL Corp. chief financial officer  Kevin Lew  this year.  
 “Singapore’s regulatory regime is sufficiently regulated
to give investors comfort that they will be protected,” said
Dean Collins, a Singapore-based partner at O’Melveny & Myers LLP.
Yet “it’s not too onerous that regulation makes business too
difficult to carry on. Here’s a forward thinking regulator keen
to attract fund managers.”  
 Tan, who founded Pheim Group, was in 2002 named one of five
 successful  Singapore-based boutique fund managers by the
Government of Singapore Investment Corp., which is one of
Pheim’s clients.  
 Tan, who has offices in Singapore and Malaysia, jokingly
said in August 2006 that Pheim, which manages about $1 billion,
was a made-up word which means Please Help Everyone Invest Money.  
 The case is Monetary Authority of Singapore and Tan Chong
Koay, Pheim Asset Management Sdn Bhd., S658/2008/P in the
Singapore High Court.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Singapore Pledges More Action After Winning Suit  
                       
                         
                           Munshi/Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Monetary Authority of Singapore had sought a fine of S$1 million each from Tan and Pheim after they bought almost 90 percent of the traded shares of United Envirotech from Dec. 29 to Dec. 31, 2004. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Monetary Authority of Singapore had sought a fine of S$1 million each from Tan and Pheim after they bought almost 90 percent of the traded shares of United Envirotech from Dec. 29 to Dec. 31, 2004. Photographer: Munshi/Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Singapore Pledges More Action After Winning Suit  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Tan and Pheim declined to comment saying they are studying the judgment and working out their options before making a decision on an appeal. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tan and Pheim declined to comment saying they are studying the judgment and working out their options before making a decision on an appeal. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
