-- Singapore, Malaysia Leaders Agree to Revise Land Swap Accord as Ties Warm
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-09-20T09:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/singapore-malaysia-leaders-agree-to-revise-land-swap-accord-as-ties-warm.html

          
          
             Singapore and Malaysia agreed to
swap six parcels of land under a revised agreement as they seek
to boost relations that have been marred in the past by disputes
over water supply and territorial claims.  
 The neighboring countries agreed in May to relocate the
operations of a train station owned by the Malaysian government
near Singapore’s business district, ending a decades-old dispute
over land usage. Singapore has since made an “improved” land
swap offer, the island’s Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong  said in
the city state today.  
 “That settles the matter which has been outstanding for
nearly 20 years,” Lee said in a joint press conference with
Malaysian Prime Minister  Najib Razak  after the two held talks
today. “It’s a matter of immeasurable satisfaction.”  
 Singapore and Malaysia, once united in a federation from
1963 to 1965, have taken steps in recent years to improve
relations after bickering in the past over issues including the
price Malaysia charges its neighbor for water and the
replacement of the causeway linking the two countries. Today’s
meeting, followed by lunch and durian moon cakes, is the third
round of talks between the two leaders this year.  
 Singapore will swap four land sites in Marina South, in the
center of the city’s Marina Bay business district, and two in
Ophir-Rochor in exchange for railway land controlled by the
Malaysian government, according to a joint statement released in
Singapore today.  
 Moving Forward  
 “We’re both delighted and relieved that we can now put
this behind us and move forward,” Najib said, referring to the
land swap agreement. “The current leadership wants to move
forward and forge better ties.”  
 Still, the two governments disagree on whether development
charges should be levied on certain land sites and will seek
arbitration through the Permanent Court of Arbitration,
according to the statement.  
 In exchange for the relocation of the immigration
checkpoint and railway station, Singapore will transfer the
Marina South and Ophir parcels of land to M-S Pte, a joint
venture between  Khazanah Nasional Bhd ., Malaysia’s investment
company, and its Singaporean counterpart,  Temasek Holdings Pte .  
 Ties between the two nations have warmed since then
Malaysian Prime Minister  Abdullah Ahmad Badawi  took office in
late 2003. Najib, who became prime minister in April 2009, and
Lee have pledged to further improve relations.  
 Water Dispute  
 About three months before Abdullah became Malaysia’s leader
in 2003, both countries placed advertisements in regional
newspapers highlighting their case in the water dispute. That
same year, Malaysia’s then premier  Mahathir Mohamad  vowed to
build a bridge to replace its part of the causeway, even without
Singapore’s co-operation.  
 Since November 2003, Malaysia and Singapore’s stock
exchanges have agreed to an alliance while the Singapore
government’s investment units have bought stakes in Malaysian
companies including Telekom Malaysia Bhd. and Proton Holdings
Bhd. Malaysia’s investment company  Khazanah  has bought stakes in
Singapore-listed companies including Parkway Holdings Ltd. and
MobileOne Ltd.  
 The two nations settled a dispute over Singapore’s
reclamation work in the Straits of Johor in 2005. In May 2008,
the International Court of Justice ruled in favor of Singapore
in a 29-year dispute with Malaysia over ownership of the
uninhabited island of Pedra Branca. As part of the ruling,
Malaysia won ownership of another rocky outcrop known as Middle
Rocks and both sides agreed to abide by the court’s decision.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        