-- Slovenian, Croatian Weekend Flooding Leaves Two Dead, Hundreds Homeless
-- Jasmina Kuzmanovic
-- 2010-09-20T13:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/slovenian-croatian-weekend-flooding-leaves-two-dead-hundreds-homeless.html

          
          
             Heavy weekend floods in Slovenia
and Croatia left two people dead and hundreds homeless after
rains swelled rivers, damaging buildings and roads.  
 An unidentified 75-year-old man was pulled from his flooded
car in eastern Slovenia and taken to a hospital, where he died,
 Radio Slovenija  reported, citing local police spokesman  Robert Perc . Another man’s body was found near the town of Celje,
national radio reported.  Zavarovalnica Triglav d.d. , Slovenia’s
largest insurer, lost 5.6 percent in Ljubljana trading today,
dropping close to the lowest level this year.  
 Weekend rains dumped the equivalent of a fifth of the
average annual rainfall for Slovenia, the northernmost of the
former Yugoslav republics, said state meteorologist Miha Demsar.
Overflowing rivers then sent floodwaters south to Croatia, where
hundreds of residents were forced to abandon their homes.  
 “The major threat is over” in Slovenia, Prime Minister
 Borut Pahor  told reporters after the government set up a special
body to oversee the relief effort. “We have to first take care
and rebuild roads and other infrastructure.”  
 Initial estimates indicate damages in one of the worst hit
areas, Celje, amount to 6.6 million euros ($8.6 million), the
city’s mayor  Bojan Srot  said, according to the Slovenian STA
newswire.  
 Broken Dams  
 In Croatia, flooding hit the northwest of the country and
the Istrian peninsula, according to Jutarnji List, while its
largest river, the Sava, broke dams in villages near Zapresic,
the northwestern suburb of Zagreb. The capital was not
threatened, according to the report.  
 The fall harvest in Croatia is not affected as its main
seasonal products, wheat, corn and sunflower, are not grown in
the flood-hit areas, said Mladen Pavic, a spokesman for the
 Ministry of Agriculture .  
 Croatian Defense Minister  Branko Vukelic  sent a 100-member
army unit to the Zapresic area to help with the evacuation, the
ministry said in a statement today.  
 In Istria, the Dragonja flooded parts of coastal towns
Umag, Buje and Novigrad, prompting the closure of several roads
and two border crossings with Slovenia, Jutarnji said.  
 Several roads were also closed in Medjumurje, after
flooding near the towns of Koprivnica and Cakovec, according to
the report.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net 
 Jasmina Kuzmanovic  at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        