-- South Africa's Pravin Gordhan Says Faster Growth Needed to Meet Job Needs
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-09-20T07:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/south-africa-s-gordhan-says-more-economic-growth-needed-to-meet-job-needs.html

          
          
             South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said Africa’s largest economy needs to expand at
least 6.5 percent a year to meet its job-creation needs.  
 The country needs a different type of economic growth that
will stimulate employment opportunities, he said in a speech
before the start of the ruling African National Congress’s
National General Council in Durban, on South Africa’s east coast
today. The benefits of faster expansion also need to be spread
more widely, he said.  
 “We need at least 6.5 percent growth to make any
meaningful impact on unemployment in South Africa,” Gordhan
said. “The quality of that growth is far more important than
the quantity of that growth.”  
 One in four  South Africans is unemployed, even after the
longest period of growth  on record  in the nation. Labor unions,
which support the ANC and helped bring President  Jacob Zuma  into
office, say job creation should be the government’s top
priority. South Africa’s central bank should further reduce
 interest rates  to help devalue the rand and boost exports, the
Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s largest
labor grouping, has said. Economic growth decelerated to an
annualized 3.2 percent in the second quarter, from 4.6 percent
in the first three months of the year.  
 Investors in South Africa have to make sure they fit in
with the country’s job-creation goals, Gordhan said. “When you
do come here and when you do invest here, you do so in a
developmental way, do so in a way where you create jobs here,
you create small entrepreneurs here, you build our human capital
in South Africa and you build capacity,” he said. “So as we go
forward from this point, while there is interest there is some
negotiating to do about the terms.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        