-- Speculators Least Bearish on Bonds Since 2008 Financial Crisis
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-09-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/speculators-least-bearish-on-30-year-treasury-since-2008-financial-crisis.html

          
          
             Hedge-fund managers and other large
speculators are the least bearish on Treasury  30-year bonds 
since the height of the financial crisis in May 2008 as a
faltering economic recovery shows few signs of inflation.  
 Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 416 contracts in the week ending
on Sept. 14, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Net-short positions  fell by 8,592 contracts, or
95 percent, from a week earlier, and are down from this year’s
high of 117,858 in April, the Washington-based commission said
in its Commitments of Traders report on Sept. 17.  
 Tame inflation is also raising speculation that the Federal
Reserve may start a new program of purchasing Treasuries to keep
long-term borrowing cost in check. A survey of money managers
overseeing $1.34 trillion by Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit of the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker, found respondents were
almost evenly split in their expectations of whether the policy
makers will announce this week more purchases.  
 “The long bond has been driven lower amid no inflation and
a very weak economic picture and all of the uncertainty that
comes with that,” said  Larry Milstein , managing director in New
York of government and agency debt trading at RW Pressprich &
Co., a bond broker and dealer for institutional investors.
“When you have in the background, the Fed buying Treasuries and
the possibility of further quantitative easing down the road, it
ensures that rates will stay at very low levels.”  
 Consumer Prices  
 The cost of living,  minus  food and energy prices, was
unchanged in August, the Labor Department said Sept. 17. The
overall consumer price index rose 0.3 percent, reflecting a rise
in gasoline. Confidence among U.S. consumers dropped to a one-
year low in September the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
 index  showed Sept. 17.  
 A limited risk of inflation and a slowing economy help
explain why economists project the Fed will hold interest rates
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent when the Federal Open Market
Committee meets tomorrow. The FOMC hold off from expanding the
balance sheet by purchasing securities, according to 60 of 64
analysts surveyed Sept. 16-17.  
 Bond investors are not so sure. Treasuries rallied last
week on speculation the Fed will announce more purchases of the
securities this year to keep borrowing costs low and support the
recovery. The survey by Jersey, City, New Jersey-based Ried
Thunberg found that 57 percent don’t expect the Fed to announce
additional asset purchases this week, while 43 percent expect
policy makers to say they’re resuming quantitative easing.  
 Bond Rally  
 The 30-year bond has outperformed other U.S. government
 securities  this year, returning 15.7 percent, including
reinvested interest, compared with 7.8 percent for the broader
Treasury market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  
 Yields on 30-year bonds fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.91 percent on Sept. 17 in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.875
percent note maturing in August 2040 rose 11/32, or $3.44 per
$1,000 face value, to 99 15/32.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Pacific Investment Management
Co. project the Fed will resume its so-called policy of
quantitative easing by purchasing U.S. government debt as soon
as this year to prevent what they see as a 25 percent chance the
economy will slip back into a recession. Bank of America Corp.
said the central bank will send the 10-year note yield to a
record low of 1.75 percent in the first quarter of 2011.  
 Falling Yields  
 Each week the CFTC publishes aggregate numbers for long and
short positions for speculators such as hedge funds and
institutional investors, as well as commercial companies that
buy or sell futures to protect against price moves. Analysts and
investors follow changes in speculators’ positions because such
transactions can reflect an expectation of a change in prices.  
 The last time the data showed the market was net long was
in the first half of 2008, just as the 30-year bond began a
rally that pushed yields down from 4.72 percent at the end of
May 2008 to a  record low  of 2.50 percent in December of that
year as investors sought a refuge in U.S. government securities
when credit markets froze and equities tumbled.  
 The pace of economic expansion is now showing signs of
faltering even as the Fed keeps its target rate for overnight
loans between banks at a record low and after buying more than
$1.7 trillion in housing debt and Treasury securities last year.  
 Fed Purchases  
 The Fed purchased $22.9 billion of Treasuries since Aug. 17
as part of a  program  to reinvest principal payments on its
mortgage holdings into long-term government debt to prevent
money from being drained out of the financial system.  
 Policy makers are “prepared to provide additional monetary
accommodation through unconventional measures if it proves
necessary, especially if the outlook were to deteriorate
significantly,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 27
before central bankers at a conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  
 “The only thing that will move the back end of the curve
is an increase in the leading indicators of inflation, and we
haven’t seen that yet,” said  Christian Cooper,  senior rates
trader in New York at Jefferies & Co., one of the 18 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “Until we get a shift in price
perception we won’t have any fundamental change in the data one
way or the other.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Russell Napier, a strategist at CLSA Ltd., talks about his bond strategy and the impact of Japan's decision to intervene in the currency markets yesterday.
     He speaks from Hong Kong with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Jones, chief investment officer at Riverfront Investment Group, talks about the prospects for stock and bond markets and investment strategy.
     He speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
