-- Sportingbet Forfeits $33 Million in Deal With U.S. Prosecutors
-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 2010-09-21T09:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/sportingbet-to-forfeit-33-million-in-gambling-proceeds-to-u-s-customers.html
Sportingbet Plc  rose after the
U.K.-listed online betting company reached a non-prosecution
agreement with U.S. authorities that would have it forfeit $33
million for its American Internet gambling operations between
1998 and 2006.  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew McIver  said the step should
make it easier for the Guernsey-based company to raise funds,
make acquisitions, and resume operations in the U.S. if it
legalizes Web gambling. Shares rose as much as 16 percent.  Sportingbet and  PartyGaming Plc  are the only European
online gambling companies to have signed agreements to avoid
prosecution by the U.S. Sportingbet agreed to cooperate with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and a continuing probe by the
Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office, according to the agreement.  “It removes an overhang from the company,” McIver said in
a telephone interview. “We exited the U.S. in October 2006.
It’s putting the last of that to bed.”  Sportingbet should be able to continue to pay dividends,
because the amount it agreed to pay is “well covered” by the
35 million pounds ($54 million) of net cash it retains, wrote
Nick Batram, an analyst with KBC Peel Hunt, who has a “buy”
recommendation on the company.  Sportingbet now becomes an “ideal takeover target,” wrote
Wayne Brown and Greg Feehely, analysts with Altium Securities
who have a “buy” rating on the shares. PartyGaming, which has
agreed to merge with Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG, may be
interested in further acquisitions, they said.  ‘Avoid Charges’  In April 2009, PartyGaming agreed to pay $105 million to
avoid charges.  From 2001, Sportingbet began using payment processing
methods designed to hide the nature of its customers’ gambling
transactions from U.S. credit card issuers, which barred use of
their cards for Internet gambling, according to a statement
filed by the company as part of its agreement.  Sportingbet agreed under its deal with the U.S. Attorney
for the Southern District of New York to pay $15 million by
Sept. 30, $12 million by the same date in 2011, and $6 million
by March 31, 2012, the company said in a statement.  Sportingbet, which sponsors English soccer’s Wolverhampton
Wanderers, rose 8 pence to 78 pence at 9:54 a.m., after earlier
gaining as much as 11 pence to 81 pence. The shares have gained
15 percent so far this year, giving it a market value of 391.7
million pounds.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Altaner at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  