-- Statoil's Bjoernson Sees Tighter Natural-Gas Markets as Asia Demand Grows
-- Marianne Stigset
-- 2010-09-20T10:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/statoil-s-bjoernson-sees-tighter-natural-gas-markets-as-asia-demand-grows.html

          
          
             Statoil ASA , the second-biggest
natural gas supplier to Europe, forecast a 30 percent gain in
global demand by 2030.  
 To say the worst is behind us “would be going a bit far,
but there are a lot of positive signs these days, which results
in the market expecting a price increase,”  Rune Bjoernson ,
Statoil’s head of natural gas, said today in an interview in
Oslo. “We see a tightening of the market with a price
tightening that goes along with it.”  
 The company forecasts a 30 percent increase in global
demand for gas by 2030, driven by Asia. Statoil expects the gas
market to improve in Europe before the U.S., Bjoernson said.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch last week forecast global imports
of liquefied natural gas will rise by 18 percent this year and 9
percent in 2011 as Asia and Europe consume more of the fuel.  
 “Asia is taking a lot of LNG, Europe is taking more LNG
than one would have expected initially, and demand in northwest
Europe, in the industry sector especially, is on its way back,”
Bjoernson said. “We see a lot more gas being used in the power
sector that what was done previously.”  
 Gas has tumbled 28 percent this year amid rising production
from shale formations and a supply glut that air-conditioning
demand in the hottest summer in at least 60 years didn’t
significantly dent. Hedge funds and other large speculators  cut
wagers  on gas gaining by 16 percent in the seven days ended
Sept. 14, according to the weekly Commitments of Traders report
from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  
 Lowered Forecast  
 Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. earlier this month cut its U.S.
natural-gas price forecasts for 2010 and the next two years
because of increased drilling. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
last month lowered its forecast for U.S. gas prices in 2011 to
an average of $5 per million British thermal units from $6.  
 “A lot of people have revised down their prices, but that
doesn’t mean they don’t expect them to gain, they just forecast
a lower growth rate,” Bjoernson said. “If you look at what the
market itself thinks, that is to say those who buy, they also
expect a rising curve both in Europe and Asia.”  
 Natural gas for September delivery fell 1.5 percent to
$3.965 per million Btu on the New York Mercantile Exchange
today. U.K. natural gas for immediate delivery fell to a near-
five-month low today, with gas for immediate delivery slipping
as much as 20 percent, or 4 pence, to 27.5 pence a therm as of
9:15 a.m. London time, according to broker prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s about $4.30 a million British thermal units.  
 Demand Outlook  
 Prices “are weak compared to where they were a couple of
years ago, but from a historic perspective, they’re not
particularly weak,” Bjoernson said. “We see an increase in all
of northwest Europe on the demand side, while at the same time
we see the LNG came into the market without prices weakening
further.”  
 Statoil, which operates 80 percent of Norway’s oil and gas
production, missed analysts’ estimates for its second-quarter
profit mainly due to realized gas prices dropping 12 percent.
The company is scaling up its gas production as North Sea crude
output dwindles after 40 years of production and expects its gas
output to equal oil production in Norway in 2012.  
 Statoil sells about 90 percent of its gas through long-term
contracts and the rest on the spot market. Of these, about 70
percent are tied to oil prices and the majority of the contracts
are not up for renegotiation until 2012, Bjoernson said. This
ratio “could become somewhat lower,” Bjoernson said, declining
to say by when and how much.  
 Norway is the world’s second-biggest gas exporter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        