-- Stimulate Canada Economy Is Lawmakers Call to Harper as Bond Yields Say No
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-09-20T13:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/stimulate-canada-economy-is-lawmakers-call-to-harper-as-bond-yields-say-no.html

          
          
             Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  will face demands from opposition lawmakers for
additional economic stimulus when parliament reconvenes today.
Political analysts say he would be wise to resist -- and the
behavior of bond investors is sending the same signal.  
 Lawmakers from all three  opposition parties , union leaders
and business groups including the Canadian Chamber of Commerce,
have called on the government to extend parts of its two-year,
C$47 billion ($45.5 billion) stimulus package beyond a March
2011 deadline.  
 The calls come as a surge in Canadian short-term bond
yields since the end of August suggests domestic demand remains
buoyant enough that policy makers should be withdrawing
stimulus, not extending it. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
has increased the benchmark interest rate three times since
June, the only central banker in the Group of Seven to boost
 policy rates  this year.  
 “We don’t need more in the way of government spending
because the Canadian economy is doing relatively well versus
other parts of the world,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of
research at MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto,
which manages C$4 billion in assets, about 15 percent of which
is Canadian government bonds. “They wouldn’t be raising rates
if domestic demand was very weak.”  
 Christopher Ragan , an economics professor at McGill
University in Montreal and former adviser to the central bank
and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , said another reason not to
add stimulus is that not all the  existing package  has worked its
way through the economy.  
 Higher Yields  
 Yields  on Canadian 2-year bonds have jumped 27 basis points
to 1.475 percent so far this month, the biggest increase in the
G-7. Bond yields typically rise when domestic demand is strong;
in the U.S., by contrast, 2-year bond yields are little changed
at 0.464 percent over that time and  last month  the Federal
Reserve maintained a pledge to keep interest rates low for an
“extended period” out of concern that the recovery in U.S.
output and employment have slowed.  
 Political considerations may also argue for Harper to
resist calls for extending stimulus. Reining in Canada’s
 deficit , which Flaherty said last week set a record by exceeding
C$50 billion in the fiscal year ended March 31, may be more of a
vote-getter than providing additional stimulus, analysts said.  
 Canadians were “traumatized” by high deficits in earlier
decades and “really did absorb the lessons that the Americans
are just learning now,” said  Tom Flanagan , a professor at the
University of Calgary and former aide to Harper. “I actually
think in Canada you could win an election” on balancing the
budget, he said.  
 Calls for Cuts  
 An  Ekos poll  in February showed 46 percent of Canadians
said the government should cut services or spending to deal with
the deficit. Only 14 percent called for tax increases and 10
percent said the government should continue to run a large
deficit, while the rest didn’t state an opinion. The poll of
3,006 was conducted Feb. 3 to Feb. 10 and had a margin of error
of 1.8 percentage points.  
 The Conservatives’ advantage in public opinion dwindled
over the summer as the political debate strayed from the
economy. The government’s popularity is at its lowest this year,
according to  polling  by Nanos Research amid controversy over a
decision to change the country’s census, purchase 65 Lockheed
Martin Corp. F-35 fighter jets for C$9 billion, and spend more
than C$1 billion for security at June’s summits of Group of 20
and Group of Eight leaders.  
 Brush Fires  
 “The new emerging narrative on the government is that it
lost focus from concentrating on the economy and jobs to
fighting political brush fires,” said  Nikita Nanos , president
of Ottawa-based Nanos Research.  
 In addition to dealing with calls to extend stimulus, the
government’s economic agenda will also be tested by  BHP Billiton
Ltd. ’s proposed purchase of  Potash Corp.  of Saskatchewan, which
Harper would need to approve, free-trade negotiations with the
European Union, and plans to lower corporate income taxes when
the government is counting on higher payroll taxes to help
balance the budget.  
 One of Parliament’s first orders of business will be a vote
Wednesday on a bill to abolish the country’s mandatory registry
of so-called  long guns . The registry is unpopular with farmers
and rural Canadians, key Conservative constituents. While
opposition lawmakers are poised to join forces to defeat the
bill, the government’s efforts may help it win seats from the
New Democratic Party, the Conservative’s main opponent in many
rural areas, pollster Nanos said.  
 Budget Update  
 The government will introduce three economy-related
measures in coming weeks, and Flaherty will present a budget
update this fall,  John Baird , Conservative leader in the House
of Commons, told reporters Sept. 16, without elaborating.  
 Opposition lawmakers have called for Harper to postpone the
March deadline for completing stimulus projects, implement
assistance programs for the manufacturing and forestry
industries and not rule out additional measures if the economy
worsens.  
 Harper has shown reluctance to listen to date. While not
ruling out additional measures, Harper told reporters Sept. 2
that private-sector job growth, a functioning financial system
and rising interest rates indicate the government should focus
on reducing its deficit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        