-- U.K. Stocks Advance, Led by Energy Companies; BP, Brit, Essar, Segro Rally
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-09-20T16:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/stocks-gain-early-london-advance-led-by-bp-vodafone-royal-dutch-shell.html

          
          
             U.K. stocks  rebounded to a four-
month high, led by energy companies as crude oil snapped a four-
day losing streak and BP Plc permanently plugged the source of
the world’s largest accidental oil spill.  
 BP led a  gauge  of oil and gas companies to the highest
level in more than four months as crude rallied above $75 a
barrel. Hammerson Plc rose amid speculation that the company and
Oman may try to sell their jointly owned office and retail site
in London. Lloyds Banking Group Plc led a rally in banks while
Brit Insurance NV jumped after Apollo Global Management and CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. made a sweetened offer for the insurer.  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  gained 94.09, or 1.7 percent,
to 5,602.54 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, as all but 15
stocks advanced. The  FTSE All-Share Index  gained 1.6 percent.
Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  gained 1 percent as Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  quelled concern that the country will need financial aid
from the European Union.  
 “It has been a well supported rally from a mix of
sectors,” said London-based  Yusuf Heusen , a senior sales trader
at IG Index Plc. Investors have taken “the view that Friday’s
sell off was overdone and has tempted in the bargain hunters.”  
 The FTSE 100 retreated for the previous three days as the
cost to insure Irish government bonds jumped on concern that the
nation’s banks may need further government aid. Stocks rebounded
today as Moody’s Investors Service said the U.K.’s top credit
rating will withstand the challenging economic outlook as the
government stabilizes the public finances.  
 BP Climbs  
 BP  climbed 2.1 percent to 411.4 pence after the company
confirmed that it had sealed the Macondo well in the Gulf of
Mexico with cement. U.S. officials also said the well was
“effectively dead” after BP conducted a successful pressure
test on a new cement seal at the bottom of the line. The oil
company pumped the cement through the relief well which
intercepted the Macondo line on Sept. 16.  
 The 87-day spill, triggered by an April 20 rig explosion
that killed 11 workers, tainted hundreds of miles of U.S.
coastline. It also wiped out more than $70 billion of BP’s
market value.  
 Essar Energy, BG  
 Essar Energy Plc , an Indian power generator that sold
shares in London this year, climbed 1.4 percent to 458.8 pence
as crude oil advanced as much as 2.4 percent in New York to
$75.45 a barrel. BG Group Plc gained 2.9 percent to 1,114 pence
and Tullow Oil Plc increased 1.4 percent to 1,279 pence.  
 Hammerson , the U.K.’s third-largest real estate investment
trust, rallied 3.3 percent to 395.3 pence after the Financial
Times reported that the company and Oman may try to sell their
site at Bishop’s Square for about 550 million pounds ($856
million). The newspaper did not say where it got the
information. JPMorgan Asset Management may be interested in
acquiring the entire site, the FT said.  
 Hammerson last year sold a majority stake in the site, its
largest asset, to a fund controlled by Oman in a deal that
valued the property at 445 million pounds.  
 Segro  gained 2.1 percent to 269.3 pence after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the owner of business
parks and warehouses to “neutral” from “sell.”  
 Lloyds, Barclays, RBS  
 Lloyds climbed 2.8 percent to 77.41 euros, leading a
rebound in bank  shares . The lender today announced that Chief
Executive Officer Eric Daniels will retire within the next 12
months. The bank will form a committee headed by Chairman Win
Bischoff to assess internal and external candidates.  
 Barclays Plc rallied 2.9 percent to 313.4 pence and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc increased 2.5 percent to 49 pence.  
 Brit Insurance  jumped 4.1 percent to 1,028 pence after
Apollo teamed up with CVC to make a fourth, improved offer for
the insurer valued at as much as 871 million pounds.  
 Brit expects to accept the offer of 1,075 pence a share in
cash and a further 25 pence a share depending on the value of
its assets at the end of the year, the insurer said late last
week.  
 Carnival Plc soared 5 percent to 2,489 pence, the biggest
gainer on the  FTSE 100 . The world’s largest cruise-line operator
is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Antonio Garcia Pascual, an economist at Barclays Capital, discusses Ireland's fiscal policies and bank health.
     Pascual speaks from London to Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
