-- Subbarao Says Inflation to Determine India's Future Policy Rate Increases
-- Unni Krishnan
-- 2010-09-20T13:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/subbarao-says-inflation-to-determine-india-s-future-policy-rate-increases.html

          
          
             India’s central bank will decide
on raising its policy rates depending on the pace of price
increases in the nation as borrowing costs are near their
“neutral” level, Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said today.  
 “Going forward, it is going to be not so much bringing
the policy rates to neutral level but inflation which is going
to determine our policy action,” Subbarao told reporters in
the southern Indian city of Hyderabad. “Inflation has started
coming down although some numbers are still worrisome.”  
 Consumer prices paid by industrial workers in India are
rising faster than 11 percent, the most after flood-hit
Pakistan among the 17 countries in the Asia Pacific tracked by
Bloomberg, as rising wages boosts demand for manufactured goods
and services. The Reserve Bank of India on Sept. 16 raised
rates for a fifth time since March to slow inflation in the
second-fastest growing major economy in Asia.  
 “We are not yet over with the monetary tightening
cycle,” said  Indranil Pan , chief economist at Mumbai-based
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.. “The reserve bank will be looking at
inflation pressures and type of inflation that manifests rather
than the rate itself.”  
 India’s inflation as measured by consumer prices paid by
farm workers slowed to 9.65 percent in August from a year
earlier, compared with 11.02 percent in July, according to a
statement today by the labor ministry.  Wholesale prices  rose
8.5 percent in August from a year earlier, easing from July’s
9.8 percent gain.  
 Transmission of Policy  
 Subbarao said the central bank will ensure monetary
tightening does not hurt economic activity and will “manage
the balance between growth and inflation”.  
 Finance Ministry’s chief economic adviser,  Kaushik Basu 
said last week any further rate actions will likely depend on
inflation and growth.  
 Gross domestic product expanded 8.8 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the most among major economies after China
and Brazil.  
 Industrial production expanded 13.8 percent in July from a
year earlier, more than twice the pace in June. India’s
merchandise exports increased 22.5 percent from a year earlier
to $16.6 billion in August, Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar 
said last week.  
 India’s accelerating economy has lifted incomes and stoked
demand for Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.’s cars and TVS Motor Co.
motorbikes and other goods. Maruti Suzuki, the nation’s biggest
carmaker, sold a record 104,791 vehicles last month.  
 Subbarao said the central bank wanted better transmission
of monetary policy signaling the need for interest rates
offered by commercial banks to rise in line with the increase
in the central bank’s policy rates.  
 State Bank of India and ICICI Bank Ltd., the nation’s two
biggest, have raised their lending rates by 50 basis points
since March, less than half the 1.25 percentage-point increase
in the central bank’s benchmark repurchase rate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        