-- Sun Hung Kai's Underlying Profit Rises 12% on More Unit Sales
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-09-20T11:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/sun-hung-kai-profit-increases-as-hong-kong-developer-sells-more-apartments.html

          
          
             Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., the
world’s biggest developer by market value, said full-year
underlying profit rose 12 percent after rental income from its
offices and shopping malls increased.  
 Net income excluding property revaluations rose to HK$13.9
billion ($1.8 billion) for the 12 months to June 30, from
HK$12.4 billion a year earlier, the Hong Kong-based builder said
in a statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange today. That’s
below the HK$14.1 billion average  estimate  of 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Prime office rents in Hong Kong have jumped 16 percent in
the last year as financial companies resumed expanding amid an
economic recovery, according to Colliers International Ltd.
Rental profit at Sun Hung Kai, which owns Hong Kong’s tallest
skyscapper, rose 14 percent as “leasing demand has been picking
up,” the group said in today’s statement.  
 The company’s rental portfolio “should reduce earnings
volatility and provide the company the capital to take on more
risks,”  Trevor Cheung , Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas,
said before the earnings were announced.  
 Sun Hung Kai shares have  risen  5 percent this year, in-line
with the Hang Seng Property Index which tracks Hong Kong’s seven
biggest developers. The  shares  rose 1.4 percent to HK$122.10 at
the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong, before the earnings announcement.  
 Rising Rents  
 The developer, controlled by the family of Chairwoman Kwong
Siu-hing, built and operates office buildings including the
International Finance Centre, a joint development with  Henderson
Land Development Co. , and the International Commerce Centre, the
city’s tallest building  
 Rental profit rose to HK$8.31 billion from HK$7.27 billion,
the company said.  
 The developer booked a profit of HK$6.62 billion from
apartment sales during the last financial year, mainly from
projects including Yoho Midtown and Greenview in Hong Kong and
Orchard Residence in Singapore, it said in today’s statement.  
 Sun Hung Kai sold almost 95 percent of the flats at
Larvotto, a harbor-front luxury apartment project in Hong Kong’s
Island South district, since it started selling the yet-to-be-
completed project in mid-July, it said in the statement. Hong
Kong developers only book profit upon completion of projects.  
 The company sold about 3,200 units for almost HK$30
billion in the first half of this year, the most among Hong Kong
 developers , as home prices  surged  13 percent in the period
driven by record-low mortgage rates, according to  Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.   
 China Properties  
 The developer aims to sell HK$26 billion of properties this
fiscal year and has already sold HK$8 billion in the last two
months,  Victor Lui , an executive director of Sun Hung Kai’s
property agency unit, said at a briefing today.  
 The group’s developments in mainland China account for
about 20 percent of its total real estate assets, Deputy
Chairman  Raymond Kwok  said at the briefing.  
 “We will continue to invest a similar share in mainland
China every year,” Kwok said. The Shanghai IFC and Hangzhou
MIXC, Sun Hung Kai’s two new commercial complexes on the
mainland, will bring in at least HK$2 billion of annual rental
revenue in the next two years, he said.  
 Government Measures  
 Hong Kong home prices have risen 47 percent since the
beginning of last year and are now on par with 1997, according
to Centaline. That year marked the height of a bubble that was
followed by a six-year slump that sent values more than 50
percent lower.  
 Hong Kong’s government last month raised mortgage down-
payment ratios and pledged to increase land supply to prevent
housing from becoming unaffordable.  
 The government is closely monitoring the property market
and may introduce further measures to contain prices if they
continue to escalate, Ming Pao reported Sept. 1, citing
Financial Secretary John Tsang.  
 The city’s housing market is likely to experience short-
term volatility even as its fundamentals are “solid and
positive,” Sun Hung Kai said in today’s statement.  
 “Market sentiment may cool,”  David Ng , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said in a Sept. 17 report.
“We remain cautious on the residential sector because of
excessive price growth and rising policy risk.”  
 Including property revaluation, net income rose to HK$28
billion, or HK$10.93 a share, from HK$10.4 billion, or HK$4.04 a
share, a year earlier, the company said.  
 Deputy Chairmen Thomas and Raymond Kwok, sons of Kwong and
the company’s late founder Kwok Tak Seng, took over running Sun
Hung Kai in May 2008 after ousting elder brother Walter Kwok
from the chairmanship. The family’s combined wealth of $17
billion is third on Forbes Magazine’s list of Hong Kong’s
richest.  
 The company will pay a final dividend of HK$1.85, compared
with HK$1.70 a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sun Hung Kai's Underlying Profit Rises 12%  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A pedestrian walks past an advertisement for the new Yoho Midtown residential development. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A pedestrian walks past an advertisement for the new Yoho Midtown residential development. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
