-- Swiss Franc Strengthens Versus Dollar, Euro on Concern Recovery Faltering
-- Stephen Morris
-- 2010-09-20T15:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/swiss-franc-strengthens-versus-dollar-euro-on-concern-recovery-faltering.html

          
          
             The Swiss franc strengthened
against the dollar and euro for the second day on renewed
speculation the global economic recovery may be faltering,
stoking demand for the currency as a haven.  
 The franc strengthened against 11 of its 16 most-traded
peers ahead of the Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee
meeting tomorrow. The Fed will leave unchanged a sentence saying
high unemployment and low inflation warrant “exceptionally
low” rates for an “extended period,” according to 54 of 63
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  KOF Research
Institute  said Switzerland’s  economy  will expand at a faster
pace than previously estimated in 2010.  
 “We are getting into a week where there will be a lot of
uncertainty -- the FOMC meet on Tuesday and there is quite a lot
of fresh bond supply in Europe from Portugal, Greece and
Ireland,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London. “There are a lot of potential
negatives here, which benefits the Swiss franc and reduces risk
sentiment.”  
 The franc strengthened 0.4 percent to trade at 1.0054 per
dollar as of 4:41 p.m. in London. It reached past parity with
the U.S. currency at 99.33 centimes on Sept. 14. The franc
appreciated 0.2 percent versus the euro to 1.3146, after
climbing as much as 0.5 percent earlier today.  
 Times of Turmoil  
 Investors traditionally buy the franc during times of
financial and economic turmoil because of the perceived
stability of Switzerland’s economy, as its trade surplus frees
the nation from dependence on overseas capital. The franc
reached a record 1.2766 per euro on Sept. 8. The currency has
climbed 4 percent this year against a basket of currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  
 Gross domestic product will rise 2.7 percent this year and
1.8 percent in 2011, the Zurich-based KOF institute said in an
e-mailed  statement  today. In June, it forecast the economy to
expand 1.8 percent this year and 1.6 percent next.  
 Swiss companies have stepped up output and hiring to meet
reviving global demand, bolstering consumer spending. A recovery
may weaken as euro-area governments cut spending to reduce their
budget deficits and as the Swiss franc’s 11 percent appreciation
versus the euro this year makes exports less competitive.  
 “The Swiss economy is unlikely to be able to maintain its
momentum,” KOF said in its statement. “At the present time,
the world economy is suffering a setback brought about by
austerity packages and the end of a vigorous inventory cycle.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        