-- Longest U.S. Slump Since '30s Ended in June '09, Group Says
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-09-20T21:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/u-s-recession-ended-in-june-2009-was-longest-since-wwii-nber-panel-says.html

          
          
             The worst U.S. recession since the
Great Depression ended in June 2009, the National Bureau of
Economic Research said today, as a slowdown in economic growth
raises the possibility of another slump.  
 “We are still expanding, but disappointingly slowly,”
 Robert Hall , a Stanford University economics professor who heads
the NBER committee charged with dating business cycles, said in
an interview. “It’s still too early to tote up the cost, given
that we are still far from recovered from its effects. It’s
definitely the worst apart from the Depression, which was far,
far worse.”  
 The decision came as Federal Reserve policy makers meet
this week to consider whether new measures to boost growth are
needed and the Obama administration proposes additional fiscal
stimulus.  Bruce Kasman  is among economists projecting the
world’s largest economy will not grow enough to lower
joblessness, which has been hovering near 10 percent.  
 “It’s a recovery that feels fragile, and still raises
questions about the risks to its sustainability,” Kasman, chief
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in an
interview. “We’re seeing job growth, but it hasn’t been robust.
A year from now, we expect the  unemployment rate  will be pretty
much where it is.”  
 The odds of the economy falling back into another recession
are about 25 percent, Kasman said.  
 ‘New Recession’  
 “In determining that a trough occurred in June 2009, the
committee did not conclude that economic conditions since that
month have been favorable or that the economy has returned to
operating at normal capacity,” the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based NBER’s  group said  today in a statement. “The committee
decided that any future downturn of the economy would be a new
recession and not a continuation of the recession that began in
December 2007.”  
 Stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  to
a four-month high. The gauge climbed 1.5 percent to 1,142.71 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York.  
 Marked by a collapse in housing and sub-prime mortgage
lending that triggered a global meltdown in financial markets,
the 18-month downturn trailed Great Depression that lasted from
1929 to 1933, surpassing the 16-month contractions of 1973-75
and 1981-82. More than 8 million workers lost their jobs as a
result of the recession, a slump that may take years to fix.  
 Fed’s Dilemma  
 The possibility of a sub-par expansion poses a dilemma for
the central bank’s policy-making Federal Open Market Committee
when it meets tomorrow. The Fed’s difficulties are compounded by
the fact that it has already cut the overnight interbank
interest rate to near zero and FOMC members are divided about
the costs and benefits of further easing through unconventional
policies such as buying more bonds and increasing its $2.3
trillion balance sheet.  
 President  Barack Obama  during an hour-long town-hall
discussion on jobs and the economy broadcast on CNBC television
said the recession remains “very real” for those Americans
still out of work. “The challenge is the hole was so deep, a
lot of them are still having a hard time,” he said.  
 The administration has proposed a package of business tax
breaks and infrastructure spending to accelerate economic
growth, while saying the U.S. can’t afford to extend tax cuts to
the wealthiest Americans.  
 Tax-Cut Debate  
 Harvard University economics professor  Martin Feldstein ,
another member of the NBER committee, said today that Obama’s
proposal to allow tax cuts for the wealthy to lapse “is going
to slow the economy down and could push the economy into
recession again next year.”  
 “We should extend all of the Bush tax cuts for two years
and we will have a clean slate and see where the economy is,”
Feldstein said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene.  
 The economy and taxes will dominate the congressional
agenda less than two months before elections that will determine
control of the House and Senate. Obama is defending his economic
policies against criticism from Republicans, who argue they
haven’t been effective and have widened the budget deficit.  
 NBER’s Hall said the group wore political blinders in
announcing the call today.  
 “We are studiously nonpartisan,” Hall said in the
interview. “So much so that we do not consider the political
implications of the announcements.”  
 Recovery Slows  
 Economic growth decelerated to an annualized 1.6 percent
rate in the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first and 5
percent in the last three months of 2009, according to the
Commerce Department.  
 The world’s largest economy shrank 4.1 percent from the
fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, the
biggest slump since the 1930s, revised figures from the Commerce
Department showed in July.  Household spending  dropped 1.2
percent in 2009, the biggest decline since 1942.  
 The previous contractions in the post-World War II era
lasted 10 months on average.  
 The business cycle committee was formed when Feldstein
became president of the NBER in 1978. Feldstein has retired as
president, a position now held by  James Poterba , an economics
professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Hall has
chaired the committee, which currently has seven members, since
its inception.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in St. Louis at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Longest U.S. Slump Since 1930s Ended in June 2009  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Robert Hall, head of the National Bureau of Economic Research's Business Cycle Dating Committee. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Robert Hall, head of the National Bureau of Economic Research's Business Cycle Dating Committee. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research said the recession ended in June 2009, marking the end of a recession that lasted 18 months, the longest since World War II. Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Larry Kantor, head of research at Barclays Capital in New York, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said yesterday, as a slowdown in economic growth raises the possibility of another slump. The decision came as Federal Reserve policy makers meet this week to consider whether new measures to boost growth are needed and the Obama administration proposes additional fiscal stimulus. Kantor talks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina, talks about Federal Reserve monetary policy, the outlook for the economy and consumer sentiment.
     Vitner speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
