-- U.S. Business-Consumer Confidence Gap Fits Trend: Chart of the Day
-- David Wilson
-- 2010-09-20T15:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/u-s-business-consumer-confidence-gap-fits-trend-in-recovery-chart-of-day.html

          
          
             U.S. households’ lack of confidence
at a time when chief executive officers are relatively
optimistic is no surprise, according to Pierre Lapointe, a
global strategist at Brockhouse & Cooper Inc.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY shows the ratio of the Conference
Board’s business- and consumer-confidence indexes, along with
U.S. recession periods.  
 The confidence ratio tends to peak once economic recoveries
begin, as the chart depicts. The most recent slump ended in June
2009, according to the recession arbiters at the National Bureau
of Economic Research. They announced their decision today.  
 “After CEOs become more confident, they devise expansion
plans and start hiring people to execute them,” Lapointe and
economist Alex Bellefleur wrote today in a report featuring a
similar chart. “Only when job creation comes back into full
force does consumer confidence start to rise.”  
 U.S. stocks climbed after confidence gaps occurred in the
first quarter of 1983 and the second quarters of 1992 and 2004,
the report said. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted average
gains of 7.2 percent after six months and 6.3 percent after a
year, by their calculations.  
 This month’s release of the Conference Board’s consumer
index is set for Sept. 28. Economists expect to see an increase
to 53.7 from 53.5 last month, according to the average estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Another consumer gauge, compiled by the University of
Michigan, dropped this month to its lowest reading in a year.
The Thomson Reuters/Michigan index for September unexpectedly
fell to 66.6 from 68.9 in August.  
 (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        