-- U.S. Corporate Credit-Risk Index Increases as New Series Begins Trading
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-09-20T23:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-index-increases-as-new-series-begins-trading.html

          
          
             A benchmark indicator of U.S.
corporate credit risk rose as banks, hedge funds and other money
managers started moving trades into a new series of the index.  
 Series 15 of the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, a credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt, traded at 106.6 basis
points as of 6:37 p.m. in New York, 5.1 basis points wider than
Series 14, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group.  
 New versions of the index are created every six months to
replace companies that are no longer investment grade. Issues
are also taken out of the index if they’re no longer among the
most actively traded in the $25 trillion credit swaps market or
fail to meet other index criteria.  
 Most of the difference between the two series “is probably
coming from the fact that you’re rolling to a longer maturity,”
said  Andrew Kuan , senior trader at Primus Asset Management in
New York. “It’s only one name coming in and out. It’s not
really changing the makeup of the risk that people have on.”  
 Universal Health Services Inc. , the King of Prussia,
Pennsylvania-based operator of more than 100 U.S. medical
facilities, was dropped from Series 15 after Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings cut the company’s debt ranking below
investment grade. Islandia, New York-based  CA Inc. , the second-
largest maker of software for mainframe computers after
International Business Machines Corp., was added.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
defaults in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point and equals
$1,000 a year on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 Homebuilders Ease  
 The Series 14 index is down 2.5 basis points to 101.5,
according to data provider CMA, as homebuilder Lennar Corp. beat
profit forecasts and investors speculated the recovery from the
U.S. recession that ended in June 2009 will continue.  
 “People are feeling a little bit better about the
economy,” Kuan said.  
 The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and climbs as it deteriorates.  
 Contracts on Miami-based  Lennar  eased 14 basis points to
431.4 after the fourth-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue
topped projections as margins widened. Those on Los Angeles-
based  KB Home  fell 12.5 basis points to 461.7; contracts on
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., the Red Bank, New Jersey
homebuilder, eased 70.2 basis points to 1,624.5, and those on
Atlanta-based Beazer Homes USA Inc. declined 32.5 basis points
to 714.5, according to CMA.  
 Swaps on IBM climbed 1.4 basis points to 39.4, CMA data
show, after the Armonk, New York-based company announced a $1.7
billion takeover of the analytics-technology provider Netezza
Corp.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        