-- Huffington Says Fire Summers, Beware the Tea Party: Interview
-- Zinta Lundborg
-- 2010-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/huffington-says-fire-summers-stop-wars-beware-the-tea-party-interview.html

          
          
                   Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) --“Wall Street has been overseeing a
massive transfer of wealth from the middle class to the richest
Americans,” says  Arianna Huffington .  
 Her new book, “ Third World America : How Our Politicians
Are Abandoning the Middle Class and Betraying the American
Dream,” describes how ordinary families have gotten clobbered
during the last 30 years. Making ends meet is ever harder.  
 Huffington, the energized (three BlackBerries!) founder of
the news website Huffington Post, wants to galvanize people into
action before it’s too late.  
 We spoke at Bloomberg’s New York world headquarters.  
 Lundborg: Why is the middle class so important?  
 Huffington: Who wants to live in a country of extremes,
where you need to live behind gates and your children have to be
protected by bodyguards so they’re not kidnapped?  
 We had a middle class that believed in the American Dream,
in upward mobility. When these things disappear, people operate
out of fear and not out of the sense that we’re all in this
together.  
 Rigged Game  
 Lundborg: You point out that everyman Homer Simpson, a
factory worker supporting a family on one income, has become a
middle-class fantasy.  
 Huffington: The game is rigged now to the point where
staying a member of the middle class, let alone advancing, is
becoming a matter of chance, like buying a lottery ticket.  
 Lundborg: What to do?  
 Huffington: What is missing is the sense of urgency that
existed when we were trying to save Wall Street.  
 Lundborg: What are some of the more promising programs?  
 Huffington: A payroll tax holiday, an infrastructure bank
that creates jobs that can’t be exported, a green bank that
addresses renewable energy and new technologies, tax credits,
R&D credits, visas that allow immigrants with ideas to come into
this country.  
 Lundborg: How is  President Obama  doing on the economic
front?  
 Bad Hirelings  
 Huffington: Obama is brilliant and cares, but personnel is
policy.  
 He picked the wrong people. One of Obama’s problems is that
he has a reverence for establishments. If you have a rotten
status quo, you need to be willing to take on establishments or
you’re not going to be able to change anything. People are not
going to give up power without a battle.  
 Lundborg: You say he should fire  Larry Summers .  
 Huffington: His ideas are toxic for the country. He was one
of the architects of the abolition of Glass-Steagall, which is
at the heart of what went wrong.  
 If you allow institutions to take excessive risk with the
expectation that because they pose a systemic risk they will be
bailed out by the taxpayer, you’re undermining the capitalist
system.  
 Lundborg: Should all the financial powerhouses have been
allowed to fail?  
 Huffington: No, but if they were going to be rescued, they
should have been rescued with major strings attached: with
clawbacks, with clear expectations about what they were going to
lend to create jobs, with clear guidelines about no bonuses.  
 Tea Party Anger  
 Lundborg: You cite  MIT  Professor  Simon Johnson ’s sobering
study of corporate profits. Between 1973 and 1985, the financial
industry’s share topped out at 16 percent, whereas just before
the crisis, it stood at 41 percent.  
 Huffington: The financial system is supposed to be a
facilitator. It has to add value for the economy, and when it
doesn’t then you have the unmooring of the real economy from the
financial economy. And that’s not healthy.  
 Lundborg: Are you surprised by the targets of the Tea Party
anger?  
 Huffington: The heart of the Tea Party movement is the
anger at the fundamental injustice of what happened. They move
from that legitimate anger to anger at government in general.  
 I get what they’re saying -- the government completely
screwed up.  
 Lundborg: What are their solutions?  
 Huffington: Demagogues don’t need solutions. In times of
economic anxiety and genuine anger at the establishment,
demagogues thrive.  
 They don’t operate on rationality but tap into people’s
fears. They’re focusing on immigrants, on Muslims, and that’s
potentially explosive.  
 Perverse Priorities  
 Lundborg: What’s your biggest fear right now?  
 Huffington: It’s that we’re not going to do enough in time
to save the middle class and that would mean that we’re not
going to do enough in time to prevent us from becoming third
world America.  
 Iraq and Afghanistan are perverse priorities. One sign of a
declining empire is to spend money we don’t have on military
adventures.  
 We should be spending those billions a week rebuilding our
infrastructure and creating jobs.  
 Lundborg: How do we mitigate the power of the special
interests?  
 Huffington:  Lawrence Lessig ’s Fix Congress First -- to
bring public financing of elections -- is the only possible
solution. Why do we allow the special interests to buy
politicians and buy public policy?  
 To buy this book in North America, click  here .  
 ( Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Third World America"  
                       
                         
                           Crown Publishing Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "Third World America: How Our Politicians Are Abandoning the Middle Class and Betraying the American Dream" by Arianna Huffington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "Third World America: How Our Politicians Are Abandoning the Middle Class and Betraying the American Dream" by Arianna Huffington. Source: Crown Publishing Group via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Arianna Huffington  
                       
                         
                           Paul Goguen/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Arianna Huffington. Her most recent book, "Third World America: How Our Politicians Are Abandoning the Middle Class and Betraying the American Dream" argues that the middle class is on the brink of collapse. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Arianna Huffington. Her most recent book, "Third World America: How Our Politicians Are Abandoning the Middle Class and Betraying the American Dream" argues that the middle class is on the brink of collapse. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
