-- Lufthansa Said to Propose Franz as New Chief at Board Meeting
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-09-21T16:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/lufthansa-said-to-propose-franz-as-mayrhuber-s-successor-at-board-meeting.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s
second-largest airline, plans to propose  Christoph Franz  as
successor to Chief Executive Officer  Wolfgang Mayrhuber  at a
supervisory board meeting tomorrow, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Chairman  Juergen Weber  may ask Mayrhuber, 63, whose
contract runs out at the end of 2010, to stay on until the
carrier’s next shareholders’ meeting on May 3, 2011, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are private. The  board  is scheduled to discuss Mayrhuber’s
succession at a gathering in Hamburg tomorrow.  Franz was appointed Mayrhuber’s deputy and chief of the
Lufthansa’s brand passenger unit in June last year. The 50-year-
old set a 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion)  cost-cut  target at the
unit through 2011. In an interview with the most recent edition
of the airline’s employee newsletter, Franz said he’s targeting
an operating margin of 8 percent for the Lufthansa brand.  “Lufthansa’s biggest challenge is making the passenger
business sustainably profitable and that means lowering the cost
structure in line with the competition,” said  Martina Noss , an
analyst with Nord LB in Hanover. While intercontinental flights
are profitable, “the European business is the problem child.”  Fare Rebound  Amelie Schwierholz , a spokeswoman for Cologne, Germany-
based Lufthansa, declined to comment on the CEO succession plan.  Lufthansa added 30 cents, or 2.3 percent, to 13.65 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Frankfurt, giving the carrier
a market value of 6.3 billion euros. The stock has gained 16
percent this year, compared with a 9.7 percent  increase  by the
eight-company Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index. Air France-KLM
Group, Europe’s largest airline, has  gained  6.7 percent this
year.  The German carrier has benefitted from a rebound in fares
in most markets except on short-haul flights. Chief Financial
Officer  Stephan Gemkow  said last week that the airline is
confident it will achieve its 2010 target of raising operating
profit to more than last year’s 130 million euros while
expanding sales.  From 2004 to 2009, Franz steered Swiss International
Airlines, the carrier taken over by Lufthansa, to profitability
as its CEO.  Franz, who studied industrial engineering in Germany,
France and the U.S., worked at Deutsche Bahn AG for nine years,
where he was eventually put in charge of the state-owned
railway’s passenger business.  Swiss Turnaround  Mayrhuber, CEO of Lufthansa since 2003, presided over the
 acquisitions  of Swiss, British Midland, Austrian Airlines and
Brussels Airlines. It isn’t clear yet what he plans to do after
stepping down.  “The second task is to integrate Austrian Airlines and BMI
and restructure them into profitable units,” said Noss, who has
a “hold” rating on Lufthansa’s stock. “That’s where Franz has
experience after turning around Swiss.”  Lufthansa’s  net income  for the three months ended June 30
more than doubled to 194 million euros.  British Airways Plc  had
a 122 million-pound loss in the period. Air France reported an
operating loss of 142 million euros from its passenger business.  Airlines may post an $8.9 billion profit this year, more
than triple an earlier forecast, as demand for travel increases,
the International Air Transport Association said today.  European Losses  For Europe, the group pared its loss forecast for 2010 to
$1.3 billion from $2.8 billion. The industry group said that
margins are still “razor thin” and that earnings may subside
to $5.3 billion next year as government austerity measures crimp
spending in some markets.  Lufthansa this year concluded pay freezes with its pilots
and ground personnel. The airline still faces potential walkouts
from cabin crews as it hasn’t found an agreement with the UFO
union in seven rounds of negotiations.  Carsten Spohr , 43, head of Lufthansa’s cargo unit, is the
most likely candidate to succeed Franz, said the person with
knowledge of the matter.  Karl Ulrich Garnadt , 53, who is in
charge of personnel at Lufthansa’s passenger division, will
probably succeed Spohr, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  