-- Ultimate Escapes, `Vacation of a Lifetime' Club, Nears Collapse
-- Jonathan Keehner
-- 2010-09-20T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/ultimate-escapes-vacation-of-a-lifetime-club-says-it-s-near-collapse.html

          
          
             Ultimate Escapes Inc. , whose 1,200
members paid at least $70,000 apiece for pampered holidays in
villas and yachts from Tuscany to Costa Rica, may be headed for
a getaway of its own.  
 “Let me start off with the bad news,” Chief Executive
Officer  Jim Tousignant , 49, began a Sept. 9  letter to members .
The six-year-old club, he continued, was in default on a $90
million loan and “increasingly likely” to file for bankruptcy
protection as soon as this month.  
 Tousignant says he started the club after surviving the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center while working
at  Morgan Stanley . He previously founded and sold Multex Inc.,
an investment research firm. Ultimate Escapes, which went public
in 2009, traded at $7.85 last October and now fetches  15 cents .  
 In an interview last week, Tousignant blamed the 2008
financial crisis for the fiscal woes. Ultimate Escapes raised
$15 million from members in January 2009, then fell about $20
million short of its next fundraising attempt, in October,
collecting just $10 million from investors. In February, it
scrapped another public offering.  
 “When your cash stops flowing, your expenses don’t stop,”
Tousignant said in the interview. “You’ve got staff, you’ve got
properties, you’ve got fees, property taxes, mortgages that have
got to be paid.”  
 Destination clubs such as Kissimmee, Florida-based Ultimate
Escapes and its larger competitor, America Online Inc. co-
founder  Steve Case ’s closely held  Exclusive Resorts LLC , offer
luxury vacations, complete with in-house concierges and on-call
maids, as a more upscale, convenient and varied alternative to a
timeshare or second home.  
 Private Chefs  
 “Upon entering your log home, you will be welcomed by the
rustic mountain decor,” reads a description of one home, a
 four-bedroom house  in Stowe, Vermont. “You or your Private Chef
will love the Viking stove, complete with six burners and two
ovens, and Sub-Zero refrigerator for creating dining
masterpieces.”  
 At Ultimate Escapes, membership starts with a $70,000 one-
time payment, plus $8,000 annual dues for a minimum of 14 days
of access to $1 million residences. Prices climb exponentially
for longer breaks at more expensive properties. A “Platinum
PLUS” membership at Ultimate Escape’s Elite Club  costs 
$450,000, according to the club’s website.  
 Sales at such clubs flourished during the boom years,
rising to a peak of $610 million in 2007 from $450 million in
2004, according to  Ragatz Associates , a resort real estate
consultant.  
 Sales Tumbled  
 Collecting mansions around the world left some clubs with
too much debt and too few fee-paying members after the bust,
derailing some with a business model that relied on increasing
annual fees by signing up new vacationers. At least three of
them, High Country Club LLC, Solstice LLC and the Lusso
Collection, have already gone bankrupt. Industry sales tumbled
to $195 million last year, Ragatz said.  
 Many destination clubs are structured so that members don’t
actually own interests in the club’s properties, according to
Dan Guyder, a partner in the restructuring group at law firm
 Allen & Overy LLP  in New York. Some clubs offer members pledged
equity interests in the property-owning subsidiaries as
collateral, which may have no value in a bankruptcy if property
values are less than the subsidiary’s debt, Guyder said.  
 Like Unsecured Creditors  
 “The problem with destination clubs is that members don’t
own the actual real estate,” said  Howard C. Nusbaum , president
of the  American Resort Development Association . “They get
treated like kings, but if the developer gets into trouble
there’s no recourse. If the club goes bankrupt, members have to
get in line like any other unsecured creditor.”  
 Some clubs, such as  Equity Estates , where members own a
portion of the real estate or the club itself, and the biggest
membership-only group, Exclusive, are growing, said Levi Moe,
founder of  Destination Club News , which publishes an independent
newsletter tracking the industry.  
 Ultimate Escapes expanded through acquisitions, collecting
new properties and clients when it took over bankrupt Tanner &
Haley Resorts’ brands Private Retreats, Distinctive Retreats and
Legendary Retreats.  
 A bankruptcy is likely unless Ultimate Escapes can execute
a merger, sell itself or convince customers to pay significantly
more via an annual dues increase or converting to a member-owned
club, Tousignant said in his letter, filed with U.S. securities
regulators. In the interview, he said his preferred option would
be for members to take ownership of their club, paying as much
as $50,000 for equity in villas. That could raise $30 million to
avert bankruptcy, he said.  
 ‘Vacation of a Lifetime’  
 Tousignant declined to identify any potential partners,
saying the company has spoken with “several dozen parties” in
the destination club or hospitality business, as well as real
estate and financial companies.  
 “Our mission is to continue to provide you and your family
the vacation of a lifetime, every time for decades to come,” he
wrote in his letter to members. “Now, more than ever, we call
upon you and all our stakeholders to support our mission and
embrace the vision for your club.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ultimate Escapes Inc CEO Jim Tousignant  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Serban. Bloomberg 
                         
                         Tousignant  says he started the club after surviving the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center while working at Morgan Stanley. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tousignant  says he started the club after surviving the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center while working at Morgan Stanley. Photographer: Andrew Serban. Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
