-- Ultimate Escapes, Destination Club for Rich, Files Chapter 11
-- Jonathan Keehner
-- 2010-09-20T21:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/ultimate-escapes-vacation-club-files-for-bankruptcy-as-slowdown-cuts-cash.html

          
          
             Ultimate Escapes Inc. , whose 1,200
members pay at least $70,000 apiece to be pampered in villas and
yachts from Tuscany to Costa Rica, is headed for a getaway of
its own.  
 The destination club filed a Chapter 11 petition today in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware, 11 days after
Chief Executive Officer  Jim Tousignant , 49, told  members  the
six-year-old club was in default on a $90 million loan and
“increasingly likely” to file for protection from creditors.  
 Tousignant, in an interview last week, blamed the 2008
financial crisis for the company’s woes. Ultimate Escapes raised
$15 million from members in January 2009. In October, the
company sought to raise $30 million in the equity market and
came up $20 million short. In February, the company scrapped
another public offering.  
 “When your cash stops flowing, your expenses don’t stop,”
Tousignant said in the interview. “You’ve got staff, you’ve got
properties, you’ve got fees, property taxes, mortgages that have
got to be paid.”  
 The company listed assets of $10 million to $50 million and
debt of $100 million and $500 million in Chapter 11 documents.
Eighty-four affiliates also sought protection.  
 Tousignant, 49, says he started Kissimmee, Florida-based
Ultimate Escapes after surviving the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on
the World Trade Center while working at  Morgan Stanley . He
previously founded and sold Multex Inc., an investment research
firm. Ultimate Escapes, which went public in 2009, traded at
$7.85 last October and now fetches 21  cents .  
 Private Chefs  
 Destination clubs such as Ultimate Escapes and its larger
competitor, AOL Inc. co-founder  Steve Case ’s closely held
 Exclusive Resorts LLC , offer luxury vacations, complete with in-
house concierges and on-call maids, as a more upscale,
convenient and varied alternative to a timeshare or second home.  
 “Upon entering your log home, you will be welcomed by the
rustic mountain decor,” reads a description of one home, a
 four-bedroom house  in Stowe, Vermont. “You or your Private Chef
will love the Viking stove, complete with six burners and two
ovens, and Sub-Zero refrigerator for creating dining
masterpieces.”  
 That residence, along with more than 70 others and the
Waldorf Astoria Hotel, are no longer available to members
following the bankruptcy filing, Ultimate Escapes said today in
an e-mail to members.  
 ‘Elite Club’  
 At Ultimate Escapes, membership starts with a $70,000 one-
time payment, plus $8,000 in annual dues for a minimum of 14
days of access to $1 million residences. Prices climb
exponentially for longer breaks at more expensive properties. A
“Platinum PLUS” membership at Ultimate Escape’s Elite Club
 costs  $450,000, according to the club’s website.  
 Industry sales rose to a peak of $610 million in 2007 from
$450 million in 2004 before tumbling to $195 million last year,
according to  Ragatz Associates , a resort real estate consultant.  
 Collecting mansions around the world left some clubs with
too much debt and too few fee-paying members after the bust,
derailing some with a business model that relied on increasing
annual fees by signing up new vacationers. At least three clubs,
High Country Club LLC, Solstice LLC and the Lusso Collection,
have already gone bankrupt.  
 Many destination clubs are structured so that members don’t
own interests in the properties, according to Dan Guyder, a
partner in the restructuring group at law firm  Allen & Overy LLP 
in New York. Some clubs offer members pledged equity interests
in the property-owning subsidiaries as collateral, which may
have no value in a bankruptcy if property values are less than
the subsidiary’s debt, Guyder said.  
 Like Unsecured Creditors  
 “The problem with destination clubs is that members don’t
own the actual real estate,” said  Howard C. Nusbaum , president
of the  American Resort Development Association . “They get
treated like kings, but if the developer gets into trouble
there’s no recourse. If the club goes bankrupt, members have to
get in line like any other unsecured creditor.”  
 Some clubs, such as  Equity Estates , where members own a
portion of the real estate or the club itself, and the biggest
membership-only group, Exclusive, are growing, said Levi Moe,
founder of  Destination Club News , which publishes an independent
newsletter tracking the industry.  
 Ultimate Escapes expanded through acquisitions, collecting
new properties and clients when it took over bankrupt Tanner &
Haley Resorts’ brands Private Retreats, Distinctive Retreats and
Legendary Retreats.  
 ‘Vacation of a Lifetime’  
 In his Sept. 9 letter, filed with regulators, Tousignant
said a bankruptcy was likely unless Ultimate Escapes could
execute a merger, sell itself or convince customers to pay
significantly more via an annual dues increase or conversion to
a member-owned club. In the interview, he said his preferred
option was for members to take ownership of their club, paying
as much as $50,000 for equity in villas. That could raise $30
million to avert bankruptcy, he said.  
 Tousignant declined to identify potential partners, saying
the company has spoken with “several dozen parties” in the
destination club or hospitality business, as well as real estate
and financial companies.  
 “Our mission is to continue to provide you and your family
the vacation of a lifetime, every time for decades to come,” he
wrote in his letter to members. “Now, more than ever, we call
upon you and all our stakeholders to support our mission and
embrace the vision for your club.”  
 The case is In re Ultimate Escapes Holdings LLC, 10-12915,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        