-- Lululemon Yoga-Wear Store Expansion `Disciplined' After Recession Lesson
-- Alex Sherman
-- 2010-09-20T16:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/lululemon-yoga-wear-store-expansion-disciplined-after-recession-lesson.html

          
          
             Lululemon Athletica Inc.  Chief
Financial Officer  John Currie  credits the financial crisis for
teaching the largest Canadian yoga-wear retailer where to open
stores.  
 “Thank God for the recession,” Currie said in an
interview. “It forced us to slow down and actually approach our
real estate strategy in a disciplined way.”  
 The economic slowdown gave Lululemon the opportunity to
retool and tailor its expansion strategy, Currie said, after the
35 U.S. stores it opened in 2008 were the “least productive”
in the company’s history. While the recession hurt revenue, the
Vancouver-based company didn’t research the communities, income
levels and demographics of the locations adequately, he said.  
 “So we got more disciplined,” Currie said. “At this
point, we have maps that say, not only do we want to be in
Kansas City or Minneapolis, but we know what neighborhoods we
want to be in and what sequence to move into the markets.”  
 Currently with 75 owned and franchised U.S. stores, the
company’s goal is to expand to 300, said Currie, who declined to
give a timeframe. Surging free cash flow will allow  Lululemon  to
build as many as 25 U.S. stores in 2011, more than double this
year’s amount. Lululemon has 45 stores in Canada and 10 in
Australia. The apparel maker opened its first store in 2000 in
Vancouver and had its initial public offering in 2007.  
 Consumer Confidence  
 While sales at U.S. retailers climbed in August for a
second consecutive month,  confidence  among consumers
unexpectedly declined in September to a one-year low, a concern
for the holiday shopping season.  
 Lululemon’s  cash and equivalents  more than doubled to
$159.6 million in 2009 from a year earlier, and rose to $178.2
million by the end of the quarter ended Aug. 1. It’s the only
publicly traded apparel maker or retailer in North America with
a market value of at least $3 billion with more than 40 percent
of its assets in cash, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Free cash flow rose more than 17-fold to $102.5 million in
the year ended Jan. 31, 2010. Rising sales, falling inventories
and a decline in capital expenditures all led to the increase.
In the first half of 2010, sales at stores open more than year
surged more than 30 percent.  
 “Toward the end of 2009, their business shot back up,”
said  Howard Tubin , an equity analyst at RBC Capital Markets in
New York, who has an “outperform” rating on the shares. “Now
they have all this cash to invest in infrastructure, new
products and store growth.”  
 Buyback, Dividend  
 Lululemon  rose  20 cents to $44 at 12:48 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had gained 46 percent
this year before today.  
 The company is more likely to add stores than  acquire 
smaller athletic retailers, since integrating companies can be
risky, Currie said. A buyback or dividend is “on the horizon”
as well, he said.  
 Lululemon should be able to pay for the expansion through
cash from operations without borrowing, said Tubin. The company
has no debt and has reported four consecutive quarters of
earnings growth.  
 “I’m running out of excuses as to why I need so much
money,” Currie said at the Goldman Sachs Global Retailing
Conference on Sept. 14.  
 Sportswear Competition  
 Americans spent $5.7 billion on yoga classes and products
in 2008, according to a study conducted by  Yoga Journal , an
increase of 87 percent compared with 2004.  
 Lululemon faces competition from larger sportswear makers
such as  Nike Inc.  and  Adidas AG.  The company doesn’t advertise
on television, preferring to market itself with community-based
campaigns, including free outdoor yoga sessions and intra-city
runs from one store to another. Lululemon also gives free
apparel to yoga and running instructors to promote the brand.  
 The company relies on its product quality, rather than
price, to fuel demand, said Currie. Second-quarter  sales 
increased 56 percent to $152.2 million, as Lululemon added
running apparel, Chief Executive Officer  Christine Day  said in a
conference call last week. The running attire has brought more
people into stores, including men, who account for more than 10
percent of sales. The target is for men’s sales to account for
18 percent to 20 percent, Currie said.  
 On Sept. 10, the company forecast annual profit of as much
as $1.22 a share, up from its earlier projection of as much as
$1.10. The average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg is $1.21.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lululemon CFO John E. Currie  
                       
                         
                           Benjamin Norman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         John E. Currie, chief financial officer of Lululemon Athletica Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     John E. Currie, chief financial officer of Lululemon Athletica Inc. Photographer: Benjamin Norman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lululemon Yoga-Wear Retailer Expands  
                       
                         
                           Benjamin Norman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Krystal Eley shops for athletic apparel at the Union Square Lululemon retail store in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Krystal Eley shops for athletic apparel at the Union Square Lululemon retail store in New York. Photographer: Benjamin Norman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lululemon Yoga-Wear Retailer Expands  
                       
                         
                           Benjamin Norman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Athletic apparel sits on display at the Union Square Lululemon retail store in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Athletic apparel sits on display at the Union Square Lululemon retail store in New York. Photographer: Benjamin Norman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lululemon Yoga-Wear Retailer Expands  
                       
                         
                           Benjamin Norman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Athletic apparel sits on display at the Union Square Lululemon retail store in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Athletic apparel sits on display at the Union Square Lululemon retail store in New York. Photographer: Benjamin Norman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
