-- UN Health-Care Initiative to Seek $169 Billion From Leaders During Meeting
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-09-20T20:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/un-health-care-initiative-to-seek-169-billion-from-leaders-during-meeting.html

          
          
             Leaders meeting in New York this
week will get a request to spend $169 billion on a United
Nations plan to save the lives of 15.6 million women and
children by improving their access to health care.  
 “The world has failed to invest enough in the health of
women, adolescent girls, newborns, infants and children,” UN
Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  said in an introduction to the
plan, called the Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s
Health. “As a result, millions of preventable deaths occur each
year.”  
 Ban said progress toward the UN goal of a 75 percent
reduction in the deaths of women giving birth is the slowest of
any of the eight so-called Millennium Development Goals meant to
be achieved by 2015. More than 350,000 women die during
childbirth each year, he said.  
 The five-year plan, which is supported by the governments
of the U.S., Brazil, China, France, Indonesia, Japan and Russia,
will be formally presented on Sept. 22, at the end of the UN’s
three-day summit on the development goals. It will target 49
countries with the lowest income, most of them in Africa.  
 The UN Foundation, established to disburse the $1 billion
CNN founder  Ted Turner  donated to the UN, said today it would
contribute $400 million to the effort.  
 The UN is seeking $26 billion in 2011 and increasing
amounts each year until 2015. The world body is appealing to
governments, companies and foundations for the funds, which
would be in addition to current spending for targets connected
to the health of women and children.  
 15 Million Children  
 The goal is to avoid the deaths from preventable causes of
15 million children under 5 years old, including more than 3
million newborns, and save the lives of 570,000 women who would
die from complications related to pregnancy and childbirth.  
 As part of the implementation, up to 3.5 million health-
care professionals would be trained and 85,000 medical
facilities would be opened.  
 The UN plan represents the first unified strategy to
improve health care for women and children, according to
Assistant Secretary-General  Robert Orr . The lack of a
coordinated effort is a factor in the slow progress toward the
related UN goals, he said.  
 Elements of the strategy include support for country-led
health plans, integrated delivery of services, and innovative
technology including mobile phones to link women and children in
remote areas of poor nations to health care professionals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        