-- UniCredit Chief Executive Profumo May Step Down Today
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-09-21T08:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/unicredit-ceo-profumo-may-offer-to-step-down-from-italian-bank-at-meeting.html
Alessandro Profumo , who built
 UniCredit SpA  into Italy’s largest bank during 13 years as chief
executive officer, may step down at a board meeting today after
losing the support of some investors, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The board will probably accept Profumo’s resignation and
appoint Chairman  Dieter Rampl  to run the bank on an interim
basis, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the matter is private. Recent Libyan investments in Milan-based
UniCredit have triggered opposition from some banking
foundations that hold the company’s shares. The board meets at 6
p.m. Milan time.  “There’s a power struggle between the top management and
the banking foundations who claim that Profumo is managing the
bank by himself without being influenced by them,” said  Wolfram Mrowetz , who oversees 200 million euros ($261 million) as head
of investment firm Alisei SIM in Milan. “The entrance of the
Libyans makes the foundations afraid of losing more power and
they blame Profumo for this.”  UniCredit fell as much as 4 percent, and was down 1.9
percent at 1.90 euros at 10:12 a.m. in Milan, giving the company
a market value of 36.7 billion euros.  The Bloomberg Banks and
Financial Services Index  advanced 2 percent in the past six
months, compared with UniCredit’s 11 percent decline.  Libya Discord  Profumo, 53, a former McKinsey & Co. consultant, became CEO
of Credito Italiano in 1997 and  transformed  the northern Italian
lender into UniCredit, a bank with businesses stretching from
the U.S. to Kazakhstan. His frictions with investors have been
building since at least October 2008, when he announced a 6.6
billion-euro capital increase four days after denying the need
for more funds.  The tensions worsened this year, when investor pressure in
March forced him to delay the approval of a reorganization plan,
and matters came to a head over Libya. The Libyan Investment
Authority increased its stake in UniCredit to 2.6 percent from
2.1 percent as of Aug. 31, according to filings posted on market
regulator Consob’s website. The  Central Bank  of Libya holds
almost 5 percent of UniCredit.  ‘Strategic Uncertainty’  Profumo’s departure would mean a “hole in the leadership
and strategic uncertainty, with the risk of more political
influence in business decisions,”  Anna Maria Benassi,  an
analyst at Banca Leonardo, wrote in a note today.  Profumo should have informed other shareholders about the
intention of the Libyan investors to raise their stakes, said
Flavio Tosi, the mayor of the city of Verona, the biggest
shareholder of Fondazione Cariverona, UniCredit’s fourth-largest
investor.  “Profumo played the game alone, now the board must take
into consideration his behavior,” Tosi said late yesterday.  While UniCredit has fostered relations with Libya, some of
his opponents say the bank isn’t doing enough in its home
market.  “The bank should provide more support to small companies
in Northern Italy and boost local employment,” Tosi said.  Tosi is a member of the Northern League, the party in the
governing coalition that has criticized the Libyans’ investment.  Potential Candidates  Mediobanca SpA CEO  Alberto Nagel  is one of the potential
candidates to replace Profumo, la Repubblica reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  Other candidates include  Andrea Orcel , Bank of America
Corp. Merrill Lynch’s executive chairman of global banking and
markets;  Giampiero Auletta Armenise , former CEO of Unione di
Banche Italiane Scpa; and  Enrico Tomaso Cucchiani , a board
member of Allianz SE, one of UniCredit’s biggest shareholders,
la Repubblica said.  UniCredit’s  board  originally had been scheduled to meet
Sept. 30 to discuss the Libya issue and send a response to
Italian regulators seeking information about whether the two
Libyan investors were acting independently. UniCredit’s bylaws
restrict investor voting rights to 5 percent.  Libyan investors chose “autonomously” to buy the stakes
in UniCredit, Profumo told reporters in Milan on Sept. 6. The
bank is strengthening its ties to Libya as Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  fosters trade relations with the country, led by
 Muammar Qaddafi . The Central Bank of Libya assigned a banking
license to UniCredit last month, making it the first foreign
bank allowed to operate in the country.  Poland, Turkey  Profumo gained full control of the bank’s board in 1999 by
quashing a rebellion by the foundations that had owned the
company. Within a year he doubled the company’s return on equity
by combining back office computer systems and acquiring
businesses in faster growing economies such as Poland and
Turkey.  Profumo led the bank’s expansion in Europe from 2004 to
2007 through more than $60 billion of  acquisitions , including
the purchases of Munich-based HVB Group and Italian rival
Capitalia SpA. The spending spree lowered capital ratios, and
the strength of the bank’s finances was questioned amid the
financial crisis in 2008. Profumo admitted in October of that
year that mistakes had been made in underestimating the “length
and depth” of the financial crisis, and in buying rivals at the
top of the market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 sirletti@bloomberg.net  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  