-- Murdoch's Sky says Berlusconi's Mediaset Unfairly Dominates Local Market
-- Steve Scherer
-- 2010-09-20T14:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/murdoch-s-sky-italia-urges-greater-competition-in-country-s-media-market.html

          
          
             The head of  News Corp.’s  Italian
unit, Sky Italia Srl, called for more competition in the
country’s media market, saying it’s dominated by Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s  Mediaset SpA .  
 “More freedom in the TV sector to encourage more
competition is needed,” Sky Italia Chief Executive Officer  Tom Mockridge  wrote in a letter to Corriere della Sera newspaper
published today. “The Italian system has permitted a single
company, Mediaset, to have such a dominant position in the TV
sector to the extent it receives 65 percent of advertising
revenue.”  
 Mediaset, Italy’s largest private television broadcaster,
competes with  Rupert Murdoch’s  Sky Italia. Mockridge’s letter
underscores the tension as the companies compete for greater
shares of the advertising market. While Mediaset dominates the
free-to-air television market, Sky is the top pay-TV provider.  
 Mockridge “cites Mediaset’s advertising revenue without
revealing his own company’s monopoly of the satellite platform,
where it collects almost 90 percent of pay-TV revenue,”
Mediaset Chairman  Fedele Confalonieri  said in an e-mailed
statement today. “We won’t take lessons in competition from a
member of the world’s most dominant media groups.”  
 Sky Italia protested in January after the government passed
new regulations to limit the maximum amount of advertising per
hour of pay-TV programming, to 12 percent in 2012 from 18
percent last year. Free-to-air broadcast channels, including
those on Berlusconi’s network, will be able to increase
advertising to a maximum of 20 percent per hour from 18 percent.  
 Sky Italia has said that it faces restrictions in entering
Italy’s new digital-terrestrial TV market.  The European
Commission  said July 20 that Sky Italia can bid for frequencies
to enter the free-to-air digital market.  
 Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. and its Dow Jones unit in providing financial news
and data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 scherer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        