-- Murkowski's Alaska Write-In Bid Will Test Sarah Palin, Tea Party Power
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-09-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/murkowski-s-alaska-write-in-bid-will-test-sarah-palin-tea-party-s-power.html

          
          
             Senator  Lisa Murkowski’s  attempt to
win reelection through a write-in campaign in Alaska will test
the staying power of  Sarah Palin  and the Tea Party amid a debate
over the role of federal spending in that state.  
 “I’m going to give them a choice,” Murkowski said
yesterday on CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “If the
people on Nov. 2 say, well, we don’t like her, that’s fine.”  
 Murkowski lost last month’s primary to  Joe Miller , a lawyer
from Fairbanks and a former U.S. magistrate judge. She had been
the Senate’s No. 4 Republican before she was forced by Senate
Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky to resign her
leadership post following her write-in announcement.  
 Write-in efforts are almost always unsuccessful. Only  Strom Thurmond  of South Carolina in 1954 won election to the chamber
through that method, according to the Senate historian’s office.  
 “This is a tough hurdle,” Murkowski said on CNN. “But
don’t you tell Alaskans that we can’t do tough things. You don’t
think we can fill in an oval and learn to spell Lisa Murkowski?
We can figure this out.”  
 She is one of the victims of the Tea Party movement, a
loose-knit coalition of voters seeking limits on government
spending, taxes and debt that has sparked intra-party Republican
battles nationwide. Republicans are seeking to wrest control of
Congress from President  Barack Obama ’s Democratic Party.  
 Palin’s Backing  
 Palin, who has become a Tea Party star after being the 2008
Republican vice presidential nominee, has backed candidates who
have knocked off rivals endorsed by the party’s leadership in
Kentucky, Delaware, Nevada and her home state of Alaska.  
 Murkowski, 53, announced on Sept. 17 her intention to join
the race between Miller, the Republican nominee, and  Scott McAdams , the Democratic nominee.  
 While McAdams had been given little chance, that could
change if Murkowski and Miller split the Republican vote. Voters
who declare no party preference form the largest bloc of
registered voters in Alaska.  
 After not directly engaging Miller in the primary,
Murkowski pledged to confront him during the remaining six weeks
of the campaign.  
 “He is suggesting to us, in my opinion, and in the opinion
of many, many Alaskans, some pretty radical things,” she said
on CNN.  
 Murkowski attacked Miller for wanting to phase out Social
Security, Medicare and so-called earmarks for federal spending
on local projects pushed by lawmakers.  
 Miller, in an interview on “Fox News Sunday,” criticized
Murkowski’s decision rejoin the race.  
 “She’s not listening very well to the Alaskan voters,” he
said.  
 Tank Commander  
 Miller, 43, a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West
Point and a decorated tank commander during the Persian Gulf
War, beat Murkowski by about 2,000 votes out of about 110,000
cast in the  Aug. 24 primary .  
 In an interview on Sept. 11 in Wasilla, Alaska, Miller said
Alaska needs to assume more responsibility for its own destiny
and reduce its dependence on federal dollars.  
 “I think it is naïve to think that that money is going to
continue unabated in the future,” he said. “People need to
understand that we are on the verge of bankruptcy as a country
and whether we like it or not, those funds are going to be
reduced in the future.”  
 Miller said he wants more of Alaska’s oil, gas and other
natural resources developed to help fill the hole left by less
federal funding.  
 Federal Money  
 On Fox, he said 40 percent of the state’s economy is
“somewhat derived from the federal government.” Alaska’s
 unemployment rate  is 7.7 percent, compared with the national
average of 9.6 percent in August.  
 Murkowski said on CNN that, while she also seeks to reduce
spending, she wants to make sure it is done in a “responsible”
way that does not hurt Alaska.  
 The state’s politicians have a decades-old tradition of
winning an outsized proportion of Washington dollars for
projects back home by arguing that Alaska’s size, remoteness and
relative newness as a state justify the spending.  
 “I’m also very cognizant of the fact that we live in a
state where we’re not connected to anybody’s transportation
grid,” Murkowski said. “We’re not connected to an energy grid
that allows us to have lower energy costs.”  
 Wayne Stevens , the chief executive officer of the  Alaska
State Chamber of Commerce , said many of the state’s businesses
are heavily dependent on federal dollars.  
 “While it makes for great press -- get the federal
government out of our lives -- what does that really mean?” he
said. “It’s the Coast Guard, it’s the Air Force, it’s the Army,
and a myriad of federal agencies that are spending money in our
economy. I don’t think that discussion has occurred yet.”  
 Loss of Seniority  
 Stevens, whose group hasn’t endorsed any of the Senate
candidates, said he fears the loss of seniority in Washington.  
 “You are going to the back of the line in terms of pecking
order and perks,” he said. “When you lose that seniority and
you lose that influence and you lose that perspective, there
will be consequences that perhaps people did not intend.”  
 As he watched his son play hockey in Wasilla, Garry Winder,
48, said he backed Miller and wanted Murkowski to stay out.  
 “She might be better for Alaska,” he said. “But I’m
looking at it nationally. I like his views better.”  
 Palin, a former Alaska governor, said after a Sept. 17
speech in Iowa that Murkowski wasn’t a threat to Miller.  
 “It’s a futile effort on her part,” she said. “Joe
Miller is the right person to help lead the state and the
country.”  
 Political Spending  
 The Tea Party Express political action committee poured
money into advertising and e-mail blasts for Miller, who
criticized Murkowski for her support of the 2008 federal
government bank bailout. The group spent more than $400,000 on
the race in August, Federal Election Commission reports show.  
 Palin, 46, defeated Murkowski’s father, then-Governor  Frank Murkowski , in Alaska’s 2006 Republican gubernatorial primary,
and won the office that November.  Frank Murkowski , 77, left the
Senate when he won the governor’s office in 2002 and named his
daughter to replace him. She won a full term in 2004.  
 McAdams, 39, said in a Sept. 13 interview in Anchorage that
he would welcome Lisa Murkowski to the race.  
 “There is agreement that Joe Miller is not the answer,”
said McAdams, a former high school football coach who is mayor
of the tourist and fishing town of  Sitka . “My campaign is about
Alaska. It’s not about a national crusade.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Wasilla, Alaska at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        