-- Utah Leads Week's Issues with Record $1.25 Billion Municipal Bond Offering
-- Ashley Lutz
-- 2010-09-20T04:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/utah-leads-week-s-issues-with-record-1-25-billion-municipal-bond-offering.html

          
          
             Utah , which has $2 billion in
general obligation bonds outstanding, leads this week’s
offerings with a $1.25 billion issue of tax-exempts and Build
America Bonds as sales climb to a six-month high.  
 New obligations from the bond issue, Utah’s biggest, are
unlikely to deter buyers from investing in the state, said
 Howard Cure , director of municipal bond research at Evercore
Wealth Management in New York, which oversees about $1.5
billion. Top-rated Utah has the youngest population of any state
and the money will help pay for growth, he said. The state plans
to spend the proceeds on education, transportation and health.  
 “Utah is the biggest deal of the week,” Cure said. “In
an era where people are starting to worry about credit
deterioration and defaults, Utah is gilt-edged.”  
 States and municipalities are poised to sell about $10.5
billion in securities this week, the  most since  March 26,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This will be the first
time in 2010 that issuance in consecutive weeks has topped $10
billion, Bloomberg data show.  
 Utah, one of seven U.S. states with AAA grades from the
three major credit-rating firms, maintains a strong debt profile
with “rapid amortization, moderate debt burden and a well-
funded pension system,” according to a Sept. 8 report by Fitch
Ratings analysts.  
 A Record Issue  
 Its issue this week will be the largest that it has brought
to market, Bloomberg data show. The proportion of taxable to
tax-free debt will be determined when the bond is priced, said
state Treasurer  Richard Ellis .  
 The taxable Build America Bonds are the fastest-growing
part of the $2.8 trillion municipal market and have raised more
than $134 billion to date, Bloomberg data show. The program,
created in 2009, provides a 35 percent interest-cost subsidy to
issuers from the U.S. Treasury.  
 Utah’s previous biggest offering was a $982 million
combination of tax-exempts and Build Americas in September 2009.  
 The state’s tax-exempts from the 2009 sale have
underperformed the market. Six-year obligations yielded 2.05
percent, or  16 basis points  below average AAA rated debt on the
sale date, according to Municipal Market Advisors, an
independent research firm in Concord, Massachusetts. The
securities traded Sept. 7 at  10 basis points  above AAA, or an
average yield of 1.40 percent.  
 Utah should get lower borrowing costs this week as demand
for top-rated obligations will exceed supply, said  Tom Kozlik , a
municipal credit analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, a
Philadelphia-based money management firm.  
 Hunger for Debt  
 “Appetite is going to be there, especially for an AAA
rated state like Utah,” Kozlik said. “Even with a crowded
market next week, I think investors will be eating it up.”  
 The offering will help economic development amid population
expansion in the nation’s second fastest-growing state, said
Ellis.  
 “Our population has increased by 24 percent in the last 10
years,” Ellis said.  
 The sale will fund a renovation of Interstate 15, which
goes through Provo and Salt Lake City. Traffic on the two-lane
highway can add 15 to 20 minutes to an average commute, Ellis
said. The project will create 2,000 jobs in Utah, he said.  
 In the wider market, yields on top-rated general
obligations due in 10 years were  2.67 percent  on Sept. 17,
unchanged for a third straight day, according to data from MMA.
That’s 9 basis points above last month’s record low 2.58
percent.  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold  Build
Americas  instead of benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasuries fell to
184 basis points Sept. 16,  the lowest since June 23 , according
to the Wells Fargo Build America Bond index.  
 For states and cities, “this is a great time to be in the
market, with borrowing costs so low,” Ellis said.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 TEXAS TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION, which oversees the
department that manages highway, rail, port and rural transit
systems in the second-largest U.S. state, plans to sell $1
billion in Build America Bonds and tax-exempts as soon as this
week to pay for highway improvements. The debt will be backed by
the full faith and credit of the state. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
will lead the marketing of the bonds, which have top ratings
from Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch, and the second-highest
rating from Standard & Poor’s. (Added Sept. 17)  
 UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, one of the largest university
systems in the country, plans to sell $520 million in Build
America Bonds this week to fund student housing, athletic
facilities and parking. The bonds will be repaid with student
fees. Morgan Stanley will lead underwriters marketing the bonds,
which are rated Aa2 by Moody’s, third-highest, and AA- by S&P,
one level lower. Since 2006, the university system’s outstanding
debt has increased 61 percent to $13.3 billion as of 2009.
(Added Sept. 20)  
 METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY ,
Tennessee’s state capital and the region’s economic center,
plans to sell $284 million in tax-exempts to refinance debt.
Jefferies & Co. will lead underwriters marketing of the bonds,
which are rated AA by S&P, third-highest. In June, Metro
Nashville issued $603 million in general obligation bonds and
Build America Bonds to pay off existing bonds and fund
construction. The county suffered damage during the first
weekend of May when heavy rains caused severe flooding, closed
150 roads and did $200 million in damage to water and sewage
facilities. (Added Sept. 20)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Evercore Wealth Management LLC's Howard Cure  
                       
                         
                           Tony Avelar/Bloomberg 
                         
                         New obligations from the bond issue, Utah’s biggest, are unlikely to deter buyers from investing in the state, said Howard Cure, director of municipal bond research at Evercore
Wealth Management. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     New obligations from the bond issue, Utah’s biggest, are unlikely to deter buyers from investing in the state, said Howard Cure, director of municipal bond research at Evercore
Wealth Management. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
