-- Verizon Names Wireless Head Lowell McAdam President, COO
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-09-20T20:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/verizon-names-mcadam-president-signals-he-will-succeed-seidenberg-as-ceo.html

          
          
             Verizon Communications Inc. , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, named wireless-unit head
 Lowell McAdam  president and chief operating officer, putting him
in line to succeed Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Seidenberg .  
 The appointment, effective Oct. 1, “is an important step
in the succession process for when Seidenberg retires from the
company,” New York-based Verizon said today in a statement. The
company also named  Francis Shammo  as  chief financial officer .  
 McAdam has run Verizon Wireless, the most  profitable  part
of Verizon, for more than three years, competing against rivals
such as AT&T Inc. and its iPhone, helping the parent company
grow even as it loses home-phone customers. McAdam, 56, will
report to Seidenberg, who turns 65 in December 2011.  
 “McAdam’s been doing very well for Verizon Wireless,
especially when you consider the potential advantage AT&T would
have, given consumer preference for the iPhone,” said  Drake Johnstone , an analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond, Virginia.
“This is a good choice for Verizon to promote him.”  
 McAdam helped build Verizon Wireless into the biggest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, serving as the division’s operating chief
after its inception in 2000. He previously ran wireless provider
PrimeCo Personal Communications as CEO, worked as vice president
of international operations at AirTouch Communications and held
various roles at Pacific Bell.  
 Slowing Growth  
 “The  board ’s selection of Lowell to this key, central
position underscores its commitment to reward success while
working with me to prepare our company for an executive
transition in the future,” Seidenberg said in the statement.  
 Verizon Communications rose 41 cents to $32.09 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has  gained 
3.6 percent this year.  
 Besides overseeing the wireless unit for Verizon, McAdam
will have responsibility of Verizon’s fixed-line unit. That
business is losing home-phone customers as users switch to
mobile phones or digital-calling plans from cable-TV carriers.
The slowing economy has also prompted corporate customers to cut
jobs and curb spending on phone services.  
 Verizon’s sales may shrink in 2010 for the first time in
five years, by 1.2 percent to $106.5 billion, based on the
average of analysts’ estimates in a  Bloomberg survey . The
company trails only  AT&T , the exclusive U.S. carrier for Apple
Inc.’s iPhone, in total telecommunications revenue.  
 Vodafone Relationship  
 McAdam may need to decide whether to change the ownership
structure of Verizon Wireless, which is 45 percent owned by
 Vodafone Group Plc . Analysts have said the most likely outcomes
are Verizon Communications buying Vodafone’s stake, Verizon
Wireless paying dividends again or a merger of Vodafone and
Verizon Communications.  
 Verizon’s wireless unit may receive a boon in January, when
it will start offering the iPhone to its customers, two people
familiar with the plan said in June.  
 McAdam will fill a role that was vacated by  Dennis Strigl ,
who retired at the end of last year and wasn’t replaced.  
 Shammo, 49, will replace  John Killian , who said this month
he would retire to spend more time with his family. Shammo is
currently president of Verizon Telecom and Business, which sells
broadband, communications and entertainment services over
Verizon’s FiOS fiber network and offers services to enterprise
customers.  
 Daniel Mead , Verizon Wireless’s operating chief, will
become head of the mobile business. Mead, 57, was one of the
founding executives of the wireless unit and has also held
executive roles at other Verizon businesses.  
 John Stratton , 49, Verizon Wireless’s marketing chief, will
succeed Mead as the unit’s operating chief.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lowell McAdam of Verizon Communications Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Verizon Communications Inc. named wireless-unit head Lowell McAdam president and chief operating officer. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Verizon Communications Inc. named wireless-unit head Lowell McAdam president and chief operating officer. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
