-- Warren, Geithner Look Past Tensions to Shape Agency
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-09-20T15:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/warren-geithner-look-past-tensions-to-shaping-consumer-agency.html

          
          
             Elizabeth Warren , appointed last
week to help set up a new U.S. consumer financial-protection
agency, spent much of the past two years critiquing Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . Now, he will oversee her.  
 The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a watchdog for
products from credit cards to mortgages, may be shaped as much
by Warren’s ability to work with Geithner as by the financial
firms and industry critics trying to steer its agenda. As leader
of a congressional panel overseeing Wall Street’s bailout,
Warren repeatedly faulted the Treasury Department’s actions and
grilled Geithner -- once counting seconds as he testified.  
 “There’s a perception that it got a bit dicey in the
questioning,” said  Kevin Petrasic , a lawyer at Paul, Hastings,
Janofsky & Walker LLP in Washington and former counsel at the
Office of Thrift Supervision. “It’s imperative that they put
whatever past differences, or whatever it was, behind them, so
it doesn’t influence policy. Frankly, they need each other.”  
 Warren, 61, a Harvard Law School professor, will serve as
President  Barack Obama ’s assistant and as a special adviser to
Geithner, reporting to and working for the Treasury, White House
spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said Sept. 17. Tomorrow, she and Geithner
are set to host a forum in Washington to collect opinions on how
to simplify mortgage disclosures for borrowers.  
 ‘Natural Tension’  
 Regardless of whether they get along personally, Warren’s
objectives as a consumer watchdog may differ from Geithner’s
priorities as secretary of the Treasury, which oversees the
health of financial firms and the broader economy.  
 “There is a natural tension between consumer protection
concerns and prudential ones, although there is also a big area
of common interests,” said  Douglas Elliott , a fellow at the
Brookings Institution in Washington and a former managing
director at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Sometimes steps taken to
protect consumers will decrease banks’ profitability and add to
their risk levels, which adds risk to the banking system and
therefore worries prudential regulators.”  
 Warren, in a Bloomberg Television interview on the day she
was appointed to the consumer bureau position, was asked if she
would go to Obama if she has a dispute with Geithner.  
 “I actually am going to wear two hats; that was exactly
how the president described it to me,” Warren said. She, Obama
and Geithner “see eye-to-eye on this consumer agency. And
because of that, we are all trying to push in the same
direction.”  
 ‘Fiercest Advocates’  
 Treasury spokesman  Steven Adamske  cited a letter Geithner
sent bank regulators on Sept. 17 calling Warren a “pioneer” on
consumer issues and a “tremendous asset to all of us as we take
on the task at hand.”  
 The consumer bureau, created under the Dodd-Frank
financial-overhaul act signed by Obama in July, will start with
a $400 million budget. Its mandate includes guarding against
exorbitant fees, confusing contracts and other “unfair,
deceptive or abusive” practices. The agency has power to write
regulations, extract information from companies, levy fines and
authorize states to enforce its rules.  
 Obama named Warren to lead a committee establishing the
regulator, calling her “one of the country’s fiercest advocates
for the middle class.”  
 The adviser position lets her avoid a Senate confirmation
battle and immediately influence the agency she’s credited with
proposing. Lawmakers including Senate Banking Committee Chairman
 Christopher Dodd  have said Warren could have trouble winning
enough votes to be confirmed as head of the agency.  
 Warren’s criticism of firms including Citigroup Inc. and
American International Group Inc. led business groups and
Republican lawmakers to question whether the law professor, who
has never run a government agency or large company, could be an
unbiased leader of the consumer bureau.  
 TARP Panel  
 In taking the new position, Warren stepped down from the
Congressional Oversight Panel, which scrutinized how Treasury
had spent money as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
The panel’s reports included criticism that TARP failed to help
small businesses, that Treasury inadequately collected
information about lending trends and that the department’s
efforts to help troubled homeowners were ineffective.  
 TARP created a “moral hazard” letting large banks think
they are “too big to fail,” Warren’s panel said in a July
paper. The bailout program “worked really well for the Wall
Street banks, but it didn’t work well for the rest of the banks
in the system,” she told Bloomberg Television that same month.  
 HAMP  
 At a June hearing, she and Geithner, 49, clashed over the
government’s $50 billion Home Affordable Modification Program
and how to measure whether it is helping enough homeowners.  
 “What is the metric for success here?” Warren asked. “Is
it 120,000 families saved over 15 months at a time when 186,000
are posted for new defaults and foreclosures every month?”
After Geithner declined to give a number, Warren asked again.  
 “Are you telling me that preventing one foreclosure would
have been enough for our $50 billion?” she said.  
 “No, no,” Geithner said before Warren cut him off.  
 In some cases, time pressure fueled the strain between
them. During a September 2009 session, Warren urged Geithner to
finish his testimony in the allotted five minutes. “I’m winding
it up,” Geithner replied. When he finished, Geithner said he
had taken “only about six minutes.”  
 “And 19 seconds,” Warren said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Elizabeth Warren  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama, Elizabeth Warren, assistant to President Obama, and Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, walk from the Oval Office to the Rose Garden of the White House. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama, Elizabeth Warren, assistant to President Obama, and Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, walk from the Oval Office to the Rose Garden of the White House. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
