-- WestLB, BayernLB Examining Possible Merger, to Make Decision by Year's End
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-09-20T15:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/westlb-bayernlb-examining-possible-merger-to-make-decision-by-year-s-end.html

          
          
             Bayerische Landesbank  and  WestLB
AG , two German state-owned lenders that needed government aid
during the financial crisis, are examining a possible merger
that would create the country’s third-biggest bank.  
 “The goal is to have a joint understanding by the end of
the year on whether a merger makes economic sense,” Munich-
based BayernLB and Dusseldorf-based WestLB said today in a joint
e-mailed  statement . It “remains open” if the talks will
succeed, they said.  
 German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said last week
that he will intensify his attempts to solve problems at the
country’s eight state-owned lenders, also known as Landesbanken.
New capital rules agreed by central bankers and regulators in
Basel have increased pressure on state banks to try to bolster
their businesses with mergers after taxpayer bailouts.  
 “Combining two weak lenders has never formed a strong
one,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets. “WestLB is in a difficult situation as it
needs to find a buyer or merger partner to avoid being shut down
by the European Commission.”  
 As part of its restructuring, WestLB has to sell itself by
the end of 2011 under conditions imposed by the EU Commission.
The lender has received several bailouts, including 3 billion
euros ($3.9 billion) in capital from Germany’s Soffin bank-
rescue fund. It set up a separate bad bank to rid itself of
about a third of its assets, including toxic securities.  
 Bavarian Bailout  
 BayernLB, Germany’s second-biggest state-owned lender after
Stuttgart-based Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, needed 10 billion
euros in fresh capital and a 4.8 billion-euro risk shield for
its portfolio of asset-backed securities from the German state
of Bavaria, which now owns 95.8 percent of the bank. Chief
Executive Officer  Gerd Haeusler  has said he seeks to improve
BayernLB’s profitability to attract new owners.  
 A merger between BayernLB and WestLB would create the
third-biggest bank in Germany by assets after Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank AG, the largest, and Commerzbank AG.  
 Earlier attempts by Germany’s Landesbanken to merge have
mostly failed because of wrangling between regional politicians.
Germany may need only two or three state-owned banks,  Heinrich Haasis , president of the DSGV association of savings banks, said
in February.  
 Helaba, Landesbank Berlin  
 The Landesbanken, which serve as savings banks’ central
banks and clearinghouses in Germany, and DekaBank Deutsche
Girozentrale, the fund manager for the nation’s savings banks,
had combined assets of about 1.82 trillion euros and more than
54,000 employees at the end of 2009, according to the DSGV.  
 Not all state lenders ran into trouble. Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen Girozentrale, known as Helaba, didn’t require state
aid and posted a profit last year. Landesbank Berlin Holding AG
was profitable for the past three years.  
 Helaba’s partial owner, the state of Hesse, said the lender
should examine options for the consolidation of state-owned
banks, Handelsblatt reported on Sept. 16, citing state Economy
Minister  Dieter Posch . The owners are “open to talks” in
relation to the planned sale of WestLB, the newspaper said,
citing Posch. Other merger candidates include DekaBank Deutsche
Girozentrale and Landesbank Berlin, the newspaper said.  
 Spokespeople for DekaBank, Landesbank Berlin and Helaba all
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg today.  
 The German states need to use a “window of opportunity”
created after the financial crisis for a “realignment” of the
Landesbanken, Economy Minister Rainer Bruederle told reporters
in Berlin today. Asked about today’s announcement by WestLB and
BayernLB, Bruederle said: “In my opinion, it’s overdue.” He
didn’t comment more specifically.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Germany’s BayernLB, WestLB Examine Possible Merger  
                       
                         
                           Guido Krzikowski/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Sculptures of lions stand in front of the Bayerische Landesbank headquarters in Munich. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sculptures of lions stand in front of the Bayerische Landesbank headquarters in Munich. Photographer: Guido Krzikowski/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Germany’s BayernLB, WestLB Examine Possible Merger  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A cyclist passes a WestLB AG logo at the company's headquarters in Dusseldorf. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A cyclist passes a WestLB AG logo at the company's headquarters in Dusseldorf. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
