-- Wind Hellas Says It Received Six Bids to Buy Company After Loan Defaults
-- Jacqueline Simmons
-- 2010-09-20T12:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/wind-hellas-says-it-received-six-bids-to-buy-company-update1-.html

          
          
             Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA ,
Greece’s third-largest mobile phone operator, said it received
offers from six groups after the company was put up for sale for
missing debt payments.  
 “The company will be pursuing discussions between the
parties and its creditor groups to select a preferred bid by
Oct. 14,” Athens-based Wind Hellas said in an e-mailed
statement today, without naming the bidders.  
 Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  told Bloomberg News
last week that he made a binding offer to buy the company after
he effectively lost control in June. Other bidders include a
group of Wind Hellas’s senior secured bondholders and Los
Angeles-based Saban Capital Group Inc., said two people familiar
with the matter who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  
 Although Sawiris bought Wind Hellas out of bankruptcy less
than 12 months ago, the company is now under the control of
creditors after it deferred a 17.5 million-euro ($23 million)
interest payment on its 250 million-euro revolving credit
facility in June. It also missed a 23 million-euro coupon
payment on its 1.2 billion euros of floating-rate notes.  
 Sawiris’s bid includes a fresh cash component and a partial
debt-for-equity swap under which creditors would give up some of
their claims in exchange for shares in a restructured company.  
 Other groups that were considering bidding for Wind Hellas
include  Telenor ASA , the Nordic region’s largest phone company,
Greece’s No. 1 computer maker  Info-Quest SA  and  On Telecoms ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Argo Capital Partners Fund Ltd , which has a stake in On
Telecoms, submitted an offer for Wind Hellas, Reuters reported
on Sept. 17, citing people familiar with the situation it didn’t
name. Argo Capital Partners spokespeople couldn’t be reached for
comment.  
 Athens-based Info-Quest spokeswoman Fani Kirkou declined to
comment, as did Telenor spokesman  Scott Engebrigtsen .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net 
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        