-- Two Liverpool Bidders Want O'Neill as Manager, Star Says: Soccer Roundup
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-09-20T07:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/two-liverpool-bidders-want-o-neill-as-manager-star-says-soccer-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  
 O’Neill Wanted  
 Two of the consortiums trying to buy Liverpool want to make
 Martin O’Neill  coach if they are successful with proposed
takeovers, the  Daily Star  reported.  
 The prospective buyers rate the former Aston Villa manager
as a better bet than  Roy Hodgson , the Star said, without
identifying the bidders. O’Neill quit Villa five days before the
start of the Premier League season.  
 Torres Foul  
 Manchester United coach  Alex Ferguson  said Liverpool
striker  Fernando Torres  tried to get defender  John O’Shea  sent
off by “making an absolute meal of” of being fouled yesterday,
 the Sun  reported.  
 O’Shea was booked and  Steven Gerrard  scored from the
resulting free kick to make it 2-2 before striker  Dimitar Berbatov  got the winner for United.  
 A draw would have been a “travesty” because United
dominated, Ferguson was quoted as saying.  
 Given Request  
 Newcastle will ask the Premier League for permission to re-
sign  Shay Given  on loan after Manchester City’s coach  Roberto Mancini  said the goalkeeper can leave on a temporary basis, the
 Daily Mail  reported.  
 Newcastle is looking for cover after  Steve Harper  suffered
a shoulder injury that will rule him out for three months, the
Mail said.  
 Given, who left Newcastle after 12 years in 2009, has lost
his first-team place to  Joe Hart  at City.  
 Adebayor Dispute  
 Manchester City striker  Emmanuel Adebayor  fell out with
Mancini over the extent of his leg injury last week, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  
 Mancini said the striker had a so-called dead leg, the
newspaper reported. Adebayor went for a scan and slapped the X-
ray showing a muscle tear on his coach’s desk, the paper added.  
 A Manchester City spokesman said the “minor disagreement”
has been resolved, the Mirror said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        