-- Typhoon Fanapi Makes Landfall in South China's Fujian Province
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-20T07:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/typhoon-fanapi-makes-landfall-in-china-after-injuring-45-people-in-taiwan.html

          
          
             (Corrects spelling of typhoon’s name in headline.)  
 Typhoon Fanapi made landfall on
China’s southeastern province of Fujian, forcing schools to
close and airlines to cancel flights, after the storm injured 45
people in Taiwan at the weekend.  
 The typhoon made landfall at 7 a.m. local time in Zhangpu
county, bringing heavy rain and strong winds, and is expected to
move westwards at 20 kilometers per hour (12.5 miles per hour)
before weakening, the  China Meteorological Administration  said
in a statement today. Heavy rains are expected in the southern,
eastern and central regions including Jiangxi, Hunan and
Zhejiang, and will continue in Taiwan, the agency said.  
 Fanapi may be the strongest storm to strike China this year,
according to a statement by the  National Meteorological Center 
on Sept. 18. No casualties have been reported and damage is yet
to be assessed, Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing the
local flood control headquarters.  
 At Xiamen International Airport, all morning flights were
 cancelled  and operations may resume in the afternoon, the China
News Service reported on its website. There are more than 310
flights scheduled in and out of the coastal city today, it said.
 Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  said flights to and from Hong Kong
may be delayed or diverted because of the typhoon. The carrier
said it didn’t expect to cancel any flights.  
 All primary and middle schools, and kindergartens in the
city were closed, Xinhua News Agency said today. The shipping
route linking Xiamen in Fujian, and Kinmen Island, which is
controlled by Taiwan, was closed yesterday as Fanapi approached,
Xinhua said yesterday.  
 Forcing Evacuations  
 Fanapi swept across Taiwan yesterday with wind speeds of up
to 180 kilometers an hour, downing electric lines, forcing
evacuations and closing offices, airports and ground transport.
Seventy-six people were hurt, according to government data.  
 Power outages struck 658,016 households on the island
yesterday, the Ministry of Economic Affairs reported on its
website. Emergency workers evacuated 11,980 people from 13
counties and 53 townships prone to landslides, the Central
Emergency Operations Center said.  
 The storm caused agricultural losses of NT$266.9 million,
($8.4 million) the Council of Agriculture said in a statement
today.  
 Formosa Plastics Corp.  and  Nan Ya Plastics Corp.  are among
the more than 30 petrochemical makers in Kaohsiung, southern
Taiwan, that have halted production since yesterday afternoon
because of flooding caused by Fanapi.  
 Emergency Mobilization  
 Production may resume tonight or tomorrow morning, Kuo
Chao-chung, head of the petrochemical section at the Ministry of
Economic Affairs’ Industrial Development Bureau, said by phone
today. He declined to confirm a report in the Economic Daily
News today saying the halt has caused losses of about NT$2
billion.  
 President  Ma Ying-jeou ’s government mobilized more than
19,000 emergency workers to prepare for any disaster caused by
Fanapi, boosting precautions this year after Typhoon Morakot
battered Taiwan for three days in August 2009, killing more than
600 people and causing at least NT$110 billion in damage.  
 Ma, whose popularity dropped to a record 29 percent in the
wake of that destruction, was at the Central Emergency
Operations Center yesterday and the day before.  
 Majia township, in Pingtung County, received an accumulated
1,126 millimeters (44.3 inches) of rain, the most reported, and
further downpours were forecast, the bureau said. That compares
with the single-day record of 1,415 millimeters Morakot dumped
on Taiwan.  
 The accumulated rainfall was reaching the levels that fell
during Morakot, the Central Emergency Operations Center said.  
 Evacuation areas included Kaohsiung and Chiayi counties,
which were among the worst hit by Morakot last year. Schools and
offices at Kaohsiung city, Kaohsiung County, Taitung county and
Pingtung county are closed today, the Central Personnel
Administration said on its website.  
 Fanapi forced the cancellation of 113 domestic and seven
international flights today, the Ministry of Transportation and
Communications said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Weiyi Lim  in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Typhoon Fanapi Makes Landfall in South China  
                       
                         
                           AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Local policemen check flood water in southern Kaohsiung city as Typhoon Fanapi hit east Taiwan on Sept. 19, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Local policemen check flood water in southern Kaohsiung city as Typhoon Fanapi hit east Taiwan on Sept. 19, 2010. Source:AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
