-- Hypo Real Estate Extra Staff Payments `Not Inappropriate,' Government Says
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-09-20T11:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/hypo-real-estate-extra-staff-payments-not-inappropriate-government-says.html

          
          
             Extra staff payments at  Hypo Real
Estate Holding AG , the lender whose 2009 implosion and state
bailout represented Germany’s biggest bank failure since World
War II, were “not inappropriate,” the government said.  
 Hypo Real Estate’s transfer of almost 200 billion euros
($262 billion) of toxic assets into a so-called bad bank is one
of “the most complex transactions in German financial
history,” Finance Ministry spokesman  Michael Offer  told
reporters in Berlin today. “For this operation, the bank needs
experienced and good employees.”  
 Hypo Real Estate paid out a total of 25 million euros in
one-time extra payments for last year, spokesman  Walter Allwicher  said in an e-mail on Sept. 18. Executives were
excluded from the payments, which were in lieu of bonuses, and
employees’ total annual compensation didn’t exceed 500,000
euros, Allwicher said.  Der Spiegel , which first reported the
payments earlier the same day, said they were executive bonuses.  
 The payments are a “scandal,” Reiner Holznagel, vice
chairman of the taxpayers’ lobby,  said  in today’s Handelsblatt
newspaper. He blamed the government for having failed to execute
its supervisory duties.  
 Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government took over Hypo Real
Estate in 2009 after the lender’s Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc
unit couldn’t raise financing when the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. froze credit markets. Hypo Real was one
of seven banks to fail stress tests on 91 of Europe’s biggest
lenders in July.  
 ‘Hard to Swallow’  
 The government, via its Soffin bank-rescue fund, granted
Hypo another 40 billion euros of state guarantees this month to
safeguard restructuring efforts. The infusion swelled government
guarantees to the Munich-based lender to 142 billion euros.  
 “This is surely hard to swallow just a week after the bank
asked for another 40 billion euros in guarantees,” Bjoern
Saenger, a member of parliament’s Finance Committee for Merkel’s
Free Democratic Party coalition partner, said today in an
interview. “The government can’t be surprised about that and
must accept the public’s opprobrium.”  
 Hypo Real Estate won approval on July 8 to establish the
bad bank to house as much as 210 billion euros of “non-
strategic assets.” The amount represents more than half of Hypo
Real Estate’s total assets at the end of 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        