-- Yum's KFC Unit Goes to Trial With Franchisees Over `Grill Baby Grill' Ads
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-09-20T20:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/yum-s-kfc-unit-goes-to-trial-with-franchisees-over-grill-baby-grill-ads.html

          
          
             Yum! Brands Inc. ’s Kentucky Fried
Chicken unit and some of its franchisees are embroiled in a
battle over advertisements for crispy-versus-grilled products in
a non-jury trial that began today in Delaware.  
 The franchisee-dominated KFC National Council and
Advertising Cooperative Inc., which designs marketing programs
for the world’s most popular chicken restaurant chain, contends
that KFC President  Roger Eaton  is seeking to promote grilled
chicken over the company’s traditional product.  
 “It was ‘grill baby grill’” even though sales were
falling and it seemed “things went to hell in a handbasket,”
franchisee John R. Neal, who has 201 stores in 11 states,
testified today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  
 Neal said new grilled chicken sales took off with a
promotion in May 2009 by the  Oprah Winfrey  television show
offering free two-piece meals with online coupons. But he said
grilled sales “began to deteriorate” after that.  
 The council’s January lawsuit contends ads for the company
have been “lopsided towards grilled chicken” and asked Judge
 Leo Strine Jr.  to determine who has authority to decide what to
advertise.  
 The council has 17 board members, 13 of them representing
franchisees that operate 83 percent of KFC outlets. KFC “has
recently taken the position that KFC Corp. has the sole
authority” to direct advertising, and the council cannot
“modify or suggest changes” to KFC proposals, according to
court papers.  
 ‘Baseless’  
 Yum, based in Louisville, Kentucky, has said the lawsuit is
“baseless.”  
 Neal, who has had  franchises  in the south for 40 years and
is vice chairman of the council board, told Strine he joined the
company in the 1960s. He said he was “stunned and shocked”
when the company sent the council a letter insisting that final
say on all ads belonged to KFC.  
 The company also accused the council of violating an
agreement with KFC, and said uncooperative franchisees could be
terminated and face “personal liability,” Neal testified.  
 “This letter pushed us over the top,” and the suit was
filed, Neal told the judge.  
 The company has more than 15,000 KFC outlets in 109
countries and territories, and serves 12 million customers a
day.  
 Yum, with $10.8 billion in 2009 revenue, rose 83 cents, or
1.8 percent, to $46.58 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading at 4:15 p.m. The shares have risen 33 percent this year.  
 Delaware’s Sussex County, one of three in the state, is the
country’s biggest chicken-producing county, and the birthplace
of the broiler chicken industry, according to its  website . Its
200 million chickens a year are almost double the output of
runner-up Cullman County, Alabama, the county claims.  
 The case is KFC National Council v. KFC Corp., CA5191,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        