-- Zuma Moves to Squash Debate Over Leadership at Ruling Party Conference
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-09-20T16:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/zuma-says-anc-must-act-against-those-lobbying-for-early-leadership-change.html

          
          
             South African President  Jacob Zuma 
moved to stamp out a debate about his leadership of the ruling
African National Congress amid criticism of economic policies
that have left one in four people unemployed.  
 “We have no choice but to reintroduce revolutionary
discipline in the ANC,” Zuma said in his opening address at a
party policy conference in the eastern city of Durban today.
“The time has come for the organization to act.”  
 Zuma won a five-year term as ANC leader in 2007 after
ousting  Thabo Mbeki  with the backing of labor unions and the
party’s youth wing. Since becoming president last year, his
refusal to bow to demands, including the nationalization of
mines and the scrapping of inflation targeting, has led the
youth wing to indicate he isn’t assured of its support should he
seek re-election as party leader in 2012.  
 “Mobilizing and lobbying for succession so early also
gives the wrong impression that the ANC comprises of groups of
people who are preoccupied with fighting for influential
positions to advance personal interests,” Zuma said.  
 Most of the delegates in yellow shirts cheered and clapped
whenever Zuma made calls for unity or attacked his detractors
within the ruling alliance of the ANC, the  Congress of South
African Trade Unions  and the South African Communist Party. He
received a standing ovation at the end.  
 Youth League  
 “The bold headlines about the imminent death of the
alliance are grossly exaggerated,” Zuma said. “It will live
for a long time to come.”  
 Cosatu General Secretary  Zwelinzima Vavi  said Zuma “was
spot-on. In terms of organizational discipline, 120 percent,”
he said in an interview.  
 Julius Malema , head of the ANC’s Youth League, declined to
comment when asked about Zuma’s speech. The youth wing has led
the calls for nationalization of the country’s mines.  
 “Juniors must respect their seniors,” Zuma said in his
speech. “Those who belong to junior structures must respect
those who are serving in senior structures.”  
 The broad support Zuma enjoyed during his address showed he
“seems to be in control for now,”  Susan Booysen , a political
analyst at the University of the Witwatersrand, said in an
interview. “The ANC was anxious there was going to be some
public display of acrimony and a fall-out.” This “is not going
to happen. It seems like the youth league is being contained
here,” she said.  
 Nationalization  
 Since Zuma took control of the ANC, the party has signed up
128,000 members, giving it a total of 749,112 members, a party
document distributed to reporters showed.  
 Zuma made no reference to nationalization in his address,
saying only that this week’s meeting would review progress in
implementing policies agreed upon at the ANC’s last national
conference in 2007 and wouldn’t deal with “new policies.”  
 The ANC has dominated South African politics since sweeping
to power under  Nelson Mandela  in the country’s first all-race
election in 1994. Prior to falling into a recession last year,
the country experienced its longest period of economic growth on
record. Still, a quarter of the workforce is unemployed and the
income gap between rich and poor is among the widest in the
world.  
 The party will spend the next five days discussing how to
bolster growth, reduce poverty and improve access to public
services, Zuma said. The members went into closed meetings after
Zuma’s speech.  
 Exchange Rate  
 “The anticipated measures include appropriate fiscal and
monetary-policy measures that are actively directed to promoting
the largest number of jobs,” Zuma said. “These should be
linked with measures to control inflation and improve efficiency
across the economy, including through a more competitive and
stable exchange rate.”  
 The rand has gained 32 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of last year, undermining the competitiveness of the
country’s exports.  
 The government must review its land policies to address
ownership imbalances, with whites owning a disproportionately
large numbers of farms, dating back to the apartheid era, Zuma
said.  
 “Current approaches to land reform have not been moving as
fast as desirable,” he said. “The willing-buyer, willing-
seller approach to land acquisitions has constrained the pace
and efficiency of land reform. Our target is to redistribute 30
percent of agricultural land by 2014.”  
 The ANC helped finance this week’s event by inviting
companies to exhibit and attend addresses by several Cabinet
ministers. Banks Absa Group Ltd. and Nedbank Group Ltd., and
mobile phone companies MTN Ltd. and Vodacom Ltd. were among
those to take up the offer.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        