-- Zuma Says South Africa's ANC Wants Fiscal, Monetary Policy to Create Jobs
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-09-20T12:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-20/zuma-says-south-africa-s-anc-wants-fiscal-monetary-policy-to-create-jobs.html

          
          
             South Africa’s ruling  African
National Congress  is looking at ways that fiscal and monetary
policy can be directed toward creating more jobs, President
 Jacob Zuma  said.  
 These measures should be linked with controlling  inflation 
and contributing to a “more competitive and stable exchange
rate,” Zuma said today in the southeastern port city of Durban
at the party’s National General Council meeting, its biggest
gathering until a policy conference in 2012.  
 Zuma pledged in his election campaign last year to do more
to create  jobs  for the one in four people without work in the
country. Labor union allies are pushing the ANC to increase
state control of the  economy  and scrap the central bank’s
inflation-targeting policy to spur employment.  
 The ANC is discussing proposals that “include appropriate
fiscal and monetary policy measures that are actively directed
to promoting a larger number of jobs,” Zuma said.  
 An ANC paper to be discussed at the five-day meeting
includes a proposal to tax portfolio investment as a way of
curbing the rand’s value. The currency of Africa’s biggest
economy has surged 32 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of 2009.  
 The  Congress of South African Trade Unions , which helped
Zuma oust  Thabo Mbeki  as ANC president in 2007, said last week
that the government should nationalize key industries, including
mining, and abandon its policy of keeping the inflation rate
within a target range of 3 percent to 6 percent.  
 New Growth Plan  
 South Africa’s government is working on a new growth plan
to help it meet a goal of slashing the  unemployment rate  to 14
percent by 2014, from 25.3 percent currently.  
 “The new growth path must start with the recognition that,
on the one hand, we have had economic growth for a sustained
period since the advent of democracy,” Zuma said. “On the
other hand, poverty remains high, inequalities have remained the
same or even grown worse, while some of the jobs created often
brought low wages and poor conditions.”  
 This requires “redirecting and transforming economic
growth” in order to create more jobs, Zuma added.  
 Cosatu General-Secretary  Zwelinzima Vavi  told the South
African Press Association today that he was “very impressed”
with the president’s speech, which was “unmistakably pro-poor
and pro-growth.”  
 ‘Same Paradigm’  
 Zuma’s comments indicated that he is committed to the “same
paradigm” as the economic ideas of Cosatu and the South Africa
Communist Party,  Jeremy Cronin , deputy secretary general of the
SACP, said in an interview in Durban.  
 The ANC is also due to discuss a proposal from its Youth
League to nationalize the country’s mines to redistribute wealth
among the poor, black majority.  
 “There’ll be an attempt to push it in, especially by the
Youth League,” said Cronin. “But the way in which it’ll be
handled will be to say: Okay, let’s look at it but that
discussion must be subordinated to those about the new growth
path.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        