-- BHP may have to sweeten again to budge Rio: analysts
-- By  James Regan
-- Thu Feb 7, 2008 4:30am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/07/businesspro-riotintinto-bhpbilliton-dc-idUSSYD27745020080207

 

 SYDNEY  (Reuters) - A day after BHP Billiton Ltd/Plc 
launched the second costliest corporate takeover in history, 
analysts and industry executives reckoned the world's biggest 
miner may have to dig a little deeper into its pockets to win 
rival Rio Tinto Ltd/Plc ( RIO.AX )( RIO.L ). 

  "I still don't think it's good enough for BHP to win the 
day, given Rio's assets and potential," said DJ Carmichael & Co 
analyst James Wilson.  BHP's ( BHP.AX )( BLT.L ) offer, worth around $130 billion 
based on Thursday's share prices, would be the mining sector's 
biggest ever deal and create the world's third-biggest company 
after ExxonMobil ( XON.N ) and General Electric ( GE.N ).  Rio has rejected BHP's sweetened 3.4 shares for each Rio 
share offer, a 13 percent improvement on its initial informal 
approach in November.  BHP ended Australian trade 0.7 percent higher at A$36.92 on 
Thursday. Rio eased 0.1 percent to A$127, holding at around 
3.44 times BHP's share price, roughly in line with BHP's offer 
and suggesting the market was not expecting much in terms of a 
higher offer.  Numis Securities analyst Simon Tyrone said in a report that 
BHP's bid reflected a high level of discipline on valuation 
that creates value for both sets of shareholders.  "We are skeptical that BHP would consider increasing their 
bid meaningfully," Tyrone said, adding he did not see Chinese 
customers and competitors launching a full counter-bid for Rio.  Asian and European customers of both companies, 
particularly steel mills in China and Japan that buy hundreds 
of millions of tonnes of iron ore each year, have raised 
concerns about the clout a merged BHP/Rio would have on pricing 
of raw materials.  BHP/Rio would control more than a third of the world's iron 
ore, a quarter of the uranium and millions of tonnes of copper, 
aluminum and coal, as well as gold, silver and diamonds.  "BHP would love to have a situation where it can be the 
dominant player, a one-stop shop, in commodity markets across 
the globe," said Fat Prophets mining analyst Gavin Wendt.  But a successful bid for Rio "was never going to be easy."  "A company with high quality assets like Rio doesn't come 
along every day and, with the furious takeover activity in the 
resources sector over recent years, the cupboard is getting 
increasingly bare," Wendt said.  State-run Aluminum Corp of China (Chinalco), backed by U.S. 
aluminum group Alcoa Inc ( AA.N ), last week snapped up 9 percent 
of Rio in a $14 billion raid -- paying a 21 percent premium -- 
making them the largest shareholding bloc.  Chinalco and Alcoa have reserved the right to make a full 
bid for Rio, backed by China Development Bank funding, if 
another bid was made.  "Is BHP the only one who wants to buy Rio?" said Australian 
mining magnate Michael Kiernan, managing director of Territory 
Resources TTY.AX, which sells millions of tonnes of iron ore 
to China.  "No, but who else can afford Rio? The Chinese, maybe, but 
my experience has been they would rather be a partner than an 
outright owner," he said, adding he has resisted offers from 
Chinese investors to acquire a stake in his company.  BHP has said it has $55 billion in loans ready to support 
its Rio bid and would reward shareholders with a $30 billion 
share buyback if the deal goes through. Rio shareholders would 
hold 44 percent of a merged entity.  Analysts have suggested BHP would need to pay as much as 
3.58 of its shares, plus A$16 cash, to win over Rio.  "BHP may have to raise its offer even more and may have to 
add a cash component," said Brian Hicks, co-manager of U.S. 
Global Investors' global resources fund.  BHP Chief Executive Marius Kloppers insists his bid offers 
fair value. He expects a deal to take up to a year to complete, 
given the geographic spread of both companies' assets.  Shares in both Rio and BHP were down 1.5 percent in early 
London trading on Thursday.  (Editing by  Ian Geoghegan )