-- High-Alcohol Wines Risking Backlash, Taxes as Gooey Soporifics
-- John Mariani
-- 2010-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-22/high-alcohol-wines-risking-backlash-taxes-as-gooey-soporifics.html

          
          
             It seemed like a good idea at
the time. I had just enjoyed a glass of white wine with
some seafood and the next course was lamb, with which a big
red  Chateauneuf-du-Pape  was served. Trouble was, this was
lunch, and I spent the rest of the afternoon asleep.  
 True, the older one gets the less one should drink at
lunch, but the real culprit was the red’s 14.5 percent
alcohol, a level made popular by the sun-burned Napa Valley
blockbusters and California cult wines that emerged in the
late 1970s and have delighted many U.S. wine critics since.  
 Robert Parker , publisher of The Wine Advocate, raved
about big “plummy” high-alcohol red wines with “gobs of
fruit,” encouraging California winemakers to go for higher
and higher alcohol levels. Some labels now list 17 percent,
which may actually be a degree or higher in the bottle --
closer to Port than wine.  
 In fact, the federal  Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives  only labels wines between 7 percent
and 14 percent alcohol as “table wine.” Above that, even if
the level of alcohol is reached naturally, they are
categorized as “fortified” and, with some leeway, are taxed
at a rate four times higher.  
 While higher alcohol rates do occur naturally in
warmer climates, winemakers can boost the level by letting
the grapes hang longer to achieve phenolic ripeness and
build up sugars that ferment into alcohol. The result is
wines with a richer, slightly sweeter flavor that do well
in competitions, where deep color and big aromas count.  
 Red ‘Parkerization’  
 Now, with the economy crippling high-priced, high-
alcohol wine sales, there is a backlash against what the
industry calls the “Parkerization” of red wines.  
 “If you want to get drunk, booze is cheaper and
quicker than wine,” wine writer  Gerry Dawes  said in a phone
interview. “High alcohol destroys the balance wine should
have. You need acid, not high alcohol, to go with food.
After a single glass these wines are tiresome to drink and
people will leave a very expensive bottle half-empty on the
table because they can’t finish it. Nobody can convince me
these are good wines.”  
 More wineries now seem to be paying attention to what
Randy Dunn of  Dunn Vineyards  said in a public statement in
2007 after being horrified that his 2004 vintage broke the
14 percent barrier.  
 “The current fad of higher and higher alcohol wines
should stop,” Dunn said. “Most wine drinkers do not
really appreciate wines that are 15 percent to 16 percent
and more alcohol. They are, in fact, hot and very difficult
to drink.”  
 Refused to Sell  
 Another wake-up call came from Darrell Corti,
president of the Sacramento wine-and-food market  Corti
Bros. , who announced that he would not even sample any
wines above 14.5 percent and refused to sell them.  
 Yet many winemakers still persist in producing the
kind of powerhouse wines that made California’s reputation.
I recently opened a bottle of 2007  Chappellet Mountain
Cuvee  ($29), a Napa Valley blend of cabernet sauvignon,
merlot, malbec, cabernet franc and petit verdot. The
alcohol was 14.9 percent, its color very dark, its aroma
somewhat medicinal, its flavor more like grape jam than
wine, with a blast of alcohol.  
 I put the glass down and shook my head. The next day,
to see if it had mellowed, I tasted the wine again. It was
still inky, plum-like and heady.  
 Unpleasant Taste  
 “Frankly I don’t think you see that many really great
California wines with low alcohol levels,” Chappellet’s
winemaker Phillip Corallo-Titus, 53, said in a phone
interview. “Leaving the grapes to ripen longer lowers the
vegetative, green taste of wines, which can be unpleasant.
I get very few complaints about alcohol levels. I think
maybe people’s tolerance is going up.”  
 Corallo-Titus thinks that 16 percent to 17 percent is
too much.  
 “Those wines tend to get so overripe we call them
‘gooey,’” he said.  
 While one man’s gooey may be another man’s plummy,
I’m betting the in-your-face California style will give way
to a restrained refinement that makes wine a lot easier for
the consumer to love.  
 ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 John Mariani  at  john@johnmariani.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Grapes are harvested in Napa Valley. To increase sugar levels that ferments into higher alcohol percentages, Napa Valley vintners let their grapes ripen late into the harvest season. Photographer: Jason Tinacci via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A bottle of Chappellet Mountain Cuvee. The wine is a  Bordeaux-like blend of grapes from California's Napa Valley, which has an alcohol level of 14.9 percent. Source: Chappellet Vineyards via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
