-- Pimco Bets on Asia-Pacific Bonds as U.S., Europe Risk `Policy Mistake'
-- Shelley Smith
-- 2010-03-23T04:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-22/pimco-bets-on-asia-pacific-bonds-as-u-s-europe-risk-policy-mistake-.html

          
          
             Investors should buy Asia-Pacific
bonds rather than European and U.S. debt on the region's faster
economic growth and lower risk of policy changes that would damp
the recovery, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.  
 "Politics are going to play a very important role in how
an investor looks at asset classes over at least the next 12
months," Brian Baker, Pimco Asia Ltd.'s chief executive officer,
said in an interview in Hong Kong. "As policy makers withdraw
from their fiscal stimulus, and as regulations are put in place
in the financial system in the developed world, we run the risk
of a policy mistake" that may weigh on markets, he said.  
 Withdrawing measures designed to stimulate the economy or
raising interest rates too quickly, burdensome regulation and
protectionism all threaten to choke off growth in developed
markets, Baker said. The economic recovery in Asia, on the other
hand, will be "sustainable" and investors should seek to
benefit from the development of the region's financial markets,
he said yesterday.  
 The Asian unit of Pimco, manager of the world's biggest
bond fund, is focusing on Australian, Indonesian, Philippines
and South Korean debt, Baker said. The Newport Beach,
California-based firm recommends bonds of Asian companies with
stable cash flows and of governments in the region that have
adopted "prudent" fiscal and monetary policies to spur growth.  
 Under Pressure  
 Baker made his comments at a time when many governments of
developed economies are under pressure to reduce budget deficits
while increasing regulation of a banking sector widely blamed
for worsening the deepest financial crisis in 70 years.  
 All the Group of Seven developed countries, except Canada
and Germany, will have debt-to-gross domestic product ratios
close to or exceeding 100 percent by 2014, John Lipsky, first
deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund,
said in a speech in Beijing on March 21.  
 "In many cases an emerging market sovereign has a better
balance sheet than a developed market sovereign that has a
higher credit rating, given the fiscal spending that's gone on
in the developed markets," Baker said. This shift "will
continue over the next several years and is one that we think
investors need to be aware of."  
 Ratings Risk  
 The U.S. and U.K. have moved "substantially" closer to
losing their top AAA credit ratings as the cost of servicing
their debt rises, Moody's Investors Service said this month.  
 Standard & Poor's boosted Indonesia's rating to the highest
level in 12 years and the Philippines will meet with S&P and
Fitch Ratings next month to seek an upgrade reflecting its
economic stability, record foreign reserves and accelerating
growth, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today.  
 Emerging economies will expand between 11 percent and 13
percent within the next year while the U.S. economy will grow by
no more than 3 percent, according to Pimco estimates.  
 U.S. dollar-denominated bonds in developing Asian countries
returned an average 36 percent in the last 12 months compared
with an average 8 percent for U.S. government and company notes,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shelley Smith in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          March 23 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Markovic, a senior fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the cost of sovereign debt.
     Markovic, speaking in Zurich, also discusses Pacific Investment Management Co.'s strategy to buy Asia-Pacific bonds rather than U.S. and European debt. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          March 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bunt Ghosh, vice chairman for fixed income in Asia-Pacific at Credit Suisse Group AG, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for Asian corporate bonds and currencies.
     Investors should buy Asia-Pacific bonds rather than European and U.S. debt on the region’s faster economic growth and lower risk of policy changes that would damp the recovery, according to Pacific Investment Management Co. Ghosh also discusses European-region economies and the outlook for the euro.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
