-- Diller derides investor watchdog groups
-- By  Martha Graybow
-- Mon Nov 27, 2006 7:19pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/28/businesspro-media-summit-iac-compensatio-idUSN2717339520061128

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - IAC/InterActiveCorp. ( IACI.O ) Chief 
Executive Barry Diller, who had an estimated $295 million in 
compensation last year, said on Monday many corporate 
governance activists are "birdbrains" who are hurting American 
business. 

  The chairman and controlling shareholder of the Internet 
media conglomerate singled out governance research groups as 
well as the business page of The New York Times, which he said 
had a "loony" view of executive pay.  He also said he had no use for the cottage industry of 
compensation consultants who advise boards of directors.  "I think the whole consultant group should be flushed into 
the East River and no value loss would ever be seen by man," 
Diller told the Reuters Media Summit in New York.  Diller ranked as the highest paid CEO in 2005, with 98 
percent of his compensation coming from the exercise of stock 
options he previously had been granted, according to 
calculations by governance researcher The Corporate Library.  The IAC chief said 97 percent of his compensation over the 
past 11 years came from one stock option, granted at a time 
when his company was formed and losing money. Today IAC has a 
market capitalization close to $10 billion.  Diller said the issue of governance is "completely 
misunderstood, certainly by the birdbrains that write about it. 
I mean their reactions to everything are so dim, and I am 
talking about The Corporate Library and I'm talking about these 
people that analyze these things and haven't a clue."  The Corporate Library, a Portland, Maine-based research 
firm, gives IAC's governance a "D," on an "A" to "F"-like 
academic scale.  "I'm sure he is bothered by the bad grades that we have 
given him," Nell Minow, a co-founder of the research firm, said 
on Monday. "All of our governance metrics are based on the 
effect that governance has on strategy. I would be happy to 
explain it to him if he would like but clearly he doesn't 
understand what we do."  Diller said his board operates well and there is plenty of 
honest debate among directors. But, he said, "Ninety-nine 
percent of the observers would say, 'you have lousy corporate 
governance because of interlocking relationships (among 
directors), because you are a controlled company,"' he said.  He said that an excessive focus on governance can hurt 
companies' ability to take on risk to develop their business, 
and will not necessarily improve the way companies are run. "My 
problem with governance is that it's really hurting American 
business."  Diller also said he laughed after reading a New York Times 
op-ed column by Nicholas Kristof earlier this month that 
suggested Diller "may be the laziest man in America." Kristof 
said that a breakdown of Diller's pay shows he is paid roughly 
$150,000 an hour to get motivated to do his job.  He said the column used a nominal figure for the value of 
his options, but if it had taken into account the context of 
the grant and the fact that he continues to hold the shares, 
"it is impossible then to make these representations."  Diller said he found "the whole issue of executive 
compensation and particularly the policy of The New York Times 
business section toward executive compensation ... absolutely 
loony." He singled out, in particular, business writer Gretchen 
Morgenson, who often writes about executive pay and corporate 
governance.  Morgenson told Reuters, "Well he's certainly entitled to 
his opinion. I think when someone like Barry Diller says that 
our focus on executive pay is loony, it must mean that we're 
doing the right thing."  "The assessment of his compensation was from research firms 
that specialize in compensation. As for our business section, 
I'm sure it could a better job if we were able to pay reporters 
$150,000 an hour, but frankly I think they do a terrific job 
with the resources they have," said Nicholas Kristof, op-ed 
columnist at The New York Times, responding to Barry Diller. 
Kristof spoke to Reuters by phone, as did Morgenson.  New York Times Executive Editor Bill Keller said, "Ordinary 
investors and other readers look to Gretchen Morgenson as one 
of the market's shrewdest and most fearless guides. She won a 
Pulitzer prize for a body of work that the Pulitzer board 
called 'trenchant and incisive.'  "We are proud of the journalism she and other Times 
reporters have produced on executive compensation."  (With additional reporting by Robert MacMillan)