-- Sberbank postpones decision on $8.7 billion share issue
-- By Vlasta Demyanenko
-- Tue Nov 28, 2006 5:47pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/28/businesspro-sberbank-russia-dc-idUSL28149520061128

 

 TULA, Russia  (Reuters) - State-owned Sberbank's ( SBER.MM ) 
supervisory board postponed a decision on a share issue that 
would be worth $8.7 billion at current prices, a senior finance 
ministry official told Reuters on Tuesday. 

  "No decision has been made. I think it will be made in the 
nearest future. So far the decision is to examine more closely 
the proposed details," Alexei Savatiugin said.  He added that details could be finalized within two weeks. 
No date for the board's next meeting has yet been set.  Savatiugin said both the method of share issue and its 
volume would be discussed, but refused to give further details.  Earlier on Tuesday, Russian Economy Minister German Gref 
said he wanted to postpone discussion, adding that the ministry 
supported the issue and the amount but wanted to finalize the 
mechanism of the placement.  The supervisory board, staffed by top officials including 
Gref and Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, was due to decide on 
Tuesday whether to approve the issue of 3.5 million new shares.  Sberbank has not disclosed the exact size of the planned 
issue but its president, Andrei Kazmin, has said it will be 
less than $10 billion.  Business daily Vedomosti on Tuesday quoted sources familiar 
with documents prepared for the meeting as saying the amount 
would not fall far short of that. Two supervisory board members 
told the paper that the issue would involve a public offering 
of 3.5 million shares, to be sold only in Russia.  The state, represented by the central bank, is a majority 
shareholder in Sberbank, creating a potential conflict of 
interests when the banking sector regulator is also owner of 
the largest bank.  About 37 percent of Sberbank shares are in the hands of 
private investors, including billionaire Suleiman Kerimov, who 
is in a Marseille hospital after suffering burns when he 
crashed his sports car on the French Riviera last weekend.  Kerimov is believed to control about 6 percent of Sberbank 
shares through his investment firm Nafta Moskva, but he is not 
represented on the supervisory council.
  ISSUE GOOD FOR SHAREHOLDERS  Sberbank shares fell 0.25 percent to 65,290 rubles at 1300 
GMT on Tuesday, valuing the potential offering at 228.5 billion 
rubles ($8.7 billion).  Analysts at Aton brokerage said the issue was positive for 
shareholders because it would increase liquidity.  "Although Sberbank has a free float of more than 30 
percent, many of its large shareholders are strategic 
investors, such as large Russian industrial groups or high net 
worth individuals," Aton said in a research note.  Sberbank's equity fund raising -- a record for a Russian 
bank -- would be one of two major Russian bank offerings next 
year. State-run Vneshtorgbank plans an initial public offering 
of up to 25 percent of the company in Moscow and London.  The issue by Sberbank, once the Soviet Union's savings bank 
and which still controls half of the retail lending market, 
would come close in size to the $10.6-billion July IPO of oil 
firm Rosneft ( ROSN.RTS ), which was Russia's biggest float.  Sberbank has said it plans to raise funds by issuing 
approved shares, reducing the central bank's stake from 63.8 
percent to as little as a bare majority of 50 percent plus one 
share.  Russian banks are desperate to raise capital to finance 
lending growth, and Sberbank, Russia's fourth-largest firm by 
market value and the most liquid stock in the country's banking 
sector, is no exception.  ($1=26.36 Ruble)