-- Comcast starts offering wireless phone service
-- By  Yinka Adegoke
-- Tue Nov 28, 2006 4:38pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/28/businesspro-comcast-wireless-dc-idUSN2827974320061128

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Comcast Corp. ( CMCSA.O ) has become the 
first U.S. cable operator to take on telecommunications 
providers in the cell phone market, having begun marketing the 
service to consumers in Boston. 

  The largest U.S. cable television operator launched the 
service in Boston and Portland, Oregon, earlier this month 
after a year-long trial, but is only promoting its "mobile 
access" service with television commercials and direct-mail 
drops in the Boston metropolitan area.  Time Warner Inc.'s ( TWX.N ) cable unit, the No. 2 U.S. cable 
operator, said it has made wireless services available to 
customers who request it in Raleigh, North Carolina, and 
Austin, Texas, and would start marketing in the cities in the 
first quarter of 2007 and to all of its other markets through 
the year.  Cox Communications, the No.3 U.S. cable operator, also 
expects to introduce wireless services early in 2007.  The three cable companies plan to use the wireless network 
of No. 3 U.S. mobile operator Sprint Nextel Corp. ( S.N ) as part 
of an agreement reached last year.  Comcast is offering wireless as an add-on for subscribers 
of its "triple play" package of cable TV, telephone and 
Internet services. The price is $33 a month for 200 minutes and 
provides such services as voicemail, navigation and call 
forwarding.  Although the customer will receive only one bill for all 
services, Sprint will ultimately receive the wireless fees. The 
main benefit for Comcast is to attract and retain subscribers.  "You will save money doing this, but our real message is 
there's real value in integrating your inside-the-four-walls 
services with your outside-the-four-walls services," Tom Nagel, 
Comcast's senior vice president of wireless, said in an 
interview on Monday.  The company plans to introduce the wireless service into 
more markets in the next 12 months.  Cable operators have reported record subscriber growth 
because of triple-play packages. They are betting that adding 
wireless could give them additional clout against telephone 
companies such as AT&T Inc. ( T.N ) and Verizon Communications 
Inc. ( VZ.N ) that are starting to launch TV services.  Comcast, Time Warner, Cox and Advance/Newhouse 
Communications announced a $200 million 20-year joint 
partnership with Sprint last year.  News of Comcast's launch comes as some analysts played down 
market speculation the company may be interested in buying 
Sprint. The speculation was fueled last month when Comcast 
teamed up with its cable partners and Sprint to buy $2.37 
billion in wireless licenses from a government auction.  Consumers can pay an additional $15 to $25 a month for a 
range of entertainment content, including video clips such as 
local news and weather.  "We continue to believe that wireless will be an add-on 
strategy to the cable bundle versus a separate growth engine," 
said UBS analyst Aryeh Bourkoff. "Churn for a triple-play 
subscriber is approaching the move rate, or normal churn 
levels, which mutes the incremental benefits of having a 
wireless product -- for now."  Time Warner Cable said its wireless packages start at 
$29.99 a month as an add-on service. Additional data services, 
including local news video subscription, will start at $15.  Mike Roudi, Time Warner Cable's VP of wireless said that in 
markets where Time Warner owns the local news channels, one of 
its priorities is to broadcast news live to the mobile phones.  "We're working with programming partners to make that a 
reality in short order," said Roudi.  Cox said it hoped to introduce wireless services in two 
markets early in 2007. It described its trials as productive.  John Garcia, president of the joint venture between Sprint 
and the cable operators, said the telephone company, whose 
stand-alone wireless packages are more expensive than those 
planned by the cable companies, would benefit from reduced 
customer losses.  "Our bet is that they'll stay longer," he said. "... The 
bundle really does create value for customers."