-- Pfizer to cut U.S. sales force by 20 percent
-- By  Bill Berkrot
-- Tue Nov 28, 2006 6:43pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/28/businesspro-pfizer-jobs-dc-idUSN2828949420061128

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Pfizer Inc. ( PFE.N ) said on Tuesday it 
would cut its U.S. sales force by about 20 percent, or some 
2,200 jobs, as part of a comprehensive cost-cutting program. 

  The world's No. 1 drugmaker said it would present its 
long-term outlook and additional actions for transforming the 
company in January.  The job cuts will be in all levels of Pfizer's sales 
organization from senior management to field representatives, 
Pfizer spokesman Paul Fitzhenry said.  Fitzhenry said this would end job cuts from the U.S. sales 
operation, but he added that all aspects of the company's 
operations remained under review.  Prudential Equity analyst Tim Anderson called the cuts 
"helpful."  "The easier way to win is to have a pipeline (of new drugs 
in development), but until you have more sources of growth 
ahead of you, cutting costs is the smart thing to do," Anderson 
said.  "I wouldn't be surprised if this was just the first step, 
but just how low to go is a very tough question to answer," 
Anderson added. "I actually don't think the industry knows how 
far they can cut."  Anderson noted that cutting costs was one of the things 
immediately in control of new Chief Executive Jeffrey Kindler, 
who took over from Hank McKinnell in July.  Pfizer said in mid-October that it would review every 
aspect of its operations. Its cost-cutting efforts are aimed at 
producing annual savings of $4 billion a year by 2008, the 
company said.  Hampered by declining sales of its older medicines and a 
failure to launch many major new drugs, the company has said it 
does not expect to return to revenue growth until 2009.  There are currently about 11,000 positions in its U.S. 
sales organization, and Pfizer said it would still be able to 
maintain sales support for all of its major product lines.