-- `Fragile' Economic Recovery in Canada Remains `on Course,' Flaherty Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-09-26T21:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/-fragile-economic-recovery-in-canada-remains-on-course-flaherty-says.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the economic recovery in his country remains
“fragile.”  “We are on course, we are on track, but it’s a
fragile time,” Flaherty told CTV television network in an
interview in Ottawa today. “We can see the challenges in
the American economy, which affects our economy. We have to
be careful.”  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper’s  government released a
fiscal plan in March that pledged to balance the budget
within five years by controlling spending for defense,
international aid and government operations. Canada had a
record  deficit  that will surpass C$50 billion ($49 billion)
in the fiscal year that ended March 31, Flaherty said Sept.
17.  Flaherty today repeated an earlier forecast that
Canada will experience “moderate growth” this year.  Economic growth in Canada is benefiting from a two-
year, C$47 billion stimulus package that is due to expire
in March 2011, Flaherty said.  “We needed the stimulus and it’s helping our economy
recover, particularly compared to the United States,” he
said. “About 97 percent of the projects are under way. We
hope they all get completed on time.”  Flaherty also indicated he will ignore calls from
 opposition lawmakers  and union leaders to extend parts of
the stimulus package beyond March.  “We are saying to the municipalities and the provinces,
‘Get your infrastructure projects done by the end of
March,’” he told CTV. “The economic action plan is for a
period of time. It’s public stimulus, it’s taxpayers’ money
being used to create jobs and protect our economy, but it
doesn’t go on forever.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  