-- Labour Leadership Winner Miliband Has Lawmakers, Voters to Woo
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-09-27T08:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/labour-leadership-winner-miliband-still-has-lawmakers-u-k-voters-to-woo.html
Ed Miliband  will address the U.K.’s
opposition  Labour Party  for the first time as leader tomorrow,
seeking to win over the majority of lawmakers and activists who
failed to back him.  The former energy secretary won the Labour leadership Sept.
25 on the eve of the party conference in Manchester, northwest
England. He owed the victory to labor-union votes that gave him
the edge over his older brother  David , who was ahead among party
members and parliamentarians. Miliband’s mentor,  Gordon Brown ,
led Labour in May to its worst election result since 1983,
ending 13 years in power, and the new leader needs to win back
the voters who deserted the party then.  “An interesting question will be how he manages relations
with his party -- they backed his brother fairly clearly,” said
 Andrew Russell , a senior lecturer in politics at Manchester
University. “David was very much working on an expansive
electoral strategy that Labour needed to reach out to voters. Ed
was much more about regaining the core vote” of traditional
working-class Labour supporters.  In his victory speech two days ago, Miliband, 40, focused
his attention on those traditional backers, repeating “I get
it” as he listed reasons they had turned their back on Labour.
In an article in yesterday’s Sunday Telegraph newspaper, he
reached out to what he called “the squeezed middle” and their
concerns over college and housing costs.  ‘Largest Challenge’  Miliband’s task if Labour is to gain enough backing to
return to power is to balance the concerns of core voters and
the wealthier supporters brought in by Brown’s predecessor,  Tony Blair , according to  Philip Cowley , co-author of “ The British
General Election of 2010 ,” to be published this week.  “The first thing the Labour Party needs to do is to
understand just how bad the result was” at the May election,
said Cowley. “The group where Labour suffered the largest drop
in their support was the skilled working class. Gaining that
group back -- whilst also not frightening off the more affluent
voters which ‘New Labour’ managed to attract -- is going to be
Ed Miliband’s largest challenge.”  Miliband used his first day in the job yesterday to reject
suggestions he’s in thrall to the unions. He had 42 percent of
their first-preference votes in the election, which he won by
50.65 percent to 49.35 percent in the final round of  voting ,
after trailing in three previous rounds. His 45-year-old brother
remained ahead in the other two sections of the electoral
college throughout.  ‘Nobody’s Man’  “It’s not about some lurch to the left; all these
characterizations about ‘Red Ed’ are both tiresome and
rubbish,” Miliband told BBC 1 television’s “ Andrew Marr  Show”
yesterday. “I’m nobody’s man, I’m my own man and I’m very, very
clear about that.”  Even so, Ed “won in a deeply problematic way, in deeply
dubious circumstances,” according to  Mark Wickham-Jones ,
professor of politics at Bristol University. “He might have
perhaps five supporters in the shadow Cabinet -- most of them
nominated David. The crucial thing is going to be David’s
attitude.”  Ed said yesterday he hadn’t yet discussed with David what
role he might play in Labour’s opposition team. “We haven’t got
to that point yet,” he said. “He’s shown extraordinary
graciousness to me both in public and in private. I love him
very much. He can make a very big contribution to British
politics.”  David’s Future  The Financial Times reported today that Ed had offered
David the role of finance spokesman opposing Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , without saying where it got the
information.  “Anyone who tells you anything about what they know of
what I’ve decided is not telling you the truth because they
don’t know,” David told reporters as he arrived at the
conference today. “I came here on Saturday planning a slightly
different week. Now I am thinking about what I should do
instead.”  The new leader has just 23 days to prepare a strategy for
attacking Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government
when it outlines on Oct. 20 how it will reduce spending to
narrow a  record budget deficit . “I am not going to oppose every
cut,” he told the BBC yesterday.  Instead, Miliband said, he is going to act as a
“responsible” opposition leader, though he “broadly”
supports Labour’s proposal at the election of trying to cut the
deficit in half over four years as the “right starting point.”  ‘Cautious Pace’  Osborne set out plans in his budget in June to virtually
eliminate the budget shortfall by 2015.  “It’s for the coalition to come forward with their
proposals and I will examine them on their merits,” Miliband
said. “Deficit reduction, yes, but at a cautious pace in a way
that’s going to help our economy, not hinder it.”  Former Chancellor of the Exchequer  Alistair Darling , who
proposed halving the deficit over four years, said he was
“encouraged” by Miliband’s approach to economic policy when he
spoke to him yesterday.  “Having listened to Ed yesterday and having talked to him
I’m greatly reassured that he’s realistic, he’s got a lot of
common sense and is not going to do something that is
irresponsible,” Darling said on BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show.
“He knows the policies have to be credible and have to strike a
chord with mainstream Britain. If we ever depart from that
center ground we’ll be in difficulties.”  Neck and Neck  The son of Ralph Miliband, a Marxist intellectual who fled
to Britain to escape from the Nazis in 1940, Ed was educated at
Oxford University and the London School of Economics. From 1997
to 2002 he worked for Brown at the Treasury before going to the
U.S. to teach economics at Harvard.  He entered Parliament in 2005, winning election in
Doncaster in northern England. He joined the Cabinet in 2007,
became energy secretary the following year and wrote Labour’s
program for this year’s election. Miliband lives in London with
his partner, Justine, and their son, and another child is due
later this year.  A poll on Sept. 21 by YouGov Plc put Cameron’s
Conservatives, the senior party in the coalition, neck and neck
with Labour at 39 percent. Labour slumped to 29 percent of the
vote in May, seven points behind the Tories. The next election
is planned for 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Manchester, England, at
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 