-- Takefuji May File for Bankruptcy as Shares Put on Delist Watch
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-09-27T08:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/takefuji-shares-set-to-fall-in-tokyo-after-nikkei-reports-bankruptcy-plan.html
Takefuji Corp.  may file for
bankruptcy as an option for restructuring itself, an official at
the Tokyo Stock Exchange said as the bourse put the consumer
lender’s shares on watch for possible delisting.  Takefuji is considering “various measures” to revitalize
its business, the company said in a statement to the exchange
today, following a Nikkei newspaper report that it may seek
bankruptcy, adding that no decision on a filing has been made.  “It’s possible bankruptcy is one of the measures,” Yukari
Hozumi, a TSE spokeswoman, said in an interview. “We put the
shares on monitor, alerting  investors  that they could be
delisted.”  Should Takefuji fail, it would become the biggest casualty
of Japan’s four-year crackdown on consumer lenders. The Tokyo-
based company and rivals  Aiful Corp. ,  Promise Co.  and Acom Co.
are battling to survive after the 2006 clampdown on coercive
lending practices and tighter borrowing laws forced them to
repay billions of dollars in overcharged interest.  “It’s a very speculative sector, but people knew that this
was going to happen eventually,” said  Winston Barnes , head of
sales and trading for Asian markets at WJB Capital Group Inc. in
San Francisco. “This problem has existed for years and years
and tighter regulation has caused more attention.”  Takefuji, with 430 billion yen ($5.1 billion) in
 liabilities , is in final talks to file for bankruptcy at the
Tokyo District Court, the Nikkei reported earlier today, without
saying where it got the information. Takefuji declined to
comment today when contacted by telephone.  Rivals Tumble  The company’s shares had been suspended from trading in
Tokyo until nine minutes before the exchange closed for the day,
and they remained untraded as sell offers outweighed  bids . The
shares ended at 171 yen on Sept. 24.  Its rivals tumbled on speculation they will face more
claims for overcharged interest. Aiful slumped 22 percent to 90
yen, its biggest percentage decline in a year. Acom slid 10
percent to 1,344 yen and Promise fell 11 percent to 689 yen at
the 3 p.m. close of trading.  “The number of customer refund claims of overcharged
interest will likely increase in Japan’s whole consumer lending
industry in months ahead if Takefuji files for bankruptcy
protection,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at
MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. “The lenders may be forced to set
aside an additional reserve to repay if that’s the case.”  Government Crackdown  Lending laws passed in 2006 went into effect on June 18,
capping interest rates at 20 percent and prohibiting lending to
borrowers with consumer debt equal to a third or more of their
annual income. In June, more than 60 percent of Japan’s 3,900
registered lenders were yet to comply with a rule requiring them
to sign up with credit information firms, meaning they can’t
make new loans, according to Japan Credit Information Reference
Center Corp. and Credit Information Center Corp.  Takefuji, founded by  Yasuo Takei  in 1966, was listed on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange in December 1998. The shares have plunged
99 percent since their peak of 19,300 yen reached in August 1999.  Moody’s Investors Service in July cut the lender’s credit
 rating  to Ca, the second-lowest non-investment grade, citing its
funding plans and borrowers’ claims for repayment of overcharged
interest. Standard & Poor’s cut Takefuji to CC from CCC- today.  The company, Japan’s third-biggest consumer lender, may
follow Aiful and Japan Airlines Corp. to settle  credit-default
swaps  at auction if it files for bankruptcy protection,
according to BNP Paribas SA. Credit swaps pay the buyer if a
borrower fails to meet its debt obligations.  Trying to Survive  The lender is taking “all possible measures to survive,”
Kiyokawa said at a press conference in May. Promise President
 Ken Kubo  said the same month that this fiscal year will be the
company’s “severest,” adding a loss of “several tens of
billions of yen” is likely unavoidable.  Lawsuits claiming overcharged interest have saddled the
industry with more than 4.4 trillion yen in refund charges,
according to the Japan Financial Services Association, forcing
lenders to close branches and eliminate workers to survive.  Aiful,  Promise , Takefuji and Acom, face losses of 503
billion yen over the next two years, according to estimates from
Nomura Holdings Inc. Costs related to interest refunds will
likely total 1.6 trillion yen over the next five years, Nomura
analyst  Wataru Ohtsuka  said in a May 19 report.  Lenders backed by large banking groups such as Promise --
21 percent owned by Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. -- and
Acom, a unit of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., have better
prospects of weathering new regulations as they benefit from
funding and loan guarantees, analysts and investors say.  “Takefuji delayed shedding its skin, while other consumer
lenders changed their capital structure with support from
megabanks,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450
million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.
“Takefuji’s financial problems differentiate it from rivals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 