-- Hallenstein Glasson's Full-Year Profit Increases 53% as Margins Improve
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-09-26T20:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/hallenstein-glasson-s-full-year-profit-increases-53-as-margins-improve.html
Hallenstein Glasson Holdings Ltd. ,
a New Zealand-based clothing retailer, said full-year profit
rose 53 percent as margins improved and in the absence of price
cuts to clear stock.  Net income increased to NZ$19.6 million ($14 million) in the
year ended Aug. 1 from NZ$12.8 million a year earlier, the
Auckland-based company said in a statement. Sales rose 4.5
percent. The profit included a one-time NZ$852,000 charge for
changes to tax provisions.  Hallenstein  shares  have gained 13 percent the past three
months after the company said margins were improving because it
had expanded its product range and it was being less aggressive
with its discounting. A stronger New Zealand dollar reduced the
cost of purchasing stock from overseas, it said today.  “Whilst the strength of the New Zealand dollar has
undoubtedly been an important factor in achieving improved
margin, we cannot overlook the impact of better buying,”
Chairman  Warren Bell  said in the statement. “Real gains in
margins have been achieved as a direct result of delivering to
the market a more acceptable product offering.”  Pre-tax profit surged 60 percent to NZ$29.2 million,
bettering the NZ$28.8 million maximum forecast on Aug. 6.  The company’s Australian stores returned a pretax profit
following a loss a year earlier, it said.  Still, the momentum achieved over the past year will be
extremely difficult to maintain because the retail environment
remains challenging “and we do not see any significant
improvement in the near term,” Bell said.  Sales in the seven weeks since Aug. 1 are 5 percent higher
than the year-earlier period, the company said, adding that it’s
too early to predict first-half earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  