-- Manchester Utd. Fails to Punish Chelsea Slip Up by Tying Bolton
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-10-03T23:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/manchester-united-bolton-tie-2-2-in-english-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Chelsea assistant manager  Ray Wilkins 
said his team showed “great determination and mettle” as it
beat Arsenal 2-0 yesterday to extend its lead to four points in
English soccer’s Premier League.  Liverpool is in the relegation zone after a 2-1 home defeat
to Blackpool, and Manchester City beat Newcastle 2-1 to go
second.  Didier Drogba  and defender Alex scored for defending
champion Chelsea, which has 18 points after six wins from seven
games. City moved up to second on 14 points and Manchester
United has 13, with Arsenal, Tottenham and West Brom on 11.  “Arsenal play some wonderful football and they are one of
the teams that scare me, they can take the ball off us and not
give us it back,” Wilkins told reporters. “That worries me a
touch but today we showed great determination and mettle. They
had a couple of chances in the first minute so we were a little
worried.”  Chelsea’s preparations for the game had been upset by the
death of coach  Carlo Ancelotti ’s father. That made it an
“extremely difficult” week, Wilkins said.  “We didn’t play the type of football we like to, but
sometimes you have to fight and scrap and I think we have the
quality to do so,” Wilkins added.  Arsenal almost went ahead in the opening minutes at
Stamford Bridge, Marouane Chamakh and Laurent Koscielny both
going close with headers.  Andrey Arshavin  also had scoring
chances saved by  Petr Cech .  Missed Target  Koscielny “should have at least hit the target,” said
Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger , who described his players as having
had a “‘good collective team performance” in a second straight
league defeat.  Drogba opened the scoring in the 39th minute, sweeping the
ball in from  Ashley Cole ’s cross. It was his 13th goal against
Arsenal in 11 starts.  “Didier’s record against Arsenal is phenomenal but he
scores against all of them, not just the Arsenal,” Wilkins
said. “But he did score a very good goal again. That type of
backheel is what Didier is all about.”  Nicolas Anelka  should have made it 2-0 on the hour after a
defensive lapse but shot wide after taking the ball around
goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski.  The Gunners responded, controlling most of the second half
possession without finding a way through. Chamakh headed just
wide after 80 minutes in one of the visitors’ best chances.  Five minutes from the end, Alex blasted a right-foot free
kick past Fabianski from outside the penalty area. Then  Michael Essien ’s close-range effort was saved by the keeper.  Blackpool Wins  At Anfield, Blackpool led 2-0 at halftime with a penalty
kick by Charlie Adam and a goal by Luke Varney.  Sotirios Kyrgiakos  got one goal back for the hosts, who are 18th of 20
teams, with six points from seven games. Wolves and bottom club
West Ham have five points. Three teams are demoted at the end of
the season.  Reds striker  Fernando Torres  went off in the 10th minute
with a suspected groin injury. Blackpool is ninth with 10
points.  At Manchester City,  Carlos Tevez  gave the home team an
18th-minute lead, converting a penalty kick after being fouled
by Mike Williamson.  Jonas Gutierrez  made it 1-1 six minutes
later with a powerful volley, and a low shot by substitute Adam
Johnson gave the home side victory 15 minutes from the end.  Newcastle forward  Hatem Ben Arfa  was stretchered off with a
suspected broken leg in the opening minutes after a tackle by
 Nigel de Jong . The Magpies are 15th place on seven points.  Two days ago, Manchester United drew 0-0 at Sunderland,
Tottenham beat Aston Villa 2-1, Wigan defeated Wolves 2-0, and
Everton got its first victory of the season, 2-0 at Birmingham.
Stoke defeated Blackburn 1-0 and there were 1-1 draws between
West Brom and Bolton, and West Ham and Fulham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 