-- Manufacturing Probably Cooled This Month: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-09-26T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/manufacturing-probably-cooled-and-spending-stabilized-bolstering-fed-view.html
Manufacturing probably cooled in
September and consumer spending stabilized last month,
underscoring the Federal Reserve’s forecast of “modest” U.S.
growth in coming months, economists said before reports this
week.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  fell to
54.5 from 56.3 in August, according to the median of 63
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey ahead of the Oct. 1 report.
Household purchases rose 0.4 percent last month, the same as in
July, Commerce Department figures may show.  Companies such as  Cisco Systems Inc . are seeing a “bumpy”
recovery that will limit gains in business investment and
hiring, restraining the manufacturing rebound that helped the
U.S. recover from the worst recession since the 1930s. A  jobless
rate  hovering close to 10 percent is shaking consumer confidence
and shackling spending, the biggest part of the economy.  “The manufacturing sector is still reasonably healthy, but
it’s certainly decelerated,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.
“We need to see a pickup in hiring to drive faster income
growth and lead to acceleration in consumer spending,” or else
“we’re doomed to this sub-par growth.”  A reading above 50 signals growth for the Tempe, Arizona-
based ISM’s gauge. The index averaged 53.2 during the expansion
that ended in December 2007.  Fed’s View  “The pace of economic recovery is likely to be modest in
the near term,”  Fed  policy makers said last week after their
latest meeting. The central bank announced it was willing to
take additional steps to maintain the recovery and prevent
inflation from slowing further if needed.  Cisco Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said last week
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With
Margaret Brennan” that economic conditions appeared “a little
bit bumpy.”  The San Jose, California-based company “saw the market
returning to more normal growth rates,” he said. Most chief
executives Cisco talks to are projecting U.S. growth of 2
percent or less, he said, “and that means they’ll probably
spend appropriately and also hire appropriately.”  Even so, Chambers added, “Asia’s still going strong and
Europe is holding up remarkably well.” Cisco is the world’s
largest maker of networking equipment.  Manufacturers Outperform  Manufacturing shares are outperforming the broader market.
The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Machinery Index , which
includes companies like Caterpillar Inc. and Moline, Illinois-
based Deere & Co. is up 24 percent so far this year. The broader
 S&P 500 Index  is up 3 percent.  The Commerce Department’s Oct. 1 spending report will also
show  personal income  rose 0.3 percent in August after a 0.2
percent gain the prior month, according to economists surveyed.  With unemployment forecast to hover at 9.6 percent in the
second half, housing prices declining and credit contracting,
consumer spending will probably be slow to strengthen.  The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer  confidence
index  fell to 52.3 in September from 53.5 a month earlier,
according to economists surveyed before the Sept. 28 report.
That’s even lower than the 53.7 average during the recession
that ended in June 2009.  The Reuters/University of Michigan  sentiment gauge , due
Oct. 1, fell to 67 this month from 68.9 at the end of August,
the survey showed.  Home Values Fall  Home prices dropped as the effects of a government tax
credit abated.  The S&P/Case Shiller  20-city home price index
fell 0.1 percent in July, the first decline in four months,
according to the survey median ahead of a Sept. 28 report. In
the 12 months ended July, home values probably rose 3.1 percent,
down from a 4.2 percent gain in the year ended June.  Another report from the Commerce Department on Oct. 1 may
show construction spending fell 0.4 percent in August after a 1
percent decline the prior month, economists forecast.  On Sept. 30,  jobless claims  will continue to reflect a
labor market that is slow to improve. The number of applications
for unemployment benefits probably fell to 460,000 last week
from 465,000 a week earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed before the Labor Department’s report.  Lastly, the government’s report on second-quarter gross
domestic product, due the same day, may show the world’s largest
economy expanded at a 1.6 percent annual rate, unchanged from
the prior estimate, according to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  