-- Australian Dollar Trades Near Two-Year High on Increased Risk Appetite
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-09-27T16:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/australian-dollar-appreciates-to-two-year-high-on-increased-risk-appetite.html
The Australian dollar touched its
strongest level in more than two years against the greenback as
speculation the Federal Reserve will expand stimulus measures
boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie, as the currency is nicknamed, was the best
performer this quarter among its 16 most-traded counterparts
versus the U.S. currency as swaps  indicate  a 66 percent chance
the central bank will increase interest rates next week. New
Zealand’s dollar headed for a monthly gain as speculators
increased  wagers  to the most this year that the currency will
strengthen.  “It’s still a risk-on story that you’re looking for, and
any data that signals the world is doing better will help propel
the Aussie higher,” said  Tony Allen , head of currency trading
in Wellington at ANZ National Bank Ltd., New Zealand’s biggest
lender. “A continuation of U.S. dollar weakness sentiment” is
likely, he said.  Australia’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to 96.25 U.S. cents at
11:59 a.m. in New York from 95.92 cents Sept. 24, after earlier
climbing to 96.34 cents, the strongest since July 2008. The
currency has gained 13 percent this quarter and 7 percent since
the start of the year. The Aussie bought 81.01 yen from 80.77
yen.  New Zealand’s dollar bought 73.48 cents from 73.40 cents,
set for a 5 percent gain in September. The so-called kiwi bought
61.86 yen from 61.82 yen.  Regional Shares  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and fellow policy makers
hinted last week they are willing to embark on another round of
so-called quantitative easing asset purchases to spur growth and
support prices.  “The positioning data point to larger U.S. dollar short
positions, with investors favoring the commodity currencies,”
Barclays Capital analysts including Singapore-based  David Forrester  wrote in a note to clients. “By historical standards,
only the Australian dollar positioning is approaching extreme
levels.”  Short positions are bets a currency will decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  