-- Banks Trade Below Liquidation Value With Smallest Gain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-09-27T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/banks-trade-below-liquidation-value-with-smallest-gain-in-rally.html
Two years after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., investors still aren’t willing to
pay more than liquidation value for banks in developed nations.  The  KBW Bank Index  trades at 95 percent of book value, a
level never seen before 2008, while stocks of lenders in  Europe 
and Japan are also lower than their assets minus liabilities.
Financial firms in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 6
percent this quarter before today, the worst of any industry and
about half the return for the gauge of American equity.  Bears say the combination of slowing economic growth, the
weak U.S. housing market and increasing regulation mean bank
profits will be limited and bad loans may increase. To Wells
Capital Management, DuPont Capital Management Corp. and Security
Global Investors, low  valuations , the fastest projected profit
growth of any industry in the S&P 500 and the first decline in
loss reserves since 2006 show banks are too enticing to ignore.  “I don’t know that trading results will be great, and I
don’t know that lending results will be great, but it’s not
going to matter because credit is improving fast enough that
banks are going to look good and their book value’s going to
grow,” said  Mark Bronzo , an Irvington, New York-based fund
manager at Security Global Investors, which oversees $21
billion. “The sector’s going to do well.”  Bank Slump  Declines averaging more than  50 percent  since 2007 have
left bank indexes below book value, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The KBW gauge closed last week with a multiple of 0.95,
less than half its average of 1.95 since 1993. Lenders in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index trade for 0.96 book value after averaging
1.59 since 2002 and the ratio for lenders in Japan’s  Topix Index 
is 0.66, the lowest since at least 1993, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The S&P 500 declined 0.6 percent to 1,142.16 at 4 p.m. in
New York today. The Stoxx 600 lost 0.4 percent while the Topix
climbed 1.3 percent.  Shares of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-biggest U.S.
bank by assets, are at 97 percent of book value and UniCredit
SpA, Italy’s largest financial company, trades for 57 percent,
compared with an average of 171 percent over the past 10 years.
New York-based JPMorgan closed at $39.75 last week, up from a
six-year low of $15.90 on March 9, 2009, while  UniCredit  in
Milan tripled to 1.89 euros over the period.  “Investors are still  scared  right now, scared that if you
go into a double-dip or deflation then maybe the credit quality
will worsen and that won’t be good for banks,” said  Rafi Zaman ,
who helps oversee about $22.5 billion as managing director of
global equities at DuPont Capital Management in Wilmington,
Delaware. “But if we’re going to a slow-growth recovery, which
is what our view is, then these banks should be a decent place
to be invested.”  Historic Valuations  Financial companies are trading at a discount to historic
valuations even as credit markets recover from the crisis that
helped spur $1.8 trillion of global bank losses. Defaults on
corporate bonds and loans in August decreased to a 20-month low
of 5.1 percent in the U.S. and an 18-month low of 4.8 percent in
Europe, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Companies have
issued $124.3 billion in corporate bonds in the U.S. this month,
poised to beat the high of $125.1 billion in September 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At the same time credit markets are improving, banks aren’t
lending. They pared commercial and industrial loans to $1.24
trillion in the week ended Sept. 8, 11.3 percent lower than a
year earlier, Federal Reserve data show.  Loan Provisions  Provisions for loan losses at American lenders fell 40.5
percent to $40.3 billion in the second quarter from a year
earlier, marking the first reduction in four years. Foreclosures
as a percentage of total loans fell last quarter after four
years of advances, according to data released by the Mortgage
Bankers Association on Aug. 26.  “The vast majority of them have worked through a lot of
their problems,” said  James Paulsen , chief investment
strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, which
manages $342 billion. “Charge-off rates are coming down,
delinquency rates are coming down. You look at the fundamentals
here, and they’re really very good.”  Most investors are avoiding banks. Money managers
overseeing a combined $579 billion listed them as the biggest
“underweight” among 11 industries in a Bank of America Corp.
survey last week. Financials were the only group deemed both
“undervalued” and rated “underweight” in the poll.  Slowing Recovery  The companies may remain cheap as economic reports suggest
a rebound from the first global recession since World War II is
faltering, according to  Thomas Haerter , who helps manage $58
billion at Swisscanto in Zurich.  The Fed said last week sluggish growth and the risk of
deflation may prompt further steps to ease monetary policy. U.S.
central bankers indicated they’re ready to expand their balance
sheet from $2.3 trillion by purchasing bonds, after reports on
home sales and jobs signaled the economy’s rate of growth is
decreasing. The Fed’s benchmark interest rate has been at a
record low of near zero since 2008.  U.S. rules limiting Wall Street firms’ proprietary trading
and hedge fund investments may mean banks have fewer tools to
boost profits. Regulators from 27 nations more than doubled
their capital requirements for banks on Sept. 12 as part of
international efforts to prevent future financial crises.  “The sector has capital problems, and it is ranked No. 1
in the hate list of politicians and the electorate,” said
Swisscanto’s Haerter. He’s “neutral” on banks though may
consider adding to the holdings because of the low  valuations .
“There are still huge risks out there.”  Housing Starts  Fewer  new U.S. homes  than forecast were sold in August,
signaling the housing market remains depressed even as mortgage
rates dropped, figures from the Commerce Department showed Sept.
24. Purchases were unchanged at a 288,000 annual pace, matching
July as the second-lowest in data going back to 1963.  “We can’t forget the housing market is still relatively
weak,” said  Howard Ward , fund manager at Gamco Investors Inc.,
which oversees $26 billion in Rye, New York. “If housing prices
start to go down again, that’s going to raise questions about
asset quality and capital sufficiency and the banks are going to
find themselves against a wall once again.”  Equity Turnover  U.S. investment banks may be having the worst quarter for
trading since the peak of the financial crisis. Equity investors
have traded a daily average of 14.2 billion shares in the third
quarter, according to Bloomberg data. That’s on track for the
lowest level since the April-to-June period in 2008, and 24
percent less than the year-earlier average, the data show.  The average daily dollar amount of U.S. Treasuries traded
since July 1 was down 6.4 percent from last quarter, according
to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  Analysts at Deutsche Bank AG including  Michael Carrier 
lowered their forecast for third-quarter earnings at New York-
based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Morgan Stanley  on Sept. 21,
citing “weak capital market trends.” The brokerage reiterated
a “buy” recommendation on both stocks, saying that “despite
the challenging quarter, we continue to believe the headwinds
are mostly priced into current valuations.”  Goldman Sachs , which closed last week at $147.28, trades
for 1.19 times book value after rallying 12 percent from its
2010 low of $131.08.  Morgan Stanley  fetches 0.85 times assets
minus liabilities, compared with an average of 2.10 since 1996,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock closed at
$25.15 last week, down 15 percent for the year.  JPMorgan  is below book value even with last year’s 86
percent surge in per-share profit. Analysts estimate earnings
will rise 42 percent this year and 28 percent in 2011,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares are trailing the S&P 500,
with a 4.6 percent loss so far in 2010, compared with the
index’s 3 percent increase.  UniCredit Valuation  UniCredit’s  stock has lost 15 percent in 2010, compared
with the Stoxx 600’s 4 percent gain. Profit for the bank is
forecast to double next year and climb another 36 percent in
2011, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter
earnings fell 81 percent as trading plunged and the company
recorded a writedown to goodwill.  Fifth Third Bancorp , Ohio’s largest lender by deposits,
boosted earnings after setting aside 69 percent less money for
future loan losses in the second quarter. The Cincinnati-based
company posted its first  profit  in a year last quarter, and
analysts estimate earnings will more than double this year, and
then triple in 2011. Fifth Third trades for 97 percent of book
value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “As we see continued improvement even at the margin, that
should help rebuild confidence and ultimately close the gap
between the price and the value,” said  Mary Chris Gay , a fund
manager at Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., which oversees $645
billion. “Groups that do lead the market are historically very
cheap at the low point of the cycle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 