-- Belgium Yields Rise More Than Ireland in Parliament Paralysis: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-09-27T18:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/belgium-yields-rise-more-than-ireland-in-parliament-paralysis-euro-credit.html
Belgium’s borrowing costs  relative
to those of Germany are rising at the fastest rate in the euro
area as a leadership vacuum undermines efforts to cut the
region’s third-biggest debt burden.  Investors demanded a yield premium of 90 basis points to
lend to Belgium rather than Germany for 10 years as of Sept. 24,
up 41 percent from 64 basis points on Sept. 3, when Socialist
Party leader  Elio Di Rupo  called off talks to form a government.
Spreads on Irish debt widened 21 percent in the same period to
413 basis points.  The debt crisis, which started a year ago in Greece, forced
the European Union to craft a $1 trillion aid package. Belgium’s
political failings have eroded investor perceptions of the
nation’s creditworthiness. Its bonds rose today as the
government sold 2.3 billion euros ($3.1 billion) of debt. The
rise in funding costs had outpaced that endured by so-called
euro peripherals of Greece, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Italy.  “Because of its debt level, Belgium becomes a quasi
peripheral,” said  Stuart Thomson , a fund manager at Glasgow-
based Ignis Asset Management, who helps oversee about $110
billion. “Belgium isn’t able to reduce its deficit through
fiscal austerity at the moment.”  Belgium’s debt was 97 percent of gross domestic product in
2009, compared with 64 percent in Ireland, 115 percent in
Greece, 53 percent in Spain, 77 percent in Portugal and 116
percent in Italy, according to EU data. Efforts to reduce
Belgium’s deficit have been hampered by a caretaker government
as Di Rupo fought since the June 13 election to become the
nation’s first native francophone prime minister since 1974.  ‘Reputation Risk’  “Belgium, from an economic point of view, is quite strong,
but you have the instability which could scare international
investors,” said  Koen Van De Maele , global head of fixed income
at Brussels-based Dexia Asset Management, which oversees about
83 billion euros. “We see reputation risk for Belgium, which
could temporarily weigh on Belgian bonds.”  Van De Maele said he’s “more cautious on Belgian bonds
than on the Netherlands,” which also currently has a caretaker
government. The yield premium for Belgian debt over the
neighboring nation’s bonds widened last week to 70 basis points,
the most since 1996.  Belgium’s debt is the third worst-performing globally this
month, handing investors losses of 2.28 percent, compared with a
3.88 percent decline in Irish securities and 4.81 percent in
Portuguese bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Bond Sales  Belgium sold securities today that mature in 2016, 2020 and
2041. The sale drew bids for 2.55 times the amount of 10-year
bonds sold, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.84 times at
the previous sale.  The country’s debt agency increased its target for
forthcoming bond sales by 3.25 billion euros to 37 billion euros
on Sept. 8. By contrast, Germany said Sept. 23 it planned to
reduce fourth-quarter sales of bonds and bills by 33 percent to
60 billion euros.  The Belgian government faces interest and principal
payments on bonds and loans of 17.6 billion euros in the fourth
quarter, and 62.4 billion euros next year, Bloomberg data show.  Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  has dismissed the
risk of political instability weakening the country’s fixed-
income market, citing recent budget data.  “Very positive” tax receipts, “low” interest charges on
Belgium’s debt and more than 700 million euros of government
income from rescued banks will drive bond investors more than
speculation about a breakup of Belgium, Reynders said in a Sept.
8 interview in Strasbourg, France.  “We’re starting the program of financing for 2011,” he
said today in an interview in Brussels. “We don’t have any
problem for the moment.”  Spreads, Ratings  At 90 basis points on Sept. 24, the yield premium investors
demand to hold Belgian 10-year bonds rather than similar-
maturity German securities was the most since June 29. The
spread narrowed 4 basis points today to 86 basis points as of
6:50 p.m. in London.  The spread for Irish 10-year bonds widened to a record 430
basis points, and Portugal’s yield premium also reached a record
at 420 basis points last week.  Belgian bonds are rated AA+ at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings and Aa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, the second highest
grade at each company. Irish debt is rated AA- at S&P and Fitch
and Aa2 at Moody’s. Portugal’s is A- at S&P, AA- at Fitch and A1
at Moody’s.  The euro has weakened by 5.9 percent against the dollar
this year to $1.3476 on concern the debt crisis may rupture the
common currency area. It may fall to $1.28 by the end of the
year, according to the median estimate of 40 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg at the end of last week.  Credit Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps linked to Belgian debt were 139 on
Sept. 24, approaching the record 158 basis points in February
2009, according to CMA prices. Swaps for Ireland were at 463 and
Portugal was at 390 basis points. Belgium’s benchmark Bel20
Index advanced 3.6 percent this year, compared with a 4 percent
gain for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Portuguese and Irish yields reached records relative to
benchmark bunds last week. Borrowing costs at debt auctions
climbed on concern banks may require additional government funds
as slower economic growth hinders austerity measures.  Ignis’s Thomson said his firm has a “maximum underweight”
position in Belgian bonds, meaning its funds own a smaller
percentage of the debt than the indexes against which they
measure their performance. The yield premium investors demand to
hold 10-year Belgian bonds rather than bunds may rise to 100
basis points to account for the nation’s risks, Thomson said.  Political Risks  The government’s plan is to cut the deficit to less than 3
percent of  GDP  by the end of 2012 and to balance the budget by
2015. The National Bank of Belgium estimates the deficit for
this year will be 5 percent.  Leaders of Belgium’s top Dutch- and French-speaking parties
agreed to create a taskforce to study ways to regionalize parts
of the national budget, keeping alive the prospect of restarting
government talks, Belga news wire reported on Sept. 20. Initial
findings from the group may be announced this week, Belga said.  Belgium was founded as a buffer state in 1830 through the
amalgamation of Dutch-speaking Flanders and francophone
Wallonia. Tensions between the two areas increased, with
Flanders gaining more authority in five constitutional overhauls
since 1970, as its growing wealth surpassed the older industries
based in Wallonia. The north-south tensions have seen four
governments fall since 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  