-- Bond Rating Prognosis Deteriorates With `Rehab' Recovery: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-09-27T16:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/bond-rating-prognosis-deteriorates-with-rehab-recovery-credit-markets.html
Ratings firms are lowering their
assessments of future U.S. corporate credit quality more often
than they are raising them for the first time since the
beginning of 2010 in a trend that may foreshadow losses for
bondholders enjoying the biggest quarterly rally in a year.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its outlook on 120 issuers
this quarter, while raising it for 40, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Standard & Poor’s reduced 76 companies
and lifted 51. In the three-month period ended in June, positive
predictions exceeded cuts at each ratings firm.  The reversal comes as reports show the economic recovery is
slowing and signals that the 4.6 percent gain in corporate bonds
this quarter, the most since they returned 9.58 percent in the
third quarter of 2009, may lose steam. Moody’s downgraded its
outlook on retailers to “stable” from “positive” on Sept.
22, saying the industry exhausted profit gains from slashing
costs and streamlining inventory.  “We’re not so much in recovery as rehab,” said  John Lonski , the chief economist of Moody’s Capital Markets Group in
New York. “There are some very large millstones hanging around
the neck of the American consumer.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold U.S. corporate
bonds rather than government debt has narrowed to 282 basis
points, or 2.82 percentage points, from 317 basis points on June
30, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate
& High Yield Master index.  Relative Yields  After the credit outlook in the first three months signaled
deterioration, relative yields widened from 252 basis points on
March 31, according to the index. The outlook on a credit rating
indicates the likely direction of a change in grade and takes
into account the economy and conditions specific to the company
and its industry.  Elsewhere in credit markets, relative yields on corporate
bonds from Asia to Europe and North America widened 1 basis
point on average since Sept. 17 to 172 basis points, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate index
shows. The world index narrowed from 181 basis points at the end
of August and 196 in June. Yields fell to 3.5 percent on
average, from 3.57 percent on Sept. 17.  Bonds in the index have returned 3.4 percent since June and
8.6 percent this year. That compares with the 5.7 percent
government bond return from Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus index, and a 3.32 percent
gain, including reinvested dividends, for the  MSCI World Index 
of stocks.  BP Swaps  BP Plc has regained its investment-grade status in the eyes
of credit investors, more than two months after containing a
leak that spewed an estimated 4.9 million barrels of crude in
the Gulf of Mexico.  Credit-default swaps protecting against losses on BP debt
for five years fell 3.4 basis points to 188.5 as of 11:17 a.m.
in New York, according to data provider CMA. The contracts have
declined from at least 631 basis points on June 16, CMA data
show.  The swaps are trading at levels implying the London-based
company is rated Baa3, the lowest step of investment grade,
Moody’s capital markets research group said today. BP credit
swaps fell to levels on Sept. 23 that imply the company is rated
investment grade by Moody’s, the first time its market-implied
ratings have been above speculative-grade since June.  Moody’s rates the company’s debt A2, four levels above the
implied rating, Bloomberg data show.  The explosion on board the Deepwater Horizon killed 11
workers on April 20. No oil has leaked from the well since July
15. The credit swaps traded at 42 basis points the day before
the rig explosion.  Markit CDX Index  A benchmark indicator of U.S. corporate credit risk rose
for the fourth time in five trading days. Credit-default swaps
on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.65 basis point to a
mid-price of 109.26 basis points as of 12:30 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The benchmark, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates, began a new series Sept. 20 at 108.4 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Credit Outlooks  S&P has cut 29 companies’ credit outlooks this month while
raising eight, Bloomberg data show. In August, the New York-
based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. reduced its forecast on 28
borrowers and boosted 21. That followed 19 cuts and 22 increases
in July.  Both Moody’s and S&P raised more outlooks than they cut in
the second quarter. Moody’s upgraded 64 issuers while cutting
38, and S&P lifted 91 and slashed 85. In the first quarter,
downgrades exceeded upgrades at both firms.  The economic recovery in the U.S. weakened last quarter
more than initially estimated, with growth at a 1.6 percent
annual pace as consumer spending declined and business
investment cooled. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
his fellow policy makers indicated Sept. 21 they may have to
implement additional measures, such as so-called quantitative
easing, to buoy the recovery.  Risk Compensation  Bondholders aren’t being compensated for the risk they’re
taking when they invest in the lowest-rated company debt, said
 James Kochan , chief fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Funds
Management, which oversees $175.6 billion of debt assets.  Bonds rated CCC or lower have gained 145 percent since
March 2009, when spreads on speculative-grade debt rose to 18.9
percentage points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. Spreads on debt rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than
BBB-by S&P have narrowed to 6.32 percentage points.  “The weakest of the high-yield market has rallied so
dramatically, and I think it’s appropriate to ask if investors
are being adequately compensated for the credit risk they’re
taking,” said Kochan, who’s based in Menomonee Falls,
Wisconsin. “You have to question some of the valuations now.”  S&P’s outlook is worsening even though the firm upgraded
ratings of more companies than it cut this quarter, Bloomberg
data show. S&P has raised 158 ratings and lowered 156 since June
30.  Moody’s  forecasts the U.S. speculative-grade default rate
will decline to 2.9 percent by December and 2 percent by next
August, the firm said in a Sept. 8 report. Ratings company
default forecasts are based on data including spreads, the
economy and historical non-payment rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  