-- Bright Food Is in Talks to Buy McVitie's Maker United Biscuits
-- B y   D i c k   S c h u m a c h e r   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2010-09-27T09:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/bright-food-says-it-s-in-discussions-about-buying-united-biscuits-in-u-k-.html
Bright Food Group Co. , Shanghai’s
biggest food and dairy company, is in discussions for a possible
acquisition of the U.K.’s United Biscuits from  Blackstone Group 
and PAI Partners.  The Sunday Times reported yesterday that Bright Food is in
exclusive talks to buy  United Biscuits , the maker of Jaffa Cake
and McVitie’s cookies, in a transaction that may be valued at 2
billion pounds ($3.2 billion).  “Bright Food is now in talks about buying United
Biscuits,” Chen Chunshan, a company spokesman in Shanghai, said
in a phone interview yesterday, declining to comment further.  The Chinese company is seeking acquisitions abroad as
Chairman  Wang Zong Nan  aims to build it into a leader in the
nation’s food industry. In July, Bright Food failed to buy CSR
Ltd.’s Australian sugar unit, beaten to the $1.5 billion
acquisition by Wilmar International Ltd. Its Bright Dairy & Food
Co. unit won regulatory approval yesterday from New Zealand to
buy a 51 percent stake in Synlait Milk Ltd., a processing
company converting more than 300 million liters of milk a year.  Bright Food affiliate  Bright Dairy & Food Co.   rose  5
percent to 10.13 yuan at the 3 p.m. close of trading on the
Shanghai stock exchange, the biggest increase since July 19. The
stock has  gained  6.3 percent this year compared with a 20
percent decline for the benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index .  Phone calls yesterday to United Biscuit’s head office in
Hayes outside London and its business center in Liverpool went
unanswered.  Deal Advisers  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman in New York, and Natasha
Baxter, a spokeswoman in London, didn’t immediately respond to
phone messages seeking comment from Bloomberg News. Blackstone
and Rothschild declined to comment, the Sunday Times said.  Blackstone and PAI in July hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to prepare an auction of United
Biscuits, and food companies including Campbell Soup Co. and
 Nestle SA  may be interested, the Sunday Times said, without
saying where it got the information. N.M. Rothschild & Sons Ltd.
was hired by Bright Food as an adviser, the newspaper said.  United Biscuits  was founded in 1948 after the merger of two
Scottish companies, McVitie & Price and MacFarlane Lang, and its
brands are sold in more than 100 countries. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 14 percent
last year to 223.24 million pounds on sales of 1.26 billion
pounds last year, according to its annual report.  Blackstone and PAI bought the company in 2006 for $3
billion.  Bright Food, established in August 2006, is partly owned by
the Shanghai Municipal Government and Shanghai DaSheng Holdings
Co. and has registered capital of 3.43 billion yuan ($512
million), according to information on its website.  Its businesses include farming and fisheries, food
processing, wholesaling, logistics and retailing as well as real
estate and taxi services.  Bright Dairy boosted this year’s first-half net income 35
percent from a year earlier to 61 million yuan, it said on Aug.
27.  Bright Food’s plan to buy control of Synlait deal still
needs approval from the Shanghai government, according to a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lars Paulsson  in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  