-- U.K. Financial Services Firms' Activity Rebounding, Survey Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-09-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/british-financial-services-transaction-growth-accelerates-cbi-survey-says.html
British financial services firms’
activity grew at the fastest rate since before the credit crisis
during the third quarter, according to a survey by the
 Confederation of British Industry .  Approximately 37 percent of those surveyed said the pace of
transactions increased in the banking, life insurance,
securities and investment management industries, according to
today’s report by the CBI and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. It
marked the fifth successive quarter of growth.  “Activity picked up in the financial services sector in
the last three months at a pace not seen since before the credit
crunch,” said  Ian McCafferty , CBI’s chief economic adviser.
“Although this growth was slower than hoped, it did help firms’
profitability to rise further.”  U.K. financial firms are recovering following writedowns
and losses.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, swung to a profit for the first time
since 2007 in August as it cut bad-loan provisions and
writedowns on credit market investments.  “There is ongoing concern that prospective regulation may
hold back business expansion in the coming year, but financial
services firms have become worried that weak levels of demand
will dampen growth prospects,” McCafferty said in the
statement.  At a meeting in Basel, Switzerland, this month, regulators
reached a compromise more than doubling capital requirements for
the world’s banks, while giving them as long as eight years to
comply. Germany had sought to give firms a decade to make the
transition, while the U.S., U.K. and Switzerland pushed for a
maximum of five years.  The CBI and PwC surveyed 90 banks, customer-owned lenders,
investment managers and securities firms between Aug. 18 and
Sept. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  