-- Chavez May Strengthen Grip on Venezuela Economy as Foes Gain Ground
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-09-27T18:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/chavez-foes-seek-electoral-gains-as-venezuela-recession-stirs-discontent.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
suffered his worst setback at the ballot box since taking office
in 1999, losing his two-thirds majority in congress as support
for his rule wanes before 2012 presidential election.  Opposition candidates, who boycotted the 2005 congressional
race, secured 52 percent of the popular vote in yesterday’s
legislative election, giving them enough seats to force Chavez
to negotiate on key decisions, said  Ramon Guillermo Aveledo ,
head of the  Democratic Unity Table  alliance.  Chavez said his party won 98 of 165 seats, giving his
allies an “ample majority,” in comments sent via the Twitter
social networking site. The National Electoral Council said
Chavez’s United Socialist Party of Venezuela, or PSUV, won at
least 90 seats at 2 a.m. today. Election officials didn’t
provide a tally of the overall vote or the final seat count.  Chavez’s party, while securing a majority in the  National
Assembly  after redrawing electoral districts, fell short of the
110-seat threshold needed to be given decree powers, approve the
national budget and pass new laws single-handedly. Opposition
candidates won 61 seats and non-aligned indigenous candidates
won 3 seats, according to the council.  “This is a tremendous defeat of the Bolivarian project,”
said Friedrich Welsch, a political analyst at the Simon Bolivar
University in Caracas. “Chavez built his campaign on a vote of
confidence in his socialist project and the majority of the
people gave their votes to forces opposed to it.”  Biggest Bond Gain  Venezuela’s bonds posted the biggest gain in emerging
markets today. The extra yield investors demand to own
Venezuelan bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 32 basis
points, or 0.32 percentage point, to 11.44 percent at 1:12 p.m.
New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.
The broader EMBI+ index rose 2 basis points to 2.84 percent.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar
bond due 2027 fell 60 basis points to 13.34 percent, according
to JPMorgan. That’s its biggest decline since June 10. The
bond’s price jumped 3 cents on the dollar to 72.75 cents.  The results are “positive” and “potentially limit
Chavez’s ability to push through unfriendly market policies,”
Eduardo Suarez, an emerging-markets strategist at RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto, wrote in a report today.  Electoral Goals  Opposition candidates, whose boycott in 2005 on concerns of
possible fraud handed Chavez near-absolute control of the
congress, took advantage of voter discontent with rising crime
and 30 percent  inflation  to make gains. Venezuelans are
increasingly dissatisfied with the government’s management of
the economy, now in its second year of recession, analysts said.  Chavez may seek to undermine the new assembly before it
takes office in January, Bank of America Corp. said in a  report 
today.  “Looking toward the 2012 presidential election, the
opposition has a greater argument that Chavez is out of touch
with the country and Chavez will need to focus on gaining
broader support,” the report said.  Aristobulo Isturiz , the campaign manager for Chavez’s
 United Socialist Party of Venezuela , said the government party
didn’t reach its electoral goals.  “We were aiming for 110 deputies, which was not reached by
any political party,” Isturiz told supporters waving red flags
outside the presidential palace.  Chavez on Twitter  Chavez called yesterday’s results a victory for his
Bolivarian socialist revolution.  “We’ve obtained a solid victory, sufficient to continue
deepening Bolivarian and democratic socialism,” he said in a
message on his  Twitter  account. “We must continue strengthening
the revolution. Another victory for the people.”  In 2007, Chavez suffered his only electoral defeat since
taking office when voters rejected by 50.7 percent to 49.3
percent a referendum to change 69 articles of the constitution.  “The popular victory is likely to reenergize the ranks of
the opposition and perhaps consolidate the unity we have seen in
this election,”  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in New York, wrote in a report today. He said Chavez
might boost spending and take steps to undermine key opposition
figures to win a third six-year term in 2012.  Gerrymandering  Chavez retained control of the National Assembly after
redrawing electoral districts last year to favor rural areas
where he’s more popular, analysts said.  The changes mean that 20,000 people in pro-Chavez Amazonas
state elected a single lawmaker, giving them the same
representation as 350,000 people in the opposition-controlled
capital of Caracas.  More than 66 percent of Venezuela’s 17 million registered
voters cast ballots. That compares with 61 percent in 2007 and
70 percent in another referendum to lift presidential term
limits in 2009.  Venezuela’s  flailing economy , the fastest inflation rate
among 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg and sporadic blackouts
from underinvestment in the nation’s power grid have caused
Chavez’s approval ratings to fall below 50 percent this year.  A drop in foreign investment due to nationalizations and
reduced government income from lower oil prices caused the
economy to shrink 3.5 percent in the first half of 2010 while
the rest of South America rebounded from the global financial
crisis.  ‘Face of Fascism’  In a reflection of the country’s polarized political
climate, opposition supporters heckled Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  as he cast his vote in the capital. Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  was met by protesters banging pots and pans.  “Take your economic policies to Cuba!” a group of 15
Chavez opponents shouted to Giordani as he left the voting
center in Santa Monica, a middle-class neighborhood in Caracas.
Giordani called his opponents “the face of fascism.”  Also hurting the government’s approval rating are homicides
that have more than tripled since Chavez came to power to a
record 16,047 last year from 4,550 in 1998, according to the
 Venezuelan Observatory of Violence , a Caracas-based research
group.  Still, the 56-year-old former paratrooper remains revered
among many poor Venezuelans who benefit from free health clinics
and subsidized food markets. As oil rose to about $76 a barrel
Sept. 24 from about $12 when Chavez took power in 1999, poverty
has fallen by half to 24 percent in 2009, government data show.  “If we don’t continue, the opposition will take everything
away,” said Carmen Carmona, a 48-year-old social worker,
outside a polling station in the Caracas slum of Petare with a
group of red-shirted female supporters of Chavez.  Cheap Loans  The president traveled across the country during the
election campaign promising cheap loans for household appliances
and blaming the opposition for alleged sabotage that has led to
the blackouts and deteriorating public services.  The current congress has until Jan. 5 to pass measures
benefitting the government. Among the legislation it may
consider is a constitutional change giving greater power to
community councils beholden to Chavez, said  Luis Vicente Leon ,
director of the Datanalisis polling firm.  “We’re heading to a situation of further radicalization,”
Leon said in an interview before yesterday’s vote. “Chavez has
several elements at his disposal to ride out any result.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez-Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  