-- Chinese Real-Estate Bust Is Morphing Into a Slow Leak: Andy Xie
-- B y   A n d y   X i e
-- 2010-09-26T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/chinese-property-bust-is-morphing-into-a-slow-leak-commentary-by-andy-xie.html
It’s Shanghai  hairy-crab  season.  To cook them, you put them in a container with cold water.
They feel like they’re back in a lake and get comfortable. You
then cover it with a heavy top and light a fire below. You can
hear scratching sounds. They start faintly, then furiously, then
faintly again, then nothing. When it’s quiet for a few minutes,
you lift the top and see the crabs all golden brown. Dip them in
vinegar and ginger for a delicious meal.  China’s  property speculators  are like crabs in cold water
already. They feel good, kicking their legs once in a while.
They don’t see any danger. Little do they know the heavy top has
been lowered over their heads and a fire is lit below. They will
be cooked, but they just don’t know it yet.  In April, I told readers I would let them know when China’s
property bubble was about to burst. The market has now peaked.
It will trend down gradually for the rest of the year. When
expectations of a yuan revaluation reverse and capital outflows
ensue, probably in 2012, the market will deflate faster.  China has entered a property bear market that will last for
five years. The average prices in larger cities are likely to
decline by half or more. Land values will fall by much more. In
the biggest and craziest bubble in  Zhejiang Province , they may
drop 80 percent or more.  Incomes Versus Returns  Why so much? When a bubble deflates, the price must fall to
where incomes and returns can support each other. In the case of
China’s property market, it means rental yields -- now less than
3 percent -- must rise to 5 percent or more, and the price per
square meter should be no more than two months’ average salary.  In a bubble, calling the tipping point is an art. Animal
spirits, always the fuel in a bubble, are the last thing to
dissipate. Receding liquidity is usually the trigger for a
bubble to burst. Sometimes oversupply surpasses speculative
demand, which scares off speculators. Most bubbles burst in one
big pop. Some leak air bit by bit, day by day.  Hong Kong’s bubble burst in 1997 when the withdrawal of
foreign liquidity pushed up interest rates and sucked all the
oxygen out of the gambling room at once. The Internet bubble
 caused a crash  in 2000 when the lockups of big shareholders in
companies that made initial public offerings expired and the
looming supply woke up all the speculators. The U.S. property
bubble burst in 2007 as the teasers in the subprime mortgages
expired and speculators couldn’t cough up the required cash.  Gradual Deflation  Property bubbles can deflate over many years. Japan’s
expanded for two years after the  Nikkei-225  Stock Average
crashed in the 1990s. Instead of bursting, it fell about 8
percent every year for two decades. Taiwan’s paralleled Japan’s
and declined gradually until the China hype revived the market.  In 1998, China’s little-noticed property bubble burst, too.
Shanghai real-estate prices dropped by two-thirds over the
ensuing three years. Unfinished buildings dotted the landscape
in Guangdong and Hainan. More recently, Shanghai’s property
prices fell by a third from May 2005 to the end of 2006. Many
developments downtown fell by half.  I thought the current bubble, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion and expectations of a stronger yuan since the
beginning of 2007, would go the same way. Recent developments
have changed my mind. This bubble may not end suddenly, but with
a slow leak. Previously, I thought the government would relax
its credit-tightening policies in the fourth quarter, leading to
another surge in property prices. The bubble would pop with a
big bang in the second half of 2011 or in 2012.  Yuan Striptease  The government isn’t relaxing the credit restrictions on
second and third mortgages. As most potential buyers fall into
the restricted categories and depend on credit -- not everyone
has sacks of cash -- the market can’t go up another level to
release all the animal spirits.  In addition to credit policy, liquidity is tightening. The
yuan story has been sort of like a striptease show. After
waiting for years without seeing the real thing, the hedge funds
are fed up and don’t want to hang around anymore. Even though
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  is howling again about
China’s undervalued currency, the market isn’t paying much
attention. The yuan non-deliverable forward market isn’t
expecting significant appreciation for the next year.  That is having a big impact on hot money flow into China.
The competition for deposits is heating up. Banks are offering
products that are like deposits and with much higher interest
rates than the policy rates.  Economic Fallout?  As Chinese real-estate prices deflate slowly now, and
faster in 2012, the  economy  will hold up. Exports, consumption
and infrastructure should sustain a 7 percent to 8 percent
growth rate for the next decade. That seems low compared with
recent years, but it will be much better for lifting wages,
household living standards and corporate profits.  China has no home-equity loans for consumption. Those who
hold more than 20 million empty flats will become poorer or
bankrupt. The sales of Mercedes cars may shrink. But the middle
class will be able to consume more as they pay less to buy flats
from speculators.  To stop the property deflation from affecting other
investments, the government must recapitalize the banks quickly.
It has the balance sheet and the wisdom to do so. China has had
a strong property market and weak consumption for the past
decade. The reverse may be true for the next 10 years.  Like crabs in cold water, property speculators are getting
cooked, but the smart ones still have time to escape the slow
hot-pot treatment.  ( Andy Xie  is an independent economist based in Shanghai and
was formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief economist for the Asia-
Pacific region. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Andy Xie  at  andyxie88@yahoo.com.hk   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  