-- China Tightens Food-Industry Standards After Melamine-Tainted Milk in 2008
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-26T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/china-tightens-food-industry-standards-after-melamine-tainted-milk-in-2008.html
China told national and local
authorities to improve the safety of milk products as it moves
to prevent incidents like the discovery of an industrial
chemical in dairy products in 2008.  Producers must meet a revised industry standard from the
end of October, China’s State Council, or Cabinet, said in a
statement on its  website  on Sept. 25. Any failure will result in
the suspension of the company’s operating license, it said.  China, the world’s third-largest milk producer, wants the
dairy industry to meet higher standards after melamine, used to
make plastics and tan leather, was found in infant milk powder
and other products two years ago. At least six babies died and
about 300,000 fell ill countrywide after consuming tainted goods.
The chemical was discovered in 22 companies’ products.  Some suppliers added the chemical to diluted milk to make
the protein content appear higher, the Chinese government said.
The chemical was first found in infant milk powder made by Sanlu
Group Co., and in products of  China Mengniu Dairy Co. , Inner
Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Co. and Bright Dairy & Food Co.  A registration system should be established to trace all
melamine in the market from wholesalers to retailers, in order
to prevent it from being used in dairy production, the General
Office of the State Council said.  Melamine Tests  Dairy enterprises should check for melamine in all products
before distributing them and other food companies should test
for the chemical in all milk products they buy and keep records
of the results, the council said in its statement.  Government agencies will strengthen supervision on dairy
product safety, and local governments should send officials, as
resident supervisors, to all dairy companies to enforce the
safety regulations, it said.  The government will increase inspections of infant-formula
production plants and will shut down those that are unable to
meet the sanitary requirements, according to the statement.  The State Council also called for a crackdown on illegal
dairy production.  On Sept. 21, Chinese police arrested six people and
detained 41 in connection with the distribution of melamine-
tainted milk powder, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported.  -- Feiwen Rong . Editors:  Paul Tighe ,  Stanley James   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  