-- China to Levy Anti-Dumping Duty on U.S. Poultry, Ministry of Commerce Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-26T04:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/china-to-levy-anti-dumping-duty-on-u-s-poultry-ministry-of-commerce-says.html
China  will impose an anti-dumping
duty as high as 105.4 percent on U.S. broiler chicken products,
effective tomorrow, the Ministry of Commerce said today.  China found that the U.S. industry dumped such products on
the Chinese market, hurting domestic production, the ministry
said. The tax rate will be 50.3 percent to 53.4 percent for
those U.S. producers who  cooperated with the investigation  and
105.4 percent for those who didn’t, it said.  “The final ruling is that the there is a causal
relationship between the U.S. dumping of broiler products and
the losses suffered by the Chinese industry,” the ministry said
in Beijing.  China said in April an initial investigation showed the U.S.
provides subsidized soybeans and corn to its poultry industry,
hurting Chinese producers. On Aug. 31, the government imposed
five-year punitive anti-subsidy tariffs after upholding a
finding that the U.S. broiler chicken products were subsidized.  Imports by  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp.  will incur a 53.4 percent
anti-dumping duty and imports by  Tyson Foods Inc.  50.3 percent,
according to the ministry.  The anti-dumping investigation has been completed, the
ministry said in its statement today.  Prices of broiler products in China were below cost of
production for a long time, suppressing domestic producers’
profit margin, a direct result of large volume of cheap imports,
it said.  China consumed almost 800,000 metric tons of U.S. chicken
products in 2008, valued at $722 million, according to the USA
Poultry & Egg Export Council.  China buys from the U.S. mainly chicken parts that are
considered offal in western countries, a trade that creates
additional value for U.S. producers,  Li Qiang , managing director
at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. said on Aug. 31.  -- Feiwen Rong . Editors:  Paul Tighe , Jim McDonald  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Feiwen Rong in
Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or  frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  