-- China's Charm Blitz in `Shambles' Over Regional Spats
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-27T08:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/china-s-asian-charm-offensive-in-shambles-over-disputes-with-neighbors.html
China may be undermining its effort
to build strong ties with its neighbors and draw them away from
the U.S. orbit as it seeks to impose its will in territorial
disputes with Japan and Southeast Asian nations.  Relations between Asia’s two biggest economies deteriorated
to the lowest point in five years during the 17-day detention of
a Chinese fishing boat captain before Japanese authorities last
week decided to release him. China opposed U.S.-South Korea
military exercises aimed at deterring North Korea, and dismissed
regional efforts to mediate maritime territorial claims.  Those positions reflect a more assertive diplomatic role in
Asia over the past decade as China developed into Asia’s biggest
economy. China set up a regional forum, flooded Malaysia and
Thailand with tourists, boosted economic aid to countries
including the Philippines and participated in  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations  security dialogues.  “China has tried to establish an image in the region as a
nice guy, but all of this could be in a shambles right now,”
said  Huang Jing , a visiting professor at the National University
of Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. “The real
issue here is whether Beijing cares.”  China’s stance may benefit U.S.-Japan relations strained by
a dispute over relocating American troops.  Obama-Kan Meeting  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and President  Barack Obama  in New York met Sept. 23 on the sidelines of the  United
Nations General Assembly , and “reaffirmed their commitment to
strengthening the U.S.-Japan alliance,” according to a White
House  statement .  Kan in June succeeded  Yukio Hatoyama , who made improving
Chinese ties key to his administration and said in December that
“Japan-China relations are developing in a strategically
beneficial way.” Hatoyama resigned in June after signing an
 agreement  with the U.S. to keep a Marine base in Okinawa over
the objections of local residents and members of his government.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  refused to see Kan in New York.
The boat captain was arrested Sept. 7 near islands in the East
China Sea -- known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese
-- claimed by both countries close to natural gas fields. China
and Japan signed an agreement in 2008 that has yet to be
implemented to jointly develop the fields.  The captain’s release came hours after Japan said four of
its citizens were being held in China for allegedly videotaping
military targets. Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said
the government didn’t think it was related to the dispute.  ‘No Intention Whatsoever’  China over the weekend demanded an apology and compensation
for the seizure of the trawler and crew, which Japan rejected.
The Japanese government today said China should pay for repairs
for the two damaged Coast Guard boats.  “We will demand that the ships be returned to their
original condition,” Sengoku said today. “The ball’s in
China’s court” to improve ties.  Sengoku last week couldn’t confirm reports that China has
cut off Japan-bound exports of rare earth metals, which are used
in hybrid vehicles and laptop computers as well as night-vision
goggles and naval radar. A Chinese official denied the reports.  “China is testing Japan as domestic politics have been
unstable and Japan-U.S. ties shaky,” said  Koji Murata ,
professor of international relations at Doshisha University in
Kyoto. The dispute with China “provides an opportunity for the
Japanese to be reminded of the importance of U.S. relations.”  Opposition Criticism  The decision by prosecutors to release the captain, citing
Japan-China ties as a contributing factor, drew criticism from
ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  lawmakers as well as opposition
politicians. A group of 73 DPJ legislators issued a statement
calling the prosecutors’ judgment “extremely regrettable.”  Nobuteru Ishihara , secretary-general of the opposition
Liberal Democratic Party, yesterday on NHK Television called the
release “totally unacceptable.” He said he would summon
officials to testify in parliament.  The U.S. is also rebuilding ties with Asean. Heads of many
of its member states, including Vietnam, the Philippines and
Malaysia, met Obama on Sept. 24. Obama told the group that the
U.S. has an “enormous stake” in the region and will play a
leadership role. The leaders issued a statement calling for the
peaceful settlement of maritime and other regional disputes.  Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  told reporters Sept.
21 that “China enjoys indisputable sovereign rights over the
South China Sea islands and adjacent waters” and opposes the
U.S. discussing such conflicts with Asean.  Vietnam-China Dispute  Vietnam, whose president  Nguyen Minh Triet  co-chaired the
meeting with Obama, disagrees and is selling rights to oil and
gas fields that conflict with China’s claims. China arrests
Vietnamese fishermen caught in disputed waters.  Meanwhile, South Korea and the U.S. are planning naval
exercises in the Yellow Sea aimed at deterring North Korea,
which an international probe found had torpedoed and sank a
South Korean patrol boat in March. China has not accepted those
findings and North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  visited China twice
this year, both times meeting with President  Hu Jintao .  China is opposed to the exercises, and Chinese general  Luo Yuan  in August said that the government could retaliate through
its holdings of $846.7 billion in U.S. Treasury securities.
China is the biggest foreign holder of U.S. government debt.  China’s reaction to the captain’s detention included
canceling youth visits, a protest outside of Japan’s embassy in
Beijing and at least six summons of the Japanese ambassador.
Huang said the response reflects the need to look tough on
territorial issues amid jockeying for power ahead of 2012
leadership changes, when Hu and Wen are set to step down from
their Communist Party posts.  “This will hurt China,” said  Robert Dujarric , director of
the Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at Temple
University’s Tokyo campus.  “The reaction makes it seem to be
coming from a petty, third-world country.”  -- Michael Forsythe . With assistance from  Sachiko Sakamaki  and
 John Brinsley  in Tokyo. Editors:  John Brinsley ,  Brian Fowler   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  