-- German Stocks Retreat; Merck KGaA, Siemens, MAN SE Decline
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-09-27T16:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/deutsche-telekom-prosiebensat-1-media-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated, with the
benchmark DAX Index paring last week’s advance, as Merck KGaA
and Siemens AG declined.  Merck  fell 1.4 percent as Morgan Stanley said it expects
the drugmaker’s multiple sclerosis drug to face growth troubles.
Siemens lost 1.8 percent.  MAN SE  slipped as the truckmaker was
downgraded at Equinet AG.  Beiersdorf AG  gained 1 percent.  The benchmark  DAX Index  lost 0.3 percent to 6,278.89 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, having risen 5.3 percent so far
this quarter. The measure has rallied 16 percent from its low
this year on Feb. 5 as investors speculated that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis won’t choke off the recovery. The broader
 HDAX Index  also slipped 0.3 percent today.  New York University Professor  Nouriel Roubini  said there’s
a high probability of another U.S. recession. He also said that
Japan’s economic outlook is “anemic.”  China may face greater headwinds if the U.S. and European
economies weaken, Roubini said in Kuala Lumpur today, where he
is attending a conference. The U.S. will probably revise down
its second-quarter gross domestic product figures after
“awful” June real-estate numbers, Roubini added.  Merck, Siemens Fall  Merck  fell 1.4 percent to 62.10 euros. The drugmaker
extended a 10 percent drop on Sept. 24 after the European
Medicines Agency rejected Merck’s application to approve its
Cladribine multiple-sclerosis pill, saying the benefits failed
to outweigh the risks.  “We believe the company’s two-year double-digit growth
target in its MS franchise will almost certainly not be
achieved,” Morgan Stanley analyst  Andrew Baum  wrote in a note
to clients today. “We see downside to both consensus sales and
earnings.”  Siemens , Europe’s biggest engineering company, declined 1.8
percent to 77.84 euros. Profit at the health-care unit will
probably be “slightly less” than the 483 million euros
($650.79 million) reported a year ago, Siemens said. That
outlook excludes the 1.4 billion-euro impairment charge that
Siemens said it would take at its diagnostics health-care
division because of lower growth rates at the unit.  MAN  dropped 1.2 percent to 79.93 euros, paring the shares’
6.2 percent jump on Sept. 24. Europe’s third-largest truckmaker
was cut to “accumulate” from “buy” at Equinet.  Beiersdorf , the maker of Nivea handcream, gained 1 percent
to 42.92 euros. UBS AG said it expects further mergers and
acquisitions between global staples companies, following
Unilever’s decision to buy Alberto Culver Co.  Wirecard AG  jumped 2.8 percent to 9.97 euros as the maker
of electronic payment and risk management software was rated
“overweight” in new coverage at Barclays Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 