-- Dollar Trades Near Five-Month Low on Concern Fed Will Ease Policy Further
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-09-27T00:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/dollar-trades-near-five-month-low-on-concern-fed-will-ease-policy-further.html
The dollar traded near a five-month
low versus the euro on speculation the Federal Reserve will ease
monetary policy further amid signs the U.S. recovery is slowing.  The Dollar Index was near an eight-month low before U.S.
reports forecast to show declines in economic activity and
consumer confidence. The euro traded near an eight-week high
against the yen before a German report tomorrow that may show
sentiment rose for a fourth month.  “There’s ongoing speculation that we will see further
quantitative easing from the Fed,” said  Mike Jones , a currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “We will
see the U.S. dollar remain on the back foot.”  The dollar was at $1.3476 per euro as of 9:32 a.m. in Tokyo
from $1.3492 on Sept. 24. The dollar earlier touched $1.3495 per
euro, matching the lowest level since April 20. The greenback
traded at 84.35 yen from 84.21 yen. It reached 84.12 yen on
Sept. 24, the lowest since Sept. 15. The European currency was
at 113.67 yen from 113.62 yen on Sept. 24, after earlier rising
to 113.97, the highest level since Aug. 3.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, was at 79.34 after touching 79.26, the
lowest since Feb. 3.  U.S. Outlook  The U.S. national activity index declined to minus 0.5 in
August from zero in July, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the Fed Bank of
Chicago releases the data today. A reading below zero indicates
below-trend-growth in the economy.  The Conference Board’s U.S. consumer confidence index fell
to 52.3 this month from 53.5 in August, according another survey
before the New York-based research group’s data tomorrow.  The Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement last
week it "will continue to monitor the economic outlook and
financial developments and is prepared to provide additional
accommodation if needed to support the economic recovery."  The euro headed for a 6.5 percent gain this month against
the yen. A German  consumer sentiment index  will rise to 4.2 in
October from 4.1 in September, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists before GfK AG’s report tomorrow. That would
follow an  Ifo  institute report last week that its German
business-climate index climbed to a two-year high in August.  ‘Doing Better’  “Europe’s economy appears to be doing better,” said Yuji
Saito, director of the foreign-exchange department at Credit
Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in Tokyo. “The bias is
for the euro to be bought.”  Futures traders reversed bets that the euro will decline
against the dollar, the first time since December 2009 that
there are long positions in the shared currency, data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed on Sept. 24.  The  difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 5,097 on Sept. 21
compared with net shorts of 9,644 a week earlier. A long
position is a bet that an asset’s price will increase.  Japan’s exports grew at the slowest pace this year amid a
decrease in global demand and an advance in the yen, Ministry of
Finance data showed today. Overseas shipments increased 15.8
percent in August from a year earlier, compared with the median
economist estimate of 19 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 