-- Dubai Ruler Says `We Are Back' After Debt Accord
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-09-27T10:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/dubai-ruler-says-we-are-back-as-debt-woes-ease-on-restructuring-accord.html
Dubai ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum  said the emirate is recovering after state-
controlled holding company Dubai World reached a debt-
restructuring settlement with creditors.  “We are back. Of course we are back,” Sheikh Mohammed
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness
With  Margaret Brennan ” at the FEI World Equestrian Games in
Lexington, Kentucky, yesterday. “This is a challenge. Life
would be boring if there’s no challenge.”  Dubai World, one of three main holding companies controlled
by Sheikh Mohammed, said Sept. 10 that 99 percent of creditors
had agreed to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt after the
deepest global financial crisis since the 1930s led to a 50
percent drop in property prices in the emirate. Dubai amassed
$109 billion in debt to turn itself into a financial, logistics
and tourism hub, with about $15.5 billion due this year, the
International Monetary Fund estimates.  Dubai’s vision is unchanged after projects such as Meydan
LLC’s racecourse and Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest building
developed by  Emaar Properties PJSC,  were completed, Sheikh
Mohammed said. “All the projects that were there are going
ahead,” although some may be delayed for six months to a year,
he said.  “Life goes on,” said Sheikh Mohammed, who was taking part
in a 12-hour, 160-kilometer endurance race.  Resuming Work  Nakheel PJSC, developer of palm-tree shaped islands off
Dubai’s coast, said last week it will complete its debt-
restructuring by the end of this year and that it has resumed
construction work in its Al Furjan project with Al Shafar
Transport and Contracting Co.  Arabtec Holding Co.  earlier this
year stopped work on the 800 villa development because of unpaid
bills. About 4,000 homes were initially planned in the project.  Dubai’s  benchmark stock index  has gained 6.7 percent since
the Dubai World announcement, trimming its loss for the year to
5.8 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  has risen 5.2 percent
in the past two weeks. The two emirates are the two biggest of
the seven sheikhdoms that make up the United Arab Emirates.  The Dubai World and Nakheel announcements “are steps in
the right direction” and have helped improve investor
sentiment,  Ali Taqi , a portfolio manager at A/T Capital
Management in Dubai. “The completion of pending real-estate
projects is a sign of real-estate companies getting back on
track. On the other hand, these projects will create further
oversupply, thus the real-estate market could get worse before
it gets better.”  Property Glut  The emirate’s property prices are unlikely to recover any
time soon as 41,000 new homes are expected to be completed by
the end of this year, adding to a glut of homes, according to
Colliers International estimates in May. Builders in Dubai have
delayed or canceled developments worth about $330 billion,
Dubai-based market researcher Proleads estimates.  The Dubai government will seek to raise about $1 billion
from a bond sale this week, two bankers familiar with the plan
said Sept. 23. The bond sale will tap the market for the first
time since Dubai World’s debt restructuring.  In an attempt to spur the emirate’s economy, Dubai’s
government yesterday said it is allowing  Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC,  the U.A.E.’s largest Shariah-compliant bank, to purchase a
majority stake in  Tamweel PJSC  with the aim of reviving mortgage
lending. Frozen credit markets had blocked Tamweel’s and  Amlak
Finance PJSC’s  access to funds and forced what were once the two
biggest mortgage lenders in Dubai to stop lending. Dubai
borrowed about $20 billion last year from the U.A.E. government
and wealthier neighbor Abu Dhabi.  “When I talk, I talk about Dubai, but we have to talk
about the whole U.A.E. as a country,” Sheikh Mohammed said.
“We do things in Abu Dhabi, we do things in Dubai, we do things
in Sharjah. But the completion will be great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 