-- Dubai Islamic Becomes Biggest Shareholder in Tamweel
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-26T12:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/dubai-islamic-bank-to-raise-tamweel-stake-to-57-33-.html
Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC , the
biggest Shariah-compliant lender in the United Arab Emirates,
will become the largest shareholder in  Tamweel PJSC  as Dubai
seeks to restart mortgage lending after property prices slumped.  Dubai Islamic Bank received approval from the government to
increase its stake in the mortgage lender to 57.33 percent from
21 percent.  Tamweel’s  shareholders include Dubai World Group and
HSBC Holdings Plc, according to Bloomberg data.  “The move will give new momentum to the local mortgage
market which has entered a recovery phase,” the Dubai
government’s Media Office said today in an e-mailed statement.
It didn’t give financial terms for the transaction.  The deepest financial crisis since the 1930s sent Dubai
property prices down more than 50 percent from their peak in
August 2008 as mortgages dried up, according to estimates from
Colliers International. Dubai borrowed $109.3 billion as it
transformed itself into a financial-services and tourism hub,
and the International Monetary Fund estimates the emirate has
about $15.5 billion of debt due this year.  The U.A.E. government has been working on a plan to combine
Tamweel and Amlak Finance PJSC, the country’s two biggest
mortgage lenders, after the credit crisis blocked their access
to the debt market. Tamweel had net income of 5.4 million
dirhams ($1.5 million) in the three months to June 30 after a
loss of 35 million dirhams a year ago.  Amlak’s  quarterly loss
narrowed to 597,000 dirhams from 65.6 million dirhams.  “The impact on the real estate market will be very
limited,”  Ahmed Badr , a Dubai-based analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said today on Dubai Islamic Bank increasing the stake
in Tamweel. “We have an oversupplied market and financing is one
of the problems but it’s not the only problem.”  Dubai Islamic Bank  shares rose 0.9 percent to close at 2.32
dirhams today before the announcement, valuing the lender at 8.8
billion dirhams. Tamweel and Amlak shares have been suspended
from trading since 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 