-- Dubai Stocks Advance to Four-Month High on Bond Sale Plans, Global Growth
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-09-26T13:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/dubai-stocks-rise-to-4-month-high-on-global-growth-prosepects-oil-climbs.html
Dubai shares rose to the highest in
four months, leading a Middle East rally, after the emirate’s
government was said to be planning a $1 billion bond sale and as
global markets advanced, boosting investor confidence.  Emaar Properties PJSC,  the developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, increased 2.7 percent and  Dubai Financial Market, 
the only Gulf Arab stock market to sell shares to the public,
advanced the most in almost two weeks. The  DFM General Index 
gained 1.6 percent to 1,716.83, the highest level since May 13.
Egypt’s  EGX 30 Index  rose 0.3 percent.  The bond is positive for the market as “there will be
direction on the new pricing of risk in Dubai,” said  Yazan Abdeen , a fund manager with ING Middle East, which oversees $90
million in Middle East North Africa assets. “Companies,
especially banks, will benefit from that liquidity, plus it will
be an ice breaker for further issuances.” Gains in global
shares also helped push up local stocks, Abdeen said.  Dubai’s government plans to raise about $1 billion from a
bond sale this week, two bankers familiar with the plan said
Sept. 23. The bond would tap the market for the first time since
state-owned Dubai World’s $24.9 billion debt restructuring.  
HSBC Holdings Plc ,  Deutsche Bank AG  and  Standard Chartered Plc 
were hired to manage the sale of five- to seven-year bond, the
bankers said, declining to be identified because the plan hasn’t
been made public. The deal is likely to be completed tomorrow,
one of the bankers said. A Dubai government spokeswoman declined
to comment when contacted by Bloomberg today.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 2.1 percent last
week after a government report showed orders for durable goods
excluding transportation equipment advanced in August at twice
the pace forecast by economists. Shares in Europe rose as German
business confidence unexpectedly increased to the highest level
in more than three years in September.  Crude oil soared 1.7 percent on Sept. 24 to $76.49 a barrel
as the dollar fell against the euro, boosting the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment. The six nations of the
Gulf Cooperation Council supply about a fifth of the world’s
oil.  Emerging Market Funds  Emerging-market stock funds drew the most inflows in seven
weeks and commodity funds posted the best week since early June
amid speculation central banks globally will provide additional
stimulus, research company EPFR Global said Sept. 24. Stocks
have rallied this month after central bankers from Japan to the
U.K. indicated that further stimulus may be in store. The U.S.
Federal Reserve also said slowing inflation and sluggish growth
may prompt more action.  Emaar, which has the heaviest weighting in Dubai’s index,
climbed to 3.87 dirhams, the highest since May 10. Dubai
Financial Market rose 4 percent to 1.82 dirhams.  Arabtec Holding
Co.,  the U.A.E.’s biggest construction company, soared 6.3
percent to 2.02 dirhams, the highest since June 2.  Qatar’s  QE Index  gained 0.3 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index  increased 0.7 percent and Oman’s  MSM30 Index 
advanced 0.9 percent. Kuwait’s  gauge  slipped 0.2 percent.
 Bahrain’s  measure and Saudi’s Tadawul All Share Index were
little changed.  The  TA-25 Index  of Israeli stocks rose 0.3 percent to
1,231.01, the highest since April 14. Tel Aviv markets closed
early at 2:45 p.m. in observance of a holiday.  The yield on Israel’s benchmark Mimshal Shiklit note due
January 2020 fell 4 basis points to 4.46 percent. The yield has
gained 25 basis points this month as traders gear up for an
interest rate increase.  Central Bank Governor  Stanley Fischer  is likely to raise
the rate to 2 percent tomorrow, according to 12 of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The other four expect the rate to remain
unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 