-- Dubai Steps Up Effort to Spur Economy With Tamweel Takeover
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-27T11:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/dubai-islamic-raises-tamweel-stake-as-dubai-seeks-mortgage-lending-revival.html
Dubai’s government has stepped up
efforts to stimulate the emirate’s economy, allowing state-
controlled  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC  to purchase a majority stake
in mortgage company  Tamweel PJSC  to revive lending.  The decision follows the announcement on Sept. 10 by Dubai
World, one of the emirate’s three main state-controlled holding
companies, of a deal with more than 99 percent of its creditors
to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt. Dubai International
Capital LLC, which is part of Dubai Holding LLC, another of the
three holding companies, has proposed to sell assets over five
years to repay $2.6 billion, two people familiar with the plan
said Sept. 15.  The deepest global financial crisis since the 1930s led to
a 50 percent slump in Dubai property prices from their peak in
August 2008, according to estimates from Colliers International.
Frozen credit markets blocked Tamweel’s and  Amlak Finance PJSC ’s
access to funds and forced what were once the two biggest
mortgage lenders in Dubai to stop lending.  Tamweel expects to begin lending “as soon as possible,”
at the latest by Nov. 1, Tamweel Chief Executive Officer  Wasim Saifi  told a news conference in Dubai yesterday. “Once the
mortgage market revives, obviously that would give a lot of
comfort to end-buyers.”  Bond Price  Dubai Islamic, the biggest U.A.E. lender complying with
shariah banking rules, received approval to increase its stake
in Tamweel to 57.33 percent from 21 percent, the Dubai
government’s Media Office said in a statement yesterday. Dubai
Islamic bought the stake from institutional investors, including
the Dubai World Group, it said without revealing a value.
Together, the two companies will have a 30 percent share of the
emirate’s mortgage loan market, Saifi said.  The United Arab Emirates government has been working on a
rescue plan for Tamweel and Amlak since it suspended their
shares in November 2008. It had said it planned to merge the two
companies and inject new capital into them.  The price on Tamweel’s 4.31 percent Islamic bonds due in
2013 rose to 83.5 cents on the dollar at 2:52 p.m. in Dubai,
according Barclays Capital Group prices on Bloomberg. They
closed at 73.7 cents on Sept. 24. Dubai Islamic Bank shares rose
0.9 percent to close at 2.34 dirhams.  Property prices in Dubai, the second largest of seven
emirates that make up the U.A.E., are unlikely to recover soon
as 41,000 new homes are expected to be completed by the end of
this year, adding to a glut of homes, according to Colliers’
estimates in May.  “The impact on the real-estate market will be very
limited,”  Ahmed Badr , a Dubai-based analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said yesterday about the deal. “We have an
oversupplied market and financing is one of the problems, but
it’s not the only problem.”  Struggling to Repay  Some of Dubai’s state-owned companies have struggled to
repay debt after the collapse of credit markets prevented them
from raising new loans. Dubai borrowed $109.3 billion as it
transformed itself into a financial, logistics and tourism hub,
with about $15.5 billion of debt due this year, the
International Monetary Fund estimates.  The Dubai government said today it hired Deutsche Bank AG,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Bank as joint
lead managers for a benchmark dollar bond offering. The emirate
will seek to raise about $1 billion from a bond sale this week,
according to two bankers familiar with the plan, tapping the
market for the first time since Dubai World’s debt
restructuring.  Nakheel PJSC, Dubai World’s property unit and the developer
of palm-shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, will finish
restructuring its debt by the end of this year, according to
Chief Executive Officer Chris O’Donnell.  Funding Needs  Dubai Islamic will evaluate Tamweel’s funding needs before
deciding how much new liquidity to inject into the company,
Adnan Chilwan, the bank’s chief of retail and business banking
said at the news conference. A decision on whether to buy the
rest of Tamweel’s shares or to allow trading in them will be
made after it reviews Tamweel’s business, he said.  Tamweel reported net income of 5.4 million dirhams ($1.5
million) in the three months to June 30 after a loss of 35
million dirhams a year ago.  Amlak’s  quarterly loss narrowed to
597,000 dirhams from 65.6 million dirhams.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 