-- Democrats, Axelrod Say Obama Tax Plan to Pass After Election
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-09-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/durbin-says-democrats-will-back-obama-s-plan-on-tax-cuts-for-middle-class.html
Congressional Democrats and a top
White House official said Congress will extend soon-to-expire
tax cuts for low- and middle-income Americans after the Nov. 2
election. Republicans said the delay and the threat of higher
taxes for top earners will hurt the economy.  Illinois Senator  Richard Durbin  said Democrats will come
together to extend Bush-era tax cuts for the first $250,000 of a
married couple’s income, including lawmakers who also want to
keep the lower rates for high-earning Americans.  Durbin, the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat, said on CNN’s
“State of the Union” program yesterday that “some
Republicans” will also vote to keep lower taxes for only low-
and middle-income taxpayers, as President  Barack Obama  proposes.
At least five Senate Democrats and all 41 Republicans say Bush-
era tax cuts should be extended across-the-board to help the
economy recover from the worst recession since World War II.  Democrats control 59 seats in the Senate; party leaders
last week said they would delay a vote until after November’s
midterm elections, after concluding that, before the balloting,
they wouldn’t find the 60 votes needed to advance the measure.  “Some Democrats would say, ‘Well, perhaps we would do it a
little bit differently,’” Durbin said. “But if that position
doesn’t prevail, and I don’t think it will, then the ultimate
choice is going to be whether or not we have the $250,000 income
threshold for these tax cuts.  “I think at that time we’ll have the support of all the
Democrats as well as some Republicans,” Durbin said.  All of the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 during
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, including lower rates
on wages and investments for all Americans, are scheduled to
expire Dec. 31.  After Elections  Obama administration officials and Democrats in charge of
Congress said a vote on the tax cuts won’t happen until after
the Nov. 2 election. House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a
Maryland Democrat, said on “Fox News Sunday” that a pre-
election vote in the House would be a “specious act,” given
the Senate’s inaction.  Republicans called for quicker action, saying business
owners need more certainty to make plans. Indiana Republican
Representative  Mike Pence , on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” called
for “an up-or-down vote” on the tax-rate extensions “before
Congress adjourns for the political season.”  House Republican Leader  John Boehner , of Ohio, said on
“Fox News Sunday” that delaying a vote is “the most
irresponsible thing that I have seen since I’ve been in
Washington, D.C., and I’ve been here a long time.”  ‘Day at a Time’  Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  on Sept. 24 left open the possibility
the chamber would act, saying House Democrats were taking the
issue “one day at a time.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  said in a research note released
Sept. 22 that even a temporary failure by Congress to extend the
cuts may erase U.S. economic growth in the first half of next
year.  David Axelrod , Obama’s top political adviser, said
Republicans, including Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell ,
will feel pressure from constituents between now and Election
Day to pass the middle-income tax cuts and let lower rates
expire for those earning over $250,000.  “I believe the pressure is going to build among the
American people,” Axelrod said on ABC News’s “This Week”
program. “I don’t believe Senator McConnell or anybody else is
going to be willing to stand up to the American people and say,
‘We’re going to hold your tax cut hostage so that we can give
another large tax cut to -- to millionaires and billionaires
that we can’t afford.’”  Bad Idea  McConnell, of Kentucky, rejected Democratic charges that
his party is holding up middle-class tax cuts in order to get
lower taxes on the rich.  “The question is, do we want to raise taxes in the middle
of a very, very tough economy?” McConnell said on the ABC
program. “All the Republicans think that’s a bad idea and a
substantial number of the Democrats think the same thing.”  Maryland Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen , who is
leading efforts to elect Democrats to the House, labeled as
“nonsense” the Republican arguments that higher taxes on the
wealthy would stifle job creation.  “Those tax rates are in effect right now,” Van Hollen
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “They’ve been in
effect for nine years. At the end of those nine years, we’ve
seen losses of millions of jobs. So this story that somehow
those breaks for the very folks at the top create these jobs is
just nonsense.”  Democratic Effort  Democrats so far haven’t succeeded in forcing Republicans
to choose between passing tax cuts that benefit 97 percent of
taxpayers and facing political attacks for opposing them, said
 Henry Aaron , an economist at the Brookings Institution in
Washington.  “The Democrats have allowed the debate to be framed as
whether it is a good idea to raise taxes on anyone, even the
rich, in a recession,” said Aaron, who favors extending lower
taxes for all Americans for a year or two. That’s “not the
territory where the Democrats should want the debate to be
occurring.”  Connecticut Senator  Joe Lieberman , an independent who
usually caucuses with Democrats, said he supports extending the
lower rates for everyone.  “I don’t think this is the time to raise anybody’s taxes,
including those who are wealthiest,” Lieberman said on CNN.  Lieberman said delaying action creates a “possibility”
the cuts will expire and everybody’s taxes would go up. “I
think when we come back in November or December, the first thing
is we’ve got to extend these tax cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan  J. Donmoyer in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  