-- Tea Party Takes Control of U.S. Elections Agenda: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-09-26T15:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/tea-party-takes-control-of-u-s-elections-agenda-albert-r-hunt.html
With the U.S. midterm elections
five weeks away, the Tea Party already is the big winner of
2010.  This anti-government, grassroots Republican offshoot has
rattled the party establishment -- making former  Alaska  Governor
Sarah Palin its most prominent 2012 presidential contender --
and dominated the debate this campaign season.  The Tea Partiers believe they’re on the cutting edge of a
revolution: the “future of politics,” as Palin says. More
likely, they’re a short-term catalyst for Republicans and a
long-term problem.  Nevertheless, their victories are impressive -- toppling
the Republican Party’s choices in Senate races from Alaska to
Delaware, with Nevada, Colorado and Kentucky in between. Scores
of House candidates around America have embraced the Tea Party
agenda.  The effect on non-Tea Party Republicans is palpable. The
party’s 2008 presidential nominee, Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , has shifted right on issues from immigration to tax
cuts after being challenged by a Tea Party-type candidate. The
former maverick is going to the Tucson Tea Party’s rally Oct. 9.  Presidential hopeful and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, always a good weathervane, is assiduously courting the
group. Immediately after Tea Party candidates  Sharron Angle  in
Nevada and Christine O’Donnell in Delaware won upset primary
victories, Romney embraced them with campaign contributions.  Amending the Constitution  Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty, a non-movement right
conservative, has embraced the Tea Party’s general anti-
immigration posture; he actually endorsed changing the 14th
amendment of the U.S. Constitution to bar citizenship for
children born in America to undocumented immigrants.  Karl Rove , once an arbiter of conservative sentiment, in a
moment of serious analysis on Fox News, criticized O’Donnell the
night she won the primary, saying her extremism made her
unelectable. Tea Party Republicans assailed Rove, who quickly
backtracked and then bragged about funneling money to
O’Donnell’s campaign. There are shades of the French Revolution
here.  The Tea Party agenda isn’t well defined, though it is anti-
government, anti-spending, anti-immigration and anti-compromise
politics. In an America beset by a 9.6 percent unemployment rate
and plenty of anxiety and anger, there is a receptive audience.  Republican Leaders  The House Republican leader,  John Boehner  of  Ohio , and his
Senate counterpart,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , both say
they’ll have no trouble working with Tea Party advocates in the
next Congress.  Boehner is a mainstream conservative Republican and a
veteran legislator who likes to selectively cut deals. That’s
not what most Tea Party disciples are likely to say they were
sent to Washington to do.  And McConnell, every day, will hear the footsteps of South
Carolina Republican Senator  Jim DeMint , one of the genuine
godfathers of the Tea Party’s success. DeMint likely will have a
batch of newly elected followers in the next Senate, and his
willingness to take on established candidates has shaken some in
his party.  Utah’s  Orrin Hatch , a conservative in the Boehner mold who
has periodically worked with Democrats over the years, is up for
reelection in 2012. He is cognizant that his three-term Senate
colleague,  Robert Bennett , with a similar political profile,
couldn’t even get on the ballot at the Utah State Convention
this year. Next year, Hatch will reach across the aisle at his
own peril.  Alienating Independents  A number of Republican strategists say there is little
evidence the Tea Party agenda will turn off voters. That holds
true for a midterm election, which often is a referendum on the
incumbent party rather than a choice. It usually isn’t
applicable when a party acquires power, or in a presidential
election year. A number of the most prominent Tea Party
candidates this year embrace views that might not appeal to
swing voters.  More than a few House Republican candidates talk about
privatizing Social Security and cutting back on federal support
for Medicare. That won’t sit well with senior citizens, a
majority of whom are expected to vote Republican in November.  Senate candidates include Alaska’s Joe Miller, who has said
unemployment compensation is unconstitutional;  Colorado ’s Ken Buck, who says he opposes the principle of separation of church
and state; Nevada’s Angle, who said the Obama-inspired $20
billion fund for Louisiana oil-spill victims that BP Plc was
required to create was a “slush fund”; O’Donnell, who equated
 masturbation  with adultery; and Kentucky’s Rand Paul, who
decried the Americans With Disabilities Act.  Flat Tax  The Tea Party’s official  Contract from America  10-point
agenda isn’t so incendiary, though calls for a balanced budget,
a single flat  tax rate  and lower taxes, including those on
 capital gains  and estates, are a challenging policy
prescription.  Some of the money behind the Tea Party movement or its
offshoots has little in common with grassroots populism. The New
Yorker magazine recently detailed the ties with the
multibillionaire Koch brothers, who privately and aggressively
pursue both ultraconservative policies as well as provisions
favoring their far-flung corporate empire.  And one Tea Party offshoot demands that “special interests
be eliminated.” That would be enough to give heartburn to a Tea
Party supporter such as Mississippi’s  Haley Barbour , formerly a
rich, important Washington lobbyist.  Crushing Dissent  This movement isn’t tolerant of dissent within the ranks,
which may cause some other Republican politicians indigestion.
For example, this year, the Tea Party took over the Maine
 Republican Party  convention and adopted platforms that called
for a 12-year term limit for senators, ending the congressional
health-care plan, opposing abortion and abolishing the Federal
Reserve Board.  None of this is supported by the state’s three-term
Republican senator,  Olympia Snowe , who is up for re-election in
2012. She could be vulnerable to a challenge from the right in a
small-turnout primary. If she became an independent, she’d
probably be safe for life.  And one 2012 Republican presidential hopeful may well seize
an opportunity and run as the anti-Tea Party candidate; that
used to be called a Big Tent Republican.  All that may or may not happen. On this Nov. 2, however,
the tea will be flowing.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Albert R. Hunt in
Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column: Max Berley at
   mberley@bloomberg.net . 