-- East Europe `Old-School' Rate Hawks Unlikely to Prevail in 2010
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-09-27T13:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/east-europe-s-old-school-central-bankers-unlikely-to-boost-rates-in-2010.html
East European central bankers who
have begun calling for higher interest rates probably won’t
persuade their colleagues until next year as the global economic
recovery stalls and inflation remains in check.  Poland’s  Monetary Policy Council, which meets this week,
won’t raise rates before 2011, according to six of nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Eight said  Hungarian rate 
setters, who left policy unchanged at a meeting today, won’t
take action this year, and all nine agree the  Czech central bank 
won’t make a change in 2010.  “They’ve been reading old-school economics that if you
keep rates low you create bubbles,” said  Lars Christensen ,
chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “But we are not
in a situation where we are entering a boom. We are still in a
bust.”  East Europe’s central bankers are looking for cues about
when to raise record-low rates as their economies emerge from
the deepest recessions since the end of communism. While those
favoring increases will eventually succeed, sluggish global
growth, the absence of inflationary pressures and low rates in
major economies are delaying the first step.  The Czech central bank board voted 6-1 on Sept. 23 to leave
its benchmark two-week rate at 0.75 percent. Government plans
for “fiscal consolidation” will keep inflation in check,
Governor  Miroslav Singer  said.  Hungary left its two-week deposit rate unchanged today at
5.25 percent. Policy makers will comment on the decision at 3
p.m. in Budapest. Poland will keep its seven-day reference rate
at 3.5 percent when it meets Sept. 28-29, according to the nine
economists.  Rhetoric Heats Up  The rhetoric of some policy makers turned toward boosting
rates in recent weeks.  Concerned about asset price bubbles, Czech rate-setter  Eva Zamrazilova  told the daily Lidove Noviny on Aug. 24 that an
increase should be discussed “as soon as possible.” Polish
central banker  Adam Glapinski  called for a “significant” pre-
emptive rate increase, the PAP newswire reported Sept. 14.  The Polish and Hungarian central banks considered raising
rates for the first time since 2008 in August, according to
minutes of their most recent meetings.  “There is a vast difference between one or two policy
makers saying we need to be careful about inflationary
expectations or we need to think about a pre-emptive hike and a
sustained period of monetary tightening,” said  Neil Shearing , a
senior emerging market economist at Capital Economics in London.
“The debate is going to continue to play out and intensify in
the next six months.”  Future Increases  Czech policy makers will double their main rate to 1.5
percent by the end of 2011, according to the median
forecast. Hungary’s will climb to 5.75 percent, and
 Poland’s  will rise to 4.25 percent.  “The biggest dilemma is that interest rates are low
historically and over time they need to be normalized,” said
 Nigel Rendell , an emerging-markets economist at RBC Capital in
London. “Some of the central bankers would quite like to
normalize the rates sooner, but they are worried about the
recovery and what’s happening in the world economy.”  Most analysts surveyed are betting Poland, the only
European country to avoid a recession last year, will be the
first in the region to raise borrowing costs.  FRAs  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs
three months from now indicate Polish rates will increase 49
basis points by December, compared with the 44 basis points
predicted on Sept. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money market investors have scaled back bets on Hungarian
rate increases this year. Hungarian contracts
price in 31 basis points, compared with 75 basis points on Sept.
8. The Czech contracts signal no increase.  The case for rate increases in Poland strengthened after
the  economy  grew 3.5 percent in the second quarter, faster than
analysts had forecast. Growth rates are more subdued in other
countries, with the Czech economy expanding 2.4 percent and
Hungary 1 percent in the quarter.  Inflation in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic
will stay within the central banks’ target ranges until 2012,
Bloomberg surveys showed.  Confidence Declines  East European investor confidence declined in September as
exporters anticipated a global slowdown, according to a survey
Released on Sept. 16 by the ZEW
Center for European Economic Research and Erste Group Bank AG.  “We think no one is going to hike until 2011 because the
recovery is still very fragile and the international environment
is uncertain,” said  Dmitry Gourov , a Vienna-based analyst at
UniCredit SpA. “There are no inflationary pressures.”  The world’s largest central banks are still in crisis mode,
considering more monetary stimulus as the global recovery
remains fragile. The U.S. Federal Reserve said Sept. 21 it’s
willing to ease monetary policy as the pace
of recovery and job growth have slowed and inflation is below
its target.  The Fed’s key rate has been at a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008. The European Central Bank on Sept.
2 left its  main rate  at a record-low 1 percent for a 17th month
and extended emergency lending measures for banks into 2011.  “All global central banks are moving toward more
quantitative easing not less and postponing any rate hikes to
2012 or 2013,” said Christensen at Danske Bank. “Why would the
central and east European banks be in such a hurry?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  