-- U.S. Gasoline Supplies Increase in Survey as Demand Falls: Energy Markets
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-09-27T21:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/hedge-funds-raise-diesel-bets-as-exports-to-europe-double-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds increased bets to the
highest level in six weeks that diesel prices will climb as U.S.
exports to Europe doubled for the industrial and transportation
fuel.  Hedge funds and other large speculators  increased bullish
wagers on  heating oil, a proxy for diesel, by 58 percent the
week ended Sept. 21, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in its weekly Commitments of Traders report.  “We’re seeing strong industrial production data in Western
Europe,” said  Hamza Khan , an analyst at the Schork Group in
Villanova, Pennsylvania. “That’s a good indicator for
intermodal transportation demand like trains and diesel trucks,
especially in Europe given how much more dependent they are on
diesel than we are in America.”  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, bolstered diesel
consumption in the region as the country avoided the sovereign
debt crisis that plagued nations in the euro area, including
Greece and Ireland. European demand for diesel and heating oil
strengthened in September as refineries halted for maintenance
and German consumers stocked up before winter.  Gasoil futures for October delivery fell $7.75, or 1
percent, to $675 per metric ton, or $2.1447 per gallon, at 5:28
p.m. New York time, on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Heating oil for October delivery, the U.S. version of the same
product, dropped 0.78 cent, or 0.4 percent, to settle at $2.1228
a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  “We are exporting to Europe because the demand is there,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston. “Exports definitely have been increasing. There have
been a lot of imports into Germany.”  German Confidence  German business confidence unexpectedly gained in September
to the highest level in more than three years. The Munich-based
Ifo institute said in a report last week that its business
climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to
106.8 in September, the highest level since June 2007.  Companies like  Daimler AG  and  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s
largest carmaker, are adding temporary workers. Unemployment
dropped for a 14th month in August. Germany expanded at the
fastest pace in two decades in the second quarter as companies
ramped up production to fill booming export orders.  The Energy Department estimated that the U.S. in September
exported  768,000 barrels  a day of distillate fuel, including
diesel and heating oil, the  most since August 2008 .  Traders and energy companies booked at least seven vessels
this month to ship 310,000 metric tons, or 2.33 million barrels,
of diesel to Europe from the U.S. Gulf Coast, according to
 Clarkson Research Services Ltd.,  a unit of the world’s biggest
shipbroker. That’s up from three vessels in August carrying
114,000 metric tons.  Gasoil Spread  The  November gasoil crack , the spread to Brent crude, rose
as high as $12.49 a barrel on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange last week.  The October ICE gasoil contract this month began trading at
a premium to the November future, a price structure known as
backwardation. The October premium over November rose to $2.25
last week, signaling strong short-term demand.  “Prices there are pretty good,” said  Jennifer Fan ,
portfolio manager with Arrowhawk Commodity Strategies, a hedge
fund in Darien, Connecticut. “Gasoil is backwardated in the
front. There’s clearly demand.”  Managed money, including hedge funds and commodity trading
advisers,  increased bullish bets  by 11,217 contracts to 30,479
futures and options combined in the week ended Sept. 21, the
CFTC reported. It was the fourth straight week that bullish bets
increased.  Bearish Bets  In August, positions in heating oil fell to their most
bearish since March 2007, when net longs in heating oil futures
and options combined dropped to minus 8,365 contracts, according
to CFTC data.  The eight-day closing of the Enbridge Energy Partners LP 6A
pipeline, which can move 670,000 barrels a day of Canadian oil
to the U.S., contributed to rising bullishness on refined
products, Fan said.  “People were thinking that a lot of the refineries weren’t
going to be able to run at full bore,” Fan said. “That would
be one reason why traders may have wanted to get long heating
oil.”  Hedge funds also increased  bets that gasoline prices would
rise  by 27 percent, the third straight week that net-long
positions gained. Net-long positions in futures and options
combined climbed by 4,319 contracts to 20,126 the week ended
Sept. 21, the CFTC reported.  Gasoline Prices  Gasoline for October delivery climbed 0.17 cent to settle
at $1.9488 a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Net-long positions on crude  futures and options combined
fell 16,286, or 13 percent, to 106,323, according to the CFTC
report.  Crude oil for November delivery rose 3 cents to settle at
$76.52 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude
for November settlement declined 30 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$78.57 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 