-- Egypt's Cabinet Says Talaat Moustafa Group Holding Can Keep Madinaty Land
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-09-26T15:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/egypt-s-cabinet-says-talaat-moustafa-group-holding-can-keep-madinaty-land.html
Egypt said  Talaat Moustafa Group
Holding  will be allowed to keep land for its Madinaty housing
project, bypassing a court ruling that annulled the company’s
purchase of the property from the state.  The government will revoke its existing sales contract with
Talaat Moustafa, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded real estate
developer, Cabinet spokesman  Magdy Rady  said in Cairo. It will
then reallocate the land to the same company under a new
contract, invoking a law that allows the authorities to assign
land by direct order to protect public interest, he said.  Madinaty is Talaat Moustafa’s biggest development, designed
to accommodate 600,000 people in 120,000 housing units. The
government sold the land in 2005 in exchange for 7 percent of
the project’s built-up area. The value of the government’s share
will be “at least” 9.97 billion Egyptian pounds ($1.74
billion) under the new contract, Rady told reporters.  “This sets the floor for the amount Talaat Moustafa has to
pay for the land,” said  Jan Pawel Hasman , real estate analyst
for Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “This
should be good news for investors as we estimate the current
market value of the in-kind payments to be given to the
government at “between 14 billion and 15 billion pounds, he
said by telephone.  A court ruling to annul the sale because of irregularities,
upheld on Sept. 14,  prompted foreign investors to sell Egyptian
real estate stocks because of concern that developers will be
forced to pay more for land they already own.  Shares of Talaat Moustafa were little changed at 7.12
Egyptian pounds at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The cabinet
announcement came after the close of the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abdel Latif Wahba  in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net 
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  