-- Lehman Strategist Finds Risk Can Pay, Making Italian Ice Cream
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-09-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/lehman-strategist-finds-risk-can-pay-as-italian-ice-cream-maker-interview.html
Carlo del Mistro thought he was
taking a risk when he started his own business, stepping away
from his investment-bank employer to make ice cream.  That bank was  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , in Canary
Wharf, and the time was 2008. Not bad timing, as it happens.  “I left the City in 2007 to do an MBA at the  London
Business School  and I was sponsored by Lehman,” says Del
Mistro, 29, who left behind his London job in corporate strategy
and business development, assessing carbon-market opportunities.
“During the first summer break, I decided -- instead of doing
an internship in some big firm -- to start my own business,” he
says. “The idea was, if I don’t like it, I can go back to
Lehman. It was the end of 2008 when I discovered that my sponsor
was no more and my ice-cream business was thriving.”  Mistro is one of many bankers to find a new career away
from finance. As banks and insurance companies wrote down $1.8
trillion after the collapse of Lehman, a few of the 346,000
workers they fired invested their leaving pay in pursuing
dreams. Others left voluntarily for work as varied as protecting
tigers, making skis and producing films.  Gelato Mio Ltd . began as a single shop in Holland Park,
selling the kind of ice cream that Del Mistro enjoyed back home
in Italy. (He was born in Sondrio, in the north of the country.)  “The year 2008, when we started up, was quite tough,
because banks were getting very conservative in their lending
and I financed most of it through equity,” he says. “We got
the first round of financing from an Italian bank,  UBI Banca .
Now, we have four shops and we’re turning over 1.5 million
pounds ($2.37 million). We turn a small but tidy profit. It’s
satisfying.”  Fresh Fruit  We’re talking in the Fulham branch, where Del Mistro and
his team make the ice cream for the chain in a kitchen out back.
The other branches are in Holland Park, Notting Hill and St.
John’s Wood, relatively affluent areas with people willing and
able to pay 2.90 pounds for a scoop of ice cream made with fresh
fruit.  As we head out of the kitchen and into the parlor to try
flavors such as chocolate, peach and pistachio, the sun
disappears and the heavens open, with torrential rain beating
through the open shop front.  “The weather in the U.K. is very difficult,” he says as
his assistant closes the doors and fetches a mop. “During the
winter, ice cream clearly doesn’t sell as well, so we’re
starting to create ice-cream cupcakes. We’re also organizing
workshops for people who want to learn how to make ice cream.  “Retail is our core business but it’s nice also to have
secondary sources of revenue, such as selling to restaurants.”  Gelupo, Cocorino  Del Mistro appreciates that as Londoners develop a taste
for real Italian-style ice cream, so competition will grow. The
fashionable restaurant Bocca di Lupo has given birth to the
parlor  Gelupo , while  Francesco Mazzei , the chef at L’Anima,
helped create specialist Cocorino.  The graduate in business administration from the  Universita
Commerciale Luigi Bocconi , in Milan, reckons that the market
will continue to grow. Meanwhile, he says he’s returned to the
City in a way, as Gelato Mio delivers ice cream each Friday to
traders at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and to Deutsche Bank AG.  Has he gone back to Canary Wharf?  “Not yet,” he says with a smile before hopping onto his
motor scooter to visit another of his parlors.  Gelato Mio, 138 Holland Park Avenue, London, W11 4UE. Tel.
+44-20-7727-4117 or click on  http://www.gelatomio.co.uk/ ,  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 