-- Estonia Has `Few Tools' to Control Inflation, Prime Minister Ansip Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-09-26T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/estonia-has-few-tools-to-control-inflation-prime-minister-ansip-says.html
Estonia, told by European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  to remain “alert” on
inflation after adopting the euro next year, has “few tools”
to control price increases, Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said.  Inflation expectations in the Baltic nation of 1.3 million
people are rising because of an increase in food and fuel prices
and concern euro membership will boost prices.  “The government has few tools at its disposal to contain
Inflation,” Ansip said in an interview during a visit to the
Latvian capital Riga on Sept. 24. “The budget is practically
the only instrument. A small and open economy like ours can’t
avoid the pain with outside price pressures.”  The European Union in July approved the country’s
application to adopt the bloc’s common currency next year.
Trichet said Sept. 20 that Estonia must remain “alert” on
price developments and take “forceful” action to stem
inflation after joining the euro-region economy.  Estonia’s Finance Ministry expects inflation to average 2.6
percent this year, while annual price growth may reach 4 percent
by year-end. The ECB aims to keep  prices  growth at less than 2
percent.  The government last week approved a draft 2011 budget that
targets an overall fiscal deficit of 1.6 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with a projected 1.3 percent this
year. Last year’s 1.7 percent gap was wider than only Sweden’s
and Luxembourg’s in the 27-nation EU.  Wage Freeze  Ansip’s government last week approved freezing public-
employee wages for 2011, pending parliamentary approval. The
Cabinet will phase in a tobacco-tax increase over two years from
January to slow its impact on inflation. It is too early to say
whether a wage freeze would need to continue beyond 2011, Ansip
said on Sept. 24.  Euro adoption “can’t be blamed” for accelerating price
increases of food, Ansip said. The rising price of dairy
products is also “the main headline” in Latvia, which isn’t
due to adopt the euro until 2014, Ansip said. Most Estonian
retail chains raised milk prices by about 25 percent last week,
the Baltic News Service reported.  Inflation expectations by Estonian consumers continued to
rise in September, according to Konjunktuuriinstituut, an
economic research institute in Tallinn. The outlook is
“certainly” affected by the prospect of euro adoption, the
institute said.  Thirty-five percent of consumers polled by the institute
this month expect inflation to accelerate in the next 12 months,
compared with 32 percent in August, and 5 percent a year
earlier, it said.  The state prosecutors’ office launched an investigation
last month to see whether the bread producers’ association
engaged in a price cartel. The association said last month bread
prices will be increased by as much as 20 percent due to higher
production costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  