-- European Insurers Could Get $34 Billion More in Premiums, Swiss Re Says
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-09-26T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/european-insurers-could-get-34-billion-more-in-premiums-swiss-re-says.html
European life insurers could reap
25 billion euros ($34 billion) more in annual premiums by
meeting the demands of underinsured consumers, according  to
Swiss Reinsurance Co .  The gap between money needed for dependants in the event of
a person’s death and the current financial provisions, including
protection insurance, may add 250 million euros in life premiums
to an insurer’s balance sheet, according to a  report  published
by the Zurich-based company today.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, said it
surveyed 11,000 consumers in 12 European countries about their
attitudes toward life insurance and calculated that Europe’s
consumers are “underinsured” by 10 trillion euros, which
translates into 25 billion euros in potential annual premiums
for life insurers.  There is an “unmet demand from the consumers,”  Martin Albers , head of Swiss Re’s European client-markets unit, said in
a conference call from Zurich on Sept. 24. “The need is there
and the willingness to pay is there, but insurers have to engage
better with the consumer.”  Albers, who leads Swiss Re’s European reinsurance sales
force, said the industry “most likely has enough capital for
biometrical risks” because in solvency models, life-risk
products consume less capital than savings policies.  Swiss Re expects to gain business from the development of
the risk market, according to Albers.  “We think that the development of new life-risk-related
products is also an opportunity for us, because these are
basically biometrical risks, which we are very well positioned
to take on our balance sheet,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 