-- Alonso Wins Singapore Grand Prix as Webber Finishes Third to Keep F-1 Lead
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-09-27T00:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/ferrari-s-alonso-wins-singapore-grand-prix-webber-keeps-lead-in-standing.html
Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari held off
Red Bull’s  Sebastian Vettel  at the Singapore Grand Prix for a
third win in five races to boost his Formula One title chances.  Alonso’s second straight victory lifted him up to second in
the standings, overtaking McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton , who crashed
out for the second race in a row.  Red Bull’s Mark Webber finished third in the night race at
the Marina Bay street circuit, keeping his lead atop the
drivers’ standings, while McLaren’s  Jenson Button  was fourth.  “This win means a lot in the battle for the championship,
it seems that we are competitive on every track,” Alonso, a
two-time world champion, told reporters after his second win in
Singapore. “It remains very tight, all five contenders have the
same possibilities.”  Twenty five points, the value of a race win, separate
Webber from fifth-place Button in the standings. Four events
remain, starting with the Japanese Grand Prix on Oct. 10.  Alonso was on pole yesterday as the top five drivers filled
the leading places on the grid.  “It was a very difficult race, Singapore is physically the
toughest race of the season, with no room to breathe with 24
corners,” said Alonso, who won in Germany and Italy in the past
two months.  Webber could only qualify in fifth place. The top positions
were maintained after the start, Alonso followed by Vettel,
Hamilton, Button and Webber. Then  Red Bull  gambled on an early
pit stop for Webber to switch to harder tires while the other
leading contenders stayed on the track.  Pit Stop  “We decided to pit,” Webber said. “I questioned the team
to start with and they said it was the right thing.”  Webber’s pit stop dropped him to 11th place before he moved
up to eighth, though the new tires didn’t initially provide him
with enough pace to challenge the leaders. He was more than 30
seconds behind Alonso at one point before gaining late impetus.  A round of pit stops by the leaders halfway through the
race left Alonso out in front, followed by Vettel. Then as the
German increased the pressure on Alonso, the safety car came out
for a second time when Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi crashed.  Webber and Hamilton moved up to third and fourth as
Renault’s  Robert Kubica  and  Rubens Barrichello  of Williams
entered the pits.  Hamilton, last year’s winner in Singapore, then slid out of
the race after contact with Webber on the 36th of 61 laps as he
tussled to get past the Australian on the outside.  ‘Big Gap’  “I couldn’t have expected a worse two races, especially at
this crucial time of the year,” Hamilton told the British
Broadcasting Corp. “Twenty points is massive, and with four
races to go that is a big gap. I have to get my head down and
hope for something.”  The collision left Webber in third behind Alonso and Vettel,
and the Spaniard held on for victory by 0.29 of a second, to
follow up his success at Monza two weeks ago.  Webber withstood the challenge of Button to keep third
place, and  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes GP was fifth.  “I’ve got third, which I would have settled for at the
start of the day,” added Webber, who’s bidding to become the
first Australian to win the series since 1980. “I’m still in
the lead of the world championship.”  Webber has 202 points, followed by Alonso (191), Hamilton
(182), Vettel (181) and Button (177). Red Bull tops the
constructors’ table with 383 points ahead of McLaren on 359 and
Ferrari on 316.  “We’ve come away with some good points,” Vettel said.
“In the end it’s good for the team, which helps us in the
constructors’, and in the drivers’ it is still open.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 