-- Fiat Worker's 7 Cars a Year Pushes Europe Below U.S. Efficiency
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-10-04T12:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/fiat-worker-s-seven-cars-a-year-pushes-europe-below-u-s-in-capacity-use.html
General Motors Co .’s 1,300 workers
in Antwerp, Belgium, are fighting for their jobs, hoping for a
white knight to rescue the factory from closure.  “We’re trying to find an investor by the end of this
month,” said Luc van Grinsven, a union official at the 43-year-
old  plant , which makes an Astra model for GM’s Opel unit. “If
we don’t, the factory will close at the end of the year.”  Antwerp is an anomaly. Not a single European automobile
plant closed during the recession, while 18 assembly factories
have been shuttered in the U.S. since 2008. European governments
prevented the biggest automakers from firing workers and used
subsidies to prop up sales. Now that most of the incentives have
expired, executives must find ways to cope with a slump in
demand as they gather at the Paris Motor Show this week.  “In Europe, the relationship between governments and major
manufacturers goes hand in hand,” said Francisco Carvalho, a
London-based analyst at IHS Automotive. “Closing plants will
upset the governments. The U.S. now has much more sane
utilization rates than Europe in the medium term.”  European capacity use will probably be surpassed by the
U.S. this year for the first time since 2006, IHS Automotive
estimates. North American plants will on average use 72 percent
of capacity, up from 51 percent in 2009. The average for Europe
may climb to 68 percent, boosted by demand from China. An
automaker typically needs at least 80 percent utilization for a
plant to be profitable, the researcher says.  U.S. Overhaul  With GM and Chrysler Group LLC leading the U.S. plant
closures as part of their bankruptcy reorganizations last year,
improved usage is helping them post profits or pare losses. GM,
the biggest U.S. carmaker, earned $2.4 billion in the first
half. Chrysler, run by Fiat, reduced its losses to $369 million.  “Their cost base, relative to western Europeans and a lot
of companies around the world, is going to be lower and they
should be very cost competitive,” said  Ron Harbour , a partner
at New York-based consultant Oliver Wyman. “If they can do
everything they need to do on the product side, they could be
dramatically more competitive than western European plants.”  At 62.8 percent  Renault SA , the maker of the Clio compact
and Megane family car, has the worst capacity use rate among
Europe’s volume carmakers, said Carvalho.  Fiat SpA , Italy’s
largest carmaker, is at 64.8 percent and PSA Peugeot Citroen,
France’s biggest, is at 67.4 percent.  Europe’s Decline  European capacity this year, including Russia where
carmakers have built plants recently, is at about 27.5 million
cars, IHS’s Carvalho said. By contrast,  Ford Motor Co.  said last
month that Europe’s new car sales may fall to as low as 14.5
million vehicles this year from 15.9 million in 2009.  The European usage rate will likely drop in the second half
with carmakers forecasting a sales decline in the region as
government-funded scrapping programs end.  Next year, Fiat will close its Termini Imerese plant in
Sicily, which makes the Lancia Ypsilon. Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  is also prepared to shift production of its
best-selling Panda model from Poland to the under-utilized
Pomigliano plant in Italy and invest 700 million euros in the
factory if unions agree to a plan that includes adding shifts
and instituting a six-day work week.  “We’re trying to resolve the capacity issue,” a Fiat
spokesman said. “We’re doing more than other car companies.”  Seven Cars a Year  Pomigliano employs 5,000 workers and produced 35,000 cars
last year. Melfi, Fiat’s second-biggest Italian plant and the
one with the best capacity utilization, employs 5,280 workers
and built 280,000 Grande Puntos in 2009. That’s seven cars per
employee at Pomigliano, versus 53 at the Melfi plant.  “It’s a European issue,” Marchionne told reporters in
Rome today. “This is why we called for a resolution for the
government and unions to find a solution. This country needs to
move on. Fiat is willing to act.’  Peugeot said in July that its auto unit may lose money in
the second half on the slumping demand. The Paris-based carmaker
 posted  a 680 million-euro ($918 million) first-half profit.  After removing a production line last year at its Rennes
factory and downsizing other plants, Peugeot is “starting to
see the benefits” and plans no further capacity cuts, CEO
 Philippe Varin  said July 28.  Renault CEO  Carlos Ghosn  shed workers during the recession
at one of 14 French production sites, in Sandouville, where
1,300 people left in 2008 because of sluggish sales of the
Laguna model made at that factory.  ‘Temporary’  “At the other plants we kept our employees because we want
to be able to restart full production when the crisis is over,”
spokesman  Valerian David  said. “We think the current situation
is temporary and we want to be ready when things get better.”  While politics may keep automakers in Europe from closing
plants as easily as in the U.S., automakers have still reduced
some European capacity in recent years, said  Arthur Maher , an
analyst with J.D. Power & Associates.  “When manufacturers are bringing in new models into a new
plant and they’re forced to invest and upgrade the plant,
increasingly they’ll use that opportunity to trim capacity,” he
said. “Five years ago the optimal plant size for volume
manufacturing in Europe was probably considered to be around
450,000 units. The current consensus, if there is one, seems to
be moving toward 300,000 and 350,000.”  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, has the best
capacity use among the volume producers in the region with a
rate of 77.2 percent, helped by booming sales in China, its
biggest market.  Share Performance  VW’s preferred  shares  are up 40 percent so far this year,
outperforming Fiat’s 8.8 percent gain, Renault’s 3.1 percent
increase and 6.2 percent for Peugeot. Ford has  jumped  26
percent.  Back in Belgium, workers at the Opel factory, which has cut
its operations to one shift a day, hope that their factory is
not the first in Europe to close since 2006. In that year, GM
shut its site in Azambuja, Portugal, and Peugeot folded its
Ryton plant in Coventry, England.  Two potential investors are looking at the plant, one of
which is an automaker, Van Grinsven said.  “I hope it’s a 50 percent chance, but I think 30
percent,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Higgins  in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 