-- France Wants G-20 to Limit `Monetary Disorder,' Speculation on Commodities
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2010-09-26T11:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/france-wants-g-20-to-limit-monetary-disorder-speculation-on-commodities.html
France wants the Group of 20
nations to act to limit extreme currency fluctuations and
speculation on the prices of commodities, Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  said.  “When the euro’s value compared to the dollar is as
volatile as it is, this isn’t good for manufacturers, and in
particular for exporters,” Lagarde said in an interview on
Europe 1 radio today. France, which takes up the G-20 leadership
in November, has a goal “to try to stop monetary disorder,”
she said.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  last month repeated a push
to overhaul the global monetary system, calling for discussions
on currencies to be open to countries beyond the Group of Seven
leading industrial nations, including China, and enhanced
coordination and global governance. The euro slid to its lowest
level versus the dollar since March 2006 in June, and has since
rebounded 14 percent.  Sarkozy’s goals for the G-20 French presidency also include
tackling “speculation” on commodities, especially on
agricultural prices, and fostering global governance through
“better coordination” among institutions such as the World
Trade Organization and the International Labour Organization,
Lagarde said today.  Lagarde’s repeated a forecast for the French economy, the
second-largest in the euro-region, to grow at least 1.5 percent
this year. It will expand 2 percent in 2011 and 2.5 percent in
2012, she said.  France’s budget deficit in 2010 will be below 8 percent,
Lagarde said, without giving a more specific forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 