-- Hungarians Unwind Mortgages as Swiss Franc Hits Record High
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-09-27T14:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/franc-reaching-dollar-record-means-hungarians-unwind-mortgages.html
Switzerland’s franc, the second-
best performing major currency in the past six months, is
gaining strength from Eastern European homeowners falling behind
on their mortgages.  After surging to $847.4 billion in the five years ended
September 2008 from $519.5 billion, bank claims denominated in
francs dropped to $647.6 billion in the first quarter, according
to the latest Bank for International Settlements data. The
decline includes consumers from Poland to Hungary who borrowed
franc-denominated loans to take advantage of some of the world’s
lowest interest rates and are now repaying the debt after the
currency’s rally boosted their charges.  The results are an appreciating franc and efforts by
Eastern European governments to unwind the mortgages, which may
add even more strength to the currency after it rose to a record
last week against the dollar. The Swiss National Bank had tried
for 15 months to weaken its legal tender to support exports as a
sovereign debt crisis engulfed the region.  “The more the franc is appreciating, the more there’s
pressure on credit takers to close their foreign-currency credit
lines,” said  Manuel Oliveri , a strategist in Zurich at UBS AG,
the nation’s largest bank. “That would lead to currency
inflows” further strengthening the currency, he said.  ‘Gone Away’  Franc-denominated mortgages in Poland fell 7 percentage
points to 60 percent of the total in the year through June as
the Swiss currency jumped 7.7 percent against the zloty,
government data show. Overdue mortgages in Hungary climbed 83
percent from December 2008 through March, the nation’s financial
regulator said Aug. 9. The BIS bank claims data was valued using
a constant March 31 exchange rate.  “We haven’t seen growth in those sorts of loans for some
time -- they were obviously one of those things that weighed on
the franc and that has now gone away,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a
strategist in London at Deutsche Bank AG, ranked by Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc as the world’s biggest foreign-
exchange trader.  Switzerland’s franc fell 7 percent in 2009, based on
 Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes  that measure performance
against baskets of currencies, as the SNB slashed interest rates
to 0.25 percent from 2.75 percent in 2007.  Franc loans lured Eastern European consumers as a means to
escape high domestic  rates . Borrowing costs in Switzerland in
2008 were as much as 10.5 percentage points  below  those in
Hungary, and 2.25 percentage points less than the euro region.
The gaps have shrunk by about half since peaking two months
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008.  Franc Loans  Some Eastern Europe home buyers borrowed in francs and then
converted the cash into their domestic currency, keeping the
benefits of low Swiss rates. With households now shunning this
method of financing, fewer francs are being exchanged for
currencies such as forint and zloty, removing a buffer limiting
franc strength. The zloty has depreciated 7.2 percent this year
versus the franc and the forint weakened 13 percent.  “Emerging Europe had borrowed more in foreign currency by
the third quarter of 2007 than has been appreciated,” the BIS
wrote in its quarterly review published Sept. 5. “Swiss franc
loans represented about 20 percent of foreign currency loans.
Ironically, currency flexibility encouraged Swiss franc debt,
which has proven painful to obligors.”  Hungary will ban the registration of foreign-currency
mortgages, the government said June 8. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  plans to convert the mortgages into forint and buy non-
performing loans from banks, state news agency MTI reported
Sept. 16, citing an interview with Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  on television station TV2.  Record High  “This is not going to be fleeting,” said  Derek Halpenny ,
European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in London.  Switzerland’s currency appreciated to a record 97.80
centimes per dollar on Sept. 24, before ending the week up 2.7
percent at 98.31. It traded at 98.43 at 10:13 a.m. in New York.
The franc climbed to an all-time high of 1.2766 per euro on
Sept. 8, before trading at 1.3249 today. It has risen 4.7
percent in the past six months, second only to the yen’s 6.4
percent gain, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  Bank of Tokyo predicts the franc will strengthen to 1.20
against the euro by the third quarter of 2011, while Deutsche
Bank’s Gullberg said it will rise past 1.25 per euro by year-
end. The currency will finish 2010 at 1.32 per euro and be at
1.33 by next Sept. 30, the median of no fewer than 22 analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg at the end of last week showed.  ‘Quite Dovish’  The franc may be vulnerable should slowing growth push
Swiss consumer prices lower. The currency tumbled 1.8 percent
against the euro on Sept. 16, its biggest drop since May 19,
after SNB policy makers, led by  Philipp Hildebrand , held rates
near zero and cut their inflation forecast, signaling they’re in
no rush to raise borrowing costs.  “We’ve seen the SNB becoming far less hawkish, you could
even argue they’ve turned quite dovish, and that’s had an
impact,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “The change in the policy response is
significant and is likely to see the pace of franc appreciation
slow down.”  Investors traditionally buy the franc during times of
economic turmoil as the nation’s trade surplus frees it from
dependence on overseas capital. The surplus climbed to a record
2.89 billion francs ($2.94 billion) in July, the Federal Customs
Office in Bern  said  on Aug. 19.  Sovereign Turmoil  Fresh concern that the euro-region’s most-indebted nations
will struggle to reduce their deficits and the potential for the
Federal Reserve to print more dollars to safeguard the economic
recovery will also keep the franc in demand, said  Axel Merk ,
president and chief investment officer of Merk Investments LLC
in Palo Alto, California.  Yields on Portugal’s bonds  rose  to records relative to
benchmark German bunds Sept. 24 as Diario Economico reported
budget talks broke down between the government and the
opposition. Spreads on Ireland government debt also reached a
record relative to bunds.  “There will be more crises down the road, and the franc
will play an important role for a defensive and diversified
portfolio,” said Merk, who oversees $500 million. “The SNB
trying to fight that is irresponsible.”  Intervention Halted  The Swiss central bank signaled in June that it would stop
intervening to weaken the franc, saying risks of a drop in
consumer prices had “largely disappeared.” Two weeks ago it
forecast a “marked” economic slowdown in the second half of
the year. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for growth of 2.05 percent this year, compared with
2.7 percent in the U.S. and 1.6 percent in the euro region.  The nation has become 15 percent more expensive for
tourists from the euro region because of the franc’s rally,
according to Juerg Schmid, the Zurich-based head of  Switzerland
Tourism  marketing group. While the average cost of a room at a
four-star hotel in Zurich climbed 0.4 percent to 290.23 francs
in June from a year earlier, according to the  Zurich Hotels
Association , the increase is about 16 percent when converted
into euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  