-- Jim Furyk Wins Golf's Tour Championship, FedEx Cup
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-09-27T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/furyk-leads-in-race-for-golf-s-10-million-fedex-cup-as-rain-delays-play.html
Jim Furyk  earned almost $42,000
with each of his 272 shots at golf’s Tour Championship.  The No. 6 player in the Official World Golf Ranking
collected $1.35 million for his one-shot victory yesterday and
a further $10 million for finishing first after the four-
tournament playoff for the season-long FedEx Cup.  Furyk is the third player to win the FedEx Cup after two-
time victor  Tiger Woods  and Vijay Singh. The win gives 40-year-
old Furyk a career-high three titles this season and makes him
a top contender for U.S. PGA Tour Player of the Year honors.
Furyk, a 16-time winner on the tour, also won the Transitions
Championship in March and the Verizon Heritage event in April.  “There was a lot riding on my round today, a lot riding
down the stretch in some terrible weather,” Furyk told
reporters. “I was able to get the job done and win again, and
this is very special.”  Furyk shot even-par 70 at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta
to finish at 8-under, one better than  Luke Donald .  Retief Goosen  was third, a shot ahead of  Nick Watney  and  Paul Casey .  Furyk’s three-shot lead after 15 holes dwindled when he
bogeyed the 16th and 17th holes, leaving him needing par at the
last to beat Donald, who also shot even par. Furyk hit his tee
shot on the 230-yard, par-3 hole into a deep bunker right of
the green. He blasted out of wet sand to 29 inches past the
hole before sinking the putt.  “It was a tough bunker shot,” Furyk said. “I had a lot
of confidence and it came off the club perfect.”  The shot set him up for his ninth sand save for par in as
many chances over the four rounds.  Winning Yell  After winning, the usually reserved Pennsylvania native --
who had his hat on backward to stop raindrops falling from the
brim onto his ball -- flipped his putter to the ground, let out
a yell and pumped his right fist at the crowd.  Furyk’s chances of winning the FedEx Cup appeared to be
over Aug. 25 before the first playoff event began when he was
disqualified from the Barclays for missing his pro-am tee time.  He climbed to 11th in the rankings ahead of the Tour
Championship by finishing in a tie for 37th at the Deutsche
Bank Championship and 15th at the BWM Championship the next
week.  While some players spent an almost two-hour rain delay
yesterday trying to calculate the various FedEx Cup-winning
scenarios,  Matt Kuchar  chose to watch National Football League
games on TV. Kuchar finished second in the FedEx Cup standings,
earning a $3 million bonus.  “I had no real idea and was completely unconcerned with
it,” Kuchar said after finishing 25th in the tournament. “It
was not even on my radar screen. I was out there trying to hit
good shots and really didn’t give the FedEx Cup one ounce of
thought.”  Watney fell out of contention with bogeys on holes 16 and
17. He still ended with rounds of 63 and 67, the lowest closing
36 holes in tournament history.  Phil Mickelson , who won the Tour Championship last year,
finished 22nd at 3-over after a 4-over-par 74.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 