-- Gillard Says Opposition Leader Abbott Out to `Wreck' Australian Parliament
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-09-26T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/gillard-says-abbott-intends-to-wreck-australian-parliament.html
Australia’s Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said opposition leader,  Tony Abbott , is out to “wreck”
Parliament when it convenes next week after the nation’s closest
election in 70 years.  “Mr. Abbott believes his role is to wreck,” Gillard said
yesterday on Channel 10 television’s “Meet the Press” program.
“He’s acting like a bull in a China shop, thinking his job is
to smash everything he sees up.”  Gillard’s comments came after Abbott backed out of a deal
to name a parliamentary speaker, reducing her majority in the
House of Representatives to a single seat. The leaders agreed on
Sept. 6 to assign a lawmaker to vote along with the winning
party to make up for the speaker, who can’t vote. Abbott
scrapped the agreement on Sept. 23, saying it would violate the
constitution.  Gillard, 48, held onto power after she wooed three
independent lawmakers and one Greens Party member to back her
Labor Party which lost its majority at Australia’s Aug. 21
ballot. She moved into the official prime ministerial residence
“The Lodge” in Canberra yesterday.  “It’s deeply disappointing that Mr. Abbott would say yes
to parliamentary reform, sign the agreement” and then “trash”
the accord, Gillard told Channel 10.  Labor named the current speaker,  Harry Jenkins , as its
candidate, who will be re-elected on Sept. 28. Opposition member
 Alex Somlyay  yesterday withdrew his interest in standing for the
deputy speaker’s position, citing media attention that would put
too much focus to his voting behavior in that role.  New Parliament  The new Parliament led by Australia’s first female prime
minister includes the first indigenous lawmaker in the House,
Western Australian Liberal Ken Wyatt, Labor’s Ed Husic from
Sydney, who is the first Muslim lawmaker, and the youngest ever
legislator, Wyatt Roy, 20, from Queensland state.  Former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who was ousted by his own
party in June following opposition to his proposed mining tax,
addressed the United Nations General Assembly two days ago in
his role as Gillard’s minister of foreign affairs. The UN risked
becoming a “hollow shell” if its institutions didn’t reshape
to new global governance demands, including managing the risk of
terrorism, he said in his speech.  Labor’s revised mining profits tax proposal, which only
covers coal and iron ore and has been endorsed by the country’s
major mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. , and Labor’s
carbon emissions policy, have emerged as key themes following
the election.  Carbon Price  Australia needs a price on carbon to achieve its goals for
emissions cuts, Gillard said on “Meet the Press,” adding that
industry needed certainty about the policy.  During the election campaign, Gillard ruled out using a
carbon tax to reduce pollution. She has shifted her position to
include the possibility of a tax.  “Circumstances have changed obviously during the election
campaign,” Gillard said, noting a Sept. 15 speech by BHP Chief
Executive  Marius Kloppers  that set out the company’s preference
for a tax. “We’ve seen the head of BHP, Marius Kloppers, make a
very important speech on arrangements for carbon pricing and the
view of a business like BHP about the need for certainty.”  Once parliament starts on Sept. 28, every bill could be
subject to negotiation, including any move to introduce a carbon
tax and the planned mining levy in the world’s biggest exporter
of iron ore and coal.  More Cooperation  “I’m looking forward to the new Parliament adopting a more
cooperative approach to tackling the key issues for our future,
like putting a price on carbon,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in
an e-mailed economic note yesterday.  The government said Sept. 23 it will introduce more than 40
bills in its first week, such as more power for the stock market
regulator, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission,
new penalties for breaches of aviation security, a food
standards bill, reducing the sulfur content of fuel to prevent
pollution from shipping, and new offshore oil and gas storage
rules.  Gillard’s government relies on the support of independent
lawmakers  Robert Oakeshott ,  Tony Windsor  and  Andrew Wilkie , and
Greens Party member  Adam Bandt , while the opposition’s bloc
includes 73 Liberal-National coalition members plus independent
 Bob Katter  who has aligned himself with Abbott.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  