-- Gillard Says Opposition Is Out to ‘Wreck’ Australian Parliament
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-09-26T00:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/gillard-says-opposition-leader-abbott-out-to-wreck-australian-parliament.html
Australia’s Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said opposition leader,  Tony Abbott , is out to “wreck”
Parliament after he backed out of a deal to name a speaker,
reducing her legislative advantage to a single seat.  “As we head towards parliament opening on Tuesday, and
then parliamentary business proper on Wednesday, increasingly
we’re seeing Mr. Abbott believes his role is to wreck,” Gillard
said on Channel 10’s “Meet the Press” program today. “He’s
acting like a bull in a China shop, thinking his job is to smash
everything he sees up.”  Abbott and Gillard agreed on Sept. 6 to assign a lawmaker
to vote along with the winning party to make up for the speaker,
who can’t vote. Abbott scrapped that deal on Sept. 23, saying it
would violate the constitution.  Gillard, 48, remains in power following Australia’s closest
election in 70 years after she wooed three independent lawmakers
and one Greens Party member to back her Labor Party which lost
its majority at the Aug. 21 ballot.  “It’s deeply disappointing that Mr. Abbott would say yes
to parliamentary reform, sign the agreement” and then “trash”
the accord, Gillard said.  Labor named the current speaker,  Harry Jenkins , as its
candidate, who will be re-elected on Sept. 28. Opposition member
 Alex Somlyay  yesterday withdrew his interest in standing for the
deputy speaker’s position, citing media attention that would put
too much focus to his voting behavior in that role.  The new Parliament led by Australia’s first female prime
minister includes the first indigenous lawmaker in the House of
Representatives, Western Australian Liberal Ken Wyatt, Labor’s
Ed Husic from Sydney, who is the first Muslim lawmaker, and the
youngest ever legislator, Wyatt Roy, 20, from Queensland state.  Power Sharing  Every bill could be subject to negotiation when parliament
starts on Sept. 28, including any move to introduce a carbon tax
and her planned mining levy in the world’s biggest exporter of
iron ore and coal.  The government said Sept. 23 it will introduce more than 40
bills in its first week, such as more power for the stock market
regulator, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission,
new penalties for breaches of aviation security, a food
standards bill, reducing the sulfur content of fuel to prevent
pollution from shipping, and new offshore oil and gas storage
rules.  Gillard’s government relies on the support of independent
lawmakers  Robert Oakeshott ,  Tony Windsor  and  Andrew Wilkie , and
Greens Party member  Adam Bandt , while the opposition’s bloc
includes 73 Liberal-National coalition members plus independent
 Bob Katter  who has aligned himself with Abbott.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  