-- Gambon Triumphs in Beckett, Faust Is Abused, Deathless Diva
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-09-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/michael-gambon-triumphs-in-beckett-eno-abuses-poor-faust-london-theater.html
If there’s an actor who can do
shambolic pathos better than the great  Michael Gambon , he hasn’t
appeared on the theater scene yet. If there’s a play better
suited to exploit this quality than  Samuel Beckett ’s short
monologue “Krapp’s Last Tape,” now at London’s  Duchess
Theatre , it hasn’t surfaced on the theatrical radar either.  Krapp is an old man who likes to record his thoughts on
tape once a year. Before making his latest recording, he listens
to a 30-year-old spool from his archive. It includes a
bittersweet, lyrical description of an erotic encounter.  Krapp’s response is both comical -- he insults his pompous
younger self with amusing asperity -- and full of desperate
bitterness at the futility of his life.  Gambon (who recently has found new fame as Albus Dumbledore
in the “Harry Potter” films) is alone on stage, seated behind
a desk under a single light. Dressed in a dirty waistcoat and
torn shirt, he looks touchingly pathetic. He fills long
stretches of silence by tapping the table, ambling about the
stage and eating bananas.  At first he seems self-absorbed, even distant. When his
existential frustration later boils over into tears, the effect
is all the more powerful for the earlier restraint.  Michael Colgan’s production, from the  Gate Theatre , Dublin,
is simple and clear. Gambon manages to mesmerize with just his
desk and a tape machine as props to help him.  Despite the play’s static nature, it’s honest, sad and
funny. Anyone who has ever thought Beckett a difficult author
could do worse than take a look. Rating: ***.  Lusty Scientist  John Berry , artistic director of  English National Opera ,
has made it a cornerstone of company policy to invite directors
of limited or no experience to have a go at the genre.  Terry Gilliam ,  Mike Figgis ,  Simon McBurney  and Rufus Norris all will
make debuts this season.  Compared to them, U.S. director  Des McAnuff  is a veritable
veteran. He already has the grand total of one whole opera under
his belt (Berg’s “Wozzeck” in San Diego, 2007). Now he has
turned his hand to Gounod’s “Faust” (1859).  Would that he had kept his hands to himself. His version
opens with Faust as an elderly scientist of the post-Hiroshima
era who flips through his old A-bomb blueprints with guilt and
disgust. Suddenly Mephistopheles, a Mafioso figure in white suit
and spats, pops in and offers him the chance to turn the clock
back.  Gloopy Porridge  One puff of stage smoke later, and we’re whisked back to
World War I. Faust is now a puppyish young dandy who sets about
seducing the innocent Marguerite. Her subsequent pregnancy and
final religious redemption have nothing to do with the atomic-
guilt conceit, and the result is a gloopy conceptual porridge.  As is the case with many inexperienced directors, an
unworkable concept has been foisted onto a resistant score.
McAnuff-1: Gounod-0.  Robert Brill’s set comprises a pair of steel platforms and
spiral staircases at either side of the stage. It’s bare and
plain, and offers few opportunities for either intimacy or
transformational spectacle.  Toby Spence makes a vocally charming Faust, even if the
role occasionally proves too heavy for him. Melody Moore
(Marguerite) sings prettily in the middle of her voice, and then
struggles with the top notes. The usually reliable  Edward Gardner  conducts with little of the Gallic sensuousness that
 Antonio Pappano  brought to the score at the  Royal Opera  a few
years ago.  Iain Paterson (Mephistopheles) was suffering from a chest
infection at the performance I saw, and though he worked
gallantly, he had no lower register at all. Rating: **.  Ancient Actress  It’s not all gloom at ENO. Running in tandem with “Faust”
is Janacek’s “The Makropulos Case” (1926) in a production by
Christopher Alden (an experienced director, thank goodness).  The opera tells the story of Emilia Marty, an actress who
has strangely intimate knowledge of an ancient lawsuit. It
transpires that she’s really 337 years old, and is now trying to
find the formula for an elixir of youth that she had taken
centuries previously.  Amanda Roocroft (Marty) is, by turns, icy, detached,
flirtatious and desperate. Though her voice is smallish, she
invests every phrase with emotional honesty. The excellent
supporting cast includes Peter Hoare and Ashley Holland as men
drawn into Marty’s web, and Andrew Shore as a dyspeptic lawyer.
 Richard Armstrong  conducts with thrilling clarity, and works
hard not to drown Roocroft’s voice.  Alden sets the production in a stylized 1920s office
building, all glass and chrome. At times, characters behave
naturalistically, at others, they use exaggeratedly slow
gestures: It works beautifully for an opera which is as much
philosophical puzzle as character study. Rating: ***.  “Krapp’s Last Tape” is at the Duchess Theatre through
Nov. 20. Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.co.uk  or
+44-844-412-4659. “Faust” and “The Makropulos Case” are at
ENO until Oct. 16 and Oct. 5, respectively. Information:
 http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-0200.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 