-- Miliband Pledges `No Lurch to Left' After U.K. Labour Leadership Victory
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-09-26T10:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/miliband-pledges-no-lurch-to-left-after-u-k-labour-leadership-victory.html
The U.K. Labour Party’s newly
elected leader,  Ed Miliband , rejected accusations he’s in thrall
to the labor unions that secured his victory as he set out plans
to tax banks more and tackle wage “inequality.”  Miliband defeated his elder brother David by 50.65 percent
to 49.35 percent in the final round of  voting  to head the party
that  Gordon Brown  led to defeat in the May 6 election, results
announced yesterday showed. Support from organized labor ensured
Ed’s victory; he won 42 percent of union first-preference votes,
with the Daily Mail and other newspapers dubbing him “Red Ed.”  “It’s not about some lurch to the left; all these
characterizations about ‘Red Ed’ are both tiresome and
rubbish,” Miliband told  BBC 1 television’s “ Andrew Marr 
Show” today in Manchester, northwest England. “I’m nobody’s
man, I’m my own man and I’m very, very clear about that.”  Miliband used his first television interview as leader to
argue that his politics are of the center ground. He sought to
reach out to the middle classes by rejecting cuts in universal
welfare payments, while also arguing that “we can do more on
taxation from the banks” and saying he favors examining how
high executive pay increases inequality.  The new leader has just 24 days to marshal an opposition
team and prepare a strategy for attacking Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government when it outlines on Oct. 20 how
it will reduce spending to narrow a  record budget deficit . “I
am not going to oppose every cut,” he said.  Deficit Plans  Miliband said he is going to act as a “responsible”
opposition leader and that he “broadly” supports Labour’s
proposal at the election of trying to cut the deficit in half
over four years as the “right starting point.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  set out plans in
his budget in June to virtually eliminate the budget shortfall
by 2015.  “It’s for the coalition to come forward with their
proposals and I will examine them on their merits,” Miliband
said. “Deficit reduction, yes, but at a cautious pace in a way
that’s going to help our economy, not hinder it.”  Polls and bookmakers had suggested David, 45, a protege of
former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , would beat his sibling in the
five-candidate race. Ed, 40, a former aide to Brown, Blair’s
successor, benefited from Labour’s electoral system, in which he
picked up more second-preference votes.  Ed said today he hadn’t yet discussed with his brother
David what role he might play in Labour’s opposition team.  ‘Extraordinary Graciousness’  “We haven’t got to that point yet,” he said. “We’ve had
a brief chat yesterday. He’s shown extraordinary graciousness to
me both in public and in private. I love him very much. He can
make a very big contribution to British politics.”  Miliband urged “unity” and “humility” from his party
and said he wants to harness the talents of all those in Labour,
even the candidates who opposed him.  The son of Ralph Miliband, a Marxist intellectual who fled
to Britain to escape from the Nazis in 1940, Ed was educated at
Oxford University and the London School of Economics. From 1997
to 2002 he worked for Brown at the Treasury before going on a
sabbatical to the U.S. to teach economics at Harvard.  He entered Parliament in 2005, winning election in
Doncaster in northern England. He joined the Cabinet in 2007,
became energy secretary the following year and wrote Labour’s
program for this year’s election. Miliband lives in London with
his partner, Justine, and their son, and another child is due
later this year.  A poll on Sept. 21 by YouGov Plc put Cameron’s
Conservatives, the senior party in the coalition, neck and neck
with Labour at 39 percent. The party slumped to 29 percent of
the vote in May, seven points behind the Tories. The next
election is planned for 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Manchester, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 