-- Iran Confirms Worm Attack, Says Nuclear Plant Is Safe
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-09-26T11:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/iran-confirms-cyber-attack-after-industrial-computers-targeted-by-worm.html
Iran said its Bushehr nuclear power
plant is safe after confirming some of its industrial computers
have been targeted by a computer worm and that it is working to
counter the cyber-attack.  “The main systems of the Bushehr nuclear power plant have
not been damaged,” Mahmoud Jahfari, the plant’s project
manager, told the official  Islamic Republic News Agency  today.
“Investigations show that some private software of the power
plant’s employees have been contaminated.”  The cyber assault has had no impact on the operations of
the plant, Jahfari said.  The IP addresses of 30,000 computer systems infected by the
Stuxnet worm have been detected, state-run Mehr news agency
 reported  earlier, citing Mahmoud Liaii, director of the
Information Technology Council of the Ministry of Industries and
Mines. A worm is a self-replicating piece of malicious software,
or malware.  “An electronic war has been launched against Iran,” Liaii
said in the report published late yesterday. “This computer
worm is designed to transfer data about production lines from
our industrial plants to locations outside Iran.”  A worm that has infected industrial computers around the
world may be part of a campaign targeting nuclear installations
in Iran, computer-security researchers said Sept. 24. Almost 60
percent of affected systems are in Iran, according to data from
 Symantec Corp. , the computer-security software maker.  The malware’s sophisticated programming and ability to hide
itself suggest it may have been built by a government-sponsored
organization in a country such as the U.S. or Israel, said  Frank Rieger , technology chief at GSMK, a maker of encrypted mobile
phones.  Liaii said a working group, which includes representatives
from the Communications and Information Technology Ministry and
the Industries and Mines Ministry, has been set up to look into
ways to combat the worm.  Communications and Information Technology Minister  Reza Taghipour  said no “serious damage” to the country’s industrial
computer systems have so far been reported. Iranian engineers
have the expertise to counter the threat, the Mehr report cited
him as saying.  Iran is under United Nations sanctions over its nuclear
program, which the U.S. and Israel along with other allies
accuse of being a cover for the development of atomic weapons.
Iran rejects the claim and says it needs the technology for
civilian uses such as electricity generation and medical
research.  Iran inaugurated its first nuclear-power plant in the
southern province of Bushehr on Aug. 21 when it started the
process of loading fuel rods into the Russian-built plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  