-- Ireland to Outline Anglo Irish Costs to Calm Markets
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-27T06:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/ireland-prepares-to-outline-anglo-irish-costs-to-calm-markets.html
Ireland will disclose the final
expenses of bailing out  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  this week and try
to calm investors’ concern that the government may require
emergency funds from the European Union.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan , who said Sept. 22 that the
costs will be “manageable,” is scheduled to publish the latest
estimates by Oct. 1. While the state has pledged 22 billion
euros ($29.6 billion) for Anglo Irish, Standard & Poor’s says
the final bill may be 35 billion euros, equal to 20 percent of
gross domestic product.  Anglo Irish may need as much as 7 billion euros of
additional capital in a worst case scenario, said two people
with knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified
before an official announcement. The extra yield that investors
demand to hold Irish bonds over German bunds surged to a record
last week as investors fret about the country’s ability to cap
the cost of its bank bailout and cut the budget deficit as the
economy shrinks.  “The government needs to do something urgently to re-
gain the love of the market,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
European Economist  Erik Nielsen  said in a note yesterday.
“Without it I think they might end up needing help next year.”  Bankrolling Real Estate  The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond  has jumped 124 basis
points since Aug. 10, when the European Commission allowed the
government to pump extra funds into Anglo Irish. The bank, whose
market value exceeded 10 billion euros in 2006, bankrolled many
of the country’s property developers during Ireland’s decade-
long real-estate boom using cash borrowed on international
markets.  Ireland’s government may seek talks with holders of 4
billion euros worth of senior debt in Anglo Irish, the Sunday
Times reported yesterday, without citing anyone. The government
may seek to buy back the debt at a discount or offer to swap the
debt for equity in a new asset recovery bank being created by a
split of the lender, the newspaper said.  Ireland’s Finance Ministry said it’s “incorrect” to say
the government has “adopted” the approach toward Anglo Irish’s
senior debt laid out by the Sunday Times yesterday.  The government also may seek to buy back 2.4 billion euros
of Anglo Irish subordinated debt at a discount of as much as 90
percent, the paper said.  ‘Some Squeeze’  “There will be some squeeze” for Anglo bondholders, Dick
Roche, a junior minister said in a interview with Dublin RTE
broadcaster yesterday.  “Clarity” on the bank bailout and budget will help Irish
spreads narrow,  Oliver Whelan , head of funding at the National
Treasury Management Agency, told reporters last week. “Markets
like certainty and stability.”  Once the banks are shored up, the government will seek to
narrow the deficit, which at 14 percent of gross domestic
product was the highest in the euro region last year. Lenihan
plans to narrow the deficit to 3 percent by the end of 2014.  “Tax revenues are stabilizing, public expenditures are
under control and our budget deficit will shrink next year,”
Lenihan told reporters on Sept. 24. “The recovery is still at a
tentative stage and is likely to be uneven.”  John Curran, a lawmaker for the ruling Fianna Fail, said
Sept. 24 there’ll be cuts of at least 3 billion euros in the
2011 budget, due to be announced in December.  ‘Deeper Hole’  “The government can choose to dig the country out of a
hole or dig it into an ever deeper hole,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan ,
a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA in Paris.
“It’s a question of political leadership, taking the difficult
decisions on the deficit. Otherwise Ireland is hurtling towards
disaster.”  Ireland has pumped more than 30 billion euros into the
country’s banks, after introducing a guarantee for all deposits
and most bank securities in September 2008 to stave off a
collapse of the financial system. That guarantee is due to last
until Sept. 29.  On that day, the parliament will vote on extending the
Eligible Liabilities Guarantee, which has allowed banks since
January to issue bonds of up to five years in duration. That
program is being extended to include short-term corporate and
interbank deposits.  The ELG is subject to review every six months and is
scheduled to expire at the end of the year. About 4 billion
euros of senior Anglo Irish debt loses the guarantee this week.  “The market needs absolute clarity,” said  Cathal O’Leary ,
head of fixed-income sales at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“Investors need to see a number for Anglo and they need to be
convinced that it’s the final, final number.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  