-- This Time Different Calling Trough as NBER Sees Not Much Rebound
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-09-26T23:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/this-time-different-declaring-recession-end-as-nber-sees-not-much-rebound.html
 The panel of U.S. economists that
calls the beginnings and ends of recessions may be a lot busier
in the coming decade than it was in the past quarter century.  The average time between contractions might fall back
toward its long-term average of about every four years compared
with about eight years during the past two decades, said  Robert C. Doll , chief equity strategist for  BlackRock Inc.  in New York,
which oversaw about $3.15 trillion at the end of March.  “The cyclical recovery is under way now, but more
recessions are down the line,” Doll said. While he says he’s
buying  U.S. stocks  because he doubts the economy will relapse in
the immediate future, he is betting returns in the next decade
will fall short of their traditional average gains of about 12
percent.  This rebound “is very different from other cycles,
especially 1981-82, when  employment  had grown vigorously by this
time in the recovery,” said  Robert Hall , a Stanford University
economics professor who heads the National Bureau of Economic
Research’s Business Cycle Dating Committee. “An important
reason is that changes in the financial system resulting from
the crisis, a factor absent in recoveries since the Depression,
have hindered expansion” by limiting the supply of credit.  The worst recession since the 1930s ended in June 2009, the
committee said on Sept. 20. At the same time, the panel “did
not conclude that economic conditions since that month have been
favorable or that the economy has returned to operating at
normal capacity,” according to a  statement .  Reluctant Lenders  Consumers are cutting back on spending to  reduce debt  and
build savings, and banks are reluctant to lend, while policy
makers have little room to assist growth because they’ve cut
interest rates to near zero and pushed budget deficits to record
highs.  Such imbalances leave economies that rely on leverage and
credit such as the U.S. less resilient to shocks, making them
“unusually vulnerable to the risk of recessions” at a time
when their economic growth is already near “stall speed,” said
 Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive officer at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., which had
more than $1.1 trillion of assets as of June 30.  Even investors with well-diversified portfolios and
appropriate risk-management techniques can expect greater
volatility, with returns shrinking to between 3 percent and 5
percent in the current economic cycle compared with 6 percent to
8 percent historically, El-Erian said.  Hunkering Down  His outlook was borne out in a quarterly poll this month of
1,408 global investors, analysts and traders who subscribe to
Bloomberg. More than 40 percent of those surveyed are still
hunkering down, while one in three is taking on more risk. The
rest said they are returning to normal.  Lakshman Achuthan , managing director of the Economic Cycle
Research Institute in New York, predicts “cyclical
instability” in the U.S., with the next recession starting
before employment has fully recovered. The  jobless rate  has
stalled at or above 9.5 percent for more than a year, compared
with a pre-recession average of 4.6 percent in 2007.  Given these conditions, stock investors should be wary of
pursuing a buy-and-hold strategy, Achuthan said.  “Major equity bear markets are associated with recessions,
so it follows that if there are more frequent recessions, there
would also be more cyclical bear markets,” he said. That will
“demand the ability to ride the cycle in both directions.”  Companies that may be able to cope are those with exposure
to emerging markets, which are now better able to withstand
slowdowns in major economies, said  Ian Richards , an equity
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  Asian Demand  Athletic-shoe maker Nike Inc. in Beaverton, Oregon, and
Atlanta-based United Parcel Service Inc., the world’s biggest
package-delivery company, are among U.S. businesses that cite
demand from Asian nations as helping profits this year.  “When you look at the demographics of Asia, the
undeveloped nature of their consumers and their lack of
leverage, you have a structural-growth story,” Richards said.
“Companies able to exploit that are well-positioned to manage
lower and more volatile growth domestically.”  Frequent recessions once were the norm in the  U.S. , which
had 19 in the 90 years until 1990 and only three since,
according to the NBER. The recovery from the contraction that
began in December 2007 has lost momentum, with growth slowing to
an annualized 1.6 percent in the second quarter from 3.7 percent
in the first and 5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009,
according to the Commerce Department in Washington.  ‘Negative Shock’  “If an economy’s growing at 4 percent, it can live with a
negative shock,” Harvard University professor  Martin Feldstein ,
a member of the NBER’s business-cycle committee, said in an Aug.
27 interview. “If it’s stuck at 1 to 2 percent, then a negative
shock can easily push it into recession territory.”  The U.S. government’s debt burden might intensify such a
push. The deficit will reach $1.47 trillion, or 10 percent of
gross domestic product, this year and $1.42 trillion, or 9.2
percent of GDP, in fiscal 2011, which begins Oct. 1, the White
House Office of Management and Budget  projected  in July.  Among consumers, the ratio of U.S. household debt to
disposable income was 118 percent in the second quarter, above
the 30-year average of 90 percent, according to data from the
Federal Reserve and the Commerce Department.  The need to pare such liabilities typically hampers
expansion and leaves economies more vulnerable to events such as
an oil-price spike, said  Carmen Reinhart , a professor at the
University of Maryland in College Park and co-author of a recent
study warning that the U.S. and other developed nations face
another seven years of weak growth and high unemployment.  ‘Great Repercussions’  “Small shocks can have great repercussions” for countries
that are “highly leveraged,” said Reinhart, who co-wrote the
2009 book “This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial
Folly” with  Kenneth Rogoff , a Harvard professor.  The credit crisis also ended a period of financial
deregulation and innovation that smoothed economic performance
even as it lay the groundwork for asset bubbles that later hurt
economies when they burst, said  Neal Soss , chief economist in
New York at Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc.  Now, banks are proving less willing to provide loans, and
regulators are forcing them to hold more capital. Financial
institutions worldwide have logged writedowns and losses
totaling $1.8 trillion since the crisis began in 2007, according
to Bloomberg data.  “There’s not going to be as much access to credit to
absorb shocks,” said Soss, a former Fed economist. When they do
occur, “they’ll be delivered to the body of the economy, and
recessions will be more frequent and possibly more severe.”  Rate Support  To compensate, U.S. central bankers will need to provide
support through low interest rates “for a very long time,”
Soss said. He predicts the Fed will keep its  benchmark rate  for
overnight loans among banks near zero through 2011.  The nightmare scenario is that the U.S. repeats Japan’s
 recent history . Having suffered 10 recessions in the four
decades before 1991, it has fallen into four since then as it
struggled to regain momentum after the 1980s asset bubble burst.
That has thwarted recoveries in the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average ,
which has failed to sustain rallies above 20,000, almost half
its 1989 peak. The average stood at 9,471.67 at the 3 p.m. close
on Sept. 24 in Tokyo, and the economy remains plagued by
deflation.  The lesson is that authorities shouldn’t take early signs
of a recovery for granted and must tackle their financial
imbalances as they inject stimulus to restore growth, said
 Kenneth Kang , an International Monetary Fund economist in
Washington and co-author of a  December 2009 study  of Japan.  ‘Vulnerable’ Economy  “The financial weaknesses in Japan left its  economy  very
vulnerable,” Kang said. “Macro stimulus can help but can only
provide a supportive environment for restructuring. I can see
the argument that as long as financial weaknesses remain,
economies are more vulnerable to shocks, and this could lead to
more frequent recessions.”  John Lipsky , the IMF’s No. 2 official, says he doubts
economies such as the U.S. will suffer more regular recessions,
in part because policy makers have learned from past mistakes
and are now better adept at supporting recoveries, he said. New
demand from developing countries also will counterbalance weaker
domestic expansion in richer nations, said Harvard professor
 Niall Ferguson .  “The growth of Asia and other emerging markets like  Brazil 
is the plus side of the story,” Ferguson said in a Sept. 3
“Global Connection” interview on Bloomberg Television. “It’s
not, I think, time to get out the arsenic and plan a suicide.”  Modest Cycles  More frequent recessions would nevertheless confirm an end
to the  Great Moderation , a period economists hail for its modest
business cycles. That’s no surprise to  James Stock , the Harvard
economist who coined the term and views the era as the result
more of luck than a paradigm shift.  “It’s clear we’re in a situation where there is more
fluidity and uncertainty than there was in the 1990s or 2000s,”
Stock, also a member of the NBER committee, said in an Aug. 27
interview. “I do see substantial risks of increased volatility
going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  