-- Israel Interest Rate Hold May Push Shekel, Yields Lower, Barclays Says
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-09-26T13:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/israel-interest-rate-hold-may-push-shekel-yields-lower-barclays-says.html
Government bond yields will fall
and the shekel weaken if the Bank of Israel keeps interest rates
on hold tomorrow, according to Barclays Capital, because most
analysts forecast a 25 basis-point increase.  “The currency has strengthened in recent days, and the
yield curve has shifted up on expectations of a rate hike,”
 Daniel Hewitt , a London-based senior economist at Barclays,
wrote in a note. “If the Bank of Israel raises rates as
expected, there will not be much effect. If the Bank of Israel
does not raise rates, the currency could weaken and yields could
drop.”  Central Bank Governor  Stanley Fischer  is likely to raise the
rate to 2 percent, according to 12 of 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The other four expect a hold. The decision by the
Jerusalem-based bank will be announced at 5:30 p.m. local time
on Sept. 27.  Fischer has raised the key interest rate by 1.25 percentage
points in the past 12 months as the economy recovers from the
impact of the worst global recession since the Great Depression.
At the same time, inflation has eased from 3.5 percent a year
ago to 1.8 percent last month, within the government’s 1 percent
to 3 percent target.  The shekel, which gained 0.9 percent versus the dollar to a
an eight-month high of 3.6651 per dollar on Sept. 24, has
strengthened 6.1 percent this quarter as bets the global economy
is recovering spur investor appetite for riskier currencies.  The yield on the government’s benchmark Mimshal Shiklit
note due January 2020 fell four basis points to 4.46 percent as
of the close in Tel Aviv. The yield has gained 25 basis points
this month as traders gear up for an interest rate increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  