-- Netanyahu Urges Jewish Settler Restraint as Construction Freeze Nears End
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-09-26T21:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/israel-s-barak-returns-from-u-s-with-no-freeze-accord-army-radio-reports.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
urged Jewish settlers to show restraint as a 10-month moratorium
on construction in their West Bank communities neared its end.  Netanyahu made the request as Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  returned from New York, where he had been involved in
talks aimed at finding a compromise with Palestinian leaders on
the building. Barak traveled back without resolving the
deadlock, Army Radio said, without saying where it got the
information.  Palestinians have said they may abandon peace talks started
earlier this month in Washington if Israel doesn’t extend the
moratorium. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has said
the government doesn’t plan to continue the freeze. Ahead of the
deadline at midnight local time or 6 p.m. in New York, the U.S.
had stepped up efforts to pressure the sides to compromise.  “The parties are still working, they’re still talking,”
White House adviser  David Axelrod  said on ABC’s “This Week”
program. “We are going to urge and urge and push throughout
this day to get some kind of resolution.”  Netanyahu’s chief negotiator,  Yitzhak Molcho , was meeting
with his Palestinian counterpart,  Saeb Erakat , in New York, the
Palestine Liberation Organization’s negotiation department in
Ramallah said in a statement.  Mutual Understanding  Barak said in an interview with the British Broadcasting
Corp. before departing: “I think the chance of achieving a
mutually agreed understanding about the moratorium is 50-50.”  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said in a
speech to the UN General Assembly yesterday that Israel must
“choose between peace and the continuation of settlements.”  Nabil Shaath , a Palestinian negotiator, said top Arab
diplomats would meet in Cairo next week to discuss the peace
process. Shaath spoke by phone from Paris, where Abbas is
scheduled to meet French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  tomorrow.  More than 2,000 West Bank homes have the necessary approval
for construction, according to  Peace Now , a Tel Aviv-based group
that opposes settlement building.  Barak’s spokesman traveled with him and was not available
for immediate comment on the Army Radio report. Netanyahu’s
spokesman,  Mark Regev , declined to comment.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke twice today with
Netanyahu, spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said today in a
statement.  “We keep pushing for the talks to continue,” Crowley
said. Another statement is possible later today, he said.  Clinton also spoke to former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair , who serves as an international special envoy to the
Middle East, Crowley said.  ‘Playing Brinkmanship’  “Both sides are playing brinkmanship and of course
brinkmanship is played right down to the brink,” said  Jonathan Spyer , a political scientist at Interdisciplinary Center
Herzliya.  Netanyahu called on Jewish settlers and politicians to
“display restraint and responsibility” ahead of the freeze’s
end, his spokesman Nir Hefez said in a statement. Likud lawmaker
 Danny Danon  led a rally in the West Bank settlement of Revava
after laying a cornerstone for a nursery school in the
settlement of Kiryat Netafim. Organizers estimated that about
2,000 people participated.  Environment Minister  Gilad Erdan , a Likud member, said the
prime minister wouldn’t have a Cabinet majority to extend the
freeze.  Talks Frozen  The construction moratorium was declared by Netanyahu to
restart peace talks, which were frozen for 20 months after
Israel waged a military offensive in the Gaza Strip it said was
aimed at stopping militants from firing rockets at southern
towns and cities. Netanyahu said housing construction would be
stopped in West Bank settlements, excluding some 3,000 homes
that already received government approval, as well as some
public buildings.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The
United Nations says settlements are illegal and the
International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. Obama has said they aren’t legitimate.  Israel says settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 