-- Israel Must Choose Peace or Settlements, Palestinians' Abbas Says at UN
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-09-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/israel-must-choose-peace-or-settlements-palestinians-abbas-says-at-un.html
Israel must “choose between peace
and the continuation of settlements,” Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  said in a speech at the United Nations
in which he pledged continued support for U.S. mediation.  “We affirm our complete readiness to cooperate with the
American efforts for the success of the political process to
reach a comprehensive, just and lasting peace,” Abbas said.  The Palestinian leader’s speech yesterday came amid
stepped-up U.S. efforts to get both sides to agree on a
compromise that will ensure direct talks don’t collapse.  A West Bank settlement-construction freeze expires tomorrow
and Abbas has threatened to break off negotiations with Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  begun on Sept. 2 if building
resumes. He didn’t repeat that threat yesterday.  “My thought throughout has been that it is unlikely talks
will break down at this stage because of the amount of political
capital the U.S. put into these talks,” said  Jonathan Spyer , a
political scientist at Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, near
Tel Aviv. A compromise will likely “emerge that will be
somewhere between renewing the moratorium in its entirety and
abandoning the moratorium entirely,” he said.  Abbas-Mitchell Meeting  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Abbas met for
25 minutes last night while U.S. special envoy  George Mitchell 
met with him yesterday for 30 minutes, according to State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley .  “We remain engaged with both sides,” Crowley said in a
message posted on Twitter.  President  Barack Obama  on Sept. 23 urged Israel to extend
the building moratorium in areas claimed by the Palestinians to
keep the peace effort going.  “These discussions are pretty intense right now,”
Assistant Secretary for Near East Affairs  Jeffrey Feltman  told
reporters Feb. 24. “We do not like the idea of seeing either
side try to walk out of talks when negotiations should lead to
the solution that works for all.”  Israeli negotiator  Yitzhak Molcho  has extended his stay in
the U.S. to continue talks, according to a senior Israeli
official, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record. Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  extended his stay in the U.S., Israel Radio
and Channel Two television reported.  Settlement Construction  “Our demands for the cessation of settlement activities,
the lifting of the siege and an end to all other illegal Israeli
policies and practices do not constitute pre-conditions that are
alien to the peace process,” Abbas said at the UN.  “Israel’s implementation of these obligations and
commitments will lead to the creation of the necessary
environment for the success of the negotiations and will give
credibility to the pledge to implement the final agreement
reached,” the Palestinian leader said.  The end of the settlement-building moratorium might mean
the start of construction on at least 2,066 housing units that
have the necessary permits, according to a survey by Peace Now,
a Tel Aviv-based group that opposes settlement construction.  Tractors and work crews are poised to start building a new
neighborhood on the terraced southern slope of Israel’s Neriah
settlement in the West Bank, about five miles from the
Palestinian Authority’s headquarters.  Excavating the lots and pouring cement foundations for 70
homes will begin unless the Defense Ministry withholds needed
permission, according to Neriah Council Chairman Doron Ben-
Yehuda.  The decision on settlements is a “major factor in
determining the intentions of the Israeli side and its level of
commitment to making the negotiations a success,” Egypt’s
Foreign Minister  Ahmed Abou Gheit  told the General Assembly
yesterday. “If Israel fails in its commitment to continue the
freeze of settlement activity then it would expose the
negotiating process to collapse and it would shoulder the full
responsibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net 
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 