-- Japan's Five-Year Notes Fall as Stock Gains Curb Demand for Safer Assets
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-09-27T07:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/japan-s-government-bonds-may-fall-for-1st-time-in-four-days-on-stock-gains.html
Japan’s five-year  notes  fell for
the first time in a week as a rally in stocks around the world
damped demand for the relative safety of government debt.  Five-year  yields  climbed from near a two-week low after a
U.S. report showed orders for capital equipment rose more than
economists forecast, adding to signs the world’s largest economy
is recovering. Bond losses were limited after the Finance
Ministry said Japanese exports grew at the slowest pace this
year as a stronger yen threatened to undermine the economy.  “Japan’s bond market is being damped as stocks are
gaining,” said  Naomi Hasegawa , a senior debt strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“Investors are refraining from moving before the end of the
fiscal first half because doing so alters their earnings results
that are being calculated.” Japan’s first half ends Sept. 30.  The  yield  on the five-year note rose one basis point to
0.29 percent as of 3:18 p.m. at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 0.4 percent
security due September 2015 fell 0.049 yen to 100.539 yen.  The 10-year yield was unchanged at 0.995 percent and has
added two basis points since Aug. 31, set for the first monthly
increase in six. Ten-year bond futures for December delivery
dropped 0.05 to 142.83 at the close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average rose 1.4 percent. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbed 2.1 percent on Sept. 24 after the U.S.
Commerce Department said bookings for capital equipment climbed
4.1 percent in August, surpassing the 3 percent growth forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Exports Slow  The decline in bonds was tempered as Japan’s export figures
fueled speculation the central bank will buy more debt to help
keep borrowing costs low.  The Bank of Japan is “ready to implement appropriate
action in a timely manner if judged necessary,” Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  said yesterday at a forum on monetary
economics held in Kobe, western Japan. “We have to pay more
attention than before to downside risk to the economy.”  Exports increased 15.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, the Finance Ministry said today in Tokyo, less than the
19 percent gain predicted by economist surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Speculation about the Bank of Japan’s additional easing
is supporting the bond market,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps
oversee about $17 billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “If the central bank aggressively buys
bonds, their yields will fall initially.”  Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s administration will aim to avoid
increasing bond issuance as it considers an economic stimulus
package, a government official said. The package may total as
much as 4.6 trillion yen ($55 billion), the official said.  The  Finance Ministry  will sell 2.6 trillion yen in two-year
notes tomorrow. Primary dealers, which are required to bid at
government debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds in case
prices decline before they can pass on the new securities to
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 