-- West Bank Construction Resumes in Ariel After Freeze Ends
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-09-26T23:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/netanyahu-urges-jewish-settler-restraint-as-construction-freeze-nears-end.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  urged Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  to
press forward with peace talks after a 10-month partial
moratorium on building in the West Bank came to an end.  “I hope that President Abbas will continue the talks and
continue with me the path to peace that we began three weeks
ago,” Netanyahu said in a text message sent to journalists from
his office.  Palestinian negotiator  Nabil Shaath  said, speaking by phone
before the end of the moratorium, that his side “will judge by
what happens on the ground.” Top Arab diplomats will meet in
Cairo next week to discuss the future of the peace process, said
Shaath.  Palestinians  have said they may abandon peace talks that
started earlier this month in Washington if Israel doesn’t
extend the moratorium. Netanyahu has said his government doesn’t
plan to continue the freeze.  Naftali Bennett , the director-general of the Yesha Council,
which represents some 300,000 Israelis living in West Bank
settlements, said construction would be “ramped up gradually.”
He said settlers had the necessary permits to build about 1,500
homes, adding that the government could halt further building by
denying approval.  White House adviser  David Axelrod  said yesterday that the
U.S. was “urging and urging” the sides to find a way around
the dispute.  ‘Pivotal Juncture’  ‘We’re at a pivotal juncture in that region,” Axelrod said
on ABC’s “This Week” program. “It’s important for Israel.
It’s important for the Palestinians. And we think it’s essential
that they keep on moving forward.”  Chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  met with his
Israeli counterpart  Yitzhak Molcho  in New York yesterday, the
Palestine Liberation Organization’s Negotiation Department said
in a statement.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke yesterday
with Netanyahu and former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair , who
serves as an international special envoy to the Middle East,
State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said.  “We keep pushing for the talks to continue,” Crowley said
in a statement.  Erakat Meeting  Special Mideast envoy  George Mitchell  and Assistant
Secretary of State  Jeff Feltman  conferred with Erakat yesterday
afternoon in New York, the State Department said.  In his statement today, Netanyahu said he had made clear in
talks with Clinton, Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and
Jordanian  King Abdullah  that he is ready to continue
uninterrupted contacts over the next few days to find a way to
allow peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians to
continue.  “My message to President Abbas is, for the future of our
two peoples, let’s focus on what is really important. Let’s
continue accelerated, honest, nonstop talks in order to reach a
historic framework for a peace agreement in a year,” Netanyahu
said.  Netanyahu yesterday urged Jewish settlers to “display
restraint and responsibility” ahead of the freeze’s end, his
spokesman Nir Hefez said in a statement.  Israeli Woman Wounded  An Israeli woman was lightly wounded after gunmen in the
West Bank opened fire on two cars driving near the Palestinian
town of Hebron, an army spokesman said by phone, speaking
anonymously according to regulations.  “Israel hasn’t extended the settlement freeze but also
hasn’t declared a new settlement expansion,” said Mkhaimar
Abusada, a political scientist at Al-Azhar University in Gaza
City. “Therefore Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  is going
to have to wait and see.”  Israeli lawmaker  Danny Danon , a member of Netanyahu’s Likud
party, led a rally in the West Bank settlement of Revava after
laying a cornerstone for a nursery school in the settlement of
Kiryat Netafim. Organizers estimated that about 2,000 people
participated.  The freeze, declared by Netanyahu in November in what he
said was a bid to bring Palestinians to the negotiating table,
excluded some 3,000 homes as well as some public buildings.  Clinton, who joined Netanyahu and Abbas for the second
round of direct talks this month in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, and
Jerusalem, met with Abbas on Sept. 24. U.S. Middle East envoy
 George Mitchell  met Abbas the following day.  “Something will be cobbled together,”  Jonathan Spyer , a
political scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya
outside Tel Aviv, said about a compromise. “They may take a few
days. September 26 is not a date written in stone.”  Cabinet Majority  Environment Minister  Gilad Erdan , a Likud member, said on
Sept. 25 that the prime minister wouldn’t have a Cabinet
majority to extend the freeze and urged the Palestinians not to
use construction in the settlements as an excuse to abandon
talks.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The
United Nations says settlements are illegal and the
International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. Obama has said they aren’t legitimate.  Israel says settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 