-- New Delhi Residents Flee Games `Fiasco' as Visitors Avoid City
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2010-09-27T11:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/new-delhi-residents-flee-commonwealth-games-fiasco-as-visitors-stay-away.html
New Delhi travel agent  Hi! Tours
India Pvt.  is offering residents a package designed especially
for the Commonwealth Games hosted next month in the capital.
It’s called “The Commonwealth Escape.”  Hi! Tours and  Magical Journeys Pvt.  are targeting Delhiites
who want to miss the games and avoid the traffic snarls, crowds
and security after a slew of bad publicity. The run up to the
12-day event, involving 8,000 athletes and officials, has been
marred by allegations of mismanagement, a dengue fever outbreak,
flooding, the shooting of two Taiwanese nationals, and the
collapse of a footbridge leading to the main stadium.  “We came up with the idea of Commonwealth getaways as we
thought it would be best to escape the fiasco, madness and mess
of the games,” said Niranjan Senapaty of Magical Journeys,
which is selling trips to Hong Kong Disney Land, Macau and Goa.  The games, meant to showcase India as a growing economic
superpower, have been criticized as the most expensive ever by
the government auditor, in a nation where the World Bank  says 
828 million people live on less than $2 a day. Organizers
overshot their budget ninefold, spending at least $4.6 billion
upgrading stadiums, refurbishing roads and building power and
water utilities. The government spent $2.7 billion more on a new
airport terminal.  Games Probe  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said on Jan. 26 that
the event would show how his country “is rapidly marching ahead
with confidence.” He has now ordered a probe into preparations
for the quadrennial Games, which run from Oct. 3 to Oct. 14 and
involve athletes mainly from the U.K. and its former colonies
and dependencies.  The city’s residents aren’t the only ones that could be
driven away by the issues surrounding the games. The failures
may also deter investors,  Matt Robinson , a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in Sydney, said in a Sept. 24 note.  “The negative publicity could deter foreign investment and
give multinational businesses considering expanding in India
reason to think twice,” Robinson wrote.  New Delhi resident Vibhu Sehgal is one of those voting with
his feet. He’s taking a vacation with family and friends to
India’s desert state of Rajasthan during the games.  ‘Lost Interest’  “Delhiites have lost interest in the games,” he said.
“It’s like a wet blanket now with all the mess around it.”  Sehgal took four hours to commute from New Delhi to the
suburb of Gurgaon during a trial run when a lane was blocked off
for games vehicles. The journey usually takes an hour and a half.
“They have already shown us a preview of what we are in for.”  Graphic designer Anand Prakash, a Gurgaon resident, also
plans to take a holiday during the first two weeks of October,
heading to Kasauli, a hill station 274 kilometers (170 miles) to
the north of the city.  Outbound travel queries for October from New Delhi have
jumped 27 percent over the same month a year ago, said  Keyur Joshi , co-founder of Nasdaq-listed  MakeMyTrip Ltd. , India’s
largest online travel company.  India’s  Central Vigilance Commission , which investigates
corruption in government projects, is examining seven complaints
about procurement, and is overseeing 16 games-related
construction projects totaling 23.2 billion rupees ($508
million), the commission said on Sept. 22 in response to a
question from Bloomberg News.  Bridge Collapse  The footbridge collapsed on Sept. 21 near the Jawaharlal
Nehru Stadium, home to the opening and closing ceremonies and
athletics events, injuring several people. After the shooting,
near the city’s biggest mosque, Australia, the U.K. and Canada
issued travel advisories on concern about terrorism. The games
have sold only about 200,000 tickets compared with an earlier
target of 1.7 million,  Suresh Kalmadi , chairman of the
organizing committee, said last week.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. , which runs Le
Meridien in New Delhi, cut room rates by 20 percent from their
peak because of a lack of demand, said Meena Bhatia, vice
president for operations and marketing at the hotel.  “We could have attracted a lot more tourists to witness
the games -- fans, families,” she said. “That’s not happened
and that’s attributed to the kind of publicity the games have
drawn in the last couple of months.”  No Timeline  Prime Minister Singh on Sept. 23 summoned ministers and set
a 24-hour deadline for the completion of cleanup work at the
games village and venues. Commonwealth Games Federation chief
Mike Fennell told reporters in New Delhi on Sept. 25 that a
“lot of work” has been done and efforts are still continuing,
while Kalmadi assured  “safe and good” games.  Sheila Dikshit , the chief minister of New Delhi, told
reporters today that lifts were not working and water had to be
removed from basements of buildings at the village. “I will not
give you any timeline,” she said.  The  Times of India  newspaper today published a front-page
photograph of a cobra snake rescued from the event’s tennis
stadium in the south of the Indian capital. South Africa’s high
commissioner to India said a snake had been found yesterday in a
room allocated to one of the country’s athletes.  The delays and controversies haven’t helped  The East End
Retreat , a bed & breakfast accommodation near the games village,
which has received no bookings for October, said owner Kamal
Kumar Gulati. The five-room lodging was set up for visitors to
the games after government encouragement.  Pradeep Kalra, senior vice president at  Sarovar Hotels and
Resorts , which opened two hotels in New Delhi with a combined
180 rooms in time for the games, said the event has been a “big
letdown.”  “Eight months ago, all of us in the hotel industry thought
we’d make a killing, but that isn’t the case,” Kalra said.
“Rates are back to normal, and now we’re keeping our fingers
crossed and hoping we survive this.”  Instead, travel agents are getting demand for outbound
traffic. As an internet ad by New Delhi-based Hi! Tours puts it:
“The schools are out, the traffic is at a gridlock, the city
will be crowded -- What are u to do? Take a trip.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  