-- Penta Investment Likely to Sell Fortuna Gaming Co. on Market, People Say
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2010-09-26T18:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/penta-investment-likely-to-sell-fortuna-gaming-co-on-market-people-say.html
Penta Investments, a Czech and
Slovak investment company, is nearing a decision to sell shares
in its betting chain Fortuna, two people with the knowledge of
the transaction said.  The investment firm will probably reveal its plans for the
sale in coming days, said the people, who declined to be
identified because they are not authorized to discuss the plans.
A minority stake as an initial public offering may be sold to
investors on the Prague and Warsaw exchanges, although they
declined to comment on the precise timing of a sale.  Penta Investment Director Jozef Janov declined to comment
on the investment company’s plans. Fortuna officials have
repeatedly declined comment on all plans relating to the sale by
their owners.  Founded in 1994 as a stock brokerage, Penta moved into
private equity investments in 2000. It controls about 30
companies, including retail chain Zabka Polska SA and Aero
Vodochody, a Czech aircraft producer. Penta has 2.7 billion
euros ($3.63 billion) of total assets, according to its website.  Fortuna Entertainment Group  is active in the Czech
Republic, Poland, Hungary and Slovakia and has been expanding
beyond outlets into internet gaming and owner-owned franchises.
It reported consolidated sales of 2.2 billion euros last year.  Penta officials had been mulling different possibilities
over the past months, including selling a stake to a strategic
investor.  Fortuna, which was started in 1991 after the end of
Communism in 1989, and a Slovak unit were sold to Penta in 2005
and later combined with a Polish gaming company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lenka Ponikelska  in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  