-- Treasury Said to Prepare AIG Exit, Repayment Plan
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 2010-09-27T20:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/treasury-said-to-ready-plan-to-sell-aig-stake-recoup-taxpayer-investment.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department may
announce plans as early as this week to return  American
International Group Inc . to independence and recoup taxpayer
money from the insurer’s bailout, according to three people with
knowledge of the talks.  The biggest part of that strategy is for Treasury to begin
converting its $49 billion preferred stake into common stock for
sales by the first half of next year, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the negotiations are private.
The timing of an announcement depends on the pace of talks
between regulators and the New York-based insurer, and
discussions may extend beyond this week, the people said.  The government is seeking to dispose of its AIG stake as
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, prepares
divestitures of two non-U.S. divisions that he said would
largely repay the firm’s  Federal Reserve  credit line.  MetLife
Inc . said this month its purchase of American Life Insurance
Co., for about $15.5 billion, is “on track” to be completed on
Nov. 1. AIG may hold an initial public offering of another
business, AIA Group Ltd., in October.  The insurer’s objective is to “repay the taxpayers and
position AIG, over time, as a strong, independent company worthy
of investor confidence,” said Mark Herr, a spokesman for the
firm. “We have been in discussions with the U.S. Treasury, the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and trustees of the AIG Trust
over the terms of the government’s exit from AIG.”  Stock Gain  AIG jumped 66 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $37.13, at 4:01
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  The insurer and its government overseers are set to discuss
terms of the exit strategy by Sept. 29 and may issue a statement
after that meeting, said one of the people.  Mark Paustenbach , a
Treasury spokesman, and  Jack Gutt  of the New York Fed declined
to comment.  AIG would be required to hold at least a 30 percent stake
in AIA for the first year after the Asian unit’s listing,
according to a preliminary IPO document sent to fund managers
today. AIA shares are slated to start trading on the Hong Kong
stock exchange on Oct. 29.  Hong Kong-based AIA will probably boost pretax operating
profit to at least $2 billion for the fiscal year ending Nov.
30, AIG disclosed Sept. 25 after providing the forecast to
certain analysts.  Last to Repay  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, was first rescued in
September 2008 by the Federal Reserve. After three revisions,
the firm’s $182.3 billion lifeline includes a Fed credit
facility, a Treasury investment of as much as $69.8 billion and
up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked assets owned or
backed by AIG.  The company, which in addition to the Treasury’s preferred
stake owes about $20 billion on the Fed credit line, is the only
insurer yet to repay its Troubled Asset Relief Program rescue
funds. Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. and  Lincoln
National Corp . repaid their bailouts, and this month Treasury
raised more than $900 million selling warrants in the companies.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last week that
the U.S. would “largely get the taxpayers’ money back” from
TARP. Estimates for losses on the $700 billion program are
shrinking, Geithner said, citing a Congressional Budget Office
estimate that TARP would cost $66 billion, compared with $105
billion in an earlier Treasury report.  ‘Significant Dilution’  AIG gained about 24 percent in New York Stock Exchange
trading this year. It slipped 4.5 percent last year and plunged
97 percent in 2008, the year writedowns tied to soured housing-
market bets forced the insurer to take a rescue.  AIG’s plan to gain independence “could result in the
issuance of a large number of additional shares of AIG common
stock,” the company said in the Aug. 6 filing. The new
securities “could result in significant dilution to AIG’s
current shareholders,” the firm said.  The government’s exit from AIG could be modeled after that
of New York-based  Citigroup Inc ., in which the government sold
shares through a set trading program, Benmosche has said.
Citigroup is still 18 percent owned by Treasury.  AIG’s trustees, a three-person panel, wield the
government’s almost 80 percent stake in the insurer and control
votes on asset sales, mergers and the selection of top
executives.  Treasury added two members to AIG’s board of directors this
year under an agreement that allowed for the appointments if the
company skipped dividend payments on the government’s preferred
shares for four straight quarters.  The entire proceeds from the AIA share sale will go to AIA
Aurora LLC, an AIG special purpose vehicle, to pay down
preference units with a liquidation value of $16 billion owned
by the New York Fed, said another preliminary IPO document sent
to fund managers and seen by Bloomberg today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  