-- Record Ruble Bond Sales Spur Hiring by Deutsche Bank, HSBC: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-09-27T10:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/record-ruble-bond-sales-lure-deutsche-bank-hsbc-russia-credit.html
The biggest increase in ruble bond
sales is spurring underwriters from Deutsche Bank AG to HSBC
Holdings Plc to recruit bankers to help manage issues for the
first time in at least two years as Russia’s economy rebounds.  Deutsche Bank, which was the No. 7 ruble bond underwriter
in 2007 and last organized a sale in 2008, said last week it
hired  Ksenia Lebedeva  from Credit Europe Bank Ltd. in Moscow to
lead a new local debt origination team. HSBC may recruit a ruble
debt origination team for the first time, said  Oleg Desh , who
joined last month as head of debt capital markets and
derivatives origination in Moscow, a newly created role.  While sales of foreign-currency bonds by Russian borrowers
have dropped 27 percent from 2008, issuance in rubles has jumped
36 percent to a record 524 billion rubles ($17.1 billion), twice
the amount of local debt sales in Brazil or Mexico, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Confidence in local debt is growing
as the oil-led economic rebound reduces exchange rate swings to
3.3 percent year-on-year from more than 20 percent in 2009.  “Local currency bonds are the most exciting fixed-income
market in Russia,” said  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-
markets research in London at Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-
biggest bank. “This increase in issuance of ruble bonds is a
trend that’s going to keep on running.”  VTB Group , Russia’s second-biggest lender, and Mirny-based
diamond monopoly ZAO Alrosa led borrowing in the ruble bond
market as gains of 12.6 percent on average last year and 4.6
percent this year attracted investors, based the  Micex CBI
corporate bonds index .  Dwindling Russian Banks  OAO Mechel, Russia’s biggest producer of coal for
steelmaking, sold 20 billion rubles of bonds this year to
refinance its debt and help fund a railroad to the Elga coal
deposit in East Siberia. The yield on the Moscow-based company’s
5 billion rubles of three-year bonds fell 60 basis points from
the March offering to 9.17 percent on Sept. 24, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Ruble bonds sold by OAO Gazprom, Russia’s largest company,
yield 38 basis points more than government notes, based on debt
due in 2014, down from 120 in January. The yield on Moscow-based
oil producer OAO Lukoil’s ruble notes due 2011 has fallen to 5.9
percent from a record 18.3 percent in November 2008.  Foreign lenders are looking to compete at a time when the
number of domestic competitors is dwindling. The amount of banks
managing ruble bond sales fell to 33 this year from 50 in 2008
after lenders cut their credit business as the economy of the
world’s largest energy exporter fell into its sharpest economic
contraction since the collapse of the Soviet Union.  ‘Difficult to Compete’  State-owned banks accounted for about 40 percent of ruble
bond underwriting, data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes
deals arranged for banks’ affiliates show. VTB Capital, the
Moscow-based investment banking unit of Russia’s second-biggest
lender, managed 14.9 percent of the deals.  OAO Gazprombank , the
lending arm of Russia’s Moscow-based gas export monopoly,
arranged 6.2 percent of the sales, the data show.  Raiffeisenbank, the Russian unit of Vienna-based Raiffeisen
International Holding AG, is the biggest foreign arranger of
domestic debt with a 9.2 percent share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup Inc., the only other
international ruble bond organizer this year, accounted for 2.8
percent of the market. Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment
bank, tops the list with a 22.3 percent share.  “This market is dominated by state Russian banks, for any
foreign bank it is very difficult to compete head on with the
likes of VTB or Gazprombank,” said  Nikita Gusakov , head of debt
capital markets in Moscow for Citigroup. “In the current market
conditions, I wouldn’t expect any serious attempts to undermine
that from anyone.”  Renewed Focus  While London-based HSBC “aims to be very active on all the
local markets where it is present, this is not yet the case for
Russia,” Desh said in a telephone interview on Sept. 24. “We
seek to expand our line of products so that we could provide a
full range of services.”  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender and based in
Frankfurt, had a 3.4 percent market share of ruble bond
underwriting in 2007 before slipping to 15th place with a 1.6
percent share the following year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “We have set up a ruble bond syndicate based in Moscow to
match our renewed focus on the domestic and ruble bond market,”
Nizar Al-Bassam, head of sales and corporate coverage for the
central and eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region, said
in a phone interview from London on Sept. 16.  Lower Fees  Banks get lower fees for underwriting ruble bonds compared
with sales in the U.S. Underwriters charge between 0.05 percent
of the issue and 0.15 percent for the most creditworthy issuers,
and as much as 0.2 percent for “second-tier” companies,
according to Evgeny Vorobyev, a fixed-income analyst at Otkritie
Financial Corp. in Moscow. The rates compare with average fees
of 0.593 percent for U.S. corporate bonds sold this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Managing bond sales helps banks to increase their role in
other revenue-generating business, including trading the debt
and providing the borrower with hedging instruments and loans.
While ruble bond origination may be less profitable than other
business lines, it’s important because it allows the bank to
offer clients “any instrument they may be interested in,”
Gusakov said. Russian banks are at an advantage because they can
“cross-sell” from their “significant lending capabilities.”  Fees from debt origination at most account for about 2
percent of banks’ revenue, according to  Mark Rubinstein , deputy
head of research at Metropol IFC in Moscow. “Origination
normally leads to further business relationships, with other
products being sold to the customer in the future,” he said in
e-mailed comments.  Yield Spread  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 gained, sending the yield
down 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 4.51 percent,
the lowest since Aug. 23. The yield on the country’s ruble notes
due August 2016 was unchanged.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 6 basis points to 228,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 164 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 209 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 60 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell to 162 basis points
from 164 basis points, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Sales Planned  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 1
basis point more than the similar contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The ruble gained 0.5 percent to 30.6150 per dollar, the
strongest level since Sept. 6. Non-deliverable forwards, or
NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of currency
movements and interest rate differentials and allow companies to
hedge against currency movements, showed the ruble at 30.8287 in
three months.  Russian companies may “easily” sell another 250 billion
rubles of domestic bonds by the end of the year, according to
 Nikolay Podguzov , the head of fixed-income strategy at VTB
Capital in Moscow. Federal Grid, the Moscow-based state monopoly
for high-voltage power transmission, is selling 30 billion
rubles of 10-year notes with this week.  “The desire of foreign banks to work on this market is
understandable -- there is a market, which any year could be
between $15 billion and $20 billion, boosting its attractiveness
for global banks,” Sergey Vidyaev, the debt capital markets
director at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  