-- Mastodon Woos New York Rockers With Moby Dick, Rasputin: Review
-- B y   J a m e s   H o l l o w a y
-- 2010-09-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/rock-fans-cheer-as-mastodon-mixes-rasputin-moby-dick-on-u-s-tour-review.html
Troy Sanders, the bassist with
progressive metal band Mastodon, is hunched over a mike center-
stage at  Madison Square Garden .  “Break your backs and crack your oars, men!” he roars.
The decibel count goes off the scale. The response is a sea of
raised fists in which smart-phones glow like foam.  While the noise would be enough to have some rock fans
running for the exits, Mastodon has been selling millions and
giving record companies pause for thought. The Atlanta quartet,
which played New York with grunge pioneers  Alice in Chains  and
alternative metal act Deftones, is touring the U.S. and Canada.  “We’re big dorks,” Sanders says in an interview before
the show. He’s drinking vegetable soup from a paper cup and clad
in worn jeans and a plaid shirt that looks a size too small. The
ensemble is completed by black sneakers with orange socks. “We
like mountains. We like water.”  Mastodon favors that long-ridiculed idea of a concept
album. Its 2002 debut, “Remission,” had something to do with
the element of fire. Two years later, “Leviathan” Cliff-noted
“Moby-Dick” -- a gift for every 17-year-old metalhead obliged
to sweat through chapters like “The Whiteness of the Whale” in
junior English. “Blood Mountain” (2006) went in search of a
mysterious talisman able to deliver gifts of profound power.  The New York concert on Sept. 24 peaks with “The Czar,” a
novel condensed into 11 minutes, from last year’s “Crack the
Skye,” a collection that told of astral projection, time
travel, pre-revolutionary Russia and the murder of Rasputin.  Rasputin Beard  “It’s like mayonnaise and chocolate,” Sanders says. His
beard, barbered to a neat triangle, suggests a Rasputin not
given over to dissipation. “You wouldn’t think it would mix,
but if you properly blend it, it’s going to be tasty.”  It’s not everyone’s taste. Lyric sheets larded with phrases
like “cosmogenic cycles” and “physeter catodon” may cause a
longing for the beer-and-biker hedonism of Motorhead, or the
simple aggression of Slayer.  Mastodon also likes songs that tend to run longer and
feature more time and key changes than your average  Lady Gaga  or
 Kanye West  chart-topper. The quartet, each in the dark T-shirt
and worn jeans that is metal’s day- and eveningwear, keeps the
rock-god posing to a minimum as video screens flash album art
and images of medieval Russian knights.  Mastodon concludes with “Blood and Thunder.”  “White! Whale! Holy! Grail!” Sanders leads the crowd in
chanting as guitarists Brent Hinds and Bill Kelliher thrash out
a great metal riff and Brann Dailor’s drumming erupts with
controlled chaos to rival the late  John Bonham  of Led Zeppelin.  A few complex songs such as “Capillarian Crest” are
rendered into indecipherable sludge in the cavernous Garden.  Still, there’s something to be said for ambition, and
Mastodon, if nothing else, aims high. The band, according to
Sanders, sought a timeless feel with “Crack the Skye.” The CD
was given a high rating on  Metacritic.com , which gives numeric
scores to media reviews, and may be the “Paranoid” or “Led
Zeppelin IV” of its day. A new album can be expected next year,
Sanders says, along with a live DVD. Rating: *** 1/2.  The Alice in Chains, Deftones and Mastodon tour, called
BlackDiamondSkye, continues through October. Information:
 http://www.blackdiamondskye.com/   Mastodon appears at the Fun Fun Fun Fest in Austin in
November, headlining the Black Stage. Information:
 http://www.funfunfunfest.com/  or
 http://www.mastodonrocks.com/tour   ( James Holloway  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Holloway  in New York at 
 jholloway8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 