-- Romanian Interior Minister Quits as Strikes Test Cabinet's Deficit Pledge
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2010-09-27T13:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/romania-civil-servants-strike-testing-government-s-will-to-meet-imf-goals.html
Romania’s Interior Minister
resigned as protests over pay cuts for public employees test
Prime Minister  Emil Boc ’s will to continue austerity measures in
the face of efforts to topple his Cabinet.  As many as 10,000 state employees are expected to take to
the streets tomorrow and all public worker unions are in talks
over calling a general strike. The government reduced wages for
civil servants by 25 percent to narrow the budget deficit and
comply with terms of an International Monetary Fund-led bailout.  The opposition Social Democrats and Liberals say they will
try to oust the government in the second half of October as the
IMF forecasts the economy will shrink 1.9 percent this year,
extending Romania’s  worst recession  since the end of communism.
Boc’s coalition, with 258 seats in the 471-member parliament,
survived a June no-confidence vote by eight votes.  “The current government is really close to losing its
majority, and this is the beginning of the end,” said Adrian
Moraru, an analyst at the Institute for Public Policies in
Bucharest, in a phone interview. “It’s a difficult situation
because it seems a new political crisis is emerging on top of
the current economic crisis.”  Minister Resigns  Vasile Blaga  quit today as Interior Minister after police
officers who report to his ministry staged an illegal
demonstration on Sept. 24 and will be replaced by Traian Igas,
42, a senator and head of the ruling Liberal Democrats’ group in
the Senate. President  Traian Basescu  later  signed  off on the
nomination.  Romania, which joined the European Union in 2007, is
relying on 20 billion euros ($27 billion) of loans from the IMF,
European Union and others to fuel an economic recovery.  To qualify for the loans, Boc’s government has cut state
wages, increased the value-added tax by 5 points to 24 percent
and boosted the retirement age for men and women to 65. The
Cabinet has also announced plans to eliminate  74,000 jobs .  The police strike was condemned by Boc and Basescu, who
both gave up their police security escorts for what
they called an “unauthorized” protest.  ‘Honor’ Resignation  “This is a resignation of honor,” Blaga said today at a
news conference in Bucharest. “Police have the right to protest
just like any other citizen, but they have to do it legally.
They and all the other workers from the Interior Ministry have
to understand that they are as important as doctors and
teachers, so they can’t make an exception.”  Anger over the government’s program has boosted support for
the opposition.  The Social Democrats were supported by 37.1 percent of
voters, compared with 14.6 percent for Boc’s Liberal Democrats
in a survey of 1,093 people conducted Sept. 9-13 by GSS 2000.
The poll, commissioned by the opposition Liberals, had a margin
of error of 3 percent.  “If the unions manage to get many people out into the
streets this may create pressure on government lawmakers,” said
Cristian Parvulescu, a political analyst at Asociatia Pro
Democratia, a Bucharest-based group that promotes democracy.
Boc’s Liberal Democrat party includes “former union leaders who
may feel extra pressure to vote against the government.”  Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America/Merrill
Lynch in London, said she expects Boc’s government will survive
the confidence vote, though further fiscal consolidation will be
“very challenging” given the depth of the recession.  “We are not surprised to see growing popular discontent
given the recently announced austerity measures,” she said.
“We expect this trend to continue in coming months,
accentuating the low popular support for the ruling party PDL.”  European Discontent  Workers across eastern Europe are taking to the streets to
protest budget cuts after the global financial crisis slashed
tax revenue and investment flows. The EU is demanding that all
of its members bring their budget deficits in line with the
bloc’s limit of 3 percent of GDP after Greece’s ballooning debt
undermined confidence in the euro.  Tens of thousands Czech firemen, policemen and other state
workers rallied Sept. 21 in Prague to protest planned wage cuts,
while Slovak unions plan demonstrations against proposed tax
increases. Slovenian civil servants went on strike today to
protest plans to cut or freeze their salaries. Some 80,000
workers, or half the public workforce joined the strike,
according to the Ljubljana-based newspaper Delo.  “It’s an experience from all over Europe that austerity
measures, which very often include budget cuts, are leading to
similar demonstrations,” Czech Prime Minister  Petr Necas  said
at the rally against his government’s plans. The moves “are
quite naturally unpopular.”  ‘Delicate Situation’  The decline of Romania’s economy, which contracted a 7.1
percent last year, slowed in the second quarter as demand for
goods such as cars, chemicals, steel and textiles increased in
western Europe. GDP shrank 0.5 percent from a year earlier,
after a 2.6 percent decline in the previous three months,
according to the  National Statistics Institute  in Bucharest.  Parliament approved Boc’s government in December, ending a
stalemate that had left Romania without leadership for more than
two months and delayed payments from international lenders. Boc
replaced six members of his Cabinet, including the finance and
economy ministers, on Sept. 2 in an effort to shore up support
for his program in the face of increasing protests.  Romania’s political squabbles have helped weaken the
country’s currency. The leu has dropped 1 percent against the
euro during the past 12 months, the second-worst performance
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
Romanian leu weakened 0.1 percent to 4.2465 per euro as of 4:23
p.m. in Bucharest, while the Bucharest Stock Exchange’s
benchmark BET index rose 1.3 percent to 5,279.64.  “Boc’s Cabinet is already facing an extremely delicate
situation, and it will lead a hard life if it survives the
planned confidence motion,” said Alexandru Cumpanasu, political
analyst and deputy head of the Association for Implementing
Democracy, in a phone interview. “If we see more protests on a
bigger scale in October, then the pressure on lawmakers to vote
for the motion will be huge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  