-- Saudi Arabia Gas, Oil Consumption Growing Faster Than Ecomomy, Population
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-09-26T08:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/saudi-arabia-s-gas-oil-consumption-growing-faster-than-ecomony-spa-says.html
Saudi Arabia’s consumption of oil
and natural gas is growing at a high rate compared with the
growth in the kingdom’s population and economy, the Saudi Press
Agency reported, citing the central bank.  The average local consumption of gas and oil grew 5.9
percent in the past five years, the official news service
reported, citing the kingdom’s central bank governor  Muhammad al-Jasser . “Domestic consumption of oil and gas is posting
continuing growth and at high rates,” the report said. “This
requires looking into the reasons behind the increase in oil and
gas consumption and working on rationing it.”  The Saudi economy, excluding oil, may expand 4.5 percent in
2010 according to the  International Monetary Fund , compared with
3.3 percent in the previous year. The population grew 20 percent
since 2005 to 27.1 million, according to data from the
Department of Statistics and Information published by the  Saudi
Press Agency  in August.  The kingdom, the largest Arab economy, must create jobs to
employ its youth and provide housing for its growing population,
the Saudi Press Agency reported, citing al-Jasser. Saudi Arabia
needs to boost home ownership by passing a long-planned mortgage
law that would encourage banks to provide mortgage lending, he
said.  King Abdullah  was presented the Saudi Arabia Monetary
Agency annual report late yesterday.  Gas Supplies  Saudi Arabia is seeking new gas supplies to feed growing
demand for electricity and to support industries, such as
petrochemicals, and create jobs. Power demand in the holder of
the world’s oil reserves is set to increase 8 percent a year as
the government invests to spur economic growth and the
population expands.  Saudi Arabia, lacking natural gas supplies to meet domestic
demand, is burning oil in power plants as it expands industry.
Demand for oil to generate power could account for as much as 10
percent of Saudi Arabia’s total oil production capacity by 2012,
Lawrence Eagles, head of commodity strategy at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, said earlier this year.  “Increasingly more and more energy is being diverted from
exports to domestic consumption,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , Chief
Economist at Jeddah-based NCB Capital, said in a phone interview
today. “And it is being used in a very inefficient way because
the pricing doesn’t reflect market costs.”  The kingdom’s energy demand will rise to 8.3 million
barrels a day of oil equivalent in 2028 from 3.4 million barrels
last year unless it becomes more efficient,  Khalid Al-Falih ,
Saudi Aramco’s Chief Executive Officer, said in a speech posted
on the website April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net ;  Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
8155 or  gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  