-- Saudi Arabia's Economy Likely to Expand 3.5% This Year, Al-Jasser Says
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-09-26T14:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/saudi-inflation-pressures-worrying-central-bank-governor-al-jasser-says.html
Saudi Arabia’s economy is expected
to grow 3.5 percent this year, central bank Governor  Muhammad al-Jasser  said, as the Arab world’s largest economy gains
momentum from government spending and higher oil prices.  “The role of the state’s fiscal policy during this year
and last year has been large,” al-Jasser said in a press
conference in Riyadh today. “Its influence on the private
sector and other sectors will be good.”  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil supplier, has spurred
economic growth with a $400 billion, five-year investment
package announced in late 2008. Growth slowed to 0.6 percent in
2009 as the kingdom’s average daily oil output fell 11 percent
to 8.2 million barrels a day, according to the central bank’s
annual report.  “Government expenditure has been used in a way to support
aggregate demand when the private sector took a hit,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at Jeddah-based NCB Capital, said in
a phone interview today. “Last year, we had a sharp decrease in
oil prices, and volumes plummeted. That has reversed this
year.”  Oil prices fell as low as $33.98 a barrel in February 2009
from a peak of almost $147 a barrel in 2008. Crude for November
delivery advanced yesterday $1.31 to $76.49 a barrel on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement since Sept. 13.  Budget Surplus  Saudi Arabia may report a 40 billion-riyal ($10.7 billion)
budget surplus this year, compared with a budget deficit of 70
billion riyals last year, according to Al-Rajhi Capital.  The Saudi “economy has gained traction,” the Riyadh-based
unit of Al-Rajhi Bank said in its September  economic report 
received yesterday by e-mail. “Non-oil export growth has been
robust.”  The non-oil economy will increase 4.4 percent this year,
according to Al-Rajhi. “On the back of rising crude production,
we expect the oil sector to grow at 2.5 percent this year
against 6.7 percent contraction last year,” the company said in
the report.  Saudi Arabia, holder of the world’s largest oil reserves
produced 8.29 million barrels of oil in August, according to
Bloomberg data.  Inflation  Saudi Arabia’s inflationary pressures are “worrying”
following increases in global food prices, though it was
“premature” to make conclusions on consumer prices this year,
al-Jasser.  Saudi inflation may “moderate” to 5.5 percent by the end
of the year, according to the report yesterday by Al-Rajhi
Capital. Inflation accelerated for a seventh month to reach 6.1
percent in August.  The kingdom has no plans to change its interest rate policy
as liquidity levels are adequate, al-Jasser said. The central
bank last year cut the repurchase rate to 2 percent, the lowest
since 2004, and the reverse repurchase rate to 0.25 percent.  “Now, the system has ample liquidity,” al-Jasser said.
“Since there are no pressures on the system in terms of
liquidity, then there has not been any change recently.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 