-- Shirakawa Says Central Bank Prepared to Act, Defends Bank of Japan Law
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-09-26T07:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/shirakawa-says-bank-of-japan-ready-to-take-appropriate-action-if-needed.html
Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said today the central bank is closely watching the
effect on the economy of the yen’s appreciation, and is prepared
to take “appropriate action” if needed.  “We are ready to implement appropriate action in a timely
manner if judged necessary,” Shirakawa said today at a forum
hosted by the Japan Society of Monetary Economics in Kobe,
western Japan.  Shirakawa spoke publicly two days after the yen weakened
amid speculation Japan had sold its currency for a second time
after ending a six-year period of refraining from intervention.
BOJ policy makers repeated this month that the bank will take
more policy actions if needed, indicating their willingness to
provide additional monetary stimulus.  “We are watching how the yen’s current gain affects the
Japanese economy,” Shirakawa said today. “We have to pay more
attention than before to downside risk to the economy.”
Shirakawa declined to comment on specific yen levels, adding
that exchange rates move “for various reasons.”  The yen tumbled 1 percent in about 10 minutes on Sept. 24,
reaching a low of 85.40 per dollar. The decline was the biggest
since Sept. 15, when Japan stepped back into markets after the
currency surged to the highest level since 1995. The yen
strengthened 1.9 percent last week to 84.26 per dollar.  ‘Monetizing Debt’  Shirakawa also today said that “monetizing debt” risks
raising bond yields. The BOJ has a self-imposed cap on
government bond buying to avoid such purchases from being
regarded as monetizing public debt. The bank stipulates that
purchases cannot exceed the amount of banknotes in circulation.  “If government bond purchases by a central bank is
regarded as a tool to pay for fiscal expenditure, or an act of
debt monetization, that would spur inflation expectations and
increase government bond yields,” Shirakawa said.  Shirakawa commented as the central bank faces mounting
pressure to increase monthly purchases of government bonds, and
as politicians flag the possibility of amending the Bank of
Japan Law, which guarantees the central bank’s independence from
the government.  Analysts at Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Service this month said the BOJ could buy more government bonds
and expand its balance sheet while  Ichiro Ozawa , former No. 2 in
the ruling Democratic Party of Japan, said on Sept. 14 the bank
law may need changing so that the central bank and the
government can work closer to beat deflation.  ‘Flexible’ Policy  Shirakawa today defended the bank’s current policy
framework, describing it as “flexible” and “advanced.”  “Central banks which don’t adopt inflation targeting, like
the BOJ and the Fed, have published favorable price levels over
the long-term,” he said.  BOJ board members say they consider consumer prices to be
stable in a positive range of up to 2 percent, with the median
level of 1 percent.  The governor also defended the Bank of Japan Law, which
stipulates the purpose of monetary policy is to achieve stable
prices and sound economic growth.  “The current law makes it possible to pursue sustainable
price stability over the medium- and long-term” while avoiding
big swings in economic growth, he said.  Shirakawa also said long-term sustainability of the
government’s fiscal balance is a “crucial factor” in
maintaining currency and finance stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net 
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  