-- Yen Likely to Hurt Company Sentiment in Japan's Tankan
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T h e r e s a   B a r r a c l o u g h
-- 2010-09-27T07:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/shirakawa-says-bank-of-japan-prepared-to-take-appropriate-action-on-yen.html
The Bank of Japan’s  Tankan survey 
will probably show a slowing pace of improvement in business
confidence, adding to pressure on policy makers to counter gains
in the yen by injecting more cash into the economy.  A quarterly  index  of sentiment at large manufacturers rose
6 points in September, the least since March 2009, according to
the median forecast of 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.
The Tankan report is due at 8:50 a.m. on Sept. 29 in Tokyo.  Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  today said further BOJ cash
injections may be effective in influencing the yen, a sign Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan’s  administration wants the central bank to
step up its efforts. He spoke after government data showed
exports grew the least this year in August, supporting warnings
about the yen’s impact from  Nissan Motor Co.  and  Canon Inc.   “Companies are becoming more anxious about the business
outlook because of concern over slower global growth and the
yen’s gain,” said  Minoru Nogimori , an economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “If the Tankan shows weakness, it may
build up pressure on the central bank to do what needs to be
done.”  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  today said for the second
time in two days that the central bank is ready to take policy
action if necessary. He spoke at meeting with business
executives in Osaka.  Highest Since ‘95  The yen climbed to as high as 82.88 per dollar, a level
unseen since 1995, prompting Japan to sell the currency for the
first time in six years on Sept. 15. It recouped some of the
intervention losses last week, when it gained 2 percent. It
traded at 84.24 as of 4:04 p.m. in Tokyo.  Today’s trade figures showed that Japan’s exports grew 15.8
percent from a year earlier, slower than economists’ median
forecast for a 19 percent gain.  The median forecast for the Tankan’s large manufacturer
index is a reading of 7; positive numbers mean optimists
outnumber pessimists. The report may show that companies
forecast the index to retreat to 3 in December, according to the
Bloomberg News survey.  Bank of Japan Board Member  Ryuzo Miyao  said last week that
it’s necessary to pay more attention to downside economic risks
because of growing uncertainties over the outlook, mainly in the
U.S. The Federal Reserve signaled Sept. 21 it’s prepared to ease
monetary policy further to spur growth, a statement that sent
the dollar tumbling against the yen and euro.  Selling Currency  Japan’s currency has advanced 10 percent this year against
the dollar, the most among the most-traded currencies, as
slowing U.S. growth and Europe’s debt woes made it a haven for
investors, given the nation’s current-account surplus.  Even a yen level of 90 to the dollar may not be enough to
prevent production draining out of Japan, said  Toshiyuki Shiga ,
chairman of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, and
chief operating officer of Yokohama-based Nissan, Japan’s third-
biggest carmaker, said Sept. 16.  Canon, which is based in Tokyo and is the world’s largest
camera maker, estimates that  operating profit will shrink  that
by 4.7 billion yen for every 1 yen the currency strengthens
beyond 90 per dollar in the second half of 2010.  Ending Incentives  In addition to the currency, growth may be affected by the
ending of incentives for purchases of energy-efficient cars this
month. The government is considering compiling a stimulus
package totaling as much as 4.6 trillion yen that will be funded
with existing revenue, a government official said on the
condition of anonymity.  “The Japanese economy will likely slow sharply in the
October-December period as policy stimulus fades,” said
 Takehiro Sato , Japan chief economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. in Tokyo. Sato said the BOJ may revise down its
economic assessment when it releases its latest outlook on Oct.
28, and a further loosening of credit could be announced then.  Options include increasing purchases of government bonds,
shifting to a target band of between zero and 0.1 percent for
the key overnight lending rate, and adopting some form of an
inflation target, Sato said.  Miyao said last week the central bank won’t rule out any
options, including buying more bonds. Shirakawa reiterated this
month he’s unwilling to abandon a BOJ practice of keeping bond
holdings at less than the amount of bank notes in circulation.  Credit Program  The central bank expanded a credit program for lenders by
10 trillion yen ($118 billion) to 30 trillion yen at an
emergency board meeting on Aug. 30. The bank kept the key rate
at 0.1 percent and its monthly target for government bond
purchases at 1.8 trillion yen this month. BOJ board members are
next scheduled to meet on monetary policy Oct. 4-5.  “I do think there is a relationship,” between so-called
quantitative easing and the exchange rate, Economy Minister
Banri Kaieda told reporters today in Tokyo. “I would like to
think about how we should manage matters, while watching an
impact on the currency market.”  A slower improvement in business confidence doesn’t
necessarily mean Japan’s recovery from its deepest postwar
recession will end, according to  Hideo Kumano , chief economist
at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.  “The Tankan will likely provide evidence to confirm that
Japan’s economy is on a recovery track,” Kumano said. “The
slowdown trend in global growth doesn’t mean the global economy
is heading for a recession, and it’s just adjusting a speed of
growth to reflect a moderate expansion in demand.”  The Tankan also may show that companies’ forecasts for
capital outlays this fiscal year have increased.  All large companies aim to boost  spending  by 3 percent in
the year ending March 31, after planning to boost 2.7 percent
three months ago, according to the Bloomberg News survey. The
figures are based on the new accounting standard for lease
transactions. Based on the previous accounting rule, companies
planned to increase spending by 4.4 percent in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Theresa Barraclough  in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  