-- Smallest Commodity Moves Since 1996 Signal Gold Gain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-09-27T20:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/smallest-commodity-moves-in-14-years-mean-precious-metals-best-alternative.html
While wheat as much as doubled this
year and cotton surged, the benchmark index for commodities is
signaling neither inflation nor deflation, spurring investors to
bet the best returns next quarter will be in precious metals.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials,
tracked by as much as $80 billion of investments, advanced 1.6
percent this year through Sept. 24, the smallest change since
1996. Record gold prices and a jump in copper were wiped out by
slumping natural gas and oil prices as slowing growth in the
U.S. and China, the biggest fuel consumers, sapped demand.  The rally in agricultural commodities has been more about a
weaker dollar and the Russian drought than demand for raw
materials, said  Michael Pento , a senior economist at Euro
Pacific Capital in New York, who correctly predicted the
collapse in commodity prices in 2008. Investors accumulated
record amounts of gold and silver this year to protect their
wealth amid concern the world’s economy would falter.  “Global growth is not on a tear, primarily with the drag
from developed countries on oil,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, a Birmingham, Alabama-based senior vice president at
BB&T Wealth Management, which oversees $17 billion. “If there’s
a price increase there from higher demand, that’d be indicative
of a rebound in the economy.”  U.S. consumer prices rose 1.1 percent in the 12 months
ended in August, the Labor Department said Sept. 17, below the
average 2.6 percent during the previous decade. The  Federal
Reserve  indicated Sept. 21 that it’s now focused on inflation
below the preferred long-term range. European Union inflation
slowed to 1.6 percent in August, from 1.7 percent in July, the
statistics office said Sept. 15.  ‘Margin Compression’  Gains in agricultural commodities are raising consumer
costs. Kraft Foods Inc., based in Northfield,  Illinois , boosted
U.S. prices twice since May on some types of coffee, and
Bridgestone Corp. and  Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co . announced
higher charges for tires. Next Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer, said Sept. 15 that selling prices will rise
by 5 percent to 8 percent in 2011 because of cotton.  Coffee traded in New York rose to its highest price since
1997 on Sept. 8, rubber touched a 21-month high in April in
Tokyo and cotton reached a 15-year high today in New York.  Food companies may absorb commodity gains instead of
passing them on to consumers, said  Evan Smith , who helps manage
$2 billion at U.S. Global Investors Inc. in  San Antonio ,  Texas .  “Higher corn and wheat prices mean the buyers of those
things,  consumer goods  and food manufacturers, will face some
pricing-margin compression” because of the “tough economic
environment,” he said.  Industrial Commodity Gains  While both the S&P GSCI and the Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of 19 commodities are little changed this year, other gauges
show something different. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Spot Raw
Industrials Index, which includes some goods that don’t trade
actively on exchanges, such as copper scrap, burlap and cattle
hides, rose 8.1 percent through Sept. 24. That may signal an
impending rally, said  Chris Rupkey , the chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .  “It looks like we’re poised to break out and go to all-
time highs for commodity indexes, and that’s going to bring in
more buying,” Rupkey said. He forecast a 20 percent jump in the
Spot Raw Industrials Index to a record in three to six months.  Weightings, Slower Growth  The S&P GSCI is the most widely tracked commodities index,
with $75 billion to $80 billion invested at the end of the first
half, said Michael McGlone, the senior director of commodity
indexing at S&P. The gauge is  weighted  about 67 percent toward
energy, 16 percent to agriculture, 8.5 percent to industrial
metals, 5 percent to livestock and 3.6 percent to precious
metals.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecast in July that
global growth will slow to 4.3 percent in 2011 from 4.6 percent
this year. The euro zone may slow to 1.4 percent next year from
1.6 percent in 2010,  China ’s expansion may be 8.9 percent, down
from 10 percent, and the U.S. will be at 2.5 percent, slipping
from this year’s 2.7 percent, according to the median of as many
as 62 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “As far as the idea of booming global growth, I just don’t
see it,” Euro Pacific’s Pento said.  Oil closed today at $76.52 a barrel, almost half the record
of $147.27 reached in July 2008. U.S. gasoline demand slid to
the lowest level since October 2008 in the week ended Sept. 10,
according to data from MasterCard Inc.  Haven Assets  Slowing growth sapped a gain of as much as 6.5 percent in
the  MSCI World  Index of equities this year, leaving the gauge up
1 percent and driving investors to precious metals and other
assets favored in times of financial stress. Treasuries returned
8.5 percent this year, according to an index from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, while holdings in exchange-traded
products backed by gold and silver reached a record, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gold may rise to $1,315 an ounce by year-end, advancing 1.3
percent from $1,298.60 today, heading for a ninth straight
quarter of gains and the longest rally since at least 1975,
according to the median of 24 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Silver may climb 2.5 percent in the quarter to $22 an
ounce, an eighth consecutive increase, the longest stretch in at
least 35 years, the survey showed. Silver hit a 30-year high of
$21.645 today.  The survey projected that copper, cocoa, coffee, sugar and
soybeans will fall by Dec. 31, while cotton will rise. Corn,
wheat and nickel may be little changed.  Crop Rallies  Wheat has jumped 30 percent in 2010, reaching $8.68 a
bushel on Aug. 6, the highest price in almost two years and
double this year’s low of $4.255 on June 9, as flooding in  Canada  and drought across  Russia  and the European Union ruined
crops. Cotton rose 37 percent so far this year and touched
$1.0393 a pound today, the highest level since 1995, as rain in
China and  Pakistan  damaged fields. Arabica coffee in New York
has rallied 34 percent and traded at $1.9865 a pound on Sept. 8,
the highest price since 1997, as dry weather threatened trees in  Brazil , the largest producer.  U.S.  food prices  may rise by 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent
this year, compared with earlier forecasts of as much as 2.5
percent, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said on Aug. 25.
Consumer prices will rise 1.5 percent in 2011, compared with an
estimated 1.6 percent gain this year, based on the median in a
Bloomberg survey of 57 economists.  “We’re definitely seeing some prices passed on, but our
feeling right now is that inflation is not really a big
concern,” said Christian Wagner, who helps oversee $175 million
as chief investment officer of Longview Capital Management in
Wilmington,  Delaware . “We’re not considering that to be a very
large fear until we see some constriction on monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  