-- Spring Air's Noodle-Eating CEO Tackles Cathay on Shanghai Route
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-26T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/spring-air-s-instant-noodle-eating-ceo-tackles-cathay-on-shanghai-route.html
Spring Airlines , China’s only low-
cost carrier, starts Shanghai-Hong Kong services tomorrow
challenging China Eastern Airlines Corp. and Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. on flights between the nation’s two financial hubs.  The carrier, whose executives share hotel rooms and eat
instant noodles on business trips to cut costs, is offering
round-trip tickets to Shanghai’s Pudong Airport from Hong Kong
for as little as $117.60, including fees, on its  website . That’s
less than half the price charged by China Eastern and Cathay
Pacific, the largest airlines in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  “A budget carrier like us aims to meet demand from
ordinary, cost-conscious people,” Chairman  Wang Zhenghua  said
in an e-mailed response to questions last week. “There are so
many in China that I see huge potential for our future.”  Spring Air, which flies to more than 20 cities in China, is
able to offer low fares as it fills more seats and makes more
use of planes than larger rivals, Wang said. AirAsia Bhd. and
 Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd.  are also adding no-frills flights in
Asia to compete with flag carriers amid surging travel demand.  “Spring Air may particularly affect China Eastern, whose
fares are already relatively low,” said  Kelvin Lau , a Hong
Kong-based Daiwa Institute of Research analyst. “Still, the
limited availability of airport slots may cap the number of
flights Spring Air can offer.”  Wang, 66, started Shanghai-based  Spring Air  with three
 Airbus SAS  A320s in 2005, as China first allowed private
investors to enter the industry. The carrier has since expanded
to 21 planes, Wang said. It has 11 A320s on order, according to
data on Airbus’s  website .  The airline is an affiliate of Shanghai Spring
International Travel Service Co., part of the travel and tourism
group formed by Wang in 1981, which has sales of 6 billion yuan
($900 million) a year, according to Spring Air’s  website .  Shanghai Fares  China Eastern charges from about HK$1,960 ($252) for a
round-trip Hong Kong-Shanghai Pudong flight, according to its
 website . Cathay Pacific’s Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd. unit is
advertising fares from HK$2,620 on its  website .  “The market is a fiercely aggressive place and we’ll see
no doubt more and more competition,” Cathay Pacific Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said at a Sept. 16 press conference.
Cathay Pacific will offer “competitive fares” and invest in
newer, fuel-efficient aircraft to pare costs, he said.  Li Qiang, head of media relations at China Eastern,
declined to comment.  Spring Air IPO  Spring Air is “actively” preparing for an initial public
offering to raise funds for expansion and gain greater market
share, Wang said. “It’s one of our long-term goals,” he said,
without elaborating further on the timing for a share sale.  Wang holds 20 percent of Spring Air, while managers and
senior staff share 75 percent. The remaining 5 percent is owned
by the Shanghai district government.  The carrier, which operates charter flights to Ibaraki
Airport, northeast of Tokyo, is planning to add more overseas
services to cities within five hours of Shanghai, Wang said.  Low-cost carriers, led by Ryanair Holdings Plc and
 Southwest Airlines Co. , pare costs by shunning services such as
free food and inflight entertainment and by using a single type
of airplane to ease training and maintenance. They also strive
to operate as many flights as possible per day to boost sales.  Passenger numbers at Chinese airports jumped 18 percent in
the first eight months of the year as economic growth spurred
travel. Airlines in the Asia-Pacific region will likely post a
$5.2 billion profit this year, the highest for any region
worldwide, the  International Air Transport Association  said on
Sept. 21. That was more than double an earlier forecast.  -- Li Xiaowei  with assistance from  Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Neil Denslow , Suresh Seshadri   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Xiaowei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7506 or
 Xli12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 