-- Comcast Names Burke to Succeed Zucker to Revive NBC
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-09-27T20:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/stephen-burke-to-succeed-jeff-zucker-as-nbc-ceo.html
Comcast Corp.  Chief Operating
Officer  Stephen Burke  will succeed  Jeff Zucker  as chief
executive officer of NBC Universal, taking over the effort to
revive the television company once Comcast has control.  Burke, 52, will take his new post after Comcast completes
its purchase of a majority stake in NBC, Comcast and NBC parent
 General Electric Co.  said yesterday in a statement. Other
personnel or structural changes won’t be announced “until the
deal closing process and timing is certain,” the companies
said.  The challenge for Burke is to boost ratings at NBC, which
trails  CBS Corp. , New Corp.’s Fox and  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC,
while helping the combination of cable operator and broadcast
network contribute to earnings at Comcast. Investors will be
looking for better programming and increased advertising
revenue, said  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Baltimore.  “We’ve never had a merger of this size that impacts
content and distribution,” King said. “The marriage of Comcast
and NBC will hold challenges for both companies. Burke’s job is
to generate excitement around NBC and that is something that has
been lacking, especially in primetime.”  The planned $28 billion combination of Comcast and New
York-based NBC Universal would give Comcast, the largest U.S.
cable company, control of NBC’s TV network and broadcast
stations, as well as cable channels such as USA Network and
Bravo. NBC Universal also owns a film studio and theme parks.  Comcast is expected to complete its purchase of 51 percent
of NBC Universal by year-end, GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  said in an
internal memo Sept. 24 announcing Zucker’s departure.  TV-Network Experience  Burke joined Philadelphia-based Comcast in 1998 from
 Disney , where he was president of ABC Broadcasting. He helped
lead the integration of AT&T Corp.’s cable unit into Comcast’s
businesses ahead of schedule following the $56 billion purchase
in 2002.  “Steve Burke is an experienced, talented and visionary
leader with over 25 years in the media and entertainment
industry,” Comcast CEO  Brian Roberts  said in yesterday’s
statement. “I am confident that he will lead NBCU forward to a
new era of growth.”  Roberts drew on Burke’s experience at ABC when Comcast in
2004 made a $54.1 billion offer to buy Disney. Burke and Roberts
scrapped the plan after Comcast shares slid 12 percent and
Burbank, California-based Disney’s board rejected the offer as
too low.  Comcast continued to pursue programming, and the company
unveiled its bid to take over NBC Universal last year. Burke has
said that combining content with distribution would help fuel
growth at Comcast.  Leno Protests  Zucker spent his entire working career at NBC, starting as
a researcher in 1986 for coverage of the 1988 Seoul Olympics and
becoming executive producer of the “Today” show at age 26. He
rose to oversee all of NBC Universal in 2007 -- the broadcast
network, the Universal Pictures film studio, theme parks and
cable channels.  His tenure was marred by falling ratings at NBC, which
failed to develop new hits as popular shows like “Friends”
left the air. His decision to put comedian  Jay Leno  in prime
time backfired by cutting the 11 p.m. audience for local news
and sparking protests from NBC’s affiliate TV stations.  Zucker, 45, will work with Burke to ensure a “smooth
leadership transition” until the acquisition by Comcast is
completed, according to the statement.  While Zucker’s career was at NBC, Burke’s experience is
more varied. He sits on the board of JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
second-biggest U.S. bank, and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. named
Burke a director last year as the company works on a succession
plan for Chairman  Warren Buffett .  When appointing Burke, Buffett called him “business-
savvy” and “owner-oriented.”  Comcast fell 26 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $18.31 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The  shares  have
risen 8.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net :
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 