-- U.A.E. ’Optimistic’ on Reaching Deal on BlackBerry
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-09-26T10:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/u-a-e-is-optimistic-on-reaching-agreement-on-blackberry-al-bowardi-says.html
The United Arab Emirates is “very
optimistic” about reaching a deal with  Research in Motion Ltd. 
to solve a dispute about BlackBerry services in the country, the
secretary general of the Abu Dhabi Executive Council said.  “Talks are very advanced and positive,” Mohammed Ahmed
al-Bowardi told reporters in Abu Dhabi today. “We are very
optimistic it will be resolved before the deadline.”  BlackBerry Messenger, e-mail and Web browsing services will
be halted in the U.A.E., home to the Gulf business hub Dubai,
from Oct. 11, the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority said
on Aug. 1. The regulator said BlackBerry messages, which are
transferred to computer servers outside the country, can’t be
monitored as stipulated under national security laws.  Saudi Arabia and India last month reached agreements with
RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, on data access. The company
agreed to work with wireless service providers in Saudi Arabia
to make instant messages available for monitoring, that nation’s
regulator said. RIM will provide an automated solution for
tracking BlackBerry smartphone messages by November, two
officials in the Indian Government who declined to be identified
said in New Delhi last month.  The U.A.E. regulator informed local phone companies
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,  known as Etisalat, and
 Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co.,  known as Du, of the
planned suspension and instructed them to shift clients to other
services. Both operators have introduced packages that will
allow customers to replace their BlackBerry and have access to
similar services.  The U.A.E. phone companies rose to their highest levels
since May today, with Du gaining 2.4 percent to 2.54 dirhams in
Dubai and Etisalat advancing 0.5 percent to 10.55 dirhams in Abu
Dhabi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  