-- RAK Airways to Restart Operations on October 10
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-09-26T12:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/u-a-e-s-rak-airways-to-restart-operations-on-october-10-ceo-jahameh-says.html
RAK Airways PJSC, the United Arab
Emirates’ fifth airline, will restart operations on Oct. 10 as
demand in Gulf Arab countries recovers after the financial
crisis, Chairman Sheikh Omar Bin Saqr Al Qassimi said.  The airline, owned by the emirate of Ras al-Khaimah, will
start with two destinations, Jeddah in Saudi Arabia and Calicut
in India using two leased  Boeing  737-400 aircraft, Al Qassimi
told a news conference in the emirate.  “Conditions have markedly improved lately to the point
where international passenger demand has soared,” Al Qassimi
said. “The time is right for us to make a spectacular re-entry
into the market.”  RAK Airways, which launched operations early 2007,
suspended scheduled flights in September 2008 due to the global
financial crisis. The airline continued its charter services
using a Boeing 757 aircraft.  Demand for international air travel in the Gulf Arab region
is improving after the economic downturn hampered demand in 2008
and 2009. Passenger traffic at Dubai Airport grew 6.8 percent in
August from a year ago, Dubai Airports that operates the hub
said last week.  New Aircraft  Ras al-Khaimah, one of the seven members of the U.A.E.
federation, will seek to quadruple tourist numbers by 2012 and
to increase the number of five-star hotel rooms to 7500 from
1400 currently, Al Qassimi said.  Chief Executive Officer Omar Jahameh said RAK Airways is
“negotiating access to new aircraft” and is “keeping its
options open” for both leasing and acquisitions.  RAK Airways signed a deal with  Boeing  for four 737-800
aircraft with an option for two more in 2008. Jahameh said that
contract is “still valid”, but that the airline is in
negotiations with planemaker over the deal. Jahameh wouldn’t 
say exactly what the two sides are in discussions about.  RAK Airways will position itself between the region’s
commercial airlines and low-cost carriers, Al Qassimi said.  Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international
traffic, Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways, low-cost carrier
FlyDubai and Sharjah-based  Air Arabia  also operate out of the
United Arab Emirates, the second-largest Arab economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  