-- U.K. House Prices Decline the Most in 18 Months, Hometrack Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/u-k-house-prices-decline-the-most-in-18-months-hometrack-says.html
U.K. home values dropped by the
most in 18 months in September as all of Britain’s regions
posted price declines, Hometrack Ltd. said.  The  average cost  of a home fell 0.4 percent from the
previous month to 157,600 pounds ($249,000), the London-based
property researcher said in an e-mailed statement today. That
was the third consecutive monthly drop and the biggest since
March 2009. Housing demand fell the most since January 2009.  The report adds to mounting evidence that the housing
market is weakening as the U.K. government prepares the biggest
budget squeeze since World War II and banks curb lending. Bank
of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said last week that
values may fall further after the small size of declines during
the recession surprised people.  September’s price declines are “part of an ongoing re-
pricing process which began six months ago in early spring, and
which is set to stretch well into 2011,”  Richard Donnell ,
Hometrack’s director of research, said in the statement.
“Growing concerns over the economic outlook and public-spending
cuts are weighing heavily on would-be purchasers.”  Prices rose in September by 1 percent from a year earlier,
the least in seven months, Hometrack said. Demand for homes,
measured by the change in new buyers registering with real-
estate agents, fell for a third month, dropping by 2.9 percent.
Prices fell in all regions for the first time since April 2009.  London Prices  The decline in demand has been strongest in southern
England, which experienced the largest price drops in the last
three months. Prices fell 1.1 percent in London and 1 percent in
southeast England in that time, Hometrack said.  A surge in the supply of homes for sale should slow and
help limit price declines in the next year, Hometrack said.  “While demand is set to fall further in the coming months,
we also expect the volume of new supply coming to the market to
moderate,” Donnell said. “Talk of a double dip, with the
implication being that the market will see double-digit house
price falls, is overdone despite the weak outlook for demand.”  Mortgage approvals fell to a 16-month low in August, the
British Bankers’ Association said on Sept. 23.  “Clearly, house prices have fallen, but I think most
people have been surprised by how little house prices have
fallen over this period,” Dale said on Sept. 22. “House prices
have fallen 10 percent or so in this period,” he said. “It
could be that we haven’t seen it all and that more is still to
come.”  Hometrack’s index is based on a survey of more than 5,100
real-estate agents and surveyors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  