-- Hungary to Leave Main Interest Rate Unchanged on Fiscal-Policy Reversal
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-09-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/hungary-to-leave-main-rate-unchanged-on-fiscal-policy-reversal.html
Hungary will probably leave its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged today for a fifth month as the
government’s commitment to fiscal rigor helped curbed risk
costs, reducing the likelihood of a rate hike.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will keep the benchmark two-week
deposit rate at a record-low 5.25 percent, according to all 17
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The decision will be announced
at 2 p.m. in Budapest.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government this month pledged
to reduce the 2011 budget deficit to below the European Union’s
limit of less than 3 percent of output, two months after falling
out with international lenders over the same target. The forint
strengthened and government bond yields dropped, which may
change the mind of proponents of higher rates, economists said.  The forint’s gain “cooled down rate-hike expectations in
the market,”  Gyula Toth , an emerging-market strategist at
UniCredit SpA, said by phone from Vienna. “The government’s
deficit announcement has changed the interest-rate outlook in
that it essentially ruled out a rate hike in the short term.”  The forint has gained 3.3 percent against the euro this
month, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The yield on Hungary’s five-year bonds declined 80
basis points to 6.8 percent after reaching a 2010 high on July
23. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Rate-Increase Talk  The currency dropped to the lowest in more than a year on
July 17 after the IMF, which helped extend a 20 billion-euro
($26 billion) bailout in 2008, failed to endorse the
government’s budget plans.  Monetary policy makers raised the possibility of increasing
the benchmark interest rate in August after the breakdown of
talks. Supporters of higher borrowing costs, including central
bank President  Andras Simor , argued that the move would
strengthen the forint, spur domestic demand and economic growth
and said “it’s not worth delaying a tightening,” according to
the meeting’s minutes.  The government, working to boost growth after the worst
 recession  in 18 years, bowed to EU pressure to commit to its
predecessor’s budget deficit target of 2.8 percent for 2011.
Details of the 2011 budget will be presented in mid-October,
following local elections set for Oct. 3.  “If the budget details show credible measures, Hungary may
get away without hiking interest rates,” Toth said. Inflation
would allow for lower borrowing costs, he said.  Inflation Slows  The August  inflation  rate dropped to the lowest since June
2009, led by declines in the prices of clothing and consumer
goods. The central bank in August forecast the inflation rate to
average 4.7 percent this year and 3.5 percent in 2011.  Hungary’s economic recovery halted in the second quarter as
rising exports failed to compensate for austerity measures,
stifling domestic demand. Annual growth in the period
accelerated to 1 percent from 0.1 percent, the Budapest-based
statistics office said on Sept. 8.  The government’s commitment to cut the deficit hasn’t
removed the threat to its credit rating and Hungary needs to
clarify its economic policies for that, Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  