-- Hyundai Motor to Recall Sonata Sedans in U.S. Over Steering
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-09-27T09:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-26/hyundai-to-recall-sonata-sedans-in-u-s-to-make-checks-on-steering-issues.html
Hyundai Motor Co.  will recall about
139,500 cars in the U.S. because of steering issues that could
result in a loss of or reduction in maneuvering capability, amid
increased attention to quality among automakers.  Model year 2011 Sonata sedans manufactured between Dec. 11,
2009, and Sept. 10, 2010, are subject to the plan, the U.S.
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said in a
statement on its website. Hyundai Motor America informed the
agency it is voluntarily initiating a safety recall of Sonata
sedans to inspect the steering issues, South Korea’s biggest
automaker said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “It’s a recall of Hyundai’s flagship model in the flagship
market, so investors will monitor how it proceeds,” said  Kang Sang Min , a Seoul-based analyst at Hanwha Securities Co. “A
voluntary recall with no case of accident usually gives an
impression that the company cares about safety.”  The move comes as Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
carmaker, recalled more than 8 million vehicles worldwide in the
past year for defects including gas pedals that stuck or snagged
on floor mats.  Toyota  dropped out of the top 10 global brands
ranked annually by consulting company Interbrand after the
recalls.  Hyundai Motor closed unchanged at 161,500 won on the Korea
Exchange today, while the benchmark  Kospi  stock index rose 0.8
percent.  Kia Recall  Hyundai Motor said there were fewer than 10 vehicles with
steering problems and no accidents or injuries have occurred as
a result of the condition. The automaker, based in Seoul, is
expected to begin the recall in October, according to the U.S.
agency, which opened a preliminary probe into steering problems
with the model in August.  Kia Motors Corp. , an affiliate of Hyundai Motor, this month
said  Jeong Sung Eun  resigned as vice chairman to take
responsibility for the recent recall of four models. Kia began
recalling about 104,000 cars worldwide earlier this month
because of a wiring problem that can cause fires.  Hyundai’s U.S.  sales  rose 17 percent in the first eight
months of the year, led by demand for the revamped midsize
Sonata and new Tucson crossover vehicle. The growth is more than
double the 8.4 percent increase in industrywide deliveries
through August, according to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based
Autodata Corp.  Hyundai’s full-year U.S. sales in 2010 should finally
surpass its long-time target of 500,000 units, and the company
may set an “all-time record” for U.S. sales in September
thanks to demand for its Sonata sedan,  John Krafcik , the
company’s U.S. chief executive officer, said in a Sept. 16
Bloomberg Television interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  