-- Investor AB Net Asset Value Drops on Market Turmoil
-- Niklas Magnusson
-- 2007-10-11T14:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-11/investor-ab-net-asset-value-drops-on-market-turmoil-update3-.html

          
          
             Investor AB (INVEB) , the Swedish Wallenberg
family's holding company, said the value of its assets fell 4.4
percent in the third quarter after the turmoil in financial
markets weighed on investments including Ericsson AB.  
 Net asset value as of Sept. 30 was 174.63 billion kronor
($27.1 billion), or 228 kronor a share, from 182.6 billion
kronor, or 238 kronor, at the end of June, the Stockholm-based
company said today in a statement. The decline led to Investor
AB's first quarterly net loss in more than a year.  
 ``The market turbulence during the quarter has affected
valuations of Investor's holdings,'' Chief Executive Officer
Boerje Ekholm said in the statement. ``The liquidity crisis is
likely to have a negative impact on global economic growth.''  
 Rising defaults of U.S. home loans to buyers with patchy
credit histories have rippled through global economies, and
Ekholm said today it will take longer to resolve the turbulence.
 Investor AB (INVEA)  holdings that fell in value in the quarter include
SEB AB and Ericsson, while Investor AB's private equity
investments dropped 1 billion kronor in value.  
 Ericsson Investment  
 Investor AB had a net loss of 7.82 billion kronor in the
quarter, compared with a profit of 8.92 billion kronor a year
earlier. Investor AB's so-called core investments, including
Ericsson and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.'s second-largest
drugmaker, pulled down earnings by 6.1 billion kronor.  
 Shares of Investor AB declined 1 krona, or 0.6 percent, to
176 kronor as of 4:53 p.m. in  Stockholm . The stock has gained 11
percent in the past year.  
 Ekholm said today that combining SEB with Nordea Bank AB
may be a possibility, responding to speculation in Swedish media
that the two lenders may merge. The Swedish government has said
it wants to sell its 19.9 percent stake in Nordea, the Nordic
region's largest bank.  
 ``We view actions like mergers or takeovers as a way for us
to increase the value of the holding,'' Ekholm said in an
interview. ``Clearly one option could be Nordea. We'll explore
that like we do with all other value-creating actions we can
take in our core investments.''  
 The Swedish government has also pledged to sell Vin & Sprit
AB, the maker of Absolut vodka. EQT, the private equity firm
partly owned by Investor AB, earlier this week said it wants to
buy the company. Investor AB is working with the private equity
firm on the transaction, Ekholm said in an interview today.  
 ``We think it can be quite an attractive deal, built on
growing sales abroad as well as potentially creating a stronger
brand company based here in Stockholm,'' he said.  
 Investor AB agreed in the quarter to sell its 10.7 percent
stake in Nordic stock market operator OMX AB to Borse Dubai and
 Nasdaq  Stock Market Inc. for 265 kronor a share. Dubai and
Nasdaq raised their offer for OMX and lowered the acceptance
level for their bid to 50 percent last month.  
 ``The agreement forms the basis for a sound industrial
solution,'' Ekholm said in the statement.  
 Investor AB, which helped defeat a 10.3 billion-euro
hostile bid for Scania AB by MAN AG earlier this year, will seek
to find a ``long-term industrial solution for Scania, Ekholm
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Adrian Cox at   acox2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        