-- Credit Suisse to expand private bank worldwide
-- By  Thomas Atkins
-- Thu Jan 17, 2008 4:46am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/17/businesspro-creditsuisse-results-dc-idUSL1759611520080117

 

 ZURICH  (Reuters) - Credit Suisse Group ( CSGN.VX ) bucked a 
financial sector trend on Thursday, announcing a worldwide 
expansion plan for its flagship private banking arm. 

  In sharp contrast to layoffs elsewhere in a financial 
sector hard-hit by the credit crisis, Credit Suisse said the 
division was "well-positioned to excel in the current market 
conditions."  It aims to add 1,000 new bankers to serve wealthy clients 
by 2010, taking the total to around 4,100.  The Swiss group said it expected net new assets in its 
wealth management division to grow by over 6 percent a year, 
and that long-term growth prospects for the wealth management 
industry were intact, according to presentation slides to be 
delivered at an investor conference.  "They're looking to put another 10 percent per annum in 
financial advisers into the business, which suggests a 
relatively positive point of view," said analyst Alan Webborn 
at bank Societe Generale.  Shares in Credit Suisse were up 1.7 percent at 60.45 francs 
at 4:20 a.m. EST, in line with a 1.7 percent gain in the Dow 
Jones index of major European banks.  Wealth managers -- who invest money for rich people -- have 
largely escaped fallout from the credit crisis, which has seen 
the world's biggest banks come hat-in-hand to investors to 
shore up equity bases badly damaged by billions in writeoffs.
  CONTRAST  Swiss rival bank UBS AG ( UBSN.VX ), seen as Europe's biggest 
casualty of the subprime crisis with $14.5 billion of 
writedowns, expects to face angry shareholders at an 
extraordinary meeting on February 27 to approve a 13 billion 
Swiss franc ($11.79 billion) capital injection by Singapore and 
an unnamed Middle East investor.  And banks including Citigroup ( C.N ) and Merrill Lynch 
MER.N have sought billions of dollars of emergency funding 
from wealthy sovereign funds.  Credit Suisse, which has escaped the crisis relatively 
unscathed so far, said its expansion plans target Latin 
America, Europe, India, Japan, the United States and the Middle 
East.  Credit Suisse said it aimed to build a comprehensive wealth 
management operation in the United States, establish an onshore 
presence in Japan in 2008 and enter the onshore markets in 
Mexico and Brazil.  The group said it expected around 1.6 billion Swiss francs 
in revenue synergies in 2007 resulting from its "One Bank" 
strategy designed to capture business arising within different 
business segments in the group.  That compares to 1.2 billion francs in synergies from the 
strategy produced in 2006, according to the presentation.  (Reporting by Thomas Atkins; Editing by Paul Bolding and 
 Andrew Callus )