-- Telekomunikacja Profit Falls Less Than Predicted
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2007-10-25T14:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-25/telekomunikacja-profit-falls-less-than-predicted-update6-.html

          
          
             Telekomunikacja Polska SA, Poland's
biggest phone company, said third-quarter profit fell 3 percent,
less than analysts estimated, after mobile-phone revenue gained.
The shares rose to a three-month high.  
 Net income  declined to 644 million zloty ($251 million) from
664 million zloty a year earlier, the Warsaw-based unit of  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  said in a statement today. The company beat analysts'
estimates of a 15 percent decline, according to the median of
nine brokerages surveyed by Bloomberg News. Sales declined 1.8
percent to 4.65 billion zloty.  
 ``Good results that beat expectations spurred demand for
Telekomunikacja,'' said Slawomir Ziemski, a broker at KBC
Securities NV in Warsaw. ``Maybe investors will finally
appreciate this security.''  
 Telekomunikacja has a 34 percent share in Poland's 22
billion-zloty mobile phone market. Earnings from its wireless
business helped offset September's 30 percent cut in the price of
calls from fixed-line to mobile phones.  
 Telekomunikacja  shares  gained 2.6 percent to 23.40 zloty,
the highest since July 26. The stock has declined 4.7 percent
this year, pushing the phone company's market value to 32 billion
zloty.  
 `How It Should Be'  
 Sales of mobile-phone services rose 6.2 percent in the first
nine months of the year, while fixed-line revenue fell 8.2
percent, after the Polish telecommunications regulator pushed the
company to lower prices.  
 Telecommunications and Internet revenue growth is slowing
throughout the country, Chief Executive Officer Maciej Witucki
told reporters on a conference call from Warsaw. Telekomunikacja
expects sales to fall 2.8 percent in 2007 and decrease at a
slower pace in coming years.  
 ``I assume that, in a sense, 2007 is the peak of the
regulatory impact,'' Witucki told a news conference in Warsaw.
Asked whether that meant the decline in revenue should slow, he
replied, ``That is how it should be.''  
 Third-quarter earnings per share were unchanged at 47 grosze
after Telekomunikacja bought back stock.  
 The former monopoly wants to raise some of the fees it
charges competitors for using its network, Witucki told analysts
during a conference call today.  
 Anna Strezynska, the head of  Poland 's telecommunications
industry regulator, said in an interview she's ``skeptical''
about Telekomunikacja's proposal. Strezynska will probably make a
final decision on the request on Oct. 29, she said by phone.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Warsaw at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Fried at   mfried@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        