-- Gazprom, Brisa to Bid for Two Russian Road Contracts
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2007-10-25T15:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-25/gazprom-brisa-to-bid-for-two-russian-road-contracts-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  and Brisa-Auto Estradas
de Portugal SA will bid for two highway-management contracts in
 Russia  valued at 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion) as the eastern
European country works to upgrade its road network.  
 Brisa, Portugal's biggest highway operator, and units of
Gazprom including its pension fund manager agreed to set up a
group to bid for stretches of the Moscow-Minsk and Moscow-St.
Petersburg highways, Guilherme Magalhaes, Brisa's executive
director for  Europe , said today at a conference in Lisbon.  
 ``These are very difficult projects as they involve working
on stretches of highway that already exist,'' Magalhaes said.  
 Gazprom may help Brisa expand into the Russian market after
the Portuguese company earlier this year entered the U.S. with a
contract to run a stretch of highway in  Colorado  called the
Northwest Parkway. Brisa, based near Lisbon, intends to grow
outside its home market as governments from  North America  to
eastern Europe upgrade roads and develop new highway networks.  
 Russia, the world's biggest crude oil and natural gas
exporter, has entered its ninth consecutive year of economic
expansion. Moscow-based Gazprom is the world's largest natural-gas producer.  
 The contract for the Moscow-St. Petersburg highway will
involve widening and managing a stretch of the road and
investing about 1.2 billion euros, Magalhaes said. The other
contract will require investment of 800 million euros for a
stretch of about 30 kilometers (20 miles) of the toll road to
Minsk, Belarus.  
 30 to 40 Years  
 The contract may last 30 to 40 years, and that period may
be negotiated in bidders' proposals, he said.  
 Bids must be submitted by the end of December, and
Magalhaes estimated there will be at least four bidding groups
for the contracts. Brisa's stake in the bidding group will be
smaller than the combined stakes of its Russian partners, he
said.  
 Former monopoly Brisa is controlled by Jose de Mello SGPS
SA, a holding company for one of  Portugal 's richest families.
Babcock & Brown Ltd.,  Australia 's second-largest investment
bank, in June bought 10 percent of Brisa.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Malcolm Fried at   mfried@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        