-- ‘Show Boat’ Delights Parisians With Lovers, Gamblers, Tunes
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-10-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/-show-boat-delights-parisians-with-lovers-gamblers-catchy-tunes-review.html
After more than 80 years, “Show
Boat,” the Jerome Kern-Oscar Hammerstein masterpiece, has
finally docked in Paris. It was worth the wait.  Actually, the musical was produced in 1929, two years after
the Broadway premiere, at the very same  Theatre du Chatelet  in
French under the title “Mississipi” -- with one P only. This
is the first Paris production in English. That it comes from
South Africa makes it doubly interesting.  Racial discrimination, an issue tackled head-on by the
musical, was very much on the minds of the first-nighters at the
Ziegfeld Theatre in New York. And so it was at the Cape Town
Opera, where it was first performed in 2005.  In the meantime, the production has traveled to German,
Swedish and Norwegian opera houses. The tour speaks for itself:
Along with “Porgy and Bess,” “Show Boat” is one of the few
musicals taken seriously even by snooty opera fans.  The plot makes more sense than that of many operas:  Edna Ferber’s  novel, on which the musical is based, not only deals
with the racism of the Deep South. It also describes -- less
powerfully than  Dostoevsky  and  Zola , to be sure -- the
disastrous consequences of compulsive gambling and drinking.  The result, fortunately, is neither a tragedy nor a moral
tract. Thanks to Hammerstein’s clever condensation of the novel,
including a new happy ending, “Show Boat” is a sunny work.
 Kern ’s score is filled with catchy tunes, yet it’s all of a
piece. The song “Ol’ Man River” holds it together just as the
Mississippi holds together the plot and the characters.  Stylized Humor  Among the many versions of the oft-revised score, the  Cape
Town Opera  has opted for the one used at the Broadway revival in
1946, without the overture and the convent scene and with a new
number, “Nobody Else but Me.”  Director Janice Honeyman, Johan Engels (set) and Birrie le
Roux (costumes) present “Show Boat” as a picturesque period
piece, realistic yet stylized, sentimental though with a welcome
touch of tongue-in-cheek humor.  The singers, though not outstanding, are fine. Janelle
Visagie is a ladylike Magnolia, the daughter of Captain Andy,
who pilots the floating theater up and down the river.  Blake Fischer as Gaylord Ravenal, her gambling love
interest, has a ringing tenor voice. Angela Kerrison is a sweet
Julie, the mulatto whom the law forces to quit the show, thereby
launching Magnolia’s career.  The best vocal performance comes from Otto Maidi as the
black dockworker Joe: He sings “Ol’ Man River,” the show’s
signature tune, with majestic dignity.  Malcolm Terrey’s Captain Andy is funny in the scene in
which, after the sudden defection of his actors, he has to take
to the stage and act out the rest of the play himself.  The dancing was probably more precise in Ziegfeld’s
original staging. Albert Horne leads the  Orchestre Pasdeloup 
with a fine feel for Broadway style.  Rating: ***.  “Show Boat” is at the Theatre du Chatelet through Oct.
19. Information:  http://or  +33-1-4028-2840.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  