-- Afghanistan War Debate Goes AWOL in U.S. Elections: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-10-10T15:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/afghanistan-war-debate-goes-awol-in-u-s-elections-albert-hunt.html
It’s a useful exercise to juxtapose
 Bob Woodward ’s new book on the war in Afghanistan, “Obama’s
Wars,” with the agenda discussed in elections across the
country.  There is a total disconnect: The Woodward book depicts
Afghanistan as a quagmire-to-be with no clear and coherent
strategy. There are almost 100,000 young American men and women
deployed there at an annual cost of $119 billion -- almost three
times the ultimate cost to taxpayers of the entire Troubled
Asset Relief Program to rescue the financial system -- and with
casualties rising.  In Senate and House races all across the U.S., the venue
for debating important issues, the candidates are largely silent
about the war, irrespective of the contest, region or party.  This absence from the agenda reflects the dominance of the
economic concerns facing many Americans. It’s also a matter of
political convenience: Democrats with reservations about the war
don’t what to criticize an already beleaguered president, and
Republicans want to appear muscular and tough without providing
any plan or specifics.  Political leaders of both parties say it’s all about the
economy;  Afghanistan  is an afterthought. “It’s not a big
campaign issue; it’s a difficult time to talk about the war,”
says Representative Pete Sessions, a Texas Republican who is
heading his party’s effort to gain a House majority.  ‘Riveted on the Economy’  “There are races where people care about Afghanistan, but
overwhelmingly this election is riveted on the economy,” says
Robert Menendez of  New Jersey , who chairs the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee.  A glance at candidates’ websites underscores the point. In
 Nevada , the Senate Majority leader,  Harry Reid , cites
Afghanistan in passing and only with respect to the need to take
care of veterans. His Republican challenger,  Sharron Angle , a
self-described “staunch supporter of the U.S. military,” omits
any reference to the conflict.  The press bears some responsibility; in most candidate
debates, Afghanistan is a non-issue.  The contestants for a Kentucky Senate seat, Republican  Rand Paul  and Democrat Jack Conway, last weekend had a full-fledged
national debate on  Fox News ; the war never came up.  A few days earlier, in  California , Senate candidates
Barbara Boxer, the incumbent Democrat, and her Republican
challenger,  Carly Fiorina , were grilled in a debate. The one
question on Afghanistan, to Boxer, came at the end; Fiorina was
asked nothing.  Connecticut Race  A similar story unfolded in a Connecticut debate. The
Republican Senate candidate, Linda McMahon, when asked about
Afghanistan, initially went back to the minimum-wage issue. Near
the end of a formless answer, she came up with this bottom line:
As a senator, she’d like “a detailed briefing on what exactly
the goals and strategies are in Afghanistan.”  That may prove frustrating, as McMahon would discover if
she read “Obama’s War.” Woodward’s detail-rich, behind-the-
scenes reporting on the administration’s decision-making on
Afghanistan shows that almost no one, other than Vice President
 Joe Biden , verbosity aside, comes off well. President  Barack Obama  is seen committing 50,000 U.S. troops to a strategy he
seems to doubt.  Tom Donilon, a White House political-national security
adviser, who was tapped last week to succeed General James L.
Jones as National Security Adviser, at one point wonders, “My
God, what are we getting this guy into?”  Few Options  Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Admiral Mike Mullen,
chairman of the military’s Joint Chiefs of Staff -- both
estimable men -- appear derelict by refusing the president’s
request for options other than escalation.  There are few Americans as admired as General David Petraeus, the strategist and hero of the surge in  Iraq , where
the ruling clique now apparently includes the violently anti-
American cleric, Moqtada al-Sadr. At one stage, Petraeus, angry
at the White House, leaks his skepticism about Obama to a
columnist who is a former speechwriter for President  George W. Bush . The confident commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan was
told by his highly regarded intelligence adviser earlier this
year that the U.S. policy in that country was fatally flawed,
“is not going to work.”  The only consensus among U.S. political and military
officials: The Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, is a corrupt,
unstable and unreliable ally.  Orderly Withdrawal  This troubling context is the backdrop for hugely important
decisions -- with pulling out and major escalations off the
table -- that will be made within months of this November’s
congressional elections. Obama plans an orderly withdrawal
starting next July, though it will be “conditions-based.”  If you read dispatches from Afghanistan and the Woodward
book it seems very doubtful that any reasonable conditions for
withdrawal -- economic and political progress in the country, a
reduction of violence and the Taliban in retreat -- can be met.
So what should the U.S. do? How should a flawed strategy be
altered? What should be the size and scope of the American
commitment and, most important, how does it affect  Pakistan ?  A handful of candidates do address the issue. Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, says victory is essential and the
U.S. must expend whatever resources are necessary to meet that
objective. (He is unwilling to raise taxes, including on the
wealthy, to help pay for these efforts.)  ‘Valuable Recruiting Tool’  On the left, Democratic Senator  Russ Feingold  of  Wisconsin 
says the U.S. must set a firmer timetable for withdrawal.
Otherwise, al-Qaeda will have “a valuable recruiting tool” and
U.S. troops and taxpayers will be “on the hook.”  It isn’t reasonable to expect the vast majority of
politicians, most of whom have little background in national
security, to put together a cogent policy. And no sensible
politician this year would emphasize Afghanistan over the
economy.  It is reasonable to expect these candidates to discuss and
debate how long we’re willing to put our troops in harm’s way,
at what cost in treasure and with what consequences. In a
democracy, that’s what elections are about.  In 2010, while brave young American men and women put their
lives on the line 10,000 miles away, the politicians at home are
flunking this test.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 