-- Air France CEO Calls for EU Curbs on Expansion by Gulf Carriers
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-10-11T17:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/air-france-ceo-gourgeon-calls-for-eu-curbs-on-expansion-by-gulf-carriers.html
Air France-KLM Group  is teaming up
with Europe’s biggest airlines to push for European Union action
to slow the encroachment of Emirates and other Gulf carriers,
saying the region’s status as an air-travel hub is under threat.  “Europe is at the crossroads of international air travel,
and this is a role we need to value and defend,” Air France
Chief Executive Officer  Pierre-Henri Gourgeon  said in an
interview. “What we’re telling the authorities is that we need
a strategy that gives us a chance to resist.”  Gourgeon, British Airways Plc CEO  Willie Walsh  and Deutsche
Lufthansa AG’s  Wolfgang Mayrhuber  are among executives scheduled
to attend a meeting of the  Association of European Airlines  on
Oct. 15 in London. They will discuss a joint push with American
rivals for a change to the export-guarantee regime and the
trans-Atlantic trade agreement that enshrines it, said  Christian de Barrin , a spokesman of the Brussels-based industry group.  For the past two decades, the U.S. and Europe have agreed
to withhold export credit guarantees from airlines registered in
five countries where Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co.  airliners are
built: Britain, France, Germany, Spain and the U.S. This means
many European and all American carriers are denied cheaper
government-backed plane financing available to rivals from
countries including Gulf states.  ‘Home-Country’ Rule  The role of export financing has ballooned since the credit
crunch reduced banks’ willingness to lend. The share of plane
deliveries covered by government guarantees more than doubled to
34 percent in 2009, Airbus and Boeing figures show.  “Our ability to fund the acquisition of new aircraft is
handicapped by the so-called ‘home-country’ rule,” BA spokesman
 Paul Marston  said. “These guarantees are not operating in the
way they were intended -- and we therefore urge the EU to amend
the rules to remove the competitive distortions that have
developed.”  In a policy paper published on its  website  last week,
Lufthansa called for an end to “market imbalances” resulting
from export-credit financing, saying “basic rules of regulatory
policy are being disregarded.”  Emirates, the biggest Gulf carrier, already pays very
little in the way of airport charges or fuel tax at its Dubai
hub, as well as escaping many of the social charges that weigh
on European companies, Air France’s Gourgeon said. Those
benefits could generate 3 billion euros ($4.2 billion) of
 operating income  if applied to Air France-KLM, he said.  No Tax?  “When you’re supported in this way you can offer the end
product at very low prices,” the CEO said in the Oct. 7
interview at Air France’s headquarters near Paris Charles de
Gaulle airport. “They don’t pay tax -- they don’t even have a
word for it.”  European carriers may also seek action under EU  Regulation
868 , which imposes protective duties on foreign carriers that
use subsidies or other forms of “non-commercial advantage” to
undercut prices, the AEA’s de Barrin said.  “When so many entities and economies around the world are
being shored up by governments in order to survive, it is
surprising to single out Emirates with unsubstantiated claims of
being subsidized,” President  Tim Clark  said in comments e-
mailed to Bloomberg. “We have grown without subsidy through the
success of our commercially-driven business model -- and see no
reason to apologize for what we have achieved.”  Qatar, Etihad  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
said it aims to settle the matter through the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “The commission believes the solution to this issue will be
found in the renegotiation of the OECD sector understanding on
export credits for civil aircraft,”  John Clancy , trade
spokesman, said by e-mail from Brussels. “The commission is
working towards this goal on behalf of the EU member states but
of course appreciates all dialogue with the relevant
stakeholders.”  Emirates  overtook Lufthansa  last year as the biggest
carrier on international flights, following a sixfold increase
in traffic since 2000, when it ranked 24th. British Airways, top
in 2000, now stands fourth in the  International Air Transport
Association  ranking, which treats Air France and KLM as separate
airlines.  Airbus  and  Boeing  together have outstanding orders for 102
widebody planes from Qatar Airways, 59 from Etihad Airways and
175 from Emirates, which has already taken delivery of 13 of the
90 Airbus A380 superjumbos it has ordered in total.  Level Playing Field  The U.S. Export-Import Bank guaranteed $414 million of
Emirates bonds last year to fund the purchase three Boeing 777
jets, an example of the cheaper financing that would be off
limits for Lufthansa or  Southwest Airlines Inc.   “There’s definitely an argument that there needs to be a
level playing field in financing,” said  Howard Wheeldon , senior
strategist at BGC Partners. “Any pressure that France, Britain
and Germany can bring to bear makes good sense.”  For investment-grade U.S. carriers, cost savings from the
agency-guaranteed financing they are denied would amount to 3
percent of total loan value annually, according to Air France
data comparing the spreads on guaranteed debt with those of
commercially traded plane-financing notes over the past two
years.  “That’s a lot of money,” Marc Verspyck, the French
carrier’s senior vice president for finance, said in an
interview. In addition to the actual savings, eligibility for
guarantees cuts financing risk when ordering planes, he said.  Manchester Route  Air France rose 1.4 percent to 12 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Paris. Lufthansa  slipped  0.4 percent to
14.35 euros on the Frankfurt exchange. British Airways gained
1.6 percent to 268.4 pence in London.  European airlines may struggle to maintain efficient
connections as Middle Eastern carriers lure more passengers away
with new destinations, Gourgeon said. He cited Emirates’s
introduction of an Airbus A380 superjumbo flying between Dubai
and Manchester, northern England.  “It will progressively become more difficult for British
Airways to have enough passengers to offer the same frequency of
flights to Hong Kong,” the CEO said. Traffic through Paris,
Milan and Munich would also suffer, he said.  If left unchecked, the competitive imbalance between the
Gulf and Europe will eventually lead to a mass shift in stopover
traffic, and other economic activities, to Middle Eastern hubs,
Gourgeon said.  “I think it’s very dangerous for Europe,” he said. “What
they’re trying to do is buy our jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net 
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  