-- Phillies Defeat Cincinnati Reds 2-0, Sweep Three-Game NL Playoff Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-10-11T04:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/tampa-bay-rays-beat-rangers-5-2-force-decisive-game-5-in-playoff-series.html
The Philadelphia Phillies are headed
to the National League Championship Series for the third
straight year after completing a sweep of the Cincinnati Reds
with a five-hit shutout by  Cole Hamels .  The Phillies beat the Reds 2-0 last night at the Great
American Ballpark in Cincinnati as Hamels had nine strikeouts
and didn’t walk a batter.  Led by  Roy Halladay ’s no-hitter in Game 1 of the NL
Division Series, Philadelphia’s starting pitchers allowed three
earned runs over 23 innings against a Reds offense that had led
the league in runs scored this season.  “They’re going to be tough to beat,” Reds manager  Dusty Baker  said of the Phillies, who led Major League Baseball with
97 wins during the regular season. “Especially when they throw
that pitching at you.”  The Phillies will play the San Francisco Giants or Atlanta
Braves for a spot in the World Series.  The Giants grabbed a 2-1 lead in their first-round series
yesterday by scoring two runs with two outs in the ninth inning
for a 3-2 win over the Braves. The winning run came on the third
error of the game by Braves second baseman  Brooks Conrad .  “I feel absolutely terrible right now,” Conrad told
reporters at Turner Field in Atlanta. “I wish I could just dig
a hole and go sleep in there.”  Rays Tie Series  The Tampa Bay Rays beat the Texas Rangers 5-2 in
yesterday’s first game to tie their American League playoff
series at two games each and force Game 5.  Evan Longoria  had three hits, including a two-run home run,
and the Rays won their second straight game at Rangers Ballpark
in Arlington, Texas.  The best-of-five AL Division Series returns to Tropicana
Field in St. Petersburg, Florida, for Game 5 tomorrow.  David Price  will be the Rays’ starting pitcher against the
Rangers’  Cliff Lee , who was the Game 1 winner. The Rangers are
the only current major league team that hasn’t won a postseason
series, while the Rays are seeking to become the second team to
win a best-of-five playoff series after losing the first two
games at home, joining the 2001 New York Yankees.  “It’s down to one game,” Rangers manager  Ron Washington 
said. “We’ve got Cliff going and we certainly feel good about
it. We have proved that we can win there.”  The winner of Game 5 advances to face the Yankees in the AL
Championship Series.  Phillies Blank Reds  In Cincinnati, Hamels got all the run support he’d need in
the first inning, when  Placido Polanco  scored on a throwing
error by Reds shortstop  Orlando Cabrera .  Chase Utley  added a solo home run in the fifth inning while
Hamels, the 2008 World Series Most Valuable Player, improved to
7-0 against the Reds.  “The postseason is all about pitching,” Hamels said.
“When you’re able to pitch good games, you’re going to get wins.
And then we have the experience now on our side and that really
does help.”  Cincinnati, which was making its first playoff appearance
in 15 years, made six errors in losing the final two games of
the series. Halladay threw the second no-hitter in major league
postseason history in the opener.  In Atlanta, the Giants’ rally came after  Eric Hinske  had a
pinch-hit, two-run homer in the bottom of the eighth inning to
give the Braves a 2-1 lead.  Sanchez Score  With two outs and two strikes in the ninth inning,  Freddy Sanchez  singled to center field to put runners on first and
second base.  Aubrey Huff  followed with a run-scoring single to
tie the game.  Buster Posey  then hit a line drive that skipped
between Conrad’s legs, allowing Sanchez to score.  “After a two-run homer in the eighth, that can take the
wind out of your sails,” Giants manager  Bruce Bochy  said.
“These guys came right back and found a way to get it done.
That is a great win.”  It was Conrad’s fourth error of the series, a Division
Series record.  Conrad also dropped a  Cody Ross  fly ball in the top of the
second, allowing  Mike Fontenot  to score and put the Giants up 1-
0. Braves manager  Bobby Cox  said he isn’t sure if Conrad will be
in the lineup when Atlanta hosts Game 4 tonight.  “I’ll have to sleep on it,” Cox said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Buteau  at Turner Field in Atlanta at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  