-- Arabtec, Emaar, Etisalat, Qatar Islamic Bank, Zain: Gulf Equity Preview
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-10T05:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/arabtec-emaar-etisalat-qatar-islamic-bank-zain-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or
fall in Gulf Arab markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  The  Dubai Financial Market General Index  gained 1 percent,
Qatar’s  gauge  advanced 0.2 percent and Abu Dhabi’s  measure 
increased 0.3 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index 
retreated 0.4 percent to the lowest level since Sept. 19.  Al Jouf Agricultural Development Co.  (JADCO AB): The Saudi
Arabian producer of agricultural products said third-quarter
profit rose to 23.6 million riyals ($6.3 million) from 16.8
million riyals in the year-earlier period. The shares rose 0.6
percent to 31.8 riyals.  Arabtec Holding Co.  (ARTC UH): OAO Gazprom Neft won final
approval from the Russian government to build what may become
Europe’s tallest skyscraper in the center of St. Petersburg,
Kommersant reported. Arabtec, the biggest publicly listed
builder in the United Arab Emirates, has the contract to build
the tower. The shares advanced 0.9 percent to 2.18 dirhams.       Emaar Properties PJSC  (EMAAR UH): The builder of the
world’s tallest skyscraper in Dubai exercised the over-allotment
option of as much as $50 million on its convertible note sale,
raising the final offering size to $500 million. The shares
climbed 1.1 percent to 3.83 dirhams.       Emirates Telecommunications Corp.  (ETISALAT UH): The
U.A.E.’s largest phone company said its alternative packages
will no longer be available after Research In Motion Ltd.
averted a ban on its BlackBerry services in the country.
 Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co.  (DU UH) said
BlackBerry services for both consumer and enterprise customers
will function normally. Etisalat shares gained 0.5 percent to
10.75 dirhams, while Du shares rose 0.4 percent to 2.68 dirhams.       Qatar Islamic Bank  (QIBK QD): The Gulf emirate’s biggest
Shariah-compliant lender accepted a request from Chief Executive
Officer Salah Al Jaidah to step down for personal reasons. The
bank appointed Ahmad Meshari as acting CEO. The shares increased
0.1 percent to 82.5 riyals.       Mobile Telecommunications Co.  (ZAIN KK): Kuwait’s sovereign
wealth fund didn’t receive an offer for its stake in the mobile
phone company known as Zain, the fund’s Managing Director Bader
al-Saad told Al Arabiya TV. The shares advanced 1.5 percent to
1,360 fils.       National Gypsum Co.  (NGCO AB): The Saudi Arabian maker of
building materials said third-quarter profit fell to 10.8
million riyals from 23.3 million riyals in the year-earlier
period. The shares rose 0.3 percent to 29.9 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  