-- Larry Hagman’s Stockbroker Would Make J.R. Blush: Susan Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2010-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/larry-hagman-s-stockbroker-would-make-j-r-blush-susan-antilla.html
Larry Hagman , who played the
conniving oil baron J.R. Ewing in the prime-time soap opera
“Dallas”, has learned that the star broker hired to run your
money can turn out to be a flop.  Over the course of 15 hearing sessions in Los Angeles in
August and September, Hagman, 79, and his lawyers told a panel
of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitrators how he
came to lose $1.35 million while entrusting 20 accounts to a
big-producing broker and one-time president of the Beverly
Hills, California, Chamber of Commerce.  The broker,  Lisa Detanna , put Hagman and his wife, Maj, now
82, into a life insurance policy with annual premiums of
$168,000, according to the statement of claim. Until Oct. 8 she
was the featured mentor on Morgan Stanley Smith Barney’s  Women
Financial Advisors Forum  blog, which gives tips on pursuing a
career as a broker.  In June, she was named to Barron’s “Top 100 Women
Financial Advisors,”  ranking 98th  for overseeing $1.14 billion
in assets for clients with a typical net worth of $15 million.  Detanna works in the joint venture of retail brokers run by
 Morgan Stanley  and Citigroup’s Smith Barney. Only  Citigroup
Inc. , not Detanna, was the respondent in the Hagman case. A
woman answering the phone in Detanna’s office referred me to
 Alexander Samuelson , a Citigroup spokesman, who said “we are
disappointed and disagree with the panel’s findings, and we are
exploring our options.” He wouldn’t comment on the company’s
Beverly Hills broker.  Moving Fast  Hagman and his wife, who have been married for 56 years,
probably aren’t thinking of their one-time broker as a star
today. When they filed their claim for a  Finra  arbitration in
May 2009, they requested the expedited treatment that Finra
allows for the elderly or seriously ill. Maj Hagman has
Alzheimer’s disease, according to the claim.  The Hagmans told Detanna in 2005 that they needed income
producing investments that would protect their principal,
according to the claim. By June 2008, their accounts were about
69 percent invested in equities.  Finra arbitration often comes under justifiable fire for
being too friendly with the securities industry and too chintzy
in handing out awards to mutilated investors, but whatever
happened behind the closed doors in this case apparently
disturbed the arbitrators. On Oct. 6, the panel approved an
 award  that would give $1.1 million to the Hagmans, $439,354 to
their lawyers and $20,387 to reimburse them for witness costs.  Delivering a Doozy  Then this doozy: The arbitrators took the unusual step of
ordering Citigroup Global Markets to pay $10 million in punitive
damages to the charitable organization of the Hagman’s choice,
citing Finra rules that allow punitive damages when there’s been
“serious misconduct.” Punitive damages have been awarded in
only about 3 percent of Finra arbitrations of claims above
$25,000 in the past decade, says  Richard Ryder  of Securities
Arbitration Commentator, which tracks trends in arbitration.  Citigroup asked the arbitrators to expunge references to
the Hagman case from the official records that Finra keeps on
Detanna. The arbitrators denied that request.  It wasn’t the first time a panel of arbitrators decided to
keep an incident in her record open to the public, ignoring
requests that it be erased.  In a case decided in October 2005,  arbitrators said  Morgan
Stanley should pay $39,000 in compensatory damages to a
complaining customer, and that two of the three brokerage
employees named in the dispute would be allowed to have their
records expunged. In the case of the third employee, Lisa
Detanna, the expungement request was denied.  Desk Assistant  Detanna started her career in 1989 as an assistant on a
trading desk at the now-defunct Drexel Burnham Lambert, moving
on to jobs at Merrill Lynch, Dabney/Resnick/Imperial, and Morgan
Stanley.  Her regulatory  records  with Finra show two settlements with
complaining customers, four complaints that were denied by her
employers, a pending customer case that seeks $2.5 million, and
the Hagman case.  Separate records that Finra keeps on the outcomes of
arbitrations reveal a race, gender, and disability
discrimination complaint against Smith Barney, Detanna and one
of Detanna’s colleagues in 2003. The arbitrators in that case
told Citigroup Global Markets to pay  awards  to two of the five
claimants, and dismissed the claims against Detanna and her
colleague.  Alleged Breach  Morgan Stanley sued Detanna in April 2001. In a complaint
filed in federal court in Los Angeles, the brokerage accused her
of breach of contract after she left the firm for Citigroup. A
judge declined Morgan Stanley’s request for a temporary
restraining order against Detanna, saying the firm hadn’t shown
evidence that she had illegally solicited the company’s clients.  As can only happen in the bizarre world of post-financial-
crisis Wall Street, Detanna wound up working for Morgan Stanley
again when it combined its retail brokerage business with
Citigroup’s Smith Barney unit in June 2009.  When I called seeking a comment from Detanna, her office
referred me to Samuelson, the Citigroup spokesman. But Samuelson
said he couldn’t speak on behalf of Morgan Stanley brokers,
referring me to a Morgan spokeswoman.  The Morgan spokeswoman,  Tricia Nestfield , said “the
investment activity that was the subject of this arbitration
occurred before Morgan Stanley Smith Barney came into
existence,” adding that the firm was “reviewing the matter.”  Detanna, the rising star, now is a hot potato.  ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Susan Antilla  in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  