-- Marseille Oil-Port Strike Extends to 14th Day, Halting Ships, Refineries
-- B y   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-10T14:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/marseille-oil-port-strike-extends-to-14th-day-halting-ships-refineries.html
A strike by workers at the French
port of Marseille’s oil terminals entered its 14th day,
stranding 53 ships and forcing a Total SA refinery to begin
shutting down.  The  La Mede  refinery began this morning to close for lack
of crude oil, in a process that takes a few days, said Florent
Segura, a Total spokesman. Total’s  Feyzin  refinery could also be
affected if the strike continued, Segura said, without providing
a possible date for a closure at Feyzin.  Unions have called for a broader, nationwide strike in
various industries starting Oct. 12, in protest against the
government’s plans to increase the retirement age. The CGT union
has also called for refinery workers to strike that day,  Charles Foulard , a CGT union spokesman, said in a telephone interview
today.  Workers at the Marseille oil hub are protesting a law on
French port operations as well. Their action has helped boost
 diesel  prices in Europe.  “For the moment, there are no fuel supply problems,” said
Yves le Goff, a spokesman for the refiners’ organization Union
Francaise des Industries Petrolieres. For predictions beyond
that, “everything depends on what happens Tuesday,” he said.  Total, Exxon Mobil Corp., Ineos Group Holdings Plc and
LyondellBasell Industries NV have plants in southeastern France
that together account for 31 percent of French refining
capacity.  La Mede and Feyzin refineries have daily oil-processing
capacities of 157,000 barrels and 115,000 barrels, respectively,
according to Bloomberg data.  Workers at merchandise terminals of Marseille-area ports
were also striking today, blocking a total of 11 cargo ships,
six container ships and three barges, the port authority said in
an e-mailed statement.  The port has said “all guarantees” have been given for
the strike to end.  Other Locations  Strikes are also in effect this weekend at the ports of
Dunkirk and Saint-Nazaire, CGT’s Foulard said. Union workers at
Total’s Donges refinery, in western France, voted on Friday to
follow the strike call for Oct. 12, Foulard said.  The CGT’s national port workers branch said last week that
the Marseille-area strike was due to “local problems.”  The
union also wants employers to trim working hours and eliminate
overtime and weekend shifts.  The Marseille docks have experienced stoppages in recent
years as unions have resisted efforts to transfer public-sector
jobs to private companies.  A 12-day strike at the oil hub in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), including 15 million
euros related to vessel delays and 11 million euros in lost
revenue, UFIP estimated at the time. A strike at the oil
terminals in March 2007 lasted 17 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 