-- Swan Says Australia's Dollar Gains Pose `Challenges' for Economic Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-10T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/australian-dollar-gains-pose-challenges-for-economic-growth-swan-says.html
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
the Australian dollar’s rise to its highest level since the end
of exchange controls in 1983 may erode tax revenue and creates
“challenges” in managing the economy.  The hardest-hit industries are likely to be manufacturing,
agriculture and in-bound tourism, Swan told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television yesterday from Washington, where
he’s attending meetings of the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank.  The Australian currency has posted eight straight weeks of
gains, reaching 99.18 U.S. cents on Oct. 7, as the domestic
economy skirted the global recession and investors bet the
Reserve Bank will raise interest rates. The Aussie, as it is
known, may rise above parity with the U.S. currency this year,
Westpac Banking Corp. said Oct. 8.  “There’s no doubt that a high dollar will impact on
company profitability,” Swan said.  “There may be some impacts
on the downside for revenue.  We’ll just have to wait and see as
we prepare the budget what the overall net impact of that is.”  The government is due to hand down its budget for the year
ending June 2012 in May next year.  Economic growth, which the IMF forecasts will reach 3.5
percent next year, is fueling the Australian dollar and
prompting traders to boost bets for a rate increase next month
after officials refrained from acting last week.  ‘Strong Investment’  “It reflects strong investment in the Australian economy
and, therefore strong growth, but of course that does pose
challenges for certain sectors of the economy,” Swan said.
“Many people who are buying imported goods would be pleased
that they’re cheaper but many others, particularly in
manufacturing and also in tourism, would certainly feel the
effects.”  The mining industry is driving the jobs boom as Rio Tinto
Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  increase coal shipments to China.  Australian  employers  added 49,500 workers and the jobless
rate held at 5.1 percent in September, the government said last
week. During the same period, the U.S. economy lost 95,000 jobs
and its unemployment rate was 9.6 percent.  “In the middle of 2007, the unemployment rate in Australia
and the unemployment rate in the United States was the same, it
had a four in front of it,” Swan said. “They have shed
something like 6 million jobs.”  The treasurer said the global economic outlook remains
fragile, with expansion in emerging nations while many developed
countries are reporting “anemic” economic data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  