-- Australian Stock Futures Rise on Speculation Fed Will Act to Boost Growth
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-10T22:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/australian-stock-futures-rise-on-speculation-fed-will-act-to-boost-growth.html
Australian stock futures rose on
optimism global growth will gain momentum after a larger-than-
estimated cut in U.S. jobs stoked speculation the Federal
Reserve will intensify action to bolster its economy.  American depositary receipts of  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the
world’s biggest mining company, gained 2.2 percent on Oct. 8 as
oil and metal prices rallied. Rival Rio Tinto Group climbed 1.8
percent in London trading.  James Hardie Industries , the No. 1
seller of home siding in the U.S., and Westfield Group, the
world’s largest owner of shopping centers that gets about 40
percent of its revenue from the U.S., may rise.  “Further quantitative easing will boost short-term
liquidity, which should find its way into financial markets,”
said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about $1.8 billion at
Platypus Asset Management in Sydney. “It should also support
broader economic activity in the longer term. At the same time,
the rising supply of dollars in the system will increase demand
for hard assets like commodities and precious metals as a store
of value.”  The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in December rose
0.5 percent to 4,717 as of 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The gauge has
rallied 11 percent from this year’s July 5 low amid signs a U.S.
recovery is regaining momentum and that China’s economic
expansion will continue. New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  rose 0.1
percent today. Japanese markets are closed for a public holiday.  Stimulus Measures  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.1
percent. The gauge climbed 0.6 percent to 1,165.15 in New York
on Oct. 8 as the jobs report fueled speculation the Fed will
enact further stimulus measures.  “The jobs data was basically a win-win for equities,”
said  Chris Weston , a Melbourne-based institutional dealer at IG
Markets. “If it was better, we’d have seen a rally in risk, but
as we saw a worse-than-expected number, it again heightened the
need for stimulus. Fed liquidity into markets helps inflate
asset prices, providing a solid platform for equities to rally
in the short term.”  U.S. employers cut 95,000 workers in September, Labor
Department figures showed. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was a 5,000 drop. The  dollar  fell
below 82 yen for the first time since 1995, while the
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rose to the
highest level in almost two years.  Copper, Oil  Copper futures for December delivery rose 2.6 percent a 27-
month high on Oct. 8 in New York, while gold futures for
December delivery gained 0.8 percent to settle at $1,345.30.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s second-biggest oil and
gas producer, and Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil
explorer, may climb after crude oil for November delivery
advanced 1.2 percent to settle at $82.66 a barrel on the New
York Mercantile Exchange.  Asian steelmakers may rise after Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.,
China’s biggest publicly traded steelmaker, said profit for the
first nine months may have risen by between 170 percent and 190
percent from a year earlier, more than earlier forecast.  Steel prices were higher than expected and the strong
Chinese currency also helped, the Shanghai-based company said in
a statement to the Shanghai stock exchange.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index has risen 10
percent this year on speculation growth in corporate profits
will weather Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb
property-price inflation and concern about the pace of the U.S.
economic rebound. Stocks in the gauge trade at 13.8 times
estimated profit on average, compared with 13.9 times for the
S&P 500 and 12.1 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 