-- Axelrod Assails U.S. Chamber, Calling Secret Donations Threat to Democracy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-10-10T17:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/axelrod-singles-out-chamber-calling-secret-donations-threat-to-democracy.html
White House senior adviser  David Axelrod  said secret donations to outside political groups are
“a threat to our democracy,” singling out the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce for criticism less than a month before elections that
will determine control of Congress.  “If the Chamber opens up its books and says ‘here’s where
our political money’s coming from,’” Axelrod said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” program, “then we’ll know. But until they
do that, all we have is their assertion.”  President  Barack Obama  and fellow Democrats have spent
weeks criticizing Republican-leaning outside groups that are
flooding the airwaves with tens of millions of dollars of
political ads. A new ad from the  Democratic National Committee 
says the Chamber may be taking “secret foreign money to
influence our elections,” a charge the business group denies.  “This is pure partisan posturing,” said  David Primo , a
political science professor at the University of Rochester in
New York. “The Democrats are on the defensive and think the
Chamber is an easy target. I don’t think it will resonate with
voters, who are more concerned with the economy and runaway
government spending.”  The DNC ad, a portion of which was broadcast during the
“Face the Nation” program, described the Chamber as “shills”
for big business who are “stealing our democracy.”  ‘Ridiculous and False’  “The ad is ridiculous and false,”  Tom Collamore , senior
vice president of communications and strategy for the Chamber,
said in an e-mail. Collamore called the ad “a blatant attempt
to avoid a serious discussion of Americans’ top priority --
creating jobs and growing the economy.”  The Chamber, the nation’s largest business-lobbying group,
has pledged to spend $75 million backing pro-business candidates
in the Nov. 2 elections. Just last week, it reported $1 million
ad campaigns against California Senator  Barbara Boxer  and New
Hampshire Senate candidate  Paul Hodes .  The DNC ad also targets  Crossroads GPS , an advocacy group
advised by Republican strategist  Karl Rove  and former Republican
National Committee Chairman  Ed Gillespie . Because it’s set up as
an issue-advocacy group, Crossroads GPS also doesn’t have to
disclose its donors.  Rove, Gillespie  “Ed Gillespie and Karl Rove run one of them -- tens of
millions of dollars from undisclosed donors, under benign names
like the American Crossroads fund,” Axelrod said. “Why not
simply disclose where this money is coming from?”  Neither Rove nor Gillespie is on the board or staff of
Crossroads GPS or its sister group, American Crossroads, though
they helped conceive of the groups and raise money for them.
American Crossroads does disclose its donors.  Rove, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” said the DNC ad
accuses him and Gillespie of “a criminal violation of our law
by getting foreign money and spending it on American political
campaigns, and they have not one shred of evidence to back up
that baseless lie.”  Rove said, “This is a desperate and I think disturbing
trend by the president of the United States to tar his political
adversaries with some kind of -- you know, enemies list, with
being -- unrestrained by any facts or evidence whatsoever.”  Targeting Democrats  American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS together plan to
spend $52 million on the elections. They have already targeted
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  in Nevada and Democratic
Senate candidates  Jack Conway  in Kentucky and  Robin Carnahan  in
Missouri, among other Democrats.  American Crossroads reported raising $2.6 million in
August, helped by $1 million donations from two Texas
businessmen,  Trevor Rees-Jones  and  Robert Rowling , and $400,000
from insurer  American Financial Group Inc.  of Cincinnati.
Millions of dollars in undisclosed donations are flowing into
Crossroads GPS; the two groups together reported raising at
least $32 million as of Sept. 20.  Gillespie, also appearing on “Face the Nation,” is
chairman of the Republican State Leadership Committee, another
campaign advocacy group that tries to elect Republicans and
which discloses its donors. Among its biggest contributors are
Indianapolis-based health insurer  WellPoint Inc.  and Winston-
Salem, North Carolina-based tobacco company  Reynolds American
Inc .  Part of the impetus for forming new outside groups was to
counter the weight of unions and Democratic-leaning issue groups
that spent about $400 million to help Obama win in 2008,
Gillespie said. Unions also don’t have to disclose most
individual donations, though their money comes predominantly
from members’ dues.  “We didn’t hear Mr. Axelrod or others complaining about
that much of that money was undisclosed,” Gillespie said.  Republican Gap  Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to gain a majority
in the 435-member House of Representatives. The nonpartisan Cook
Political  Report  in Washington forecasts Republicans will win at
least 40 seats after the election. In the Senate, where
Republicans hold 41 of 100 seats, the Cook report says they are
poised to pick up from seven to nine seats.  Obama chided Republican-leaning groups on Oct. 7, without
mentioning the Chamber, at a campaign rally for Maryland
Governor  Martin O’Malley  in Bowie, Maryland, saying their
advertising is funded by undisclosed contributors that may
include foreign corporations.  ‘Huge Sums’  “So groups that receive foreign money are spending huge
sums to influence American elections, and they won’t tell you
where the money for their ads comes from,” Obama said.  The Chamber denies any foreign money is being used to
influence U.S. elections. The group takes in millions of dollars
in dues from corporations and engages in a wide variety of
lobbying activities in addition to political advertising.
Critics say there’s no way to mark a clear line between foreign
funds and those used for political ads.  The latest rhetoric may complicate and escalate an already
tense relationship between the White House and the business
community. The Bloomberg Global Poll last month found 77 percent
of U.S.-based Bloomberg subscribers say Obama is too anti-
business, and his favorability among the 1,408 investors
worldwide is down to 49 percent from 73 percent in July 2009.  “It is a high-risk strategy,” said  Julian Zelizer , a
history and public affairs professor at Princeton University in
New Jersey. “The Chamber has a lot of money and influence. The
voters who might be mobilized by these attacks are pretty
demoralized by unemployment. He could end up energizing his
opponents rather than his supporters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 