-- China's Stocks Post Best Two-Day Gain in Year on Yuan, Fed Easing Outlook
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T08:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/baosteel-vanke-citic-securities-dongfeng-changan-china-equity-preview.html
China’s stocks  rose, capping their
best two-day advance in a year, on speculation the yuan will
extend gains and possible U.S. economic measures will weaken the
dollar and make commodities more attractive.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  and PetroChina Co. led a rally among
metal and energy producers as commodity prices surged.  Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co.  soared 10 percent after Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co. said the outlook for quantitative easing measures
by central banks globally and low valuations are boosting coal
stocks. Air China Ltd., the nation’s largest international
carrier, rose 4.5 percent as a stronger Chinese currency will
reduce costs to finance U.S. debt.  “The market was overly pessimistic about the economic
outlook,” said  Wu Kan , Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “Judging from
corporate earnings and qualitative easing measures to be taken
by central banks globally, investors are revising their views
and turning optimistic gradually.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 68.20, or 2.5 percent, to
2,806.94 at the 3 p.m. close, the highest since May 5 and the
biggest two-day gain since Oct. 9 last year. The measure surged
3.1 percent on Oct. 8 after Moody’s Investors Service put the
nation’s debt rating on review for a possible upgrade, retail
sales surged during the National Day holiday and the yuan
strengthened. The  CSI 300 Index  climbed 2.9 percent to 3,132.90
today.  Moody’s Announcement  The Shanghai index has climbed 19 percent from this year’s
low on July 5 on the prospect China’s economic growth will
accelerate. Citing the outlook for the economy, Moody’s said
last week it may upgrade the debt rating within three months
from the fifth-highest ranking of A1. The yuan’s rise to the
strongest against the dollar since the central bank unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993 is also
spurring fund inflows into China.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.6 percent on Oct. 8,
rounding up a 1.7 percent gain last week, on speculation worse-
than-estimated jobs data will prompt the Fed to buy more debt to
bolster the economy. U.S. employers cut 95,000 workers in
September, Labor Department figures showed. The median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was a 5,000 drop.  The prospect of quantitative easing is spurring gains for
commodity producers as increasing the money supply may boost
inflation, Wu said. Investors are buying energy and metal
producers as a hedge against a weaker dollar, he said.  Copper, Oil  Copper in London and New York climbed to 27-month highs on
speculation that the Fed will increase measures to stimulate the
U.S. economy, weakening the dollar and boosting demand for
commodities as alternative investments. Oil futures for November
gained as much as 1 percent to $83.50 a barrel. Gold traded near
a record and silver surged to a 30-year high.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
advanced the 10 percent daily limit to 37.65 yuan. Zijin Mining
Group Co., the nation’s largest gold producer, jumped 7.6
percent to 8.61 yuan.  Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co. , China’s biggest
producer of refined zinc, climbed 3 percent to 13.57 yuan.  Yanzhou Coal, the listed unit of China’s fourth-biggest
coal miner, soared by the maximum daily limit of 10 percent to
22.21 yuan after it was recommended by Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities as a top pick among coal producers because it was
cheaper than rivals. Prices of thermal coal are expected to rise
between 3 percent and 10 percent in the following three months
as the weather turns cold, according to the brokerage.  PetroChina  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil producer, gained 3
percent to 10.78 yuan, pacing advances for energy producers. A
gauge of energy stocks in the CSI 300 rallied 6 percent for the
steepest advance among the 10 industry groups.  Air China led gains among airlines on expectations a
stronger yuan will reduce the repatriated value of airlines’
debt denominated in foreign currencies. The stock advanced 4.5
percent to 12.99 yuan. China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s
biggest carrier by fleet size, added 2.7 percent to 8.87 yuan.  China is facing mounting pressure from major trading
partners for a stronger yuan as officials in Washington repeated
calls for a gradual adjustment in both currencies and global
trade flows.  A “very fast” appreciation probably wouldn’t bring
balance to the world economy, People’s Bank of China Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday in the U.S. capital.  Yuan Forwards  Yuan forwards surged to the strongest level in more than
two years on speculation the government will allow the currency
to appreciate to meet the demands of trading partners. Twelve
month non-deliverable forwards jumped 0.7 percent to 6.4432 per
dollar.  The value of the yuan has been continuing to rise since
June when China restarted its currency reform, with China’s
currency expected to appreciate 5 percent this year if the
current pace is maintained,  Wang Yong , a professor with the
People’s Bank of China’s training school in Zhengzhou, Henan
province, wrote in the Securities Times newspaper.  The Shanghai gauge has plunged 14 percent this year, the
fourth-worst performer among 91 benchmark indexes tracked by
Bloomberg worldwide, as the government imposed tightening
measures ranging from restrictions on multi-house purchases to a
22 percent cutback on annual new lending by banks.  Policy makers will do their best to reduce prices in the
 housing market , after the economic stimulus put in place during
the financial crisis drove up prices, central bank governor Zhou
said yesterday.  ‘Very High’  Shanghai prices are “very high” and excessive investment
and speculation activities in the property market have
“seriously distorted” the fundamentals of the housing market,
the city’s mayor  Han Zheng  said at a press conference yesterday.  China may extend its post-holiday rally as economic
fundamentals remain solid and valuations aren’t demanding,
according to China International Capital Corp.  “The rally probably has legs,”  Hao Hong , Beijing-based
global equity strategist at CICC, said in an e-mail. “Despite
such a strong performance, our technical overbought/oversold
index is still about neutral, suggesting some further gains
ahead from a technical perspective.”  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan , Reinie Booysen  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  