-- Cameron Leads in U.K. Polls as Miliband Attacks `Cavalier' Spending Cuts
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2010-10-10T13:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/cameron-leads-in-u-k-polls-as-miliband-attacks-cavalier-spending-cuts.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservative Party led in two opinion polls as U.K. ministers
defended government spending cuts against attacks by the newly
revamped Labour opposition.  Conservative support was four points ahead in an ICM poll
published in the Sunday Telegraph today, and the party reversed 
Labour’s lead from a week ago in a Sunday Times poll by YouGov 
Plc. The Liberal Democrats, coalition partners in Cameron’s 
government, struggled to gain ground in both surveys.  Alan Johnson , the former postman appointed by Labour Leader
 Ed Miliband  last week as the party’s Treasury spokesman, today
began an onslaught in two newspapers against the government and
said its spending plans threaten  economic growth . Conservative
finance minister  George Osborne  will unveil details of the
budget squeeze on Oct. 20 to curb the record deficit.  “They are being incredibly cavalier about our economy,”
Miliband said in an interview on the BBC’s Politics Show. “What
David Cameron doesn’t seem to understand is that unless you have
a credible plan for growth you don’t have a credible plan for
 deficit reduction .”  Conservative Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond  said on the
BBC’s Andrew Marr show that all forecasts show the British
economy will keep growing and that unemployment will continue to
fall because of Osborne’s measures.  “The pro-growth way of dealing with this to make sure we
have solid and soundly based growth is to deal with the
deficit,” Liberal Democrat Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  told
Sky News. “If we don’t deal with that, that will undoubtedly
cause a loss of market confidence both in the bond market and in
the foreign exchange market and that will run an unacceptable
risk of pushing us back into recession.”  ‘Huge Harm’  Labour’s Johnson told the Observer in an interview that
Osborne risks inflicting “huge harm” on public services and
suggested the budget squeeze would be more drastic than  Margaret Thatcher  implemented in the 1980s. He said in an article in the
News of the World that Britain needs a “plan for growth” and
that Osborne’s measures are “too deep and too fast.”  Miliband’s appointment of Johnson, a former minister who
didn’t serve at the Treasury in the previous Labour government,
attracted the most attention today in comments reviewing the
opposition leader’s team unveiled last week.  “I was a bit surprised,” Hammond said. He is “not the
obvious choice when the economy is going to be the clear focus
over the next few weeks.”  ‘Great Communicator’  Miliband, speaking on the BBC’s Politics Show, responded
that Johnson is “the best person for the job” and “a great
communicator” who “will pick up his brief and run with it in a
matter of days.”  Andy Burnham , a contender for Miliband’s job
appointed this week as Labour’s education spokesman, said
Johnson is a “formidable intellect and politician.”  “We’re a good team to take on what I would say is a
cabinet of millionaires here who are already making cuts that
quite frankly show they’re not living in the real world,”
Burnham said on the BBC’s Andrew Marr show.  Labour support slipped three points to 34 percent in the
ICM poll, while the Conservatives gained three points to 38
percent and the Liberal Democrats stayed at 18 percent. In the
YouGov poll, the Conservatives had 42 percent, Labour had 38
percent and the Liberal Democrats had 12 percent.  With 10 days to go before Osborne’s spending announcement,
newspapers today focused on details of budget arguments in the
governing coalition.  Student Finance  Liberal Democrat Business Secretary  Vince Cable  e-mailed
lawmakers and party members on proposals to revamp student
finance, and suggested that the proposal for a tax on graduates
was no longer being considered, the Sunday Times reported.  Three Conservative junior defense ministers have threatened
to resign in solidarity with Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  if he
quits in a showdown with the Treasury on spending cuts, the
Daily Mail reported, without saying how it obtained the
information.  “It’s an extraordinary story if it’s true,” Conservative
lawmaker  Patrick Mercer  told Sky News. “If that’s the case
there’s a huge amount of gallantry being shown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Stirling  in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net . 