-- Carbon-Storing Forests, Farms May Compete for Australian Land, Study Says
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-10-10T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/carbon-storing-forests-farms-may-compete-for-australian-land-study-says.html
Carbon-storing forests may compete
with agriculture for land in Australia, the world’s fourth-
largest exporter of wheat, if the nation introduces emissions
trading, according to a research report.  “Large areas of land could become more profitable” as
sites for plantations to absorb greenhouse gas emissions,
depending on the price at which carbon trades, the Australian
Farm Institute said today. A cap-and-trade system “would
potentially generate new competition for agricultural land.”  Australia in April shelved climate change laws until after
2012 amid lawmaker opposition and a lack of action by other
countries. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has established a multi
party committee to study options for introducing a price on
carbon in a country where coal accounts for more than 80 percent
of power production. The group met for the first time last week.  Carbon Conscious Ltd., an Australian company that plants
gum-trees to absorb greenhouse gas emissions, has been hired by
BP Plc, Origin Energy Ltd. and Wesfarmers Insurance to establish
plantations on less-arable farmland. Melbourne-based competitor
CO2 Group Ltd. has similar accords with Inpex Corp. and Woodside
Petroleum Ltd.  The mallee eucalypt trees that Carbon Conscious plants,
absorb and store emissions in their leaves, twigs and roots, and
generate permits tradable under the pollution reduction laws
Australia has now delayed. About five trees are needed to absorb
1 metric ton of carbon, according to the company.  The  Australian Farm Institute  commissioned GHD Hassall to
compile the report, titled ‘The Implications of Greenhouse
Mitigation Policies on the Demand for Agricultural Land.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  