-- Central Bankers Say Basel Is a ‘Minimum,’ More Needed
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2010-10-11T03:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/central-bankers-say-basel-accord-is-a-minimum-expect-more-regulations.html
(Corrects name of Deutsche Bank CEO from 21st paragraph.)  Central bankers from Switzerland and
Canada told bank executives to expect more global financial
rules, especially for the largest institutions.  Switzerland’s  Philipp Hildebrand , president of the Swiss
National Bank, and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told a
panel of chief executives that included  Bank of America Corp .’s
 Brian Moynihan  that the agreement reached in Basel by
international regulators represented the “minimum,” according
to Carney.  “There is unfinished business that is pretty important,”
Carney said yesterday at a panel discussion in Washington.  Banks worldwide are grappling with the new rules approved
in September by regulators, meeting as the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision. New minimum capital requirements take
effect in less than five years. The banking industry persuaded
regulators to soften rules after a lobbying campaign, pushing
off implementation of some requirements for about a decade.  “The acceleration of the Basel calendar is a big risk,”
said  Alfredo Saenz Abad , the chief executive officer at Madrid-
based  Banco Santander SA.   Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley 
said today that bankers shouldn’t be worried about an
accelerated timetable.  Common Equity  “The market will be accepting of the long-term strategy
that regulators have established, asking banks to meet the new
standards by 2019,” he said in an address to the  Institute of
International Finance , an industry group, in Washington today.  The Basel rules would require lenders, in less than five
years, to hold common equity equal to at least 4.5 percent of
assets, weighted according to risk, and 6 percent of Tier 1
capital, which the group defines as common equity and perpetual
preferred stock. Regulators will introduce an additional buffer
of 2.5 percent to withstand future stress, the committee said.
Banks failing to meet the second buffer would be stopped from
paying dividends.  Disappointed by what they saw as the weakness of those
rules, some countries like Switzerland are moving ahead with
their own tougher standards. Other international bodies, such as
the  Financial Stability Board , are working on additional
measures to rein in the largest banks.  “Nobody should be surprised” about stronger measures than
the Basel agreement, Hildebrand said. “This is not about Swiss
deciding randomly.”  IIF Meeting  Countries creating their own new financial rules are a
worry for the banking industry,  Marcus Wallenberg , the chairman
of SEB AB, Scandinavia’s third-largest lender by assets, said
yesterday.  “It’s going to be very difficult to have a completely
different set of rules for different countries,” Wallenberg
said.  Bank members of the  IIF , which represents 400 financial
firms worldwide, were in Washington this weekend for the
organization’s annual gathering. The conclave coincided with a
meeting of the International Monetary Fund in the city, where G-
20 finance ministers also met last week. The Group of 20 nations
has put pressure on the Basel committee and the FSB for tighter
rules on banks after the global credit crisis led to government
rescues.  “All the analysis we did suggested the levels should have
been much higher,” Carney said.  Basel Studies  In June, the IIF published a report predicting that bank
regulations would shave off 3.1 percentage points from economic
growth in the developed world. The group is close to completing
a revised version of the report to reflect the latest changes to
bank regulations.  An alternative impact study done by the Basel committee and
the IMF found the impact on those nations’ economies to be about
one-eighth of the IIF estimate. The Basel-IMF report didn’t take
into account all new regulations being planned, the IIF said in
a statement earlier this month.  Though the Basel committee’s original proposals were
softened, the IIF isn’t reducing initial economic-impact
estimates, the industry group said today. The IIF said it is
concerned that national regulators are imposing additional
measures, international regulators are considering surcharges
for the largest banks and investors will demand banks reach
higher capital ratios before the official guidelines.  ‘Easy to Exaggerate’  The Basel committee may have overvalued the positive impact
of reforms when doing its own studies, said  Peter Sands , CEO of
 Standard Chartered Plc  and an IIF board member.  “It’s easy to exaggerate the benefits if you assume all
economic crises are caused by financial calamities,” ignoring
wrong monetary policies or other causes of economic declines,
Sands said.  A primary concern for bank executives was fees, or tax
proposals, that would be aimed at the largest and most
“systemically risky” institutions. The U.S. has considered
such a levy, although it is unlikely to act on one before the
November elections.  “Simplistic approaches involving a simple surcharge will
not solve the problems and will likely prove
counterproductive,”  Josef Ackermann , the CEO of Deutsche Bank
AG and the IIF’s chairman, said in separate remarks.  Ackermann said today that he is concerned regulators may
base levies and capital surcharges on large banks solely on
firms’ size, without considering the degree of systemic threats
they pose.  ‘Penalizing’ Size  “The focus should not be on penalizing firms just because
they’re big,” he said. “The size of individual financial
institutions alone is not a good proxy for their systemic
importance. Interconnectedness is at least as important.”  Bank of America’s Moynihan said he expected the U.S. would
fully comply with the new international rules and that the Dodd-
Frank financial regulation law enacted in July would implement
much of the Basel regulations.  “We assume we’re Basel compliant next week” if the bank
needed to be, Moynihan said during the forum. The company has
beefed up its capital since the crisis through share sales and
has repaid the U.S. government’s bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 