-- China Fends Off Pressure on Yuan, Keeps Gradual Gain
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-10-11T05:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/china-fends-off-pressure-on-yuan-at-imf-meeting-keeps-to-gradual-approach.html
China countered mounting pressure
from major trading partners for a stronger yuan as central bank
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan highlighted a domestic unemployment rate
he estimated at more than 9 percent.  A “very fast” appreciation probably wouldn’t bring
balance to the world economy,  Zhou  said yesterday in the U.S.
capital. China’s central bank is balancing inflation, growth,
fiscal policy, the international balance of payments and the
“sensitive issue” of unemployment, he said.  Debate about competitive devaluations dominated meetings of
finance ministers and central bankers gathered for meetings at
the  International Monetary Fund . China faces demands from
Western nations to let the yuan rise more quickly at a time when
the U.S. is trying to trim its trade deficit and European
nations are trying to stem an outflow of manufacturing jobs.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  called for China to let
its currency appreciate by 10 percent a year against the dollar
to help address the global economic imbalance, saying a failure
to act on the currency would mean “the current system is liable
to break down and other countries will be driven to capital
control.” Soros made the comments in an interview with  Emerging
Markets  magazine.  ‘Nasty Proposals’  For the Chinese government, any such action would be
economically and politically difficult. Punitive measures on
China to push for a faster appreciation are “nasty proposals,”
 Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said in
Washington. The Chinese currency has risen “pretty fast” in
recent months, he said.  China aims to cut its trade surplus to less than 4 percent
of  gross domestic product  within five years, from 11 percent in
2007 and 5.8 percent in 2009, said Deputy Governor  Yi Gang .  “We are committed to a more flexible exchange regime,” Yi
said. “A more flexible, market-based, managed floating regime
is better for China and is better for the rest of the world. But
the approach is probably a gradual one.”  Yi said criticism of China is undeserved because the
government in Beijing has allowed the yuan to appreciate more
than 20 percent in the past five years.  Global governments tasked the IMF with calming the recent
outbreak of tensions over currencies amid signs they are already
triggering a protectionist backlash.  Interest Rates  China is in no “hurry” to reduce overall inflation and
will focus on pushing down housing prices to strengthen the
economic recovery, Zhou also said in Washington. It may take two
years for the inflation rate to fall below 3 percent, from a 22-
month high of 3.5 percent in August, he said  “Since the fiscal and monetary expansion has already got
into effect, we cannot be very hurry to get inflation under
control,” said Zhou, speaking in English. “We have a medium-
term plan. I hope this medium-term plan is credible.”  Zhou’s comments buttressed economists’ median forecast in a
Bloomberg news survey last month for the central bank to keep
benchmark rates on hold this year. To rein in growth in money
supply, the PBOC has ordered lenders to set aside more cash as
reserves and targeted a 22 percent reduction in new loans this
year.  While China reported an urban unemployment rate of 4.2
percent at the end of June, that number excludes millions of
migrant workers.  Zhou said that the overall jobless rate is more than 9
percent; “always something around that, but after the financial
crisis it becomes a more sensitive issue.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Sept. 22 that excessive gains by
the yuan could lead to “major social upheaval” in China as
factories went bankrupt and migrant workers returned to the
countryside.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in Washington at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Washington at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net  