-- China Day Ahead: U.S. Criticizes Climate Pledge; IMF's Currency Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-10T23:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/china-day-ahead-u-s-criticizes-climate-pledge-imf-s-currency-concerns.html
China is ignoring pledges made under
a global-warming accord reached last year after a face-to-face
meeting between President  Barack Obama  and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , the chief U.S. climate negotiator said.  Chinese officials have acted as though the agreement
“never happened,”  Todd Stern , U.S. special envoy for climate
change, said in a speech at the University of Michigan Law
School at Ann Arbor. China in December agreed to the  Copenhagen
Accord , a non-binding pact that aims to limit emissions blamed
for global warming, he said.  Currency Race  Global finance chiefs warned a race to weaker exchange
rates risks hurting the world economy even as they sought to
downplay investor fears of a “currency war.”  As the International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting began
in Washington, policy makers expressed concern that efforts to
boost exports by embracing weaker currencies threatened to
provoke protectionism and trade imbalances at a time when
economic growth is already slowing. China was again the target
of criticism as foreign officials called the yuan undervalued
and pushed for its rise to be accelerated.  Yuan ‘More Than’ Undervalued  China’s yuan is “more than undervalued” and the euro is
“too strong today” with an exchange rate of $1.40 to the euro,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
meetings of euro-region finance ministers, told reporters in
Washington.  Juncker said he’s “not happy” about the euro’s strength
and that the U.S. dollar’s exchange rate isn’t in line with
fundamentals.  Zhou on Yuan  China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  resisted the
calls from the U.S. and Europe for faster appreciation of the
yuan, saying his country aims to avoid any “shock therapy” in
its currency reform.  “China’s exchange-rate policy is based on the market
supply and demand relation to move gradually to the equilibrium
point,” said Zhou in Washington during a panel hosted by the
British Broadcasting Corp. “We do that in a gradual way, rather
than a shock therapy.”  Senate Yuan Bill  The U.S. Senate will consider legislation aimed at pushing
China to raise the value of its currency in a lame-duck session,
Rhode Island Democrat  Jack Reed , a sponsor of the measure, said.  “I believe it’ll come up,” Reed said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” that
aired this past weekend. “I don’t know if, given the other
pending measures in the lame duck, that it can pass.”  Current Account Surplus  China plans to cut its current account surplus and proceed
with foreign-exchange reform to help rebalance the global
economy, central bank deputy governor Yi Gang said.  China aims to reduce the surplus to below 4 percent of its
gross domestic product in the next three to five years, from 11
percent in 2007 and 5.8 percent in 2009, Yi said at a panel
during an International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington.
That would be the smallest surplus in its current account, the
broadest measure of trade in goods and services, since 2004.  Press Conference Canceled  China canceled a press conference following this week’s
summit with the European Union after EU officials rejected the
country’s demand to bar some Chinese journalists, an EU official
said.  The decision to cancel the Oct. 6 briefing was taken by
Chinese authorities for diplomatic reasons, the EU official told
reporters on condition of anonymity. The EU tried unsuccessfully
to persuade the Chinese to go ahead with the briefing including
all accredited journalists.  Hong Kong IPOs  Ronald Arculli , chairman of  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd. , expects initial public offerings on the bourse this year
to exceed 2009 as more foreign firms list their shares in Asia.  “2010 will beat 2009,” Arculli, who heads the operator of
Asia’s third-biggest stock market, said in an interview in Milan.
About 60 companies raised HK$189.3 billion ($24.4 billion) in
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Moody’s on HSBC Units  Moody’s Investors Service said it put the Aa2 long-term
foreign currency deposit ratings of  Hongkong & Shanghai Banking
Corp.  and  Hang Seng Bank Ltd . on review for a possible upgrade.  The review follows the announcement that Moody’s put Hong
Kong’s Aa2 government bond ratings on review for a possible
upgrade. The ratings of Hongkong & Shanghai Banking and Hang
Seng are now constrained by Hong Kong’s ceiling, Moody’s said in
an e-mailed statement.  Changan Auto Investment  Chongqing Changan Automobile Co. said it will invest 11.5
billion yuan in a passenger vehicle project in Beijing.  The project, pending board approval, may produce 500,000
vehicles and 500,000 engines a year, the company said in a
statement to the Shenzhen stock exchange.  EU China Brick Duties  The European Union threatened to renew tariffs against
China on bricks used in steelmaking for another five years to
curb import competition for EU manufacturers.  The 27-nation EU said it would examine whether to reimpose
the duties as high as 39.9 percent on imports from China of
magnesia bricks, which steelmakers such as  Tata Steel Ltd.  use.
The refractory product is used to line the vessels in which
steel is melted.  Vestas Low-Speed Turbins  Vestas Wind Systems A/S , the world’s largest wind turbine-
maker, is planning to counter competition from China by
expanding into areas of lower wind speed with more efficient
wind-machine blades.  “It’s about driving into new and lower wind speed markets,
and keeping the technology edge when we’ve got a lot of very
stiff Chinese competition for doing what we used to do,”
Managing Director of Vestas Technology Research and Development
Rob Sauven said in a London interview.  THE FOLLOWING STOCKS MAY BE ACTIVE TODAY:  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.  (600019 CH): China’s biggest
publicly traded steelmaker said profit for the first nine months
may have risen by between 170 percent and 190 percent from a
year ago, more than earlier forecast. The shares added 2.4
percent to 6.79 yuan.  Citic Securities Co.  (600030 CH): China’s largest
securities company by market cap may benefit from a regulatory
rule issued by Securities Association of China to set the floor
for brokerage fees to guide companies away from price-cut and
volume-based competition. The shares added 6.1 percent to 11.29
yuan.  China Vanke Co.  (000002 CH): China’s largest listed
developer said sales last month surged 160 percent from a year
earlier to 14.2 billion yuan ($2.1 billion). Shares added 0.5
percent to 8.44 yuan.  Chongqing Changan Automobile Co.  (000625 CH): The automaker
said it will invest 11.5 billion yuan in a passenger vehicle
project in Beijing that may produce 500,000 vehicles and 500,000
engines a year. The company also said vehicle sales last month
rose to 149,008 units from 132,030 a year ago. The shares added
3.6 percent to 11.39 yuan.  Dongfeng Automobile Co.  (600006 CH): The company said
vehicle sales last month were 27,242 units, compared with 20,364
units a year ago. The shares rose 2.6 percent to 5.63 yuan.  Shenzhen Zhongjin Lingnan Nonfemet Co.  (000060 CH): The
lead
and zinc miner said on Oct. 8 the company’s Australian
subsidiary Perilya Ltd. signed an agreement to buy Canada’s
Globestar Mining Corp. for C$184 million ($182 million) to gain  Sewco International Holdings Ltd . (209 HK): The toy and
beverage maker said it canceled planned subscriptions by its
controlling shareholder for new shares and convertible bonds,
increasing the size of placements to outside investors. The
stock was unchanged at HK$1.07.  Shanghai Electric Group Co.  (601727 CH): The company signed
a memorandum of understanding with Italy’s Impregilo SpA to
build the world’s largest seawater desalination joint venture,
Caijing reported on Oct. 8, citing a Shanghai Electric press
release. The shares gained 3.9 percent to 8.57 yuan.  Shanghai Forte Land Co . (2337 HK): The real estate
developer said provisional September real estate sales rose to
1.9 billion yuan ($284 million) from 729 million yuan a year
earlier. The stock fell 1.3 percent to HK$2.25.  Tianjin FAW Xiali Automobile Co.  (000927 CH): The automaker
said sales last month rose to 21,281 units from 18,020 a year
earlier. The shares added 7 percent to 8.54 yuan in Shenzhen
trading.  Xi’an Aircraft International Co.  (000768 CH): The aircraft
components and aluminum materials maker may benefit from a
regulation from State Council and Central Military Commission to
reinforce quality management on military equipment. The shares
added 1.8 percent to 12.8 yuan.  Xing Lin Medical Information Technology Co.  (8130 HK): The
medical information services provider will raise as much as
HK$160 million placing as many as 1.6 billion shares at 10 Hong
Kong cents each. Xing Lin will also issue HK$150 million of
convertible bonds. The stock fell 1.4 percent to 20.5 Hong Kong
cents.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at   bruceg@bloomberg.net . 