-- China Plans Two-Year Inflation Fight, Will Lower Housing Prices, Zhou Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-10T21:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/china-plans-two-year-inflation-fight-will-lower-housing-prices-zhou-says.html
China is in no “hurry” to reduce
overall inflation and will focus on pushing down housing prices
to strengthen the economic recovery, central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said.  It may take two years for the inflation rate to fall below
3 percent, from a 22-month high of 3.5 percent in August, Zhou
said at an event during the International Monetary Fund meeting
in Washington. Policy makers will do their best to reduce prices
in the  housing market , after the economic stimulus put in place
during the financial crisis drove up prices, Zhou said.  “Since the fiscal and monetary expansion has already got
into effect, we cannot be very hurry to get inflation under
control,” said Zhou today, speaking in English. “We have a
medium-term plan. I hope this medium-term plan is credible.”  Zhou’s comments buttress economists’ forecast that China’s
benchmark interest rates may stay on hold this year. To reduce
the excessive money supply, the People’s Bank of China has asked
lenders to set aside more money as  reserves  and targeted a 22
percent reduction in loan growth this year.  China lowered benchmark borrowing costs and implemented a 4
trillion yuan ($599 billion) spending package in the past two
years to shield the economy from the global financial crisis.
The stimulus helped boost inflation and drove housing prices up
9.3 percent in August from a year earlier.  Negative Impact  Policy makers have anticipated the rising  consumer prices 
and other “negative” effects when deciding to conduct the
stimulus package, Zhou said.  “It’s not a surprise to see that after the stimulus
program there might be negative effect,” Zhou said. The housing
prices have increased “too fast” and the central bank’s
opinion is to “lean against the wind,” Zhou added.  Policy makers have already raised mortgage rates and down-
payment requirements for second-home home purchases.  Zhou told reporters on Oct. 8 that there’s “no evidence”
that the current monetary tools are “insufficient” to keep
inflation expectations at bay.  Speaking of its currency policy, Zhou reiterated today that
China prefers a ‘gradual” move in the yuan.  “China would like to use a more gradual way to adjust,”
said Zhou, adding that he doubts a “very fast” appreciation in
the yuan alone would address the global economic imbalance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ye Xie  in Washington at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Kennedy at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net  