-- Coked-Up Airman Crashes in Egyptian Tomb, Hides Secrets: Books
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2010-10-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/coked-up-airman-flies-high-crashes-in-egyptian-tomb-hides-secrets-books.html
From the cockpit of a World War I
biplane to the bowels of an Egyptian tomb: The novel tipped by
odds makers to win the  Man Booker Prize  tomorrow provides plenty
of thrills. Too bad author Tom McCarthy is more interested in
themes than plot.  His new book, “C,” centers on Serge Carrefax, a boy born
in England at the start of the 20th century to the buzz of his
father’s tinkering with early radio technology. He grows up
unwholesomely close to his older sister, a science whiz who dies
at 17 -- whether by accident or suicide we never learn.  The loss tips Serge’s interest in wireless communication
into obsession. At her funeral, he senses her in the air, “like
a signal, dispersed.”  Signals, signs and codes permeate this book: Even Serge’s
name alludes to electrical currents. When people converse, they
tend to be misheard or misunderstood, resulting in dialogue full
of repetition and correction, rapped out like Morse code.  Coming of age, Serge enlists as an airplane radio operator
during the Great War, acquiring a taste for cocaine high above
Germany. Back in civilian life, he gravitates to London’s druggy
bohemian fringe (and many an unconvincing scene).  “There’s a lot of snow in London at this time of year,”
an actress tells him one warm autumn afternoon.  As the book spins toward a close, the government dispatches
Serge to Egypt. Though the jaunt won’t end well, it allows
McCarthy to riff on Egyptian mythology (to go with the French
and German philosophy he crammed in earlier).  McCarthy is a vivid writer, yet his riddling intellectual
complexity traps us outside Serge’s experiences. Beneath the
transfixing surface lies an emotionally sterile, skimpy
narrative.  “C” is published by  Cape  in the U.K. and by  Knopf  in the
U.S. (310 pages, 16.99 pounds, $25.95).  Wordless Intimacy  Communication also preoccupies  Claire Keegan  in “Foster,”
though she focuses on the eloquence of silence and the intimacy
of wordless domesticity. A far quieter work than “C,” it was
first published as a short story in New Yorker magazine, and has
now been reworked and lengthened, though it remains compact.  Spanning a single summer in rural Ireland at around the
time of the IRA hunger strikes in the early 1980s, the tale is
told from the perspective of an unnamed young girl. Her feckless
father has dumped her with scarcely known relatives called the
Kinsellas while her mother produces yet another sibling.  The language is leanly evocative, its smallest details
conveying reams about the girl’s foster home, a place warm,
gleaming and without children. Tragedy haunts the Kinsellas, and
neighboring busybodies can’t wait for the chance to tell all.  She will learn much during her summer sojourn, chiefly
this: that there are some things better left unsaid. As Mr.
Kinsella tells her, “Many’s the man lost much just because he
missed a perfect opportunity to say nothing.”  “Foster” is from  Faber  (88 pages, 6.99 pounds).  Laika and Sputnik  Though  Patrick McCabe’s  new novel is also set in Ireland,
the similarities end there. His Cullymore is a quintessential
small town, thrumming with feuds, grudges and petty rivalries, a
place where sectarianism is a handy pretence for personal
vendettas.  Spanning a half century of great change in Ireland, “The
Stray Sod Country” opens in 1958 with news reports of Laika,
the Sputnik space dog. The mournful image of the mongrel
floating in outer space becomes a recurring emblem of isolating
modernity.  More ancient influences are at work, too. Cullymore is a
town that still believes its superstitions, including the story
of stray sod country -- a no-man’s land where you end up once
you take a wrong turn, as plenty of McCabe’s characters
discover.  He braids these folkloric details with postmodern japery,
and every now and again the disembodied voice of the omniscient
narrator butts in, cajoling and goading his subjects into ever
more extreme actions. Golly Murray the barber’s wife, for one,
becomes possessed by murderous thoughts toward hoity-toity
Blossom Foster, who in turn winds up flirting with Golly’s
husband.  They’re not the only ones possessed by alien impulses. A
local priest can’t stop cursing, and a former Latin teacher -- a
minor authority on Horace -- has spiraled into insanity after
kissing a boy on the lips during class.  It’s a rambling novel, yet its fidgetiness is underpinned
by an arresting, primordial darkness.  “The Stray Sod Country” is from  Bloomsbury  (339 pages,
17.99 pounds, $15).  ( Hephzibah Anderson  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley at   jpressley@bloomberg.net . 