-- Default Swaps Show Hu Jintao Bond Risk Approaches Treasuries
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-11T02:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/default-swaps-show-hu-jintao-bonds-approaching-treasuries-china-credit.html
At a time when governments around
the world are facing growing debt, China’s bonds are becoming
almost as safe as U.S. Treasuries in the market for insuring
against defaults.  Five-year  credit-default swaps contracts  on the nation’s
bonds fell 29 percent in the past month, the biggest drop among
more than 80 nations, and ended last week at 56 basis points,
according to data compiled by CMA and Bloomberg. Default swaps
for the U.S. were little changed at 46.  China’s bonds have become cheaper to insure than those of
the U.K. and France since August as the fastest-growing economy
surpassed Japan to become the world’s second-largest. Moody’s
Investors Service said last week it may raise China’s debt
rating from A1, five levels below the top Aaa grade.  “Right now the strongest balance sheet in the world is
China’s,”  Daniel Arbess , who runs the $2.1 billion Xerion fund
for Perella Weinberg Partners in New York, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television on Oct. 7. “China can use that
balance sheet strength and the political centralized control
that it has over its economic policy to literally finance and
drive the ongoing urbanization and industrialization of its
economy.”  The 10 basis-point difference between contracts on China
and the U.S. is the narrowest since at least January 2008,
according to data from New York-based CMA, which provides data
on the market that suggests both countries should have the
second-highest debt rankings. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually in a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Global Rebalancing’  The net amount of protection bought and sold on Chinese
government debt with credit swaps has more than doubled the past
year, according to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which
runs a central repository for the market. The net notional value
of swaps on China has risen to $4.3 billion as of Oct. 1, from
$1.7 billion a year earlier, the DTCC data show.  The change in debt insurance costs “shows a global
rebalancing,”  Brayan Lai , a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at
Credit Agricole CIB, said in a phone interview. “I wouldn’t
rule out its debt being deemed safer than Treasuries.”  China’s economy will probably expand 10.5 percent this year,
the International Monetary Fund said last week, reiterating its
July forecast. U.S. gross domestic product will increase 2.6
percent, down from a 3.3 percent growth estimate three months
ago, the Washington-based fund said.  Foreign-Exchange Reserves  The government of Chinese President Hu Jintao controls the
world’s biggest holdings of foreign-exchange reserves, with
about $2.5 trillion, including at least $846 billion of U.S.
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Government
debt will amount to 22 percent of GDP this year, compared with
94 percent in the U.S., 85 percent for France and 82 percent in
the U.K., according to IMF forecasts.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting U.K. government
debt cost 60 basis points on Oct. 8, up 13 during the past year.
Contracts tied to France trade for 76 basis points, up from 22 a
year ago, according to CMA.  While credit-default swaps place China next to the U.S.,
its bonds are still discounted next to Treasuries.  China’s $1 billion of 4.75 percent bonds due October 2013
rallied in the past month, sending the yield down 17 basis
points to 1.54 percent, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The  extra yield  investors require relative to
Treasuries widened 14 basis points to 88, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index, reflecting a plunge in U.S. yields.  ‘Grind Lower’  China’s debt has returned 8.3 percent this year, compared
with 15 percent in Brazil and 12 percent in Russia,  JPMorgan
indexes  show.  A ratings increase may make it cheaper for Chinese
companies to borrow overseas. Dollar bonds issued by the finance
unit of Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil producer,
rallied last week after Moody’s put the Beijing-based company’s
credit ratings on review for a possible upgrade.  Yields on the 6.375 percent bonds due March 2012 declined
five basis points last week to a record low of 1.47 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The trend is your friend,”  Tim Condon , the Singapore-
based chief Asia economist at ING Groep NV, said in a phone
interview. “China’s CDS will grind lower and lower and lower.”  The yuan advanced 0.3 percent to 6.6706 against the U.S.
currency on Oct. 8, from 6.6912 before a five-day public holiday
on Sept. 30, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. It gained 2.4 percent in the past four months and
touched 6.6700, the strongest level in almost 17 years, before
finance ministers used the annual meeting of the International
Monetary Fund in Washington to call for faster appreciation.  ‘Shock Therapy’  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards strengthened 0.7
percent to 6.4489 per dollar as of 10:24 a.m. in Hong Kong,
reflecting bets the currency will climb 3.5 percent from the
spot rate of 6.6721. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars. The  Dollar Index , used to track the
greenback against the currencies of six major trading partners,
fell 1 percent last week to a an eight-month low.  The IMF’s steering committee said over the weekend it would
“deepen its work” on capital flows, exchange-rate movements
and the accumulation of reserves, focusing on the U.S., China,
the U.K., Japan and the euro area.  China’s central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in
Washington that policy makers would avoid “shock therapy” and
move the currency gradually, citing inflation and “asset
bubbles” as threats to the economy.  Hot Money  Foreign-exchange reserve figures for the third quarter will
probably be released this week, which will indicate “the size
of hot capital flows into the economy,” London-based Capital
Economics Ltd. wrote in a report dated today. A separate
government  report  will probably show property prices climbed 8.9
percent in September from a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  The nation’s improving credit comes as Chinese policy
makers promote greater use of the yuan abroad to reduce reliance
on the dollar. The government since the start of 2009 has
approved the currency’s use to settle cross-border transactions,
opened its interbank bond market to overseas financial
institutions and sold yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong.  “Chinese policy makers want to be seen as a stabilizing
factor,” said  Jerome Booth , who helps oversee about $35 billion
as head of research at Ashmore Investment Management Ltd. in
London. “They want to become a reserve currency, and they will
become a reserve currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith ; in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  