-- Dollar Falls Toward Eight-Month Low Versus Euro on Prospects of Fed Easing
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-11T05:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/dollar-touches-15-year-low-versus-yen-on-speculation-of-further-fed-easing.html
The dollar fell toward an eight-
month low against the euro on speculation that Federal Reserve
policy makers will signal this week their willingness to buy
more government debt to support economic growth.  The greenback touched a 15-year low versus the yen before
tomorrow’s release of the Fed’s Sept. 21 policy meeting minutes
and after a U.S. report last week showed job cuts were bigger
than expected. The euro strengthened against 12 of 16 major
counterparts as Asian stocks and commodities rose, underpinning
demand for riskier investments. Australia’s dollar strengthened
toward the highest level since it began trading freely in 1983
after home-loan  approvals  climbed for a second-straight month.  “The dollar is likely to continue to fall over the coming
months as the Fed provides increasing dollar liquidity, although
its weakness will be tempered by the fact that a lot of this is
already priced into the currency,” said  Mitul Kotecha , Hong
Kong-based head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  The U.S. currency slid to $1.3973 per euro as of 6:45 a.m.
in London from $1.3939 in New York on Oct. 8. It fell to $1.4029
on Oct. 7, the lowest level since Jan. 28. The dollar traded at
82.02 yen from 81.93 yen last week, after earlier reaching 81.39
yen, the weakest since April 1995. The euro advanced to 114.61
yen from 114.19 yen.  Australia’s currency rose 0.1 percent to 98.57 U.S. cents.
It reached a record 99.18 cents on Oct. 7. Financial markets in
Japan are closed for a holiday today.  U.S. Data, Fed  U.S. employers cut payrolls by 95,000 workers in September
after a revised 57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department
figures in Washington showed on Oct. 8. The median forecast of
87 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 5,000
drop. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly held at 9.6 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 4 that the
central bank’s first round of large-scale asset purchases aided
the economy and that further quantitative easing, or QE, is
likely to help more. New York Fed President  William Dudley , who
has voiced support for more government bond purchases, will
speak in Washington later today.  “Since August, the Fed has been leaning towards more
quantitative easing measures to underpin the weakened U.S.
recovery,”  Philip Wee , a senior currency economist in Singapore
at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., wrote in a research note today. “We
have downgraded the outlook for the dollar.”  DBS Cuts Forecasts  DBS lowered its year-end forecast for the dollar to trade
at $1.40 per euro from $1.28 previously, and to be at 83 yen
from 88 yen before, according to the note.  The euro traded near an eight-week high against the Swiss
franc as the  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  gained 0.6
percent and the price of gold rose 0.5 percent.  “Risk-taking appetite may be positive, given higher
equities and commodities,” said  Yusuke Tanaka , a senior dealer
at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp. in Singapore. “This is
probably a plus for the euro.”  Europe’s common currency was at 1.3432 Swiss francs from
1.3419 francs on Oct. 8, when it reached 1.3494 francs, the
strongest since Aug. 13.  Gains in the yen were tempered on speculation that Japan
will intervene to stem the appreciation of its currency.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said on Oct. 8
Group of Seven officials understand Japan’s position on the
yen’s gains and agreed that excessive foreign-exchange movements
are undesirable.  ‘No Official Criticism’  “There was no official criticism of Japan’s decision to
intervene in the foreign-exchange market by selling yen,” said
 Gareth Berry , a currency strategist at UBS AG in Singapore.
“This increases the chance of a further round of intervention
should the yen continue to appreciate.”  At the International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting in
Washington over the weekend, governments tasked the agency with
calming the recent outbreak of tensions over currencies amid
signs they are already triggering a protectionist backlash.
Officials including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and Egyptian Finance Minister  Youssef Boutros-Ghali  said the
lender should outline how countries can expand their economies
without damaging those of other nations.  Australia’s dollar gained for a fifth day versus its U.S.
counterpart on prospects the nation’s central bank will raise
its benchmark interest rate next month.  Australian home-loan approvals rose 1 percent in August
from a month earlier, the statistics bureau said today, matching
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The market is very keen to take the Aussie higher,” said
 Khoon Goh , head of market economics at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington. “The rhetoric is certainly pointing toward
providing more stimulus for the U.S. economy and that’s why the
market is pricing in a decent probability of QE2, putting the
U.S. dollar under downward pressure.”  Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in Australia and 3
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in Japan
and the U.S., attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
assets. The risk in such trades is that currency market moves
will erase profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift@bloomberg.net  