-- Fed's Dudley Says Bank Concerns on Capital Requirements Are `Exaggerated'
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-10T13:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/dudley-says-bank-concerns-over-costs-of-capital-rules-are-exaggerated-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  said concerns that higher capital
requirements for financial institutions will reduce profits and
impair economic growth are overdone.  “Although I believe the new standards do impose some real
costs on the financial system in order to achieve real benefits,
I believe that concerns over the costs are exaggerated,” Dudley
said today to the Institute of International Finance’s annual
membership meeting in Washington.  By improving prospects for stability in financial markets,
the new rules may “be consistent with a more rapid sustainable
growth rate over the long run,” said Dudley, 57.  Regulators have tightened capital rules and standards such
as liquidity requirements after coming under political pressure
to rein in banks’ risk-taking amid taxpayer bailouts. The Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision in September reached an
agreement for rules that more than double capital requirements.  The Institute of International Finance, a group that
represents 400 firms worldwide, said Oct. 4 that regulators
shouldn’t impose additional capital standards on the largest
banks because it would increase the “economic impact” of
regulatory reform.  The banking industry persuaded regulators to soften rules
adopted by the Basel Committee last month after an extensive
lobbying campaign, pushing off implementation of tougher capital
requirements for about a decade. Disappointed by the weakness of
those rules, some countries such as Switzerland are moving ahead
with their own tougher standards.  More Capital  It’s “prudent to assume that requiring banks to hold more
capital and higher cost capital is likely to result in somewhat
higher lending spreads,” Dudley said. Still, it’s
“unrealistic” to assume that increase in borrowing costs would
be large, he said.  The transition to the new requirements is “likely to be
quite manageable” because many large U.S. banks “already have
large amounts” of common stock, the new rules are being
implemented slowly, and financial institutions can “adjust
their business models to meet the new standards as they are
phased in,” Dudley said.  Large U.S. banks also have “significant potential earnings
power” and can retain earnings to build up capital and meet
standards by 2019, he said.  By improving the credit quality of banks, their funding
costs should also decline, which would make their lending
businesses more profitable at current rates, he said. Banks
could also cut their compensation expenses to boost earnings, he
said.  ‘Real Cost’  “Although any increase will be a real cost, this appears
to be a necessary and appropriate price to pay for a much more
resilient financial system,” Dudley said.  Dudley, who is also vice chairman of the policy-setting
Federal Open Market Committee, didn’t comment on the outlook for
the economy or on monetary policy.  In response to audience questions, Dudley said banks in the
U.S. are no longer tightening lending standards, and that he
expects more credit to become available.  “The good news is that the tightening of credit standards
has passed,” Dudley said. “As time passes, we’ll see a further
improvement in credit availability and as that happens that will
actually support economic activity going forward.”  Discussing Measures  The Basel committee and the Financial Stability Board are
discussing measures to rein in risks. The committee is made up
of bank regulators and central banks from 27 countries. About
two thirds of those same organizations are represented on the
FSB, which in addition brings in the finance ministers from the
Group of 20 nations.  Measures being considered by the two bodies include a
capital surcharge specific to the biggest lenders and a global
resolution mechanism to coordinate the unwinding of
international banks so as not to bail them out when they fail.  It’s “important” that regulators around the world
coordinate their standards, Dudley said. “It is necessary to
ensure that banks and other financial firms cannot move their
activities to  evade regulation . If that were to occur, we would
just have a race to the bottom and a less transparent and even
more complex financial system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  