-- Lebanon Will Offer Tender for LNG Pipeline Next Month, in New Energy Plan
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-10-10T11:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/lebanon-aims-to-ease-blackouts-by-seeking-bids-for-lng-pipeline-terminal.html
Lebanon will offer tenders next
month for the construction of its first pipeline for liquefied
natural gas, part of a strategy to revamp the country’s power
industry and curtail electricity outages.  The energy ministry is completing preparations to invite
companies to bid for work on the pipeline, which would link
power stations along the country’s coast, said the minister’s
senior adviser, Raymond Ghajar. The ministry will offer other
tenders later for related facilities, including a terminal for
receiving shipments of imported LNG.  “We plan to have a working LNG terminal by 2012,” Ghajar
said in Beirut on Oct. 7.  A ministry plan for overhauling the energy industry,
approved by the government in June, urges power plants to burn
less heavy fuel oil and diesel and to use more less-polluting
LNG. The plan also emphasizes a need to explore for offshore gas
deposits, increase power-generating capacity, restore two
refineries that are closed and upgrade the state electricity
company, which now loses more than $1.5 billion a year.  Lebanon suffers from blackouts lasting up to 15 hours a
day, and 25 percent of the electricity it generates is lost to
theft, tampering and customer non-payment, Ghajar said.  “Invitation to tender for the pipeline will be before the
end of the year. It should be in November,” he said.  LNG Imports  The ministry plans separate tenders for supplies of LNG and
a terminal to receive imports of the fuel. It doesn’t expect to
be able to produce offshore gas for several more years so is
planning to import LNG, possibly from Qatar, the world’s biggest
producer of the fuel, Ghajar said.  In addition, about 64 local and foreign companies are
seeking prequalification to participate in a tender for a
privatized “distribution system” for the state electricity
company. This phase of the bidding is scheduled for January, the
adviser said.  Blackouts have been a problem for Lebanon since the 15-year
civil war that ended in 1990. Average generating capacity plus
electricity imports were 1,500 megawatts last year, while demand
peaked last summer at 2,450 megawatts, according to a government
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Beirut 
 Nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  