-- Hedge Fund Raise Bullish Bets on Oil to Five-Month High: Energy Markets
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-10-11T20:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/hedge-funds-raise-bullish-bets-on-oil-to-five-month-high-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds raised bullish bets on
oil to the highest level in more than five months amid
speculation that the Federal Reserve will enact further stimulus
measures to keep the economic recovery on track.  Hedge funds and other large speculators  increased wagers  on
rising crude prices by 44 percent in the seven days ended Oct.
5, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report. It was the highest level
since April 23.  “The writing has been on the wall for the rally in crude
oil for the last few weeks,” said  Hamza Khan , an analyst with
Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova,
Pennsylvania.  Crude has rallied 12 percent since Sept. 17 amid growing
evidence that the Fed will need to start debt purchases to
prevent the world’s biggest economy from sliding back into a
recession, weakening the U.S. currency and boosting dollar-
denominated commodities. The dollar depreciated 1.1 percent last
week, while crude advanced 1.3 percent.  Oil for November delivery fell 45 cents to settle at
$82.21 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures
gained 99 cents on Oct. 8 after the Labor Department said U.S.
employers cut hiring more than forecast in September, trimming
95,000 workers. The median estimate of 87 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a decline of 5,000 jobs.  ‘Additional Accommodation’  The employment report increased the prospect of the Fed
debt purchases, according to  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC, a Houston-based energy consultant. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six major
trading partners, has slipped more than 12 percent since this
year’s peak on June 7.  The central bank bought $300 billion of Treasuries in 2009.  Deutsche Bank AG raised its fourth-quarter and first-
quarter 2011 forecasts for both Nymex and Brent oil to $80 a
barrel because of the rising stock market and falling dollar,
 Adam Sieminski , the bank’s Washington-based chief energy
economist, said in a report last week. As recently as mid-
September, the bank’s forecasts were $70 for the fourth quarter
and $75 for the first.  “You look around the world and see good economic news out
of China and some parts of the European Union, most notably
Germany,” Lipow said. “Even here in the U.S., as bad as the
perception of the economy is, total petroleum demand is up.”  The  four-week average  of total petroleum products supplied
rose 2.2 percent from a year ago, the Energy Department reported
last week.  Net Longs  Net-long positions  in oil held by what the CFTC categorizes
as managed money, including hedge funds, commodity pools and
commodity-trading advisers, rose by 51,634 futures and options
combined to 168,540, according to the CFTC report.  Bullish bets  on gasoline prices more than doubled to
50,354, the fifth straight weekly increase, the data showed.
 Net-long positions  on  heating oil  rose for a sixth week,
advancing 21,433, or 69 percent, to 52,699.  Net-long positions in futures and options combined in four
natural-gas contracts decreased by  19,828  futures equivalents to
31,479 in the week ended Oct. 5, the lowest level this year, the
CFTC data showed.  The measure of natural-gas net longs includes an index of
four contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural
gas futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps, and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 