-- Egypt's September Inflation Is Little Changed Amid Rates at Four-Year Low
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-10T15:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/egypt-s-september-inflation-is-little-changed-amid-rates-at-four-year-low.html
Inflation in Egypt was little
changed in September, giving the central bank room to keep its
benchmark interest rate at a four-year low.  The urban inflation rate, the main indicator monitored by
the central bank, rose to an annual 11 percent from 10.9 percent
in August, according to the website of the Cairo-based  Central
Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics .  “Supporting investment at this stage is more crucial than
inflation,” said  Alia Mamdouh , an economist at Cairo-based
investment bank CI Capital. She had forecast the rate at 11
percent. Investment Bank Beltone Financial had a forecast of
11.3 percent, while EFG-Hermes Holding had predicted a rate of
10.8 percent.  The  central bank , which will meet on Nov. 4 to review its
monetary policy, kept the overnight deposit rate at 8.25 percent
in September, saying uncertainty over global economic growth may
weigh on domestic investment. It also noted that non-food
inflation remained subdued.  Prices rose 1.7 percent month-on-month, compared with 2.9
percent in August, the statistics agency said. The prices of
food and non-alcoholic beverages advanced 3.8 percent. The costs
of clothing and footwear rose 0.4 percent, it added.  Growth Forecast  Core inflation, which excludes the prices of fruits and
vegetables as well as regulated prices, eased to 7.59 percent in
September, compared with 8.16 percent in the previous month, the
central bank said.  Economists, including  Reham El-Desoki  of Beltone, say the
central bank’s target for the measure is between 6 percent to 8
percent. The central bank’s target is not publicized.  The economy of the most populous Arab country expanded 5.3
percent in the fiscal year through June, from 4.7 percent in the
previous 12 months. The government expects gross domestic
product to grow 5.8 percent this year, according to the Economic
Development Ministry.  Still, growth remains below the average of 7 percent
achieved in the three fiscal years through June 2008, because of
the global financial crisis.  Egypt’s benchmark EGX30 stock index has gained 10 percent
this year. Juhayna Food Industries, the country’s largest
publicly traded producer of packaged milk and fruit juice, has
climbed 26.7 percent since listing in mid-June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 