-- Egypt to Issue Sukuk Rules in 2011 to Compete With Gulf: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2010-10-11T12:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/egypt-to-issue-sukuk-rules-in-2011-to-compete-with-gulf-islamic-finance.html
Egypt, home to the Arab world’s
largest Muslim population, will issue its first Islamic debt
guidelines in 2011 to catch up with the Persian Gulf and
Southeast Asia and help spur sales.  “The target of issuing these regulations is to help
companies that want to issue sukuk,” Ziad Bahaa El-Din,
chairman of the  Cairo-based Egyptian Financial Supervisory
Authority , said in a telephone interview in Cairo Oct. 7.
“Right now, we don’t have a framework to help anybody who wants
to issue sukuk.”  Al Baraka Bank Egypt ESC , a Cairo unit of Bahrain-based
Islamic lender Albaraka Banking Group, may sell dollar-
denominated Islamic bonds, known as sukuk, in the second half of
2011, the bank’s chairman,  Adnan Ahmed Yousif , said in an
interview on Sept. 29. Al Baraka, Faisal Islamic Bank of Egypt
and National Bank for Development are the nation’s only Shariah-
compliant financial institutions,  May El Haggar , banking analyst
at Cairo-based Naeem Holding, said yesterday.  Global assets held by financial institutions that comply
with Shariah law may climb to $1.6 trillion in 2012 from about
$1 trillion, the  Islamic Financial Services Board  said in April.
Egypt, where one of the world’s first Islamic financial
institutions was established in 1963, has struggled to develop
the Islamic debt market because of political and economic
reasons, said Samer Sulaiman, professor of political economy at
the American University in Cairo.  Muslim Brotherhood  The Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt’s largest opposition group,
has been officially banned since 1954 when it was accused by the
government of involvement in an assassination attempt against
then Prime Minister  Gamal Abdel Nasser . He became president in
1956. Egyptian law bans political parties based on religion,
which means that the brotherhood has to register its candidates
as independents in election.  The group “is well organized and of course they would also
be part of a financial system based on Shariah,” Volker
Nienhaus, member of the governing council of the Kuala Lumpur-
based  International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance  and
consultant to the Islamic financial Services Board, said in an
interview in Dubai Oct. 5. “If you want to create obstacles you
shouldn’t give licenses” to Islamic financial institutions, he
said.  The development of Islamic debt in Egypt also was
undermined in the 1980s and early 1990s by the collapse of
investment companies such as El Rayan and El Saad, which failed
after setting up ponzi schemes that claimed to invest in
Shariah-compliant assets, Sulaiman said.  Bond Sales  Shariah forbids gambling, payment of interest and alcohol,
so fund managers have to select investments deemed halal, or
permissible. Islamic bonds are typically backed by assets or
cash flow because of the ban on interest. Investors earn any
profit from the assets instead.  Global sales of Islamic debt declined 16 percent to $11.8
billion this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Shariah-compliant bonds returned 12 percent, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while debt in
developing markets gained 16 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  Issuance is rebounding after Dubai World, one of Dubai’s
three main state-controlled holding companies, reached an
agreement last month with creditors to change terms on $24.9
billion of debt. Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC, the United Arab
Emirates’ second-biggest lender complying with Shariah, hired
three banks to help sell bonds, two bankers familiar with the
plan said today.  The spread between the average yield for global sukuk and
the London interbank offered rate shrank 115 basis points, or
1.15 percentage point, to 353 this year, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ index   Sovereign Debt  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 has narrowed 13 basis points to 355 this month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Dubai’s 6.396
percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 rose 2 basis points to
6.05 percent today, the data show.  Egypt, where more than 70 million Muslims live, hasn’t sold
sovereign or corporate bonds that comply with Islam’s ban on
interest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Egypt is rated BB+ by Standard & Poor’s and Ba1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the highest non-investment grade. The
country’s economy expanded 5.3 percent in the fiscal year
through June, up from 4.7 percent in the previous 12 months. The
central bank kept its benchmark overnight deposit interest rate
at a four-year low of 8.25 percent in September.  Egypt’s pound-denominated bond maturing in August 2020 was
unchanged on Oct. 7, yielding 13 percent.  ‘Very Attractive’  “Nothing would preclude me from considering a sukuk
offering from Egypt, in fact the economic drivers in Egypt are
strong, which makes it very attractive from a macro point of
view,”  Ahmad Alanani , the Dubai-based director of fixed-income
sales at investment bank Exotix Ltd., said in an e-mailed
response to questions on Oct. 3. “The yield would presumably be
attractive seeing as the local treasury market yields between
8.5 to 11 percent in local currency terms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net  or
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  