-- Leonardo Warrior Rages Amid Budapest Treasures in London Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-10-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/leonardo-warrior-rages-among-budapest-treasures-in-london-martin-gayford.html
This autumn, the best pictures in
Hungary are in London.  “Treasures from Budapest: European Masterpieces from
Leonardo to Schiele” at the  Royal Academy  contains the pick of
the country’s public collections.  Those hunting through this big, packed exhibition will find
fascinating and beautiful things, among them a couple of
intriguing clues to a lost  Leonardo da Vinci .  The two drawings by Leonardo are studies for one of the
major missing items in Renaissance art: “The Battle of
Anghiari.” In 1503, Leonardo was commissioned by the republican
government of Florence to paint a huge mural on this subject. It
was to decorate the Great Council Hall in the Palazzo Vecchio.  The following year,  Michelangelo  was commissioned to paint
another patriotic battle scene on the opposite wall. If they had
both delivered, it would have been one of the most spectacular
artistic tussles in history. Unfortunately, neither did.
Leonardo got furthest, painting part of his composition before
losing interest and sneaking off to Milan.  There is speculation that this fragment still may exist
behind a false wall. Until and unless that is rediscovered -- a
long shot -- the best evidence for what would be Leonardo’s
largest and most ambitious painting is the drawings. Some show a
frantic melee of struggling horses and men; but the two from
Budapest (c. 1504-5) are close-ups, powerfully naturalistic
faces of fighters.  Sinister Side  One shows the commander on the losing side. As Jonathan
Jones wrote in his recent book, “The Lost Battles,” this
veteran warrior “screaming with rage is Leonardo da Vinci’s
sinister pendant to his smiling Mona Lisa.”  The drawing reveals an unexpected side of this mysterious
artist. It’s possible that Leonardo had been traumatized by his
service as military engineer to Cesare Borgia, reputedly the
model for  Machiavelli’s  “The Prince.” He described the heat of
battle as “the most bestial madness” and his “Battle of
Anghiari” may have been an early example of anti-war art.  That and its companion drawing of a younger soldier are the
outstanding exhibits, yet there’s a lot more to see. The  Museum
of Fine Arts , Budapest was founded by the powerful Esterhazy
family, patrons of the composer Haydn, and largely consists of
the Esterhazys’ paintings and sculptures.  It’s a rich pudding of a collection from Mitteleuropa, with
a certain amount of visual stodge -- dullish works by second-
rank artists and a dud by a Renaissance star, Raphael (the
unfinished and raw looking “Esterhazy Madonna,” c. 1507-8).
There are plenty of plums, too. Among those is a delicious
female portrait by Goya and a couple of sturdy later figures
“The Knife-Grinder” and “Water-Carrier” (both c. 1808-12),
showing how modern-minded the stone-deaf Goya was in his 60s.  Constable Sketch  Venetian and Spanish painting are well represented, with
nice examples of Tintoretto and Sebastiano del Piombo, and a
lovely, uncharacteristic  Canaletto , “Lock at Dolo” (c. 1756),
a quiet suburban backwater rather than the tourist sites he
usually turned out. The later art is weaker -- 19th- and 20th-
century Hungarian painting being strictly for specialists --
though there are some finds, a Toulouse-Lautrec and a  Gauguin 
included.  A personal favorite of mine is Constable’s 1814 sketch of a
celebration on the village green at East Bergholt. Pictures have
their own fates, sometimes strange ones. I can’t help wondering
how this most English of scenes ended up in Budapest.  “Treasures from Budapest: European Masterpieces from
Leonardo to Schiele” is at the Royal Academy, London, through
Dec. 12. The exhibition is sponsored by OTP Bank Nyrt.
Information:  http://www.royalacademy.org.uk .  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by Lucian Freud.”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 