-- Junk Yields in Europe Tumble to Lowest Since Before Crisis
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-10-11T16:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/europe-junk-yields-are-lowest-since-before-fiscal-crisis-credit-markets.html
Lenders to speculative-grade
companies in Europe are charging the lowest interest rates since
before credit markets seized up in a sign they don’t expect the
region’s fiscal crisis to infect corporate debt.  Investors demand an average yield of 7.62 percent to hold
junk-rated European debt, the lowest since July 2007, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields on bonds
sold by  Continental AG , Europe’s second-largest auto parts
supplier, and German drugmaker Phoenix Pharmahandel GmbH & Co KG
have fallen more than 2 percentage points in the past three
months.  While nations from Greece to Ireland struggle with budget
deficits above the European Union limit, companies are taking
advantage of a global rally in corporate debt to refinance and
extend maturities. The default rate in the region fell to 3.5
percent at the end of September from 5.6 percent three months
earlier, and is forecast to drop to 2.2 percent by year-end,
Moody’s Investors Service said in an Oct. 7 report.  “High-yield companies have restructured their balance
sheets” and “the outlook is positive for them to service their
debt,” said  Louis Gargour , chief investment officer in London
at LNG Capital LLP, which is raising $100 million for a new
European high-yield credit fund. “Whereas governments have done
the opposite.”  European corporate junk bonds have returned 16 percent this
year, including reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show, helping sales almost double and borrowers avoid
default. Euro-region government notes returned little more than
half that as fundraising programs to plug budget shortfalls and
bail out banking systems in so-called peripheral countries
weighed on sovereign credit.  Sales Doubled  Companies in Europe issued 57 billion euros ($79 billion)
of junk-rated bonds this year, almost double the amount raised
in the same period in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of default protection
on bonds sold by Greece, where Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
began, plunged almost 5 percent after the International Monetary
Fund said it may be given more time to repay its bailout loans.  BP Plc  cut the size of a loan after raising more than it
was seeking in a bond sale, while the extra yield investors
demand to hold global corporate notes rather than government
debentures dropped to the least in almost five months.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Greece fell 33 basis points to 698,
the lowest since May 31 and implying a 45 percent probability
the nation won’t meet its commitments, according to data
provider CMA. IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said
Greece’s $154 billion loan package could be extended if other
nations in the region agree.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 mostly
junk-rated European companies fell 15 basis points to 454 as of
5:21 p.m. in London, according to Markit Group Ltd. The  Markit
iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index  of swaps on 15 governments
dropped 2 basis points to 144, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt, and a basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  BP , the oil company that’s raising money to fund cleanup
costs of the Gulf of Mexico spill, will reduce a loan backed by
Angolan crude sales by $500 million to $2.5 billion from an
initial amount of $3 billion, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  BP Loan  Europe’s second largest oil company decided to cut the size
of the financing after increasing a bond issue by a third to 2
billion euros on Oct. 4, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the transaction is private. BP also plans to
increase a separate loan backed by revenue from the Azeri-
Chirag-Deepwater Gunashli oil field off the coast of Azerbaijan
to $2.25 billion from a planned $2 billion after the deal drew
surplus demand, according to a separate person.  Robert Wine , a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment.  The holding company of Liverpool soccer club in England is
in default over 280 million pounds ($446 million) owed to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Wells Fargo & Co., and the banks
may put the debtor into bankruptcy protection, according to
three people familiar with the situation.  Spreads Tighten  Spreads on company bonds from the U.S. to Europe and Asia
ended last week at 169 basis points, or 1.69 percentage points,
more than government debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate index. That’s the
narrowest since May 13 and down 12 basis points since August.
The gap has ranged from a low this year of 142 basis points in
April to a high in June of 201. Average yields fell to 3.37
percent from 3.48 percent on Oct. 1.  In emerging markets, relative yields shrank 2 basis points
for the week to 269 basis points, the lowest since Aug. 23,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data show.  Yields on European junk bonds have fallen faster than those
in the U.S. The average rate dropped from as high as 10.35
percent in June, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
EMU Corporate Index, while for U.S. bonds, yields fell to 7.87
percent from 9.49 percent.  European bonds have also returned more than their U.S.
counterparts, which gained 13 percent in 2010, though less than
Asian dollar notes which handed investors 20 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s indexes.  Bonds Rally  Globally, the securities rallied 14 percent, compared with
60.6 percent for all of 2009. The returns compare with 7 percent
for investment-grade bonds in euros and 6.6 percent for euro-
region government debt, the indexes show.  Encouraged by investor appetite for these returns, Spanish
engineering and biofuel producer  Abengoa SA  and laboratory
services company Exova AB are among junk-rated companies
planning or marketing bond sales in Europe, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Seville, Spain-based Abengoa is planning to sell $600
million of seven-year notes in its first issue in the U.S.
currency, Bloomberg data show. The company is rated Ba3 by
Moody’s, three levels below investment grade, and one step
higher at BB by Fitch Ratings.  Exova is marketing 155 million pounds of eight-year bonds
that are redeemable after four years, according to a banker
involved in the transaction, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private. Exova’s new notes are expected to
receive a B3 rating from Moody’s, six steps below investment
grade, and an equivalent B- from S&P, the banker said.  Eastern Europe TV  Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Central European Media Enterprises
Ltd. , which owns television stations in central and eastern
Europe, is planning a 170 million-euro issue of seven-year
securities, a banker involved in the transaction said. That will
be the speculative-grade company’s first bond sale in a year,
Bloomberg data show.  “Investors are still keen for junk bonds,” said  Ben Squire , a senior credit analyst in London at Societe Generale
SA, France’s second-biggest bank. “Companies’ fundamentals are
broadly attractive.”  Phoenix, the drug wholesaler owned by Germany’s Merckle
family, sold 506 million euros of four-year notes in July that
were priced to yield 894 basis points more than government
bonds. The spread has since tightened 333, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Continental  sold its 750
million euros of 2015 bonds on July 9 at a yield premium of 716
basis points, and the spread has shrunk to 236, the data show.  $1 Trillion Bailout  The EU and IMF were forced to bail out the most indebted
euro-region members with a $1 trillion loan package in May. The
crisis spread through the mostly southern European nations
starting in the first quarter, driving up their borrowing costs.  Spain’s top credit rating was cut one level by Moody’s on
Sept. 30, which cited the country’s “weak” economic outlook.
Ireland estimated on the same day that the cost of repairing its
financial system may rise to as much a 50 billion euros, which
would drive its budget deficit to 32 percent of gross domestic
product.  Irish 10-year bond yields soared to a record 454 basis
points more than German bunds on Sept. 29, Bloomberg data show.
Portuguese 2020 debt spreads jumped to an all-time high of 441
basis points a day earlier, while Spain’s yields reached a two-
month high of 199 against the German benchmark.  Low Interest Rates  Corporate junk bonds, meanwhile, are benefitting from
central banks’ low rate policies to help economies recover. The
European Central Bank cut its main refinancing  rate  to an all-
time low 1 percent in April 2009 and has kept it there ever
since, while the Federal Reserve has maintained its  target rate 
for overnight loans between banks in a record-low range of zero
percent to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “Bizarrely, the lower down the credit spectrum you are,
the better the picture in terms of insulation to sovereign debt
concerns” because “such companies would never have been bailed
out by a government,” said  Mahesh Bhimalingam , head of European
fundamental credit strategy in London at Deutsche Bank AG,
Germany’s biggest lender. “High-yield companies have actually
benefitted in terms of demand from the sovereign debt crisis as
they are insulated from their countries’ deficits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  