-- Fed Easing No Long Term Fix for Structural Unemployment
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-10T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/fed-easing-no-fix-for-high-unemployment-as-mechanics-not-made-in-textiles.html
Any action the Federal Reserve
announces at its November policy meeting may not do much to help
Timco Aviation Services hire 300 people.  While a new round of asset purchases may help reduce
cyclical joblessness, the result of weak demand in a battered
economy, it may not have much effect on structural unemployment,
losses caused by changes in the labor market.  “What you have is a great workforce in the local area that
have been working in textiles or furniture, but they’re not
trained in aviation-specific skills,” said  Kevin Carter , the
Greensboro, North Carolina, company’s co-chief executive
officer, who is struggling to fill positions that require
qualifications such as an FAA airframe and power-plant
certificate.  Debate about what has caused the  unemployment rate  to stall
at or above 9.5 percent since August 2009 is dividing Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s Federal Open Market Committee. Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  and Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  have
downplayed the role of structural changes in recent speeches and
favor additional action to boost the economy. Philadelphia’s
 Charles Plosser  and Minneapolis’s  Narayana Kocherlakota  have
said shifts in the labor market may reduce the effectiveness of
additional Treasury purchases.  That division may prompt the FOMC to favor an incremental
plan at its Nov. 2-3 meeting, which gives it flexibility “to
say ‘Okay, we’ll do a couple of months, and as it becomes more
apparent how the economy is unfolding, we can phase out the
purchases, rather than commit to $1 trillion or $2 trillion,’”
said  Carl Riccadonna , senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in New York. “It is a better approach, and I
think it will be easier for Chairman Bernanke to get a fairly
unified endorsement from the committee.”  Disappoint Investors  This strategy may disappoint investors, said  John Canally ,
an economist and investment strategist at Boston-based LPL
Financial Corp., which oversees $276.9 billion in assets.  “The flexible approach allows them to throw a bone” to
members like Plosser and Kocherlakota, Canally said. The
“kneejerk” reaction “may strengthen the dollar, weaken stocks
and have Treasury yields go up, at least initially, because
buying won’t be as big as people thought.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  was 1,165.15 at 4 p.m. in
New York on Oct. 8. The yield on the 10-year note was 2.39
percent at 5:32 p.m. after touching 2.3302 percent, the lowest
level since Jan. 20, 2009, according to BGCantor Market Data.  Companies added 64,000 jobs in September, less than
forecast, while government payrolls fell by 159,000, including
77,000 temporary census workers, according to the Labor
Department in Washington. The  unemployment rate  remained at 9.6
percent for a second month.  ‘Surviving’ on Unemployment  Victor Calix Cruz, 51, has been job hunting for two years
after being laid off from construction work in Miami. He, his
wife and their two teenage children are “surviving” on his
wife’s disability and his unemployment payments, he said. While
he heard of openings at hotels, he hasn’t applied because the
pay and benefits aren’t as good as what he had before.  “I don’t know what I’m going to do” if the work doesn’t
come back, he said, adding that he hopes to get a job in the
next few months on the  Port of Miami Tunnel Project .  Two FOMC policy makers project the longer-run unemployment
rate at 6 percent or higher, according to the  minutes  of the
June 22-23 meeting, which doesn’t identify the members. The
forecast of the other 15 is between 5 percent and 5.5 percent, a
proxy for their views of how low the rate can go without
endangering price stability.  ‘Sharp Decline’  These estimates are likely too low, said  Michelle Meyer , a
senior U.S. economist at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research in
New York. She sees the nonaccelerating inflation rate of
unemployment at about 7 percent, with structural changes
accounting for about half the increase during the recession.
This still leaves “a good amount” that reflects “the sharp
decline in demand, which means it’s cyclical,” she said.
“Monetary policy should be able to address that.”  With the  benchmark rate  for overnight loans among banks
near zero, policymakers have said they’re considering expanding
the Fed’s balance sheet to boost the economy. Such a move should
be done in increments, similar to the central bank’s gradual
adjustment in the federal funds rate, rather than a “shock-and-
awe” policy of announcing a large amount of purchases at once,
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said in an Aug. 19 speech
in Rogers, Arkansas.  The Fed’s total assets are  $2.3 trillion  after it purchased
$1.43 trillion in housing debt and $300 billion in Treasuries.  Equivalent Cut  Buying an additional $500 billion in government debt would
be the equivalent of a 0.5 to 0.75 percentage point cut in the
benchmark rate, depending on how long investors expect the
central bank will hold the assets, New York Fed President
 William Dudley , who also serves as vice-chairman of the FOMC,
said in an Oct. 1 speech.  Doreen Baker, 60, a long-time development director for
Chicago nonprofits, doesn’t see how that would help her find a
job after being out of work for a year.  “I believe interest rates have gone about as low as they
can go,” she said.  Firms such as IHS Global Insight, Moody’s Analytics Inc. and
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC with large-scale models of the U.S.
economy also project that more Fed easing would have little
impact. IHS Global Insight’s models show that $500 billion of
purchases would boost growth 0.1 percentage point next year and
leave the unemployment rate at or above 9 percent for the next
two years.  Growth Rate  Purchases up to $2 trillion would raise the annual growth
rate of gross domestic product by 0.3 percentage point in 2011
and by 0.4 percentage point in 2012, Macroeconomic Advisers
estimates.  Plosser has said he doesn’t think a new round of
unconventional stimulus will help put people back to work.  If the Fed renews asset purchases and “says we’re trying
to fix the unemployment problem and it doesn’t fix it -- and I
don’t think it will,” then the central bank will “lose
credibility,” he told reporters after a Sept. 29 speech in New
Jersey.  The skills mismatch that’s creating problems for  Timco
Aviation  isn’t the only driver of structural unemployment. The
 collapse  of the nation’s housing market also prevents some
people from moving to take a new job.  While potential employees “would love to come work for us
in Greensboro,” some own houses they can’t sell, which “makes
it really difficult,” Carter said.  ‘Desperate’ Job Seekers  So he has partnered with  Guilford Technical Community
College  in Jamestown, North Carolina, to retrain people from
local textile, furniture and other shrinking industries who are
“ desperate , looking for jobs but they don’t have the skills or
the knowledge” for a new industry, said Ed Frye, chair of
Guilford’s transportation-systems technology division.  The region has been especially hard hit because the
collapse in global demand came atop a long-term restructuring of
the economy as manufacturing jobs declined, Richmond Fed
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said in a May speech in Greensboro.  Construction faces the most severe structural unemployment
problems, according to an  Oct. 7 report  by Wells Fargo
Securities economists  John Silvia  and  Anika Khan .  Employment soared during the housing bubble as builders
 broke ground  on as many as 2.27 million homes at an annual pace,
according to the report. When the industry collapsed along with
 home prices , unemployment peaked at 27.1 percent for
construction workers, and the industry now has more than 20 job
seekers for each opening, Silvia and Khan wrote.  ‘No Easy Fixes’  “The presence of structural unemployment means there are
no easy fixes, and any recovery in the labor market could be
agonizingly slow,” they wrote.  Joel Sarfati, executive director of  40Plus of Greater
Washington , a group that provides peer and job-search support
for the unemployed, said cutbacks in his area have affected
architects, lawyers and librarians.  “I have been around a long, long time and I have never
seen it this bad,” said Sarfati, 71. Monday networking sessions
have expanded from 15 to 20 people before the recession to
between 45 and 75 now.  Participants often face “code words” on interviews such
as “you are too experienced,” he said, which means employers
think they will want too much money, won’t fit in with a younger
staff or will abandon the job once they find a better one.  Encouraging Dialogue  “We have had sit-down sessions when we have taken some of
our members, mostly in their 40s and early 50s, and brought in
people in their 20s, you know, trying to get a dialogue going,”
Sarfati says. “At the end of this session, both groups realized
they needed the other.”  Hugh Robinson, 61, attended the Monday meetings when he
lost his job as a mortgage broker. After searching for a year
and a half to see if he could apply his skills to government
contracting, his contacts at 40Plus taught him how to navigate
federal employment websites. He got five interviews and two job
offers.  “The older you get, companies are not supposed to
discriminate, but they do,” Robinson said. “This recession is
the hardest” in “my working life.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  