-- Foreign Funds Should Have Centralized EU License, Lagarde Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-10-10T21:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/foreign-funds-should-require-centralized-eu-license-france-s-lagarde-says.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said any “passport” that would license funds and
investment vehicles from outside the  European Union  to operate
in all the region’s 27 countries should be granted by an EU
authority rather than national regulators.  “France believes that such a passport should be truly
European,” Lagarde said in a letter to U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Geithner told Lagarde and her European counterparts that
current French proposals for EU investment rules would
discriminate against foreign investment firms. In an Oct. 5
letter, Geithner urged France to back a plan that would allow
foreign hedge funds and private equity firms that were cleared
to operate in one of the EU’s countries to do business in all of
them.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government is concerned
that allowing individual EU countries to grant non-European
funds and investment managers the right to operate throughout
the region might spur a regulatory race to the bottom as smaller
nations seek financial businesses and jobs.  The European Commission has proposed laws to regulate
hedge-fund and private-equity managers. Member states and the
European Parliament haven’t agreed on amendments to the planned
rules.  Quick Agreement  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, said Sept. 29 that he would push for a quick
agreement that would include the passport provision.  “I understand that France has expressed opposition to this
proposal and that new language is being drafted that would allow
member states to opt out of the passport or delay a decision on
the passport, while EU-domiciled firms are granted EU-wide
access,” Geithner said in his letter. “We would consider
adoption of such a proposal as unfair and damaging to our shared
interest in maintaining an open, global financial system,” he
said.  Lagarde rejected the allegation in her Oct. 8 response to
Geithner.  “France’s proposal to introduce a marketing regime through
private placement for offshore funds is neither protectionist,
nor discriminatory,” Lagarde wrote.  To counter the possibility of a regulatory race to the
bottom while limiting the bureaucratic hurdles to financial
firms wishing to operate in the EU, France is willing to
consider a passport system in which non-European funds are
registered with and supervised by the European Securities and
Markets Authority, one of three pan-European authorities voted
into existence by European lawmakers last month. The European
Securities and Markets Authority is based in Paris.  Registration with ESMA would ensure that “a consistent set
of rules is applied in Europe,” Lagarde told Geithner. “This
would also parallel the approach adopted under the Dodd-Frank
act which funds advisers to be registered by the” Securities
and Exchange Commission in the U.S., she added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in London at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  