-- Bank Rules Should Be Tailored to Potential for Systemic Damage, G-30 Says
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2010-10-10T19:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/g-30-regulators-back-macro-prudential-tools-for-largest-firms.html
Regulators should consider financial
companies’ systemic roles to impose appropriate restrictions on
firms whose collapse would cause the most damage, an
 international group  of former and current central bankers said.  So-called macro-prudential tools are needed to ward off
another global financial crisis, the Group of 30 said today in
Washington. The organization proposed capital and liquidity
rules, some of which are already being implemented by
international watchdogs, including stricter requirements for the
largest lenders.  “Macro-prudential policy is a key missing component in our
arsenal of policy approaches,” said  Roger Ferguson , a former
vice chairman of the Federal Reserve who leads the G-30 working
group that issued today’s report. “Interconnectedness of
financial institutions can threaten the whole economy,” said
Ferguson, now chief executive officer of TIAA-CREF, the New
York-based pension manager for teachers and researchers.  The group’s advice was unveiled as financial and economic
officials from Group of 20 countries concluded meetings a few
blocks away in the U.S. capital. G-20 countries, their
regulatory bodies and international rule setters have been
negotiating capital requirements and risk limits in the wake of
the global credit crisis. While the U.S. and Europe have already
adopted many rules, debate continues on some aspects, such as
how to rein in the largest financial institutions.  U.S. Risk Council  Some macro-prudential measures were already included in the
U.S. regulatory overhaul enacted in July and in international
capital and liquidity rules accepted by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision last year and last month. The U.S. law,
known as the Dodd-Frank Act, creates a Financial Stability
Oversight Council to help U.S. agencies monitor risks.  The G-30 called for increased capital charges on trading
books, the part of a bank’s balance sheet where securities are
temporarily held for trading purposes. That was part of Basel’s
July 2009 changes to trading-book rules. The G-30 also
recommended countercyclical capital buffers, which are being
discussed by the Basel committee.  “Measures already announced in Basel III and what’s
recommended here are very consistent,” said  Jaime Caruana ,
general manager of the Bank of International Settlements and
a member of the G-30 working group. “But Basel is about
micro-prudential supervision, looking at individual banks’
risks. We need a macro-prudential approach that builds on
that.”  A G-30 proposal to impose higher capital charges on the
biggest banks is among measures under discussion at the
 Financial Stability Board , another international rule setter.
Switzerland is in the process of enacting such charges for its
two biggest banks.  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  UBS AG  will be
asked to hold twice as much capital as other Swiss banks, though
they may use hybrid debt instruments to meet some of the rules.  “We’re trying to provide an integrated view of how
different measures being used in different jurisdictions all fit
together,” said Ferguson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 