-- Finance Chiefs Fail to Resolve Currency Spat as G-20 Splits
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-10-11T12:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/global-finance-chiefs-fail-to-resolve-exchange-rate-spat-as-g-20-splinters.html
Leaders of the world economy failed
to narrow differences over currencies as they turned to the
International Monetary Fund to calm frictions that are already
sparking protectionism.  Exchange rates dominated the IMF’s annual meeting as
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , People’s Bank of China
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  and their counterparts split over whose
policies are the biggest threat to the world economy on concern
countries are relying on cheap currencies to aid growth. China
was accused of undervaluing the yuan, while low U.S.  interest
rates  were blamed by emerging markets for flooding them with
capital. Brazil took aim at both the U.S. and China.  Finance ministers and central bankers pledged to improve
cooperation, yet did little to show how they would alter their
ways beyond agreeing to let the IMF study the matter. With the
 dollar  down 11 percent against the yen since mid-June, compared
with less than 3 percent versus the Chinese yuan, the focus
turns to Group of 20 talks in South Korea in coming weeks to
prove international policymaking isn’t in tatters.  “Policy makers seemed to be trying to diminish concerns
about currency wars,” said  Steven Englander , head of Group of
10 currency strategy at  Citigroup Inc . in New York. “There did
not seem any commitment to change behavior, however. There is
little to suggest that the dollar’s direction is anything but
down.”  Mantega’s ‘War’  The dollar rose 0.1 percent to 81.98 yen as of 8:15 a.m. in
New York after earlier dropping to 81.39 yen, the lowest since
April 1995. The U.S. currency was little changed against the
euro and yuan.  Days after Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  set the
tone for the gathering by declaring a “currency war” was under
way, officials meeting in Washington held their traditional
battle lines. Geithner and European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  were among those to signal irritation that China
is restraining the yuan to aid exports even as its economy
outpaces those of other G-20 members.  “Global rebalancing is not progressing as well as needed
to avoid threats to the global economic recovery,” Geithner
said. “Our initial achievements are at risk of being undermined
by the limited extent of progress toward more domestic demand-
led growth in countries running external surpluses and by the
extent of foreign-exchange intervention as countries with
undervalued currencies lean against appreciation.”  Monetary Expansion  At the same time, officials from emerging economies
including China complained that low interest rates in the U.S.
and its developed-world counterparts mean investors are pouring
capital into their markets, threatening growth by forcing up
currencies and inflating asset bubbles.  The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index  of stocks has soared 13 percent since the start of
September.  Polish central bank governor  Marek Belka , a former IMF
official, said capital inflows have the potential to “derail
monetary policy.”  “Brazil won’t pay the price for several countries’
imbalances,” central bank president  Henrique Meirelles  told
reporters. “Our position is: ‘Brazil will protect its economy
regardless.’”  Chinese officials repeated they will allow a gradual
advance in the yuan and warned that a hasty revaluation would do
the world economy more harm than good.  “China’s exchange-rate policy is based on the market
supply and demand,” Zhou said. “We do that in a gradual way,
rather than a shock therapy.”  Taking Steps  While the  yuan  last week rose to its highest level since
1993, its gain against the dollar since China pledged in June to
make it more flexible is little more than 2 percent.  More and more economies are taking steps to spur growth
that end up weakening their currencies. Japan last month sold
yen for the first time in six years, and the Federal Reserve may
revive large-scale asset purchases next month. While a lower
exchange rate can help bolster exports, it also hurts trading
partners, who may look to regain advantage through their own
devaluations or by erecting trade barriers.  Leaders are seeking to avoid a repeat of the 1930s, when a
trade war begun by the U.S. passage of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff
Act deepened the worldwide economic slump.  “We’re in a world in which everyone wants a weaker
currency but you cannot have an equilibrium of all currencies
being weaker,”  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University
professor who predicted the credit crisis, said.   “Currency-intervention wars eventually can lead to
trade wars,” Roubini, chairman of New York-based Roubini 
Global Economics LLC, told Bloomberg Television.  Capital Controls  Some forms of protectionism may already be on the rise.
Ukraine’s Deputy Premier  Serhiy Tigipko  said in an interview
that his country may follow South Korea, Brazil and other
emerging markets in seeking to prevent short-term investments
from fueling currency volatility. India may also act to
“prevent the disruption of the macroeconomic situation,”
Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  told reporters.  In the U.S., Democratic Senator  Jack Reed  of Rhode Island
told Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ”
that the U.S. Senate may consider a lame-duck session to deal
with legislation aimed at prodding China on the yuan.  Japan also remains ready to act on the yen when needed,
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said, although he signaled last
week that his nation doesn’t intend to return to the long-term,
large yen selling of the past.  IMF Reports  Unable to find common ground themselves, governments agreed
the IMF should serve as currency cop by preparing reports to
show how the policies of one economy affect others. The studies
will focus on the U.S., China, the U.K. and the euro area.  “The need to have this kind of spillover report has been
discussed for months and now it’s part of our toolbox,” IMF
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said.  The IMF nevertheless has little record of success on
pushing global authorities to change their ways. A 2006 effort
to oversee the rebalancing of the world economy petered out, and
China has repeatedly rejected the fund’s analysis.  “The major economies are each encouraging the IMF to push
harder on other countries, but showing no willingness to yield
to the IMF any such leverage over their own policies,” said
 Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a
former IMF official.  Voting Power  The IMF’s membership also split over how to increase the
power of emerging markets in its decision-making. The U.S.
rejected as insufficient a proposal by European governments to
reduce the number of seats they hold on the 24-strong board,
according to two European officials.  Attention now turns to the G-20 meetings, starting next
week with finance-minister talks and concluding Nov. 11-12 in
Seoul with a leaders’ summit. Suggestions for how to resolve
currency differences were vague in Washington, with French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  proposing better coordination
and more diversification, while Canada’s  Jim Flaherty  suggested
that new “rules of the road” be outlined. European Central
Bank Executive Board member  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi  suggested the G-
20 may be too big to find a compromise.  Unless checked in South Korea, the discord may snap the G-
20’s united front formed to fight the financial crisis and
recession.  “A once-promising global response has now been replaced by
inadequately coordinated national economic policies and growing
frictions among countries,”  Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a
Washington speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Washington at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  