-- Google Tests Self-Driving Cars That May Improve Safety, Reduce Emissions
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-10T02:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/google-says-it-s-testing-vehicles-that-can-drive-themselves.html
Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, said it’s testing vehicles that
drive themselves to help improve road safety and address
environmental concerns.  The self-driving cars have traveled more than 140,000 miles
(225,308 kilometers) in the experiments, according to a posting
on Google’s blog today. The vehicles navigate by maps and use
cameras, radar sensors and a laser range finder to monitor
traffic.  “Our goal is to help prevent traffic accidents, free up
people’s time and reduce carbon emissions by fundamentally
changing car use,”  Sebastian Thrun , a software engineer with
Google, wrote in the blog. “While this project is very much in
the experimental stage, it provides a glimpse of what
transportation might look like in the future.”  The cars, which have driven in San Francisco and around
Lake Tahoe, are never without a human operator to ensure safety.
Google said the technology has the potential to cut the number
of traffic accidents.  Google has devoted resources to clean energy and spent $2.8
billion on research and development last year. It has developed
artificial intelligence tools that help users navigate the
Internet, including a service that enables speech recognition
and a search-engine feature that predicts what users want as
they type their queries.  “Your car should drive itself; it’s amazing to me that we
let humans drive cars,”  Eric Schmidt , chief executive officer
of Google, said at a technology conference last month. “It’s a
bug that cars were invented before computers.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose $6.34 to
$536.35 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have
fallen 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  