-- IMF Considers Extension of Greece's Loan Package, ECB's Bini Smaghi Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-10-10T17:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/imf-considers-extension-of-greece-s-loan-package-ecb-s-bini-smaghi-says.html
The International Monetary Fund may
transform its loan to Greece into a longer-term repayment plan,
a move that would allow the country to pay its loan back later
without restructuring, European Central Bank Executive Board
member  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi  said.  “The IMF is certainly thinking of these issues,” Bini
Smaghi said in a speech in Washington. “There are mechanisms in
the IMF to prolong packages.”  “There is a standard procedure which has been implemented
many ways, in which the IMF transforms short-term programs to
longer-term programs” when it sees a country is on track, he
later told reporters.  Asked about the idea, ECB governing council member  Ewald Nowotny  said stretching out payments did not constitute a
restructuring, which was not under discussion. Calls to the
Greek delegation in Washington were not immediately returned.  “We have developed a good joint program for Greece by the
EU Commission, ECB and IMF,” Nowotny told reporters today in
Washington. “That’s why I don’t see a perspective for a
discussion on a restructuring.”  Klaus Regling , chief executive officer of the newly
established European Financial Stability Facility, also
indicated such a restructuring was not on the table.  IMF Mechanisms  “Nobody said that,” Regling said. Bini Smaghi “only
talked about funds provided by the IMF and that’s indeed a
normal, or common procedure by the IMF to think again about
maturities. The IMF has mechanisms for that, but that doesn’t
concern primarily markets.”  Bini Smaghi is a former director general of Italy’s
Treasury who joined the ECB in 2005. The IMF press office in
Washington did not have an immediate comment.  Greek markets have been battered since the end of last year
when the newly elected government led by Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said the budget deficit was twice as big as the
previous administration indicated. The disclosure forced Greece
to tap a 110 billion-euro ($153 billion) loan facility in April
from the European Union and IMF after being shut out of the debt
market.  Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  yesterday
said investors who didn’t turn their backs on his country’s debt
are seeing returns. At April’s IMF Fund annual meeting,
Papaconstantinou said investors would “lose their shirts” if
they bet the cash-strapped nation was going to default.  ‘Smart Money’  “The smart money is realizing Greek bonds are a good
investment,” he told reporters in Washington. “However, we
cannot return to the markets at the moment with bond issues, as
the cost of borrowing will be high,”  Greek bonds were Europe’s top performers last quarter,
gaining for the first time since the debt crisis began.
Investors still demand a yield premium of 752 basis points to
lend to Greece rather than Germany for 10 years, the most of any
euro nation. That’s down from a euro-era record of 973 basis
points on May 7.  A growing number of Greeks believe the government didn’t
have to ask the  IMF  for the emergency loans, according to an
opinion poll. Nearly 66 percent of 1,183 Greeks think the
country could have avoided asking for the funds, compared with
42 percent in April, according to the survey, conducted by  Kapa
Research  and published in  To Vima  newspaper today.  Greece agreed in May to cut wages and pensions and raise
taxes in return for emergency loans from the IMF and the
European Union. Papandreou argued that the measures, to tame a
budget deficit of almost 14 percent of economic output, were
needed to prevent the country from defaulting on its debts after
 borrowing costs  soared.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  