-- Germany Opposes Extending Greek Bailout Repayment Schedule
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-11T00:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/imf-may-extend-greek-loan-package-if-europe-moves-first-strauss-kahn-says.html
The International Monetary Fund is
prepared to give Greece more time to repay its loan to the
institution if European nations, which provided the bulk of a
joint 110 billion euro ($154 billion) package, decide to do so
first, Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said.  Greek officials are doing “exactly what they need to do”
to rein in spending and meet the benchmarks set out as a
condition of aid, Strauss-Kahn said in a television interview
with Bloomberg HT yesterday. Whether Greece needs the extension
depends on the state of the global economy, he said.  “If the Europeans decide to do something, we certainly
will do the same thing,” Strauss-Kahn said. “We can do this
and it may be useful, but it’s only a small part.”  Investors still demand a yield premium of 754 basis points
to lend to Greece rather than Germany for 10 years, the most of
any euro nation, though that’s down from a euro-era record of
973 basis points on May 7. The IMF expects the country’s
borrowing needs to soar by a third in 2014.  “Greece has borrowed a lot, therefore there are really
problems how to service all this debt in the context of a
shrinking gross domestic product and very slim growth
prospects,” said  Domenico Lombardi , a former IMF board member
and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Spreading the
repayment schedule is about giving “more breathing room for the
Greek treasury.”  Strauss-Kahn’s comments followed remarks by European
Central Bank executive board member  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi , who
told a panel in Washington that the IMF had mechanisms to
“prolong packages” for countries receiving assistance and is
“thinking” about it for Greece, though nothing has been
decided.  ‘No Concrete Plan’  Simonetta Nardin, a spokeswoman for the fund, said the IMF
had “no concrete plan” to alter the schedule of repayments
because it’s likely “Greece will be able to fully cover its
external financing need from the markets from 2012, as assumed
when the program was approved” in May.  “We are aware that markets are concerned about the
repayment schedule related to official supports,” she said in
an e-mail. If such concerns were to linger, she said, the fund’s
options include lengthening repayment periods, replacing
shorter-term with longer-term loans, and agreeing to a new
program when the current one comes to an end.  ECB governing council member  Ewald Nowotny  yesterday said
stretching out payments did not constitute a restructuring,
which was not under discussion. Strauss-Kahn also said there’s
“no reason for default.”  Markets Battered  Greek markets have been battered since the end of last year
when the newly elected government led by Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said the budget deficit was twice as big as the
previous administration indicated. The disclosure forced Greece
to tap a loan facility in April from the European Union and IMF
after being shut out of the debt market.  Greece’s gross borrowing needs will rise to 70.8 billion
euros in 2014 from 53.2 billion euros the year before as
repayments the EU and the fund increase, IMF documents shows.  Strauss-Kahn also said China should allow its currency, the
yuan, to appreciate more quickly. He applauded Chinese leaders
for beginning a process of reorienting their economy toward
domestic consumption, which will lead to a stronger yuan over
time.  “You can’t say that they haven’t listened” to IMF calls
for action, he said. “They could go faster, but it’s
difficult.”  Strauss-Kahn said he expected IMF member nations would
reach an agreement over the next two weeks on how to change the
fund’s governing structure to give emerging-market nations a
bigger voice. He said European nations understand that “they
need to make room” and accept a smaller presence on the IMF’s
board.  “The designated victims are the Europeans,” Strauss-Kahn
said. “The discussion is about the Europeans giving up two
seats, which I think they are prepared to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  