-- Iran Automaker Khodro Turns to Turkey as Proton Quits `Muslim Car' Venture
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-10T13:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/iran-khodro-turns-to-turkey-for-islamic-car-as-malaysia-leaves-venture.html
Iran Khodro , the country’s largest
carmaker, plans to discuss joint venture plans with Turkey after
Malaysia pulled out of a project to build a car focused on
Islamic buyers.  “An economic and industrial delegation will come within
two weeks to Iran to start initial negotiations,” Mir Javad
Soleimani, the company’s deputy chief executive officer for
quality and product development, said in an interview today.
“If we reach an understanding we will begin producing an
Islamic car.”  The possibility for cooperation was brought up by Turkey’s
industry minister during a recent visit by Iran’s first vice-
president, said Soleimani.  The new automobile “will be a brand specifically for
Muslim states,” he said. “We will target their markets.” He
did not name the Turkish automobile company considering the
project and declined to say how much investment was needed as
talks are underway.  Iran is part of the  Developing Eight  (D-8), a group of
emerging countries with large Muslim populations that have
formed an economic alliance.  The Persian Gulf state initially sought to pursue a similar
plan with Proton Holdings Bhd., Malaysia’s state-controlled
carmaker.  “Proton pulled out and we are now looking into this with
Turkey, which is interested,” Soleimani said, without detailing
the reason for the Malaysian company’s decision.  D-8 Members  The D-8 is comprised of Bangladesh, Egypt, Malaysia, Iran,
Indonesia, Nigeria, Pakistan and Turkey.  Iran produced 1.39 million cars in 2009 including
commercial vehicles, making it the world’s 12th largest carmaker
after Canada, Mexico, France and Spain, according to the
 International Organization of Motor Vehicle Manufacturers . China
and Japan are the world’s two largest car manufacturers, the
Paris-based organization said on its website.  Iran Khodro, which was founded in 1962, produced about
680,000 vehicles in the last Iranian calendar year that ended on
March 20th.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  