-- Iranian Rebels Kidnap Nuclear Worker, Threaten to Reveal Atomic Secrets
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-10T16:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/iranian-rebels-kidnap-nuclear-worker-threaten-to-reveal-atomic-secrets.html
An Iranian Sunni Muslim rebel group
said it captured an employee of one of the country’s nuclear
facilities and threatened to reveal secrets about the country’s
atomic program if jailed members of the group are not released.  “Iranian authorities know well what information is in the
hands of Amir Hossein Shirani, especially regarding top Iranian
nuclear experts,” the Jundallah group said on its  website .
“The publication of these confessions will be costly for Iran’s
regime.”  Jundallah is demanding the release of more than 200 Sunnis
and Baluch people and members of the movement, according to a
statement posted yesterday. It threatened to reveal information
gleaned from Shirani if the demands aren’t met.  Iran has been hit by four rounds of United Nations
sanctions over its nuclear program, which the U.S. says is a
cover for atomic weapons development. Iran says its program is
purely civilian and needed to secure energy for its growing
population. While confirming the kidnapping, Iranian officials
said Shirani is no longer working in connection with Iran’s
Atomic Energy Organization and his abduction was based on
“personal” matters.  Shirani “was a manual welder for a short time and then
worked as a driver for one of the companies that has a
contract” with  Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization , said Hamid
Khadem Ghaemi, a spokesman for the nuclear agency, according to
the  Mardom Salari  newspaper.  Shirani is no longer employed with the organization, the
official said in a report published today in the Tehran-based
daily. His capture by the group is of a “personal nature and
not related to the nuclear issue,” Khadem Ghaemi said.  Minority Unrest  Iran is about 90 percent Shiite. Baluchis, who are Sunni
Muslim, live in the Sunni-dominated Sistan-Baluchistan province,
which also borders Afghanistan. The province is one of Iran’s
poorest and has experienced political unrest and several attacks
on military officials.  In June, Iran executed the group’s leader,  Abdolmalek Rigi ,
after convicting the 28-year-old man of “enmity toward god” as
well as ties to the U.S. and Israel. Iran says the U.S. and the
U.K. support Jundallah to help promote an insurgency by ethnic
minorities to destabilize the Islamic regime.  Jundallah has said it bombed a mosque in Zahedan, the
capital of Sistan-Baluchistan, in May last year. The attack
killed at least 21 people and injured about 200.  In October 2009, Jundallah was involved in a suicide
bombing that killed at least 29 people in Sistan-Baluchistan,
including several senior officers in Iran’s Revolutionary
Guards, according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  