-- Ireland Relies on Treasury Cash to Avoid Greece-Style Rescue
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-10-10T23:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/ireland-relies-on-cash-pile-to-sidestep-greek-fate-euro-credit.html
Ireland expects its 20 billion-euro
($28 billion) cash pile to stave off a Greek-style rescue, as
the government taps the funds to avoid paying  record rates  to
borrow.  The government canceled next week’s debt auction and
another scheduled for November after the yield on 10-year Irish
bonds rose to a record 454 basis points above benchmark German
bunds. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  has said Ireland is
“fully funded” through the middle of 2011. The country has 4.4
billion euros of bonds maturing next year, compared with about
27 billion euros in Greece.  “Twenty billion euros and the lack of redemptions buys the
government some time,” said  Jens Peter Soerensen , an analyst at
Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s biggest bank, who recommends
investors buy Irish Treasury bills. “At some point, investors
are going to look at 2 percent on a German bund or 6 percent on
an Irish bond, and say let’s buy Ireland.”  Lenihan plans to travel to New York this week to convince
investors that Ireland will fix its financial system without
bankrupting the state. The government’s bill to bail out the
nation’s banks may reach 50 billion euros, stoking concern that
it would become the first nation after Greece to seek aid and
draw from the 750 billion-euro rescue fund set up by the
European Union and International Monetary Fund set up in May.  The extra yield investors demand for holding 10-year Irish
bonds rather than German bunds fell to 423 basis points from the
Sept. 29 high of 454 basis points. The slide occurred after the
government canceled plans to raise as much as 3 billion euros in
bond sales.  Euro Peripherals  Only  Greece ’s yield premium over German bunds is wider than
Ireland’s among the so-called euro peripherals. It was 754 basis
points on Oct. 8, compared with Portugal’s 399 basis points,
Spain’s 174 basis points and Italy’s 149 basis points.  Lenihan, 51, will lay out his plan next month to narrow the
budget deficit to 3 percent of the gross domestic product by the
end of 2014. The fiscal deficit is set to increase to 32 percent
of GDP this year with the government’s pledge to inject funds
into lenders led by Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  Ireland has pumped 22.9 billion euros into Dublin-based
Anglo Irish since the bank was seized in January 2009 as bad
loans soared with the collapse of the property market. The
lender may need an extra 6.4 billion euros of capital, plus
another 5 billion euros in the event of unexpected losses.
Lenihan said last month the government also will take a majority
stake in  Allied Irish Banks Plc .  Ireland’s government needs spending cuts and tax increases
of about 4 billion euros in 2011,  Christopher Pryce , a director
at Fitch Ratings in London, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on Oct. 7.  ‘Impressing the Markets’  “That is probably sufficient to maintain confidence in
Ireland,” Pryce said. “It is a matter of impressing the
markets with their determination.”  Austerity measures aimed at reducing the budget deficit are
“the right thing to do,” said  Daniel Leigh , an IMF economist.  “There’s no alternative right now,” Leigh said during an
Oct. 7 presentation at the Bruegel Institute in Brussels.
“There’s a lot of pressure from the markets.”  Credit-default swaps linked to Irish debt ended last week
at 430 basis points, down 17 basis points from Oct.7, according
to CMA prices. Swaps for Greece were at 727 basis points, making
them the most expensive in Europe.  The country’s  National Treasury Management Agency  will
repay 11 percent of total borrowings in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with about 20 percent for
Spain, 18 percent for Portugal and 17.5 percent for Italy.  Yield Gap  “They are taking a gamble that the budget will deliver
and get spreads down,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at
Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “If that doesn’t happen, maybe
you skip a few auctions at the beginning of the year. But at
some point, you have to go to the market. If you can’t go to the
market, then you have to look at outside aid.”  Greece covered 8.5 billion euros of bond redemptions in May
after receiving 20 billion euros from euro-region allies and the
IMF, the first portion of a three-year aid package.  “The huge redemptions coming up for Greece forced the
issue in May,” said  Anke Richter , a strategist at London-based
brokerage Conduit Capital Markets. “The bottom line with
Ireland is that it’s funded till next summer.”  Lenihan has time to get the country’ borrowing costs down
by convincing investors that Ireland will pay its bills, said
Soerensen of Danske Bank. The  yield  on the 10-year Irish bond is
6.48 percent, up from 4.5 percent six months ago.  “The government has a significant problem” unless yields
fall, said Soerensen of Danske Bank, which owns Dublin-based
National Irish Bank. “But it isn’t under any immediate pressure
to raise cash, and even in the unlikely event that the
government had to call upon IMF/EU aid, investors would still
get paid. There isn’t going to be a default.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  