-- Israel Cabinet Approves Citizenship Oath Change; May Be Step Toward Freeze
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-10-10T15:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/israel-s-cabinet-approves-change-in-wording-of-oath-for-new-citizens.html
Israel’s Cabinet approved a change
to the citizenship oath, adding words that emphasize the
“Jewish and democratic” nature of the state, in what analysts
said was a gesture to ministers who oppose a renewal of a freeze
on the building of Israeli settlements.  “To my regret, today there are attempts to blur not only
the unique link between the Jewish people and their homeland,
but also the connection between the Jewish people and their
state,” Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told the Cabinet
before the 22-to-8 vote on the change today, according to his
 website . The new oath will only apply to non-Jews seeking
citizenship.  The amendment, which must go to a parliament vote, comes as
the U.S. pressures Netanyahu to renew a 10-month freeze in West
Bank construction that ended on Sept. 26. The Arab League has
backed the Palestinian Authority’s decision not to resume direct
peace talks until Israel stops the building.  Most members of Netanyahu’s government, including Foreign
Minister  Avigdor Lieberman , who leads the second-largest party
in the coalition and sought the loyalty oath, oppose a
resumption of the moratorium.  “The argument is over more than just borders,” Lieberman
said today on Army Radio before the vote. “It is on the future
character of the state of Israel.”  Labor Opposition  The measure was opposed by all five ministers from Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak ’s Labor Party, the third biggest faction in
the coalition.  “It is a law about exclusion rather than inclusion,” said
Labor parliament member Daniel Ben-Simon in a phone interview.
Ben-Simon described the law as “racist” and said it is a step
in the direction of an earlier proposal by Lieberman to make all
Israelis, including Israeli Arabs, swear a loyalty oath.  Avraham Diskin , a political scientist at Interdisciplinary
Center Herzliya, said the change to the oath was intended by
Netanyahu to mollify opponents of a settlement-building freeze.  “If he is going to reach a compromise concerning the
settlements, to balance that he is demonstrating that he is
protecting the essence of Israel,” Diskin said in a phone
interview. “He is an overloaded juggler.”  Israel’s ambassador to the U.S.,  Michael Oren , said on Oct.
7 that the U.S. has offered Israel incentives that may help
Netanyahu pass a renewed freeze for two or three months.  Netanyahu confirmed last week he was in “sensitive
negotiations” with Washington. The freeze, declared by
Netanyahu in November in what he said was a bid to bring
Palestinians to the negotiating table, excluded 3,000 homes as
well as some public building.  National Referendum  Netanyahu plans tomorrow to convene ministers to work on a
bill that would require any agreement to be ratified in a
national referendum, the daily Yedioth Ahronoth said, without
saying where it got the information.  “I welcome the steps the prime minister is taking, but no
one is under the illusion that these measures will buy our
support to renew the freeze,” lawmaker  Danny Danon , a member of
Netanyahu’s Likud party, said by phone.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade.  The United Nations says settlements are illegal and the
International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. Obama has said they aren’t legitimate.  Israel says settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  