-- Liverpool CEO Purslow Tells Owners to Cancel Attempt to Block Sale of Club
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-10-10T15:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/liverpool-ceo-purslow-tells-owners-to-cancel-attempt-to-block-sale-of-club.html
Liverpool’s co-owners should end
their attempt to block the sale of the soccer club and leave
with “some dignity and some peace,” Chief Executive Officer
 Christian Purslow  said.  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  are trying to prevent a 300
million-pound ($479 million) sale to  John W. Henry ’s Boston Red
Sox holding company because they feel the club is worth more.  “Right now they do have an opportunity with one simple
short correspondence today to allow a sale to complete and that
would clear the club of all the acquisition debt and give us a
massive lift,” Purslow  told the British Broadcasting Corp .’s
Radio 5 Live. It “would enable them to leave with some dignity
and some peace rather than precipitating a messy dispute.”  The takeover by New England Sports Ventures still requires
court approval to go through. Hicks and Gillett say the deal is
unlawful because they don’t recognize the board that approved
the accord.  Hicks and Gillett next week need to repay a 237 million-
pound loan, which is majority owned by Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc. They say Chairman  Martin Broughton  acted illegally in
blocking their efforts to replace board members  Ian Ayre  and
Purslow with two of Hicks’s associates hours before the deal was
struck on Oct. 6.  Broughton said after NESV was named as the prospective
owner that he had a written undertaking that only he could
change the composition of the club’s board. Broughton was
appointed chairman in April and given the responsibility, along
with Barclays Capital, to find a buyer.  Penalty Threat  If the sale is blocked, or delayed beyond Oct. 15, RBS may
place the club into administration, the BBC said. English
soccer’s Premier League could then impose a nine-point penalty
under its insolvency rules.  Purslow said the fans feel “disenfranchised” and he wants
NESV to consider giving them more involvement within the club if
its takeover is completed.  “I’ve asked them to consider a scheme at our club that
will give our fans a real sense of ownership, a real sense of
inclusion, the kind of voice they deserve and NESV have told us
they’ll look at this very seriously,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 