-- Rivals for Obama's U.S. Senate Seat Spar Over Integrity in First Faceoff
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/kirk-giannoulias-spar-over-integrity-in-bid-for-senate-seat-from-illinois.html
The two men seeking a U.S. Senate
seat President  Barack Obama  once held in Illinois questioned
each other’s trustworthiness as they faced off in their first
debate yesterday.  Republican  Mark Kirk  said  Alexi Giannoulias  had done
business with mobsters, while the Democrat accused his opponent
of telling “some real whoppers” during the campaign.  “We shouldn’t be surprised that the congressman is lying
again,” Giannoulias said after Kirk criticized his time as a
senior loan officer at Broadway Bank in Chicago.  Central to the discussion was the fallout from the April
failure of the family bank and Kirk’s need to apologize for
exaggerating his military and personal biography.  The 30-minute debate in Washington, broadcast on NBC’s
“Meet the Press,” showcased a race that polls show is one of
the nation’s most competitive Senate contests.  At one point, Kirk held up a sheet of paper he said showed
a list of loans made by the bank to “convicted mobsters and
felons” when Giannoulias was a senior loan officer.  “The Broadway Bank provided an extraordinary amount of
loan capital, millions of dollars, to mob figures and convicted
felons, after they had been convicted,” Kirk said. “I don’t
have experience in loaning money to mob figures. I don’t have
experience in reckless loans to commercial real estate and
brokered hot money deposits leading to a collapse of the bank.”  Borrowers’ Backgrounds  As he has throughout the campaign, Giannoulias said he
didn’t know the full backgrounds of some of those who received
bank loans.  “If I knew then what I know now, these aren’t the kind of
people that we do business with,” he said. “I didn’t know the
extent of their activity.”  Giannoulias, 34, is the Illinois state treasurer and an
occasional Obama basketball buddy, while Kirk, 51, is a five-
term congressman from Chicago’s northern suburbs.  Moderator  David Gregory  asked Kirk to explain why he
exaggerated his U.S. Naval Reserve service to voters.  “I was careless and I learned a very painful and humbling
lesson,” Kirk said. “I am completely accountable for this.”  Asked about statements he had made about being shot at
while flying over Iraq, Kirk said he was unsure whether that
happened.  Skies Over Iraq  “When you are flying over Iraq as a big NATO strike
package, usually the Iraqis opened up on us,” he said, adding
that it is “very confusing” to know whether his squadron came
under fire.  Giannoulias was asked to explain the timing of his
departure from the bank following a Sept. 29 Chicago Tribune
 story  that reported on a $2.7 million tax deduction the
candidate took last year.  He has said that he left the troubled bank in late 2005,
although his tax documents showed he claimed to have worked at
least 500 hours there in 2006, a time when loans were made to
 Antoin “Tony” Rezko , who was later convicted of influence
peddling, and to a family later accused of having connections to
organized crime.  “Nothing I said has been inconsistent,” Giannoulias said.
“I said I left day-to-day operations in 2005.”  After the debate, Kirk told reporters he favors
“indefinitely” extending the tax-rate reductions enacted under
President  George W. Bush , though he thinks the Senate could more
easily agree to a two-year extension.  ‘Another Whopper’  Giannoulias told reporters Kirk is falsely presenting
himself as a fiscal conservative.  “It’s another whopper to keep on saying he’s a fiscal
hawk,” he said. “The truth is no one in this race has taxed
more, spent more, borrowed more and lied more.”  Giannoulias told reporters that he didn’t say anything
about the bank during the debate that he hadn’t said before.  “We knew there were rumblings of problems,” he said.
“These weren’t loans that I was intimately involved in. These
weren’t relationships that I brought to the bank.”  In the debate, Giannoulias defended the president’s
handling of the economy and said that a government stimulus
package helped the country avoid “a second Great Depression.”  Kirk argued that stimulus spending hasn’t worked and has
only served to increase the nation’s debt, while also urging
repeal of the health-care overhaul passed by Congress.  Obama’s Prestige  Obama has placed his political capital and prestige on the
line for the race, which offers a symbolic referendum on him. He
appeared in Chicago last week with Giannoulias, his second
fundraising appearance for the Democrat in a little more than
two months. First lady  Michelle Obama  is scheduled to make a
fundraising stop in Chicago this week for Giannoulias.  The first family visits could rekindle local interest in a
Senate race that has been overshadowed this month by the
unexpected return to Chicago of Obama’s former chief of staff,
 Rahm Emanuel , to explore a potential mayoral bid to replace
retiring Mayor  Richard M. Daley .  Obama’s investment in the Illinois race is part of a White
House effort to fight a tide in November’s congressional
elections that threatens Democratic control of the House and
possibly the Senate. The party’s loss of the Illinois seat would
boost Republican chances of gaining the 10 needed to win a
Senate majority.  A Chicago Tribune/WGN-TV  poll  taken Sept. 24-28 showed
Giannoulias held a statistically insignificant lead of 38
percent to 36 percent. The survey, which showed 17 percent
undecided, had a 4 percentage-point error margin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  