-- Nigerian Cleric Is Shot Dead by Suspected Islamic Militants in Maiduguri
-- B y   A r d o   A b d u l l a h i   H a z z a d
-- 2010-10-10T07:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/nigerian-cleric-is-shot-dead-by-suspected-islamic-militants-in-maiduguri.html
Suspected members of  Nigeria ’s
militant Islamic Boko Haram sect killed a cleric and his
assistant, three days after an opposition official was killed in
a similar attack, a police official said.  Sheikh Bashir Mustapha, a 30-year-old Sunni Islamic
preacher, and Mallam Sulaiman were shot dead in Maiduguri,
capital of Borno state, by assailants riding on motorbikes,
police spokesman Mai Mamman said in a phone interview yesterday.
The gunmen fled after the attack, he said.  “No arrests have been made,” Mamman said.  On Oct. 6, Awana Ngala, vice chairman of the All Nigeria
People’s Party, was gunned down by suspected Boko Haram members,
while the residence of Goni Ali Modu, speaker of the Borno state
legislature, was also attacked and a policeman was killed.  Boko Haram, which opposes Western-style education and draws
inspiration from Afghanistan’s Taliban, attacked police stations
across several northern Nigerian cities in July 2009, prompting
the government to deploy troops. At least 700 people died in the
fighting, leading Nigeria’s security forces to shell the sect’s
headquarters in Maiduguri. Boko Haram’s 39-year-old leader,
Mohammed Yusuf, was killed.  Gunmen suspected of belonging to the sect last month
attacked a prison in the northern city of Bauchi, freeing 721
inmates, including Boko Haram members awaiting trial for the
2009 violence.  Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer and most populous
country with about 140 million people, is roughly divided
between a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly Christian
south. The West African country is scheduled to hold
presidential elections in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ardo Abdullahi Hazzad  in Bauchi via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 