-- Nobel Prize Guys Shouldn't Hold Breath on China: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-10-11T03:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/nobel-prize-guys-shouldn-t-hold-breath-on-china-william-pesek.html
(Corrects spelling of Kim Jong Il in sixth paragraph)  Nobel Peace Prize folks have done
something even past winner  Barack Obama  hasn’t: take on China.  Good for them for shining a spotlight on human rights in
the most populous nation. Jailed dissident  Liu Xiaobo , 54, is a
worthy choice for his struggle to promote democracy. What the
Norwegian Nobel Committee did was courageous, too. The
propaganda machine that sustains leaders in Beijing was out in
force trying to scuttle this award.  Never mind that the group is independent of Norway’s
government. The tiny country may soon feel the wrath of the
Chinese leadership. With its $2.5 trillion of currency reserves,
China could buy Norway’s economy 6 1/2 times over. Yes, ties
between Oslo and Beijing will be a fascinating thing.  More important is what Liu’s award doesn’t mean: that a
whole lot is about to change for China’s 1.3 billion people or
the world’s No. 2 economy.  The Nobel Committee is kidding itself if it thinks the
award will do anything to alter China’s path. Did anything
change in Myanmar after  Aung San Suu Kyi ’s 1991 award? What
changed in the Soviet Union after  Andrei Sakharov ’s 1975 nod?
And before that, did  Alexander Solzhenitsyn ’s 1970 Nobel Prize
for Literature make the Kremlin think twice about policies?  U.S. President Obama’s 2009 award hasn’t improved his
standing domestically or globally. Have the dynamics of nuclear
proliferation changed much since  Mohamed ElBaradei ’s 2005 award?
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  is still adding to his arsenal
10 years after South Korean President  Kim Dae Jung ’s prize.  China’s Path  It’s great that the Nobel Committee honors a Chinese writer
who on Dec. 25, 2009, was sentenced to 11 years in prison. Merry
Christmas, Mr. Liu. Just don’t count on China following any path
other than the one it would have if somebody else had won.  This is the diplomatic equivalent of China surpassing
Japan’s economy. Quite a milestone, yes, but it doesn’t raise
the purchasing power of Chinese households, reduce corruption,
narrow the gap between rich and poor, clean the nation’s rivers
and air, enhance personal liberty, free the media or create the
national safety net needed to prepare for an aging population.  China’s growing economic brawn doesn’t mean  Mark Zuckerberg ’s Facebook Inc. is free to operate there. Or that the
search engine created by Google Inc. co-founders  Sergey Brin  and
 Larry Page  can help the Chinese masses learn about their
nation’s history and future challenges. Nor will YouTube have a
free ride in the fastest-growing major economy.  Insecure Superpower  We often mistake China’s control over information as
strength, when it’s really a weakness. China is one of the
world’s greatest and oldest civilizations, and you would be
hard-pressed to find many serious observers who think the nation
isn’t a rising superpower. Meanwhile its leaders squander time
and energy fretting about what academics say.  Insecurity is a natural part of any nation’s rise. Yet
officials in Beijing are often overly sensitive and let it get
the better of them. Instead of taking criticism to heart, as the
outside world hopes, they can become hostile and veer toward
oppression. That was clear last month when China completely lost
it over the Japanese government arresting a fishing boat captain
in disputed water. We are seeing it again with Liu’s prize.  Put this firmly in the thou-doth-protest-too-much
department. Below the surface, it often seems that China cares
little about what the world thinks. That’s because at some level
it can afford to. It was telling, for example, that traders
buzzed about Greece seeking a Chinese bailout earlier this year.
Recently, China said it wouldn’t dump its euro assets as an
olive branch to jittery European leaders.  Poking, Prodding  In Washington, politicians can rant and rave all they want
about China’s undervalued currency. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  can poke and prod all he wants behind closed doors.
China will revalue the yuan when it wants to. In Tokyo, Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  can sell all the yen he wants. China can
just reverse the effects by buying Japanese government bonds.  China has the means to spread its considerable largess in
the name of cultivating resource-rich friends around the globe.
Let  Amnesty International  hyperventilate over how those
transactions allegedly support rogue regimes from Myanmar to
Sudan. Let the U.S. fret over North Korea’s nukes; China has the
funds and the inclination to keep the Kim dynasty in business.  The world doesn’t need China the banker or China the
shareholder. It needs China the stakeholder. China is a global
leader and must accept the responsibility that comes with that
status. The world needs China to be a constructive and nuanced
steward of an international system that has lost its way.  China can stew about the Nobel Committee’s perceived slight.
Or it can act to the benefit of its massive population and the
global economy. On this score, the folks in Oslo should get used
to disappointment.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  