-- Kim Lays Ground for North Korea Succession With Army Parade
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2010-10-11T05:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/north-korean-military-parades-as-kim-lays-ground-for-succession.html
North Korean  heir apparent   Kim Jong Un  stood at his father’s right side yesterday as they reviewed
troops, tanks and missiles in a Pyongyang military parade and
attended an evening gala where 50,000 dancers paid tribute to
the regime’s economic achievements.  The ground shook as tens of thousands of soldiers goose-
stepped through the capital’s Kim Il Sung Square in a parade
marking the 65th anniversary of the foundation of the ruling
 Korean Workers’ Party . The parade was broadcast live on
television and relayed around the world after overseas media
organizations were given unprecedented access to film the event.  The march and the nighttime mass dance and fireworks
display were meant to demonstrate the regime’s stability and
strength as  Kim Jong Il ’s son -- the third generation of the
totalitarian state’s founding family -- rises to leadership
positions, said  Donald Gregg , former ambassador to South Korea
and Chairman Emeritus of the Korea Society in New York.  “It’s very strong symbolism as they launch the third man
in the family,” said Gregg in a telephone interview. “This
kind of show of force is the one thing they can do -- they don’t
have much else to demonstrate,” said Gregg, who was U.S.
ambassador to the Republic of Korea from 1989 to 1993.  The transition may not be far off. After the last troops
had paraded past the rostrum adorned with a portrait of Kim Jong
Il’s late father, Kim Il Sung, the 68-year-old leader walked the
length of the reviewing stand, visibly limping and holding the
railing for support. The crowds, waving flowers named after the
two elder Kims, sang “we will follow comrade Kim Jong Il
forever.”  Son’s Promotion  The double-chinned Kim Jong Un didn’t join his father on
his adulatory walk. The younger Kim, who was promoted to four-
star general at the end of September, wore a black suit with a
mandarin collar, in the style worn by his grandfather, who
 founded the nation  after World War II.  In the evening, dancers sang “there is no fatherland
without Kim Jong Il” and jumped in unison, arms in the air, as
prerecorded cheering turned all eyes to the reviewing stand
where the elder Kim made his second appearance of the day.  The cheering capped a 70-minute-long program, which
featured interpretive performances depicting the life of Kim Il
Sung and the country’s history.  Ostrich Costumes  Hundreds of dancers in ostrich costumes pranced in the
center of the square, highlighting the country’s production of
ostrich meat. Men in hard hats depicted the construction of dams.
Women in vinyl orange miniskirts danced with men in green
tracksuits, celebrating achievements in computer automation. As
the ceremony drew to a close, dozens of male and female soldiers
on horseback, carrying the red-and-gold flag of the Korean
Workers’ Party, galloped in formation around the square.  Earlier in the day on the same plaza, more than 60 battle
tanks, driving three abreast, belched diesel fumes at the more
than 100 journalists from around the world invited to the event.
Vehicles, including 1950s-era Chinese-made “Liberation” trucks,
carried rockets and missiles.  The younger Kim’s latest public appearance comes two weeks
after he was made general as well as vice chairman of the
Central Military Commission of the party, his first official
posts. Kim Jong Il’s own rise through the  ranks  of the party
took more than two decades after he was named heir.  Cult of Personality  The regime has maintained its grip on power, in part by
generating a cult of personality around the Kim family, as well
as through a system of patronage that rewards loyalty -- and
punishes transgressions with execution or imprisonment in  gulags ,
according to human rights groups and the United Nations.  That cult was on full display last night and during an Aug.
9 mass performance in the city’s May Day stadium. After each
event, female performers wept at the sight of Kim, wiping tears
from their eyes.  The younger Kim, thought to be 27 or 28 years old, was
first mentioned in the official dispatches of the state-run
Korea Central News Agency on Sept. 28, when his appointments
were announced. Since then, he has appeared on five occasions,
accompanying his father on official engagements.  The two Kims visited the mausoleum of Kim Il Sung at
midnight on the eve of the anniversary. Flanking them were Vice
 Marshal Ri Yong Ho , the other vice chairman of the military
commission and the chief of staff, and  Kim Yong Chun , the armed
forces minister.  Military First  Under the North’s “military first” ideology, the nation
has built an armed force of 1.2 million soldiers, with about 7.7
million in reserves, according to South Korea’s  Unification
Ministry . In addition to about 6,000 tanks and armored vehicles,
North Korea has more than 10,000 pieces of artillery, some
within range of the South Korean capital of Seoul, and Japan.  “You cannot discount the fact that they can lob hundreds
of volleys of artillery into Seoul and cause significant
destruction and death,” said  Paul Haenle , director of the
Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing and a
former White House representative in multilateral talks on the
North’s nuclear weapons. “It always factors in to the calculus
when considering military options with respect to North Korea.”  The U.S. has bases and about 28,500  personnel  in the south,
a legacy of the 1950-53 war when North Korean and Chinese forces
fought American-led UN troops. At the evening event, large
television screens depicted the destruction wrought by the war.
The U.S. doesn’t have diplomatic relations with North Korea and
American visitors to the country are given paper visas so that
evidence of their North Korea travel won’t appear in their
passports.  “The U.S. government has a hostile policy toward us,”
said Kang Samhyon, 44, director of the Pyongyang-based Korean
American Private Exchange Society who was escorting journalists
during the events.  Nuclear Program  Yesterday’s military parade came two days after a
Washington-based research group  reported  that North Korea is
moving ahead with a program to enrich uranium. The Institute for
Science and International Security said that there wasn’t
evidence to suggest that the country has a plant with sufficient
centrifuges to produce weapons-grade uranium on a “significant
scale.”  North Korea’s pursuit of nuclear weapons has led to the
country’s increasing isolation as U.S.-led sanctions have cut
trade and deterred investment. That isolation increased this
year with the sinking in March of a South Korean warship, which
an international panel said was caused by a North Korean torpedo.  Ties With China  That has made ties with China, North Korea’s main political
ally and its biggest source of trade, more important than ever.
The regime on Aug. 9 used one of its most visible propaganda
tools -- mass performances in a Pyongyang stadium -- to
demonstrate the closeness of those ties.  As the two Kims looked on, as many as 50,000 North Korean
dancers, acrobats, soldiers and children took part in the annual
Arirang festival, donning panda costumes and clashing cymbals.
Placards proclaimed “North Korea-China friendship” in Chinese
characters.  Kim Jong Il has made an unprecedented two trips to China
this year, both times meeting with President  Hu Jintao . China’s
influence in the country is evident in Pyongyang, where most
cars are of Chinese make, including sedans made by BYD Co., a
company 10 percent owned by billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.   While Kim Jong Un stood to his father’s right hand side
during the parade, to Kim Jong Il’s immediate left stood  Zhou Yongkang , a member of China’s ruling Politburo Standing
Committee and the country’s top law-enforcement official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Pyongyang at
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  