-- Obama's a `Natural' Chief Executive Officer, Not a Socialist, Rattner Says
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2010-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/obama-s-a-natural-chief-executive-officer-not-a-socialist-rattner-says.html
President  Barack Obama  isn’t a
socialist and is a ‘natural’ chief executive officer, the
president’s former auto task force head  Steven Rattner  said in
an interview with CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.”  Rattner, 58, the former head of the U.S. government’s
Automotive Task Force and co-founder of New York-based private-
equity firm Quadrangle Group LLC, was asked about polls showing
that some voters, both Republican and Democrat, think Obama is a
socialist. Obama has had to deal with the political reality that
has followed the 2008 financial crisis, Rattner said.  “He’s not a socialist, that’s for sure,” he said. “The
president does believe that Wall Street was a significant part
of the problem, more of a problem than Wall Street believes it
was. I think Wall Street is a little bit in its own little
bubble and doesn’t really get what’s going on out in the
country.”  Rattner recalled a meeting about a year and a half ago at
which Obama told a group of bankers “I’m the only thing
standing between you and the pitchforks.”  Faced with midterm elections Nov. 2, the Democratic
president and Democratic-controlled Congress are being buffeted
by voter complaints about tax dollars having gone to firms
paying million-dollar bonuses, concern over budget deficits and
voter objections that it was unfair for the government to rescue
banks that caused the crisis, which has pushed the jobless rate
to almost 10 percent.  ‘Angry’ Nation  “One of the things I say often to my Wall Street friends,
who are very upset with the president to a person, is you’ve got
to deal with the climate that’s out there, and this is a country
that is angry,” Rattner said.  Obama “did his homework” and was willing to make
decisions, Rattner said.  “I thought he was a natural and I have been around a lot
of CEOs over the years,” Rattner said during an interview taped
Oct. 7 and scheduled for broadcast today. “I came away with a
lot of respect for his CEO qualities.”  “I would probably concede that Obama is maybe less
comfortable with business” than former Democratic President
 Bill Clinton , Rattner said. Clinton “some appreciation or
fondness for business that was maybe a little bit unusual, but
it was there,” he said.  Tough Decision  Rattner directed Obama’s auto task force from February 2009
until July last year, after  General Motors Co.  emerged from a
bankruptcy backed by $50 billion in government aid. He has since
written a memoir of the process called “Overhaul: An Insider’s
Account of the Obama Administration’s Emergency Rescue of the
Auto Industry.”  The administrations of Obama and his predecessor, Republican
 George W. Bush , committed a total of $85 billion to rescue the
U.S. automakers, aid suppliers and prop up the financing arms of
GM and Chrysler. About $67 billion in loans and equity
investments are still outstanding, according to administration
figures. GM is 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury.  The decision to save Chrysler was the most difficult
because it was the number three company, had no global business
and closing it down would help General Motors and Ford sell more
cars, Rattner said on CNN.  “I think in any normal economic time, many of us would
have voted to let it go,” Rattner said. “But we were not in a
normal economic time,” he said. “The economy was in freefall.
The stock market was in freefall. We didn’t know if the
financial markets were going to recover or not.”  The decision to rescue Chrysler was made primarily to save
300,000 jobs; unemployment at Chrysler would have added two
tenths of a percentage point to the unemployment rate, he said.  “That was a social experiment that we didn’t really want
to take, if we thought Chrysler could be saved,” Rattner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carol Wolf  in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey in Washington at 
 Ahughey@bloomberg.net  