-- Obama Adviser Rejects Temporary Nationwide Freeze on All Home Foreclosures
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-10-10T18:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/obama-adviser-rejects-temporary-nationwide-freeze-on-all-home-foreclosures.html
The Obama administration wouldn’t
support a nationwide temporary freeze on home foreclosures, said
 David Axelrod , a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama .  Axelrod said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program that,
while faulty paperwork that prompted many banks to put 
foreclosures on hold has “thrown a lot of uncertainty into 
the housing market that is already fragile,” the Obama 
administration wouldn’t support a nationwide moratorium.  Attorneys general in about 40 states may announce as early
as this week a joint investigation into potentially faulty
foreclosures at the largest banks and mortgage firms, Bloomberg
News reported on Oct. 8, citing a person with direct knowledge
of the matter. The investigation may center on claims that
employees at home lenders and loan servicers signed court
documents without ensuring the information was accurate.  “There are in fact valid foreclosures that probably should
go forward, where the documentation and paperwork is proper,”
Axelrod said. The White House is urging the industry to get this
“unwound very, very quickly,” he said.  Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender, last week
extended a freeze on foreclosures to all 50 states.  U.S. Representative  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a Florida
Democrat, said today that she would support a freeze or
moratorium of foreclosure sales.  Working Out Mortgages  “We need a combination of a freeze” and discussions with
the banking industry “to talk to them about ways in which we
can help them be able to work those mortgages out, because it’s
absolutely imperative that we keep people in their homes,” she
said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ally Financial
Inc. have already frozen foreclosures in 23 states where courts
supervise home seizures, amid allegations that employees used
unverified or false data to speed the process. Litton Loan
Servicing LP, a mortgage-servicing business owned by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. , said last week it’s halting some foreclosures
to review how they’re handled.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat from Nevada,
urged other banks and mortgage firms to follow Bank of America’s
lead and “review their practices to ensure that they are not
unfairly targeting homeowners in Nevada and across the nation,”
according to a statement last week.  Some Republicans said they don’t support a foreclosure
moratorium or any government intervention.  “People have to take responsibility for themselves,”
Representative  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said today on “Fox News
Sunday.” He said the U.S. doesn’t “need government intervening
in every step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  