-- Obama Escalates Battle Against Use of Secret Donations to Fund Attack Ads
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-10-11T18:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/obama-says-secret-donations-to-attack-ad-groups-are-a-threat-to-democracy.html
President  Barack Obama  is stepping
up criticism of tax-exempt Republican-leaning groups using
undisclosed donations to fund “attack ads” less than a month
before congressional elections, a complaint his opponents call
baseless.  “It could be the oil industry” funding the ads, Obama
told a Democratic  rally  yesterday in Philadelphia. “It could be
the insurance industry, it could even be foreign-owned
corporations. You don’t know because they don’t have to
disclose.”  Democrats have spent weeks rebuking pro-Republican outside
groups that are flooding the airwaves with tens of millions of
dollars worth of ads before the Nov. 2 midterm elections. A new
ad from the  Democratic National Committee  says the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce may be taking “secret foreign money to influence
our elections,” a charge the business group denies.  Earlier yesterday, senior Obama adviser  David Axelrod 
singled out the Chamber over its sources of donations.  “If the Chamber opens up its books and says ‘here’s where
our political money’s coming from,’” Axelrod said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” program, “then we’ll know. But until they
do that, all we have is their assertion.”  The Democrats’ approach is “pure partisan posturing,”
said  David Primo , a political science professor at the
University of Rochester in New York.  ‘Easy Target’  “The Democrats are on the defensive and think the Chamber
is an easy target,” Primo said. “I don’t think it will
resonate with voters, who are more concerned with the economy
and runaway government spending.”  The latest rhetoric may complicate an already tense
relationship between the White House and the business community.
The Bloomberg Global Poll last month found 77 percent of U.S.-
based Bloomberg subscribers say Obama is too anti-business, and
his favorability among the 1,408 investors worldwide is down to
49 percent from 73 percent in July 2009.  “It is a high-risk strategy,” said  Julian Zelizer , a
history and public affairs professor at Princeton University in
New Jersey. “The Chamber has a lot of money and influence. The
voters who might be mobilized by these attacks are pretty
demoralized by unemployment. He could end up energizing his
opponents rather than his supporters.”  While Obama didn’t name any groups at the rally, he said
political ads paid for by undisclosed donors are “a threat to
our democracy.”  DNC Ad  The DNC ad, a portion of which was broadcast during the
“Face the Nation” program, described the Chamber as “shills”
for big business who are “stealing our democracy.”  “The ad is ridiculous and false,”  Tom Collamore , senior
vice president of communications and strategy for the Chamber,
said in an e-mail. Collamore called the ad “a blatant attempt
to avoid a serious discussion of Americans’ top priority --
creating jobs and growing the economy.”  The Chamber, the nation’s largest business lobbying group,
has pledged to spend $75 million backing pro-business candidates
this year. Last week, it reported $1 million ad campaigns
against Senator  Barbara Boxer  of California and Senate candidate
 Paul Hodes  in New Hampshire, both Democrats.  Democrats Get Help  Not all of the Chamber’s ads hit Democrats. The group is
also running less costly campaigns in districts where it’s
endorsed House Democrats, including Representatives  Mike Ross  in
Arkansas and  Walt Minnick  in Idaho. Both voted against the
Democratic health-care legislation, also opposed by the Chamber.  The dueling advertising campaigns are among increasingly
hostile exchanges between Democrats and the Chamber. Last week,
Chamber President  Thomas Donohue  said in a speech in Iowa that
the Obama administration is imposing regulations that are
“suffocating the entrepreneurial spirit.”  The DNC ad also targets  Crossroads GPS , a group advised by
Republican strategist  Karl Rove  and former Republican National
Committee Chairman  Ed Gillespie . Because it’s set up as an
issue-advocacy group, Crossroads GPS doesn’t have to disclose
its donors.  “Ed Gillespie and Karl Rove run one of them -- tens of
millions of dollars from undisclosed donors, under benign names
like the American Crossroads fund,” Axelrod said. “Why not
simply disclose where this money is coming from?”  Not on Staff  Neither Rove nor Gillespie is on the board or staff of
Crossroads GPS or its sister group, American Crossroads, though
they helped conceive of the groups and raise money for them.
American Crossroads does disclose its donors.  Rove, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” said the DNC ad
accuses him and Gillespie of “a criminal violation of our law
by getting foreign money and spending it on American political
campaigns, and they have not one shred of evidence to back up
that baseless lie.”  Rove called it “a desperate and, I think, disturbing trend
by the president of the United States to tar his political
adversaries with some kind of -- you know, enemies list, with
being -- unrestrained by any facts or evidence.”  American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS together plan to
spend $52 million on the elections. Among the Democrats they’ve
targeted are Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  in Nevada and
Democratic Senate candidates  Jack Conway  in Kentucky and  Robin Carnahan  in Missouri.  Raising Money  American Crossroads reported raising $2.6 million in
August, helped by $1 million donations from two Texas
businessmen,  Trevor Rees-Jones  and  Robert Rowling , and $400,000
from insurer  American Financial Group Inc.  of Cincinnati. Other,
undisclosed, donations are flowing into Crossroads GPS; the two
groups together reported raising at least $32 million as of
Sept. 20.  Gillespie is chairman of the Republican State Leadership
Committee, another campaign advocacy group that tries to elect
Republicans and which discloses its donors. Among its biggest
contributors are Indianapolis-based health insurer  WellPoint
Inc.  and Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based tobacco company
 Reynolds American Inc .  Part of the impetus for forming new outside groups was to
counter the weight of unions and Democratic-leaning issue groups
that spent about $400 million to help Obama win in 2008,
Gillespie said on “Face the Nation” yesterday. Unions also
don’t have to disclose most individual donations, though their
money comes predominantly from members’ dues.  “We didn’t hear Mr. Axelrod or others complaining about
that much of that money was undisclosed,” Gillespie said.  Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to get a majority
in the 435-member House of Representatives. The nonpartisan  Cook
Political Report  in Washington forecasts Republicans will win at
least 40 seats in the election. In the Senate, where Republicans
hold 41 of 100 seats, the Cook report says they are poised to
pick up from seven to nine seats.  Targeting ‘Pledge’  Obama yesterday repeated a charge he’s made against the
Republicans’ “Pledge to America” platform, seeking to link it
to special interests.  “It turns out that the ‘Pledge’ was written by a former
lobbyist for  AIG  and  Exxon Mobil ,” Obama said.  The St. Petersburg Times  reported  Oct. 2 that the pledge
was written by Brian Wild, a Republican House staffer who
formerly lobbied for  American International Group Inc.  and  Exxon
Mobil Corp . Wild worked for the  Nickles Group , a Washington-
based consulting firm whose chairman is former Senator  Don Nickles , an Oklahoma Republican.  Wild was the executive director of the “Pledge” project
and didn’t write it, said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for
Republican group that drew up the “Pledge.”  “There were a lot of staffers involved and he helped
coordinate it and kept the trains running,” Buck said. The
pledge “was a collaborative effort” of the Republican
leadership.  Wild’s New Job  Buck said Wild no longer works for the Nickles Group, has
no affiliation with his former clients, and won’t be available
for comment. He’s now on House Minority Leader  John Boehner ’s
staff.  As late as the third quarter of 2008, the Nickles Group
listed Wild as one of the lobbyists working on its AIG account.
The group reported $60,000 in lobbying for AIG that quarter.  Wild was also listed as one of the Nickles Group lobbyists
working for Exxon as late as the first quarter of 2010. Other
clients while at Nickles included the cable and
telecommunications provider  Comcast Corp . and drugmaker  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co ., according to lobbying disclosure reports filed
with the Senate.  The automated phone directory at Nickles still lists an
extension for Wild. Phone messages and an e-mail to the firm
weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Philadelphia at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 