-- OPEC May Maintain Oil Output in Vienna on Uneven Economic Growth
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2010-10-11T22:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/opec-may-maintain-oil-output-at-vienna-meeting-on-uneven-economic-growth.html
OPEC  may leave oil production quotas
unchanged when it meets Oct. 14 in Vienna after Saudi Arabian
Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  described the market as “very well-
balanced” between the interests of consumers and producers.  “Everyone is happy with the market,” al-Naimi said late
yesterday when asked, as he arrived at his hotel, whether the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries should boost
supplies this year. “Consumer, producer, everyone is happy.”  Oil futures touched a five-month high of $84.43 a barrel
last week in New York, well above the $70 to $80 price level
that al-Naimi reiterated is “ideal.” Prices have settled above
$80 for the past seven days, the longest stretch since August.  Saudi Arabia is OPEC’s largest producer, pumping 8.25
million barrels a day in September, based on Bloomberg News
estimates. Fuel demand in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, dropped 6.4 percent to 18.5 million barrels a day,
according to the U.S. Energy Department, the biggest weekly
decline since 2004.  “I don’t think there will be any shift” in quotas by
OPEC, Qatari Oil Minister  Abdullah al-Attiyah  said in an
interview Oct. 10 after meeting in Kuwait with ministers from
Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf nations. “Producers and
consumers are happy” with current oil prices, he said.  Demand Growth  Growth in oil demand will be uneven next year, with the
International Energy Agency forecasting a 4.3 percent increase
in China and a 0.8 percent reduction in Europe’s five biggest
countries. OPEC members, which supply 40 percent of the world’s
oil, meet at the group’s headquarters in Vienna to discuss
market conditions.  “We are comfortable with the whole market today,” Naimi
said at the Grand Hotel in Vienna. “The situation in the market
is very comfortable. The economic growth of the world has been
remarkable in 2010.”  Crude for November delivery lost 45 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to settle at $82.21 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange
yesterday. Prices increased 1.3 percent last week in the third
consecutive weekly gain, the longest stretch since June.  “OPEC wants oil to be around the $80-$100 a barrel
bracket, as to risk higher prices may damage the fragile
recovery,” said Rebecca Seabury, an analyst at Inenco Group
Ltd., a London-based energy consultant. “Although production
levels are currently above quota levels, it is unlikely that
quotas will be changed unless we see some very strong signs of
growth in the economy.”  Economic Growth  While China’s gross domestic product will grow 8.9 percent
in 2011, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 24 economists, the poll shows growth of 2 percent for
Germany, Europe’s biggest oil consumer.  OPEC agreed to a record 4.2 million-barrel-a-day cut in
production in late 2008 as  global demand  fell 0.6 percent, the
first decline since 1983. Members are now adhering to about 53
percent of that cut, OPEC Secretary-General  Abdalla El-Badri 
said on Sept. 14.  OPEC has raised  production  5 percent from a five-year low
in March 2009, and now exceeds its own target by 1.9 million
barrels a day, about the same amount as  Angola  produces. Output
from the 12 members was 29.1 million barrels a day in September,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  OPEC’s Crude  Demand for OPEC’s crude will decline from 29.3 million
barrels a day in the third quarter of this year, to 28.6 million
in the first quarter of 2011, before recovering thereafter,
according to IEA calculations, which take into account world
consumption and non-OPEC supply. The Paris-based agency’s next
monthly report is due on Oct. 13.  “We don’t want to rock the boat and do something that
maybe will have a negative effect on the world economy,” OPEC’s
El-Badri said in a Sept. 14 Bloomberg Television interview from
Vienna.  West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark grade,
will average $85 in 2011, according to the median of 23 analyst
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey this month. All of the
respondents said OPEC will leave production targets unchanged
when oil ministers meet this week.  OPEC may still seek a higher price for its oil given that
the dollar is weakening because of speculation the Federal
Reserve will sell bonds to revive economic growth, said JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Oil is traded
internationally in dollars.  Currency Fluctuations  The Chinese yuan last week climbed to its strongest level
against the dollar since 1993. The Brazilian real has rallied
for eight straight weeks against the U.S. currency, a decline
that the country’s finance minister,  Guido Mantega , last month
called a “currency war.”  For the past couple of years, Saudi Arabia and most other
OPEC members have maintained that oil at $70 to $80 a barrel is
a good compromise between producers and consumers. OPEC doesn’t
have a formal, official price target.  “If we continue to see what the Brazilian finance minister
described as a currency war, it is likely that OPEC will take
notice and will demand a higher price for its oil,” Merrill’s
head of global commodity research,  Francisco Blanch , said in an
Oct. 7 interview in London.  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  Ministers planned to arrive in the Austrian capital
yesterday and today, and then hold informal discussions tomorrow
before their policy meeting the next day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Vienna 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ola Galal  in Vienna at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  