-- Osborne Defense, Welfare Spending-Cut Talks Said to Run to Wire
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-10-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/osborne-defense-education-spending-cut-talks-said-to-go-down-to-the-wire.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will be negotiating to cut the budgets of the U.K.’s
biggest-spending departments into next week as he prepares the
nation’s largest fiscal austerity package since World War II.  Talks to settle the defense, education, welfare and
business departments’ budgets, which together account for 344
billion pounds ($550 billion) -- almost half of annual
government spending -- are likely to conclude early on Oct. 18
and may run to within 24 hours of Osborne having to present his
plans to parliament, a Treasury official said.  The official, who declined to be identified as the
negotiations aren’t completed, said Osborne will aim to finish
the budgets of other departments over the next three days so
that he can focus on the others later in the week. Osborne is
due to present spending plans for the next three years Oct. 20.  Failure to implement his plans to eradicate most of the 156
billion-pound deficit by 2015 risks downgrading of Britain’s
top-notch credit rating, market turmoil and rising interest
rates if it delays cuts to public spending, Osborne says.  “The big risk for the U.K. is not having a credible plan
to deal with the fiscal deficit,” Osborne said in Washington
after meetings at the International Monetary Fund on Oct. 8.  The deficit plan has led to tensions in the coalition
government, forged after May’s inconclusive general election.
Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  and Osborne have clashed over how to
pay for the replacement of the U.K.’s Trident nuclear missile
program. Three Conservative junior defense ministers have
threatened to resign in solidarity with Fox, the Daily Mail
reported, without saying how it obtained the information.  Liberal Democrats  Last week, Osborne angered Conservative Party supporters
for unveiling plans to cut the Child Benefit welfare checks for
more than 1 million families.  Liberal Democrat Business Secretary  Vince Cable  e-mailed
lawmakers and party members on proposals to revamp student
finance, and suggested that a proposal for a tax on graduates
was no longer being considered, the Sunday Times reported
yesterday.  Most departments are facing budget cuts of a quarter in
Osborne’s deficit-reduction effort. As many as 500,000
government jobs may be lost by 2015, according to the fiscal
watchdog set up by Osborne to oversee Treasury forecasts.  Osborne will meet with ministers tomorrow to have a
provisional agreement on capital spending plans, the Treasury
official said. He will meet daily with Prime Minister  David Cameron ,  Nick Clegg , the Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister
and  Danny Alexander , another LibDem who is Osborne’s deputy in
charge of spending at the Treasury.  ‘Huge Harm’  The Treasury official said budgets for the transport, local
government and justice departments will be settled by mid-week.  Alan Johnson , the former postman appointed by Labour Leader
 Ed Miliband  last week as the party’s Treasury spokesman, told
the Observer newspaper in an interview yesterday that Osborne
risks inflicting “huge harm” on public services and said the
budget squeeze would be more drastic than  Margaret Thatcher 
implemented in the 1980s.  Johnson said in an article in the News of the World
yesterday that Labour will drop previous plans to halve the
budget deficit by 2014 if the economy falters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Washington at  gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 