-- Pakistan Ex-Ruler Musharraf Favors Deals With Taliban to Counter Militants
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2010-10-10T14:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/pakistan-ex-ruler-musharraf-favors-deals-with-taliban-to-counter-militants.html
Pervez Musharraf , the former army
general who was Pakistan’s military ruler for nine years, told
ABC News that he favors agreements with moderate Taliban in the
fight against Islamic militants allied with al-Qaeda.  “After defeating the Taliban, after 9-11, I always was of
the view we need to go in for deals,” Musharraf said in an
interview broadcast on ABC’s “This Week” program today. “My
strategy was always to strike a deal.”  The 67-year-old former army chief said he disagrees with
U.S. criticism that Pakistan isn’t doing enough to fight
terrorism and says the U.S. should understand the problems that
have given rise to violence in the region and allow Pakistan to
solve its own problems.  “Pakistan has always been accused of not doing enough,”
Musharraf said. “I totally disagree with this statement, we are
doing enough.”  The U.S. is stepping up missile attacks in northwest
Pakistan to target Islamic militant guerrilla groups.  “We are suffering hundreds of people dying from bomb
blasts and suicide bombs. And yet we are the rogues,” Musharraf
said. “Let Pakistan alone and let us -- let us deal with the
problem.”  Musharraf started a new political party from London earlier
this month called the All Pakistan Muslim League. The party has
attracted about 300,000 followers on the social networking site
Facebook.  Party’s Agenda  Musharraf said he is working with his new party “to create
an environment of popularity, of political clout” before
returning to Pakistan before elections in 2013. The new
political party will seek to stamp out poverty and corruption
while improving security, electricity and water, Musharraf said.  Musharraf seized control of Pakistan in a bloodless coup in
1999. He became a U.S. ally against terrorism after the Sept.
11, 2001, attacks and stepped down as president in 2008 to avoid
impeachment charges for illegally seizing power and mishandling
the economy. He left Pakistan after resigning and now lives in
London.  Last year, Pakistani police issued charges against
Musharraf for unlawfully keeping judges under house arrest in
2007 when he imposed emergency rule.  Musharraf’s criticism of the leadership of Pakistan follows
floods that left about 17 million people without homes and at
least 1,500 people dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carol Wolf  in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net ;
 Sara Forden  in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey in Washington at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  