-- Persian Gulf Companies Seek Funds in IPOs as Markets Recover
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-10-11T12:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/persian-gulf-companies-seek-funds-in-ipos-as-stock-bond-markets-recover.html
Persian Gulf companies are joining a
surge in emerging market share sales to raise funds as regional
stock markets rebound and companies restructure their debt.  Aluminium Bahrain BSC, operator of an 850,000 metric-ton-a-
year smelter, and Nawras, the Omani mobile phone company
controlled by Qatar Telecom QSC, announced plans to sell shares.
Axiom Telecom LLC, a Dubai-based phone retailer, also plans to
sell shares, according to a person familiar with the matter.  “Markets in the region are less volatile than they were six
months ago, which allows a fair valuation for companies planning
to list,” said  Fadi Al Said , head of equities at ING Investment
Management (Dubai) Ltd. “There are a lot of companies in the
region that need to restructure or increase their capital so
they can grow their businesses.”  The IPOs signal a turnaround in regional capital markets
laid low by the world’s worst recession since the Great
Depression and a collapse in property values in the Gulf’s
financial bellwether, Dubai. Bond issuance has also increased
following the restructuring of Dubai World and acceleration in
economic growth among key trading partners such as China.  Dubai’s government sold $1.25 billion of bonds last month.
 Emaar Properties PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
property developer, raised $500 million from selling convertible
bonds. Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ received orders for $6 billion as
it sold $750 million of Islamic debt, and  Qatar Telecom QSC 
raised $1.5 billion from bond sale.  The last IPO in the U.A.E. was in March 2009 by Green
Crescent Insurance Co., an Abu Dhabi-based provider of health
insurance products.  ‘Too Early’  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of the region’s biggest
companies has jumped 10 percent so far in the second half after
losing 6 percent since Dubai World sought to restructure $24.9
billion in debt in November. The company said last month it had
obtained approval from creditors to change the terms on the
debt. The region still lags other emerging markets, with the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index  soaring 21 percent since June 30.  “It’s too early for any real enthusiasm for Gulf
Cooperation Council IPOs as there are still some hurdles to
overcome, such as third-quarter results,” said  Julian Bruce ,
director of equity sales at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Dubai. The
GCC is made up of Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E., Kuwait, Qatar,
Bahrain and Oman.  BRIC IPOs  “We have seen recent large IPOs from BRICs being well-
received by institutional investors, so if the GCC starts a
meaningful recovery, there’s no reason why IPOs here should not
be well received too,” Bruce said. The so-called BRIC countries
are Brazil, Russia, India and China.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the country’s biggest
lender by customers, raised $22.1 billion in Shanghai and Hong
Kong last quarter. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the Brazilian oil
company, raised about $70 billion in a share sale in September
to help fund its $224 billion, five-year investment plan.  Share sales in emerging markets outpaced offerings in
developed countries in the third quarter for the first time in
at least a decade. The MSCI EM’s 21 nations raised $138 billion
through IPOs and additional sales, beating the $62 billion in
industrialized countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While IPOs have raised $161 billion worldwide in 2010, more
than double the amount sold in the same period last year, the
number of companies withdrawing or postponing initial sales has
increased to 98 from 87 amid concern the global economic
recovery is deteriorating, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Saudi Share Sales  Companies in Saudi Arabia, home to the biggest stock market
in the region, were the main sellers of shares in the Gulf so
far this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Six Saudi companies have raised $765.5 million this year in
offerings worth an average of $127.6 million. Jeddah-based
Knowledge Economic City sold shares worth $272 million, making
it the region’s largest IPO. Mazaya Qatar Real Estate
Development Co. raised 500 million riyals ($137.4 million) in
January. It plans to start trading the shares on the Qatar
bourse from Oct. 17.  Before the financial downturn, strong economic growth and
record-high oil prices spurred a flurry of share sales. Port
operator DP World Ltd., a unit of Dubai World, raised $4.96
billion in November 2007 in the Middle East’s largest IPO. That
offering was 15 times oversubscribed.  ‘Boom Times’  “Unless we see a significant increase in company profits
and market sentiment, it’s going to take a lot to get back to
the boom times of 2007/2008,”  Phil Gandier , MENA transaction
leader at Ernst & Young, said in a phone interview on Oct. 6.  Aluminium Bahrain, owned by sovereign wealth fund Bahrain
Mumtalakat Holding Co. and Saudi Basic Industries Corp., hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Gulf International Bank
BSC to manage its share sale planned for as early as November on
local and international exchanges. It may sell as many as 163
million shares, and list ordinary stock on the Bahrain exchange
and global depository receipts on the London bourse, the company
said Oct. 5.  Nawras is selling shares for a planned trading debut on
Oct. 27, in Oman’s first initial public offering in two years.
The company is seeking to raise as much as $608 million by
selling 40 percent of its shares through a one-month book-
building process.  Axiom Telecom, which is 40 percent owned by Dubai Holding
Commercial Operations Group LLC, plans as early as this month to
sell 35 percent of its shares, a person familiar with the plan
said Sept. 22. Faisal al Bannai, Axiom’s chief executive
officer, said Oct. 7 the company is studying different ways of
strengthening its equity base, “including an IPO and other
options.” Bannai dismissed as speculation the possibility that
Axiom will offer shares this month and added that he was “not
sure yet” if the company would list on U.A.E. exchanges.  Kuwait Energy  More IPOs are already planned further ahead. Kuwait Energy
Co., an oil and gas company that operates in the Middle East and
Eastern Europe, plans to sell shares within nine months, the
company said yesterday. Emirates District Cooling LLC, another
Dubai-based company, may offer shares by the end of 2011,
Managing Director Adib Moubadder said last month.  “U.A.E. markets are lacking depth so it’s important that
new companies are added to keep investor interest alive,” said
 Mohammed Ali Yasin , chief investment officer at financial
services company CAPM Investment PJSC. “The insurance, banking
and real-estate sectors are already saturated though, so the
markets now need petrochemical, infrastructure and healthcare
companies to attract interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  