-- Phone Stocks Biggest Winners as Yield Search Favors Dividends
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-10-11T20:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/phone-stocks-biggest-winners-as-yield-search-favors-dividends.html
The search for higher yields is
driving the biggest rally in seven years for telephone stocks,
as investors ignore some of the lowest profit forecasts in the
MSCI World Index.  Verizon Communications Inc. and PCCW Ltd. are leading a 21
percent  gain  in MSCI’s gauge of 52 telecommunications companies
since the end of the second quarter even as analysts estimate
that the group’s earnings will grow at less than half the pace
of the MSCI World measure of stocks in 24 developed nations,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. U.S. phone  shares  are the most
expensive industry in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index relative
to forecast profits, the data show.  With the MSCI World rising 3.6 percent in 2010 and
corporate debt offering the lowest yields on record, investors
are sacrificing the prospect of faster earnings growth for the
current income of telecommunications stocks. Artemis Investment
Management LLP, BlackRock Inc. and Fifth Third Asset Management
Inc. are buying phone shares as dividends of companies from
 Royal KPN NV  to AT&T Inc. yield more than their bonds amid signs
that the U.S. economy is slowing.  “I know they don’t have earnings growth, but I am not
buying them for growth but for their very high, abnormal
dividend,” said  Jacob De Tusch-Lec , a London-based fund manager
at Artemis, which oversees $16 billion. “If I can see KPN
paying 3 percent on their bond and giving me a dividend yield of
6 percent, why would I buy the bond?”  KPN’s Dividend  Phone stocks account for the biggest industry in De Tusch-
Lec’s Artemis Global Income Fund, which can invest in stocks and
bonds. Royal KPN NV, the largest Dutch phone company, pays a
dividend of 6.39 percent. The Hague-based company issued 1
billion euro ($1.4 billion) bonds due September 2020 last month
that yielded 3.75 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The MSCI World Telecommunication Services Index , which
yields 5.30 percent, climbed 0.9 percent last week to extend its
stretch of weekly gains to seven, the longest since February
2007. The MSCI World advanced 2.2 percent to 1,209.77 as lower-
than-estimated U.S. hiring bolstered speculation that the
Federal Reserve will buy more debt to stimulate the economy. It
yields 2.50 percent.  The S&P 500 climbed less than 0.1 percent to 1,165.30 at 4
p.m. New York time. The MSCI World Index also advanced 0.1
percent, and the Hang Seng Index rose 1.2 percent.  Record Low  Concern that the recovery from the worst recession since
the Great Depression is deteriorating has boosted demand for the
safety of bonds and their fixed coupons. Yields on investment-
grade U.S. corporate debt fell to a record low 3.56 percent last
week, data compiled by Bank of America Corp. show.  The payouts on two- and five-year Treasuries also fell to
all-time lows last week of  0.34 percent  and  1.07 percent ,
respectively, as the Fed held its benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008. The central bank bought about $1.73 trillion in
government debt and mortgage securities in a 2009 program and
$44 billion of Treasuries since the second round of buying began
Aug. 17 to keep borrowing costs low and bolster the housing
market.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said last week at a
Fortune magazine conference that he “can’t imagine anyone”
owning bonds after the drop in yields when they could purchase
equities at cheaper valuations.  Higher Than Bonds  More than 65 companies in the S&P 500 pay dividend yields
above the average interest rate on corporate debt as of Oct. 8,
the most in at least 15 years, data compiled by Bloomberg and
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America show.  “In this market environment people are a little bit more
risk averse,” said  Dan Hanson , a money manager at New York-
based BlackRock, which oversees $3.2 trillion. “The value of
dividends has been highlighted by the environment, and first and
foremost is just the low yields on competing assets.”  Telephone companies account for 5 of the 10 largest
dividends in the benchmark gauge for American equities and yield
5.44 percent as a group, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. As
a group, utilities offer the second-highest payouts in the S&P
500 at 4.25 percent.  The 8.73 percent yield for  Frontier Communications Corp. ,
the Stamford, Connecticut-based phone company serving rural U.S.
markets, is the largest in the index. Verizon, the biggest U.S.
mobile carrier, has the ninth-highest at 5.91 percent.  AT&T, PCCW  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, has a dividend yield
of 5.93 percent. The Dallas-based company’s bonds due January
2013 pay a coupon of 4.95 percent, Bloomberg data show.  PCCW, Hong Kong’s biggest phone company, has a dividend
equivalent to 6.62 percent of its stock price and is likely to
 increase  that to 6.90 percent next year, according to forecasts
based on data compiled by Bloomberg. The Hong Kong-based
carrier’s shares soared 49 percent this year, exceeding the Hang
Seng Index’s 6.1 percent advance.  MSCI’s gauge of global telephone stocks and the S&P 500
Telecommunications Services Index both posted their biggest
 rallies  since 2003 last quarter, advancing 19 percent each. The
surge has left U.S. phone stocks  trading  at an average price of
14.8 times estimated 2011 profits, the highest valuation of any
industry group, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Verizon’s 28 percent  rise  since the end of May has pushed
the New York-based company’s share price to 14.5 times reported
income, the highest level since June 2008. The carrier will have
its  biggest drop  in earnings since 2003 this year, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Emotional Reaction’  KPN shares have rallied 9 percent since the end of the
second quarter even as  analysts  forecast that the Dutch company
will post its biggest decline in profits since 2004 this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors in phone stocks “may be sacrificing 2 percentage
points of growth potential,” said  Bruce McCain , who oversees
$25 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland. “It’s just an emotional
reaction that they feel more comfortable with the higher
yield.”  Telephone companies are the only S&P 500 group that
analysts project will post a drop in third-quarter and full-year
earnings. Profits slumped 8.1 percent in the July-to-September
period and will decrease 4.2 percent for all of 2010, according
to the average estimates in Bloomberg surveys. Earnings for the
entire S&P 500 climbed 23 percent last quarter and will grow 35
percent this year, the data show.  Almost All Americans  Profits at telecommunications companies have  declined  as
consumers eliminate home-phone lines in favor of mobile devices
and voice service from cable providers. The industry also faces
less demand from businesses and slowing growth from wireless
phones given that there are enough mobile handsets for almost
every person in the U.S., according to the CTIA, a Washington-
based trade group.  “That’s why dividend yields for those kinds of companies
is particularly important: They’re not high growers,” said
 Keith Wirtz , who oversees $18 billion as chief investment
officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati. “Matured
businesses that have stable and steady growth, though maybe not
as strong growth, their dividend policy is becoming a more
important feature for investors to look at.”  The potential for higher taxes in the U.S. may curb the
appeal of dividend payouts, according to Holland & Co.’s  Michael Holland . Lower tax rates for capital gains and dividends enacted
under President  George W. Bush  in 2003 will expire in January
unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress extend them.  ‘Not a Positive’  “The uncertainty of what they’ll do is not a positive for
stocks,” said Holland, who oversees more than $4 billion as the
firm’s New York-based chairman. “The cliché is well warranted
in this case that the market doesn’t like uncertainty.”  The  S&P 500  has failed to exceed its 2010 high from April
23 as analysts cut 2011 earnings projections for the first time
in more than a year last quarter. The forecast third-quarter
growth rate is half the 49 percent and 52 percent increases
during the prior two periods, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While money has been pouring out of equity funds since May,
investors are piling into exchange-traded funds that focus on
dividends. U.S.  dividend  funds saw $1.54 billion in inflows last
month and $5.27 billion for the first three quarters of the
year, according to IndexUniverse.com, a San Francisco-based firm
that tracks ETFs.  Investors put more money into the  S&P 500’s dividend ETF 
last month than ever before, while the Dow Jones Industrial
Average’s dividend ETF had its best month since January 2005,
IndexUniverse.com data show.  “Most investors are very concerned about the U.S.
economy,” said  Masahiko Ejiri , senior fund manager at Mizuho
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $23
billion in Tokyo. “In that sense it’s reasonable for investors
to want safe and high-yield investments, and telecom stocks are
a good example.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 