-- Pimco's El-Erian Says Industrial Economies Risk `Lost Decade'
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/pimco-s-el-erian-says-policy-makers-losing-the-peace-risk-lost-decade.html
Advanced economies risk a “lost
decade” unless policy makers recognize the severity of the
wounds left by the financial crisis, said  Mohamed El-Erian ,
chief executive officer of  Pacific Investment Management Co.   El-Erian, who popularized the phrase “new normal” to
describe how growth will be depressed by consumer retrenchment
and financial regulation, said governments and central banks
haven’t detected the “ongoing paradigm shift” in their
economies that will require remedies beyond stimulus programs.
Among the fault lines he spots are strained balanced sheets,
persistently high unemployment and a misunderstanding of
financial markets.  “Having won the war, industrial-country societies are in
the process of losing the peace,” El-Erian said in a speech
yesterday in Washington during the annual meetings of the
International Monetary Fund and World Bank. “If they are not
careful, they risk slipping into a lost decade of low growth,
high unemployment and welfare destruction.”  Such threats were exposed last week as the U.S. reported
its economy lost more jobs than forecast in September and the
IMF cut its 2011 economic growth forecast for advanced nations
to 2.7 percent from 2.9 percent. To reverse the weaknesses,
officials must increasingly look beyond the immediate economic
cycle to solve “structural” flaws in their economies, said El-
Erian, 52, who helps manage more than $1.1 trillion of assets at
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco.  ‘Unsettling Situation’  Advanced economies and investors “find themselves in a
rather unsettling situation where expectations involve an
unusually broad range of potential outcomes and equally
unusually high risks,” he said.  He pointed to the Greek-led debt crisis in Europe as an
example of the balance-sheet challenges facing advanced
economies.  “It is far from assured that some of these countries will
be able to grow their way out of their problems,” he said. “In
the process, they will discover the disruptive nature of debt
overhangs.’  While the European Central Bank is providing liquidity and
governments have joined with the IMF to give budgetary aid, new
investors are not entering the economies, with Greece and
Ireland continuing to face “dangerous” risk spreads in
financial markets, El-Erian said.  Investors still demand a yield premium of 754 basis points
to lend to Greece rather than Germany for 10 years, the most of
any euro nation. That’s down from a euro-era record of 973 basis
points on May 7. The Irish spread is 422 basis points, just
below last month’s record.  Rise in Unemployment  Without investment, growth and hiring, some economies will
find it hard to limit the decline in gross domestic product and
subsequent rise in unemployment, while “concerns will mount
about the contamination of the ECB’s balance sheet,” he said.  “The risk of contagion will grow and the revolving nature
of IMF resources will be exposed to considerable risk,” El-
Erian said.  Policy makers must also tackle structural changes in their
economies, he said, noting how despite their stimulus efforts
companies have resisted hiring and investment. American firms
added 64,000 jobs last month, less than forecast, and the
jobless rate held at 9.6 percent, the Labor Department said Oct.
8.  “Persistently high unemployment is becoming more
structural in nature, thereby eroding the skills of the labor
force and putting pressure on inadequate social safety nets and
already-strained government budgets,” El-Erian said. “Rather
than question the limited effectiveness of the cyclical
approaches, the response by too many has been just to advocate
doing more of the same.”  Financial Services  A third challenge is that policy makers have “too little
understanding” of financial services, El-Erian said. They
failed to realize how their rescue of banks would spur a
recovery in financial markets that outpaces that of households
and businesses and that banks will remain reluctant to finance
expansion. U.S. stocks advanced last week, sending the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  above 11,000 for the first time since before
the May 6 crash.  “It highlighted once again an outcome that is unacceptable
in democratic society: the privatization of massive gains and
the socialization of enormous losses,” he said. Markets are
reflecting the expectation the Federal Reserve will ease
monetary policy further and the test will be whether further
quantitative easing pays off with stronger economies, he said.  The longer policy makers fail to address “secular”
changes to their economies, “the greater the difficulties that
industrial countries will experience in reducing joblessness,
sustaining high growth, strengthening safety nets and overcoming
sovereign risk concerns,” El-Erian said.  IMF Role  He called on the IMF to do more to encourage global policy
coordination that has been weakening since the Group of 20
nations united to fight the recession. Recent meetings of
international policy makers, including the IMF talks in
Washington, have been marred by splits over currencies and
budget policies, he said.  “A once-promising global response has now been replaced by
inadequately coordinated national economic policies and growing
frictions among countries,” he said. “The IMF is still not
where we need it to be to fill the growing vacuum at the center
of the international system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  