-- Putin Selling First Euro Bonds as Yields Lowest to Dollars: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-10-11T09:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/putin-selling-first-euro-bonds-as-yields-lowest-to-dollars-russia-credit.html
Russia is planning its first ever
sale of bonds in euros to revive corporate borrowing in the
currency as yields tumble relative to dollar debt.  The government, which raised $5.5 billion in its first
global bonds since 1998 in April, may seek a similar amount in
euros to set a benchmark rate for companies, Deputy Finance
Minister  Dmitry Pankin  told reporters in Washington on Oct. 8.  While emerging-market issuers from Morocco’s government to
Mexico City-based America Movil SAB raised a record 30 billion
euros ($42 billion) this year, sales in the European currency
from Russia tumbled 99 percent to 50 million euros since 2007,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The drop in issuance and
investor demand for euro assets outside of indebted western
European nations helped send OAO Gazprom’s euro-denominated bond
yields as much as 69 basis points below equivalent debt in
dollars relative to swap rates on Sept. 21, 5 basis points from
this year’s low, the data show.  “If the Russian sale in euros is a success, this will
naturally strongly stimulate Russian corporations to follow
suit,”  Herbert Moos , deputy chairman of VTB Group, Russia’s
second-biggest lender, said in a telephone interview on Oct. 8.
“I wouldn’t exclude that we’ll sell these bonds before Russia
even. We’ll have to look at the economics of it.”  VTB last issued bonds in the European currency in June 2008
when it sold 1 billion euros of bonds maturing in June 2011 to
yield 8.25 percent. A rally in the bonds reduced the yield to
2.2 percent today, compared with 3.4 percent for its October
2011 dollar-denominated bonds.  Gazprom Bonds  The yield spread over swap rates on Gazprom’s euro-
denominated bonds due 2018 was 48 basis points below the spread
on its 2018 dollar bonds today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on the so-called z-spread. The discount on Gazprom’s
euro bond spreads compared with dollar debt peaked in May at 76
basis points, the data show.  Gazprom plans to sell international bonds for the first
time in more than a year before 2011, Yana Kolosovskaya, the
head of loans and guarantees, said in an interview in London
last month.  “If it’s cheaper, it definitely makes sense for them to
issue in euros,” said  Kieran Curtis , a fund manager who helps
oversee $2 billion of emerging market debt at Aviva Investors in
London.  ‘Fringe Market’  Before the credit crisis, Russia accounted for 17 percent
of emerging-market bond sales in euros, issuing 4.8 billion
euros in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bond sales in euros dried up as credit markets seized up
and investors became concerned that growing indebtedness and
widening budget deficits in Greece, Portugal, Spain and Ireland
threatened the survival of the continent’s single currency.  “Euro-denominated Russian bonds were a fringe market and
hence didn’t do well at times of global turmoil,” said  Maxim Tishin , who helps manage $350 million of debt at UFG Asset
Management in Moscow. “The euro was not a popular currency for
global investors due to the problems of eurozone governance.”  Improved confidence in Russia has reduced the yield on
Gazprom’s 2018 euro bonds to a record-low 4.9 percent from as
high as 19.6 percent in October 2008. The yield is half that of
Greek 10-year bonds at 9.67 percent and lower than Portugal’s
10-year notes at 6.12 percent. Gazprom and Russia’s government
are rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the third-lowest
investment-grade rating. European Union member Portugal is rated
A1 by Moody’s, three steps above Gazprom. Greece is rated Ba1 by
Moody’s, one level below investment grade.  “It’s an attractive alternative for people who would
typically buy western European bonds,” said  Jerome Booth , who
helps manage $35 billion in emerging market assets as head of
research at Ashmore Investment Management Ltd. in London.  Brazil, Mexico  Russian issuers have placed 900 million euros of bonds in
the European currency since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse froze global credit markets in September 2008, compared
with 2.3 billion euros from Brazil and 4.2 billion euros from
Mexico, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Russian companies
raised $33.4 billion from dollar-denominated sales and 1.5
trillion rubles ($51.1 billion) in the local market, data for
the same period show.  Renaissance Capital Holdings Ltd. in Moscow raised 50
million euros from a privately placed bond on May 11. The issue
was the first in the currency since Gazprom raised 850 million
euros in July 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Gazprom
sale was the only issue last year.  More Resilient  Other emerging-market euro issuers proved more resilient.
Euro-denominated bond sales from developing nations this year
are already ahead of the 27 billion euros raised in all of 2009
and the 28.3 billion euros in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Fewer investors in the euro bond market compared with
dollar debt limit the allure to Russian borrowers of selling the
bonds,  Andrey Golikov , the head of treasury and financial
markets in Moscow at OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, said
in e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg.  “Because investors in dollar and euro bonds overlap to a
large extent and the market for dollar/euro swaps is very liquid
it makes little sense to borrow in euros,” Golikov said.
“There is no point expecting a lot of interest from Russian
banks in selling euro-denominated bonds until there is a stable
demand for loans in euros from Russian corporate borrowers.”  The amount of dollars traded against the ruble is about 20
times transactions in euros, according to Micex Stock Exchange
 data . Some $4.8 billion of dollar contacts for settlement the
next business day exchanged hands on Oct. 8, compared with 171
million euros ($238 million) of contracts in the European
currency, the data show.  Extra Yield  Gains in Russia’s dollar-denominated government bonds due
in 2020 reduced the yield by seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, today to 4.281 percent, the lowest on record.
The yield on the country’s ruble notes due August 2016 was
little changed at 7.17 percent today, near the lowest since they
were sold in August.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points to 215,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 152 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 193 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 47 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell three basis points to
141, according to data provider CMA on Oct. 8. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Ruble, NDFs  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 3 basis points less
than similar contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels
lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less
on April 20.  The ruble gained 0.4 percent to 29.8725 per dollar as of
12:32 p.m. in Moscow today. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency movements, showed the ruble at 30.0725 in three months.  The collapse in Russian euro issuance has driven fund
managers to buy those corporate bonds still available, sending
yields in euros below yields in dollars, said  Tim Haaf , a
portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Co. in
Munich.  “So far Russia has only issued in dollars and therefore
there is a client base, mostly in Europe, which can invest in
euros only, which would like to see bonds in euros,” said Haaf,
who helps oversee the equivalent of about $23 billion in
emerging-market assets worldwide for Pimco, the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  