-- Trapped Chile Miners Eat NASA Diet, Prepare for Rescue
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-10T16:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/trapped-chile-miners-eat-nasa-diet-aspirin-to-prepare-for-coming-rescue.html
The 33 miners in Chile will spend
the next few days in tunnels almost half a mile underground
eating a special diet recommended by NASA and doing exercises
designed to aid their rescue by midweek.  One of three drills working on the rescue broke through
yesterday to tunnels where the miners have been trapped since
Aug. 5. Rescuers this morning started installing a metal casing
on the walls along one-sixth of the 623-meter (2,040-foot) shaft
and tomorrow will install equipment to start bringing miners to
the surface by Oct. 13, Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  told
reporters today.  Officials have “concerns” over the physical toll the
extraction will have on the men as they are pulled up to the
surface one-by-one in a steel tube 24 inches wide, Health
Minister  Jaime Manalich  told reporters yesterday. Miners in
coming days will have to perform “very hard” exercises and eat
a special diet that includes saltwater supplements and aspirin
to prevent them from suffering from hypertension, thrombosis or
other forms of stress during the rescue, he said.  “At this point risks obviously exist and our work has been
an incessant effort to try to prevent incidents from
occurring,” Golborne said yesterday at the mine site in
northern Chile’s Atacama desert. “You can never say an accident
won’t ever happen, but we hope that’s not what will occur.”  Longest Rescue  The miners have been trapped since an access tunnel caved
in at Cia. Minera San Esteban Primera SA’s San Jose copper and
gold mine. Chilean state-run Codelco,  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and
other mining companies, as well as the  National Aeronautics and
Space Administration , assisted in what has become the world’s
longest-ever mine rescue.  The men, ranging in age from 19 to 63, are in “good
shape” physically and psychologically, Manalich said. Most have
skin problems after living in humid conditions for more than two
months and some are taking antibiotics to fight off dental
infections, he said.  Ten of the trapped miners are receiving special treatment
and are undergoing examinations to ensure they will be strong
enough for the extraction, the health minister said today.  The miners will be split into three groups for the rescue.
The “most skilled” will come out first in case they are needed
to go back down to assist others, the health minister said. The
weakest will then come out, followed by the rest.  Some of the trapped miners have volunteered to be the last
to be extracted, the health minister said today.  Two Days  “This is a rescue operation that will take 48 hours and
it’s hard to imagine those who are down there will sleep or be
able to rest, given the anticipation,” Golborne said late
yesterday. “As a result, the last to come up must be pretty
strong to be in good enough shape to leave after a long time of
waiting.”  When the rescue starts, a tube will be lowered into the
hole, which measures 26 inches at its narrowest point, Enes
Zepeda, an engineer and director of Codelco’s supervisors’
union, said at an event on Oct. 7. Once they start pulling out
the men, it will take about 90 minutes per person to complete
the rescue, he said.  “We want to proceed as quickly as possible without
forgetting that we’re taking precautions to rescue the miners
alive and without problems,” Golborne said today.  ‘Long Live Chile’  Yesterday, a crowd made up of family members, hundreds of
foreign and local journalists and government officials erupted
into cheers and chanted “Long Live Chile” as alarm bells
signaled that the drill had broken through at 8:05 a.m. local
time.  The process was precarious up until the last meter, Jeff
Hart, the operator of the drilling rig, said in televised
remarks yesterday.  “It was very nerve wracking,” said Hart, an operations
manager at  Layne Christensen Co. , a drilling company based in
Mission Woods, Kansas, that’s assisting in the efforts. “Until
you’ve actually broke through, nothing else matters. You can
have a failure in the last meter and lose the entire hole.”  Rescue operators have stopped operating one of the three
drills, dubbed Plan A, and will continue boring down with an oil
rig as a backup should the rescue well fail, Golborne said.  Plan A  The oil rig is about 150 meters shy of its target, lead
rescue engineer Andre Sougarret told reporters today. Once the
rig breaks through to the underground tunnels where the miners
are trapped, workers would need another 10 days to expand the
well to a diameter large enough to extract the miners, Golborne
said.  “Obviously, it gives us more peace of mind to have an
alternative in case something happens,” he said.  The miners’ only contact with the outside world has been
through tiny drill holes through which people on the surface
send down food, water, medicine and games such as dominoes.  President  Sebastian Pinera , who plans to travel to Ecuador
on Oct. 11, hopes to greet the men as they’re rescued, he said
yesterday. Bolivian President  Evo Morales  also wants to attend
the rescue ceremony to greet the miner from his country who is
trapped underground, the nation’s official news agency, known as
 ABI  for its initials in Spanish, quoted him as saying.  Chilean rescue workers may accelerate the extraction
timeframe or delay it to Oct. 14 depending on how work
progresses, Golborne said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 Rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  