-- Rupee Rally Best in Asia as IPO Demand Soars, Rates Increase: India Credit
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2010-10-11T08:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/rupee-rally-best-in-asia-as-ipo-demand-soars-rates-increase-india-credit.html
The rally in India’s rupee, Asia’s
best performer in the past month, is showing no signs of slowing
as record share sales by companies spur global money managers to
add to unprecedented investments in the nation’s stocks.  The currency rose 5 percent in the month ended Oct. 8 as
this year’s equity offerings climbed to 794 billion rupees ($18
billion), surpassing 2007’s peak of 782 billion rupees, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. State-owned  Coal India Ltd.  plans to
raise 150 billion rupees this month in India’s biggest initial
public offer. Steel Authority of India Ltd., the nation’s
second-biggest producer of the metal, may sell next month.  Global investors have poured $22 billion this year into
India’s shares and $10 billion into its debt to profit from an
economy growing faster than 8 percent a year and government bond
yields that exceed 7 percent. Interest-rate swaps rose the most
since the period ended Sept. 17 last week, suggesting investors
anticipate higher central-bank borrowing costs.  “The share sales should go down well, attracting more
inflows as the Indian growth story remains very impressive,”
said  Mitul Kotecha , the Hong Kong-based head of global foreign-
exchange strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment
Bank. “We still see more upside for the rupee, although the
pace may not match what we saw in recent weeks.”  Fund Flows, Essar  Inflows may accelerate after emerging-market equity funds
attracted more than $6 billion in the week ended Oct. 6, the
most since 2007, and developed nations pumped cash into their
economies to revive growth, according to EPFR Global.  The rupee rose in each of the past six weeks, the longest
streak in a year, and climbed to 44.11 on Oct. 7, the strongest
level since September 2008. It has strengthened 1.3 percent this
month, extending September’s 4.7 percent advance. Brazil’s real
climbed 4 percent last month, China’s yuan appreciated 1.7
percent and Russia’s ruble gained 0.8 percent.  Elsewhere in India’s credit markets, the nation’s benchmark
government bond fell for a second straight week, relative yields
on corporate bonds rose from last month’s lows and  Essar Energy
Plc  is planning its first foreign-currency bond sale to repay
rupee-denominated loans used to for power and refinery projects.  Rising Yields  The yield on India’s 7.8 percent note due May 2020 climbed
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, last week, the most
in almost two months, to 7.99 percent, and remained at that
level today. The government raised 110 billion rupees selling
bonds on Oct. 8. It sold seven-year notes at a maximum yield of
7.92 percent, 12-year debt at as much as 8.08 percent and 30-
year securities at 8.42 percent.  The  difference  in yields between Indian debt due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries widened 19 basis
points last week to a record 5.58 percentage points. The gap has
expanded from 3.75 percentage point at the end of 2009 as
India’s central bank raised interest rates five times this year.
The pace of increases in the nation’s wholesale price index
slowed to 8.5 percent in August from 11 percent in April.  “The Reserve Bank has been pretty aggressive in raising
interest rates and that’s kept intact the yield attraction on
the rupee,” Credit Agricole’s Kotecha said. “Inflation is now
easing and that too bodes well for the currency.”  The cost of fixing rates on money for three years with
interest-rate swaps rose 13 basis points last week to 6.95
percent, Bloomberg data show. The  rate  local banks charge each
other to borrow overnight was 6.30 percent, higher than the
central bank’s lending rate of 6 percent.  Corporate Bonds  In India’s corporate bond market, the  difference  in yield
between top-rated three-year company debt and similar-maturity
government securities was 97.50 basis points, up from last
month’s low of 80.84 on Sept. 17, Bloomberg data show.  London-listed Essar Energy, controlled by billionaires
 Shashi  and  Ravi Ruia , will seek a credit rating and may sell
notes with seven- or eight-year maturities, Chief Financial
Officer  P. Sampath  said in an interview in Mumbai last week.  “We’ll raise the money to refinance some of the Indian
high-cost debt,” he said, declining to say how much Essar may
seek. “There are opportunities to raise one to two percentage
points of savings compared to what we’re paying today.”  ICICI Bank Ltd. and Reliance Industries Ltd. are among
Indian companies preparing to tap demand for emerging-market
bond yields as Japanese and U.S. rates remain near zero.  IMF Boost Estimates  The International Monetary Fund on Oct. 6 raised its 2010
growth forecast for the nation’s gross domestic product to 9.7
percent from a July estimate of 9.4 percent.  India is considering allowing individual overseas investors
to directly buy stocks for the first time, easing a rule that
restricts investment to mutual funds, a finance ministry
official with direct knowledge of the matter said Oct. 8. The
government raised its cap on foreign purchases of bonds last
month by 50 percent to $30 billion.  “All these are working in favor of strong inflows into the
system,” said Anubhuti Sahay, an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Mumbai. Sahay expects the rupee to trade at 44
by March.  Credit Agricole, a unit of France’s second-biggest bank,
predicts the currency will appreciate 4.5 percent in the next
six months to 42.5, a level not seen since August 2008. The
rupee will advance 4.5 percent by the end of 2011, trailing the
7.8 percent gain in South Korea’s won, 4.2 percent in the yuan
and 4.1 percent in Indonesia’s rupiah, Bloomberg News surveys
show.  No Intervention  While emerging-market nations from Brazil to Russia
complain about the strength of their currencies, Indian central
bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao told a forum on Oct. 9 in
Washington that he hasn’t needed to  curb  the rupee’s advance.  “If the inflows are lumpy and volatile or if they disrupt
the macroeconomic situation, we will do so,” Subbarao said.
“We’ve not found the need to intervene so far.”  Banks predict a deteriorating trade balance will help slow
gains in the currency, with the median forecast in the Bloomberg
survey showing the rupee will drop to 45.13 by the end of the
year. India’s  current-account  deficit widened to a record $13.7
billion in the three months through June, the Reserve Bank of
India said Sept. 30.  “The reason we didn’t feel the need to intervene is
because our absorption, driven by a widening current-account
deficit as imports have surged on the back of a positive outlook
on growth and investment, has also increased,” Subbarao said.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government plans to sell
shares in as many as 68 companies as part of efforts to shrink
the budget deficit to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product in
the year ending March 31 from an estimated 6.9 percent last
year. He is seeking to raise 400 billion rupees from asset sales
by March 31 to also help fund construction of roads, ports,
hospitals and schools.  “The Coal India share sale will bring in a few more
billion dollars,” Singapore-based  Samir Arora , founder of hedge
fund Helios Capital Management Pte. said in an Oct. 8 interview.
“It may create a lot of volatility in the currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net  