-- Russia Should Restrain Ruble Appreciation, Delay Free Float, Klepach Says
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-10-10T20:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/russia-should-restrain-ruble-appreciation-delay-free-float-klepach-says.html
Russia needs to stem the
appreciation of the ruble and isn’t ready to implement the
central bank’s plan to let the currency trade freely, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said in an interview.  The ruble has gained 2.7 percent against the dollar this
month, making it the second-best performer among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Demand for Russian
assets is rising as higher oil prices bolster the economy of the
world’s biggest energy exporter.  “Our fundamentals, the state of the current account, are
allowing the ruble to strengthen at a fairly strong pace,”
Klepach said Oct. 9 in Washington, where he took part in the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting. “We can’t give up
on restraining the appreciation of the ruble’s rate, and that
contradicts the policy of targeting inflation and refusal to
affect the exchange rate in the medium term.”  Bank Rossii  has pledged to shift its policy regime to
target inflation by 2012 as it allows the ruble to trade more
freely. The change may take “several years” as the economy
isn’t ready for unrestricted currency trading, Klepach said.  Russia’s central bank, which steers the ruble exchange rate
against a  basket of dollars and euros  to manage fluctuations in
the currency, has “made serious progress in liberalizing the
exchange rate,” First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said
Oct. 5. The regulator is becoming “marginal” on the currency
markets and expects the ruble to strengthen, he said.  Effective Ruble Rate  The ruble’s effective rate is set to increase 10.7 percent
this year and 5.7 percent in 2011, according to the Economy
Ministry. The rate measures the ruble against the currencies of
Russia’s major trading partners, stripping out the effects of
inflation.  Russia’s  current account , the broadest measure of trade in
goods and services, reached a surplus of $60.9 billion in the
first nine months of 2010, compared with $33.3 billion during
the same period last year, central bank  data  show.  Oil for November delivery advanced 99 cents to $82.66 a
barrel Oct. 8 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures have
risen 1.3 percent since Oct. 1, the third straight weekly gain
and the longest stretch of weekly advances since June. Prices
have increased 13 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 