-- Sales at U.S. Retailers Probably Rose for Third Month on Vehicle Purchases
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-10T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/sales-at-u-s-retailers-probably-rose-for-third-month-on-vehicle-purchases.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. probably
increased in September for a third month, easing concern
consumer spending will weaken and endanger the recovery,
economists said before reports this week.  A projected 0.4 percent gain in sales would match the prior
month’s advance and is based on the median estimate of 57
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Commerce
Department’s Oct. 15 report and. Other figures may show the
 trade  deficit widened and inflation was contained.  Stores are using promotions to drive sales gains that are
being limited by  unemployment  near a 26-year high. Employers cut
more jobs last month than forecast, underscoring concern among
some  Federal Reserve  officials that the economy may require a
boost from easier monetary policy.  Retailers continue “to battle a weak labor market and
consumer confidence in the doldrums,” said  Ellen Zentner , a
senior U.S. economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
New York.  The Commerce Department’s report may show purchases
 excluding automobiles  rose 0.3 percent after a 0.6 percent gain
in August, according to the survey median.  While retail sales are struggling to accelerate, merchants
may be counting on a stronger holiday shopping season. The
National Retail Federation is forecasting holiday sales will be
the best in four years and companies are planning on stepping up
hiring as a result.  Hiring for Holidays  Toys “R” Us  Inc., based in Wayne, New Jersey, last week
said it would hire about 45,000 seasonal employees, doubling its
U.S. workforce, to cope with holiday demand. The increase in
seasonal employees is 10,000 more than last year.  Kohl’s Corp ., the fourth-largest U.S. department store
chain, plans to hire about 40,000 people this holiday season, 21
percent more than last year, the Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-
based company said in a statement last week.  Investors have driven up shares of retailers on signs of
improvement. The  Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing 
Index of 91 retailers including Target Corp. and Macy’s Inc.,
has gained 14 percent this year, compared with a 4.5 percent
increase for the broader S&P 500 gauge.  The Commerce Department’s September figures may also
reflect gains in auto sales. Vehicle purchases last month
accelerated, with deliveries at General Motors Co. climbed 11
percent from a year earlier to 173,155. Ford Motor Co., the
second largest company behind GM, boosted sales by 41 percent to
160,873 sales.  Auto Purchases  Auto purchases rose to a seasonally adjusted 11.73 million
annual rate, the strongest performance since the government’s
cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009, compared with 11.46
million a month earlier and 9.4 million a year ago, according to
industry data.  A lack of job growth and Americans focused on paying down
debt are hurdles for retailers.  Employment declined by 95,000 in September, depressed by
job losses at local governments, after a 57,000 decrease the
previous month, Labor Department figures showed last week.
Company payrolls grew 64,000, the fewest in three months, and
wages stagnated, the Labor Department’s figures showed Oct. 8.  Limited job growth is hampering spending and confidence.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chief U.S. economist  Jan Hatzius  last
week told a conference in Washington the jobless rate would
drift up to around 10 percent, “maybe a little above 10
percent,” by early next year.  Easier Policy  He also said the Fed would “very likely” take more steps
to ease monetary policy at its next policy meeting on Nov. 2-3.
He wrote in an Oct. 4 note to clients that the Fed would likely
begin by announcing purchases of $500 billion in Treasury and
mortgage-backed securities.  The Thomson Reuters /University of Michigan ’s preliminary
index of consumer sentiment rose to 69 in October from 68.2 at
the end of September, according to the Bloomberg survey median
before the Oct. 15 release. The gauge averaged 89 in the five
years leading up to the recession that began December 2007.  Another report the same day from the Commerce Department
may show  business inventories  rose 0.5 percent in August after a
1 percent gain in July which was the biggest increase in two
years, according to the median forecast.  Consumer spending gains and more inventory restocking are
leading to increased imports. The trade balance in August
widened to $44.1 billion from $42.8 billion, economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast the Commerce Department to report on Oct.
14.  Discounting by retailers will probably be reflected in a
Labor Department report on inflation Oct. 15. Consumer prices
rose 0.2 percent in September after a 0.3 percent gain the prior
month, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Excluding energy and food, prices rose 0.1 percent
after no change.  Prices paid to producers rose 0.2 percent after a 0.4
percent gain, economists estimated the Labor Department will
report Oct. 14.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  