-- Shirakawa Says Developed Economies Should Keep Monetary Easing Policies
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-10-10T17:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/shirakawa-says-developed-economies-should-keep-monetary-easing-policies.html
Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said advanced economies need to keep monetary-easing
policies in place for now to help spur global growth.  “We need to continue with the unprecedented easy monetary
policy, given the current economic conditions,” Shirakawa said
today in a speech in Washington, where he’s attending
 International Monetary Fund  meetings. “We need to accept the
fact that, once a country experienced a bubble, it will take
fairly long to rise up from the bottom.”  The Bank of Japan last week cut the benchmark target rate
to a range of 0 percent to 0.1 percent and decided to set up a 5
trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to buy government debt and
corporate assets. Still, the governor said countries also need
to be mindful of the consequences of prolonged easing because it
might produce another bubble.  “It cannot be denied that such easy monetary condition is
likely to contribute to the emergence of another bubble” if
continued over an extended period, Shirakawa said. “Although
easy monetary policy is needed, it alone cannot solve the
problem.”  The IMF’s steering committee said it should “deepen its
work” on capital flows, exchange-rate movements and the
accumulation of reserves at the meeting.  Li Daokui , an adviser
to the People’s Bank of China, today said low interest rates in
the U.S. are driving investment flows to emerging markets.  Dollar Weakens  The prospect of further easing by the Federal Reserve
pushed the dollar below 82 yen for the first time in 15 years
last week.  “The Fed is very ambitious and prepared to prevent
deflation,” said  Chris Scicluna , deputy head of economics at
Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in London. “The BOJ may have to
increase its size of purchases to show its more serious
commitment.”  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s cabinet, facing the
world’s largest public debt, endorsed a 5.1 trillion yen ($62
billion) stimulus plan to safeguard an economic recovery and to
cope with the surging yen last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  