-- Smaller Majority May Force Democrats to Curtail Agenda, Van Hollen Says
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2010-10-10T16:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/smaller-house-majority-may-harm-agenda-democrat-says-update1-.html
Democrats may have to curtail their
legislative goals in the U.S. House next year even if they
retain control of the chamber, a Democratic leader said.  “It may well be the case that there are some issues that
we would have gotten passed last time that would not be able to
pass this time,” Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , who
is leading the Democratic efforts to retain control of the House
of Representatives, said today in an interview on CNN’s “State
of the Union” program.  President  Barack Obama ’s Democrats are struggling to keep
control of the House and Senate in the Nov. 2 midterm elections
as Republicans seek to tap voter anger over the economy and a
9.6 percent  unemployment rate .  “There’s a great chance that we take the House,”  Kevin McCarthy , a California representative who was in charge of
recruiting House candidates for Republicans, said today on CNN.
“We’re running to win the majority. We’re not running to be a
minority party.”  In a Gallup poll conducted Sept. 13-16, 61 percent of
respondents cited the economy or jobs as the most important
problems facing the country. Revised estimates for the worst
recession since the 1930s show the U.S. lost 8.73 million jobs,
the Labor Department said Oct. 8, from the 8.36 million
currently on the books.  Democrats this year may lose at least 40 seats in the
House, costing the party control, and as many as 9 of its 59
Senate seats, according to the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report. In a Sept. 10-14 New York Times/CBS News poll, only 34
percent said their representative in Congress deserved re-
election and 55 percent said it was time for someone new.  Deficit an Issue  Republicans are making the federal  deficit  a campaign
issue, with some candidates saying they will support measures
that lower government spending.  “We should freeze the federal hiring and freeze wages --
again, not going to make a big dent,”  Linda McMahon , a
Republican campaigning for a U.S. Senate seat in Connecticut,
said today on “This Week” on ABC News. “We should take the
balance of the stimulus money and pay down the debt.”  McMahon also said that if elected she wouldn’t serve more
than two six-year terms as a senator.  “I would only seek a second term if I really felt I had
been effective in my first term,” she said.  Health Care  While the administration has touted its $814 billion
stimulus plan as the means to create jobs, it devoted much of
its attention earlier this year to passing health-care and
financial-regulatory legislation and the response to the BP Plc
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  “What I know about people is that they vote for the
person, not necessarily the party,” Connecticut Attorney
General  Richard Blumenthal , the Democrat who is running against
McMahon for U.S. Senate, said today on “This Week.”  Democrats are also being buffeted by voter complaints about
tax dollars having gone to firms paying million-dollar bonuses,
concern over budget deficits and objections that it was unfair
for the government to rescue banks that caused the crisis.  “We know the errors by current Democratic government: It
has exploded the size of budget, incurred more debt,”
Republican Representative  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said today on
“Fox News Sunday.”  ‘Cut Spending’  “We need to cut spending, rein in the size of government
and get people back to work,” Cantor said.  A Pew Research Center poll released Oct. 6 showed that 46
percent of respondents would be less likely to vote for a
candidate who supported the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or
TARP bailout, while only 13 percent would be more likely.  Political campaigns have spent $50 million on television
advertisements criticizing the bailout, according to  Evan Tracey , president of Kantar Media’s CMAG in Arlington, Virginia,
which tracks political ads.  Republicans including Cantor, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , House Minority Leader  John Boehner  and Representative
 Paul Ryan , as well as Democrats such as House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  and Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , voted for the bailout in October 2008, heeding
warnings by then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  that failure
to act could lead to economic turmoil.  The Tea Party, a coalition of voters seeking limits on
government spending, taxes and debt, is mounting a nationwide
effort to get voters to the polls. In a Wall Street Journal/NBC
poll, 71 percent of Republicans described themselves as tea-
party supporters, saying they had a favorable image of the
movement or hoped tea-party candidates would do well.  “There is a stranglehold on the Republican Party by the
Tea Party,”  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a Florida Democrat, said
on Fox News.  Republicans “have this ideological purity test, and it’s
being moved even farther to the right by the Tea Party
candidates,” Van Hollen said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net 
 Sara Forden  in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  