-- Solomon Burke, Grammy-Winning Soul Singer, Mortician, Father of 21, Dead
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2010-10-10T14:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/solomon-burke-american-soul-singer-dies-at-schiphol-airport-anp-reports.html
Solomon Burke , the pioneering soul
singer and songwriter known as the “King of Rock & Soul,” died
on his way to a concert in Amsterdam. He was 70.  “Early this morning, our father passed away due to natural
causes,” Burke’s family said today in a statement on the
singer’s website. “Although our hearts and lives will never be
the same, his love, life and music will continue to live within
us forever,” they said.  Philadelphia-born  Burke  was inducted into the  Rock & Roll
Hall of Fame  in 2001 and won a Grammy Award for Best
Contemporary Blues Album two years later for “Don’t Give Up On
Me.” He was scheduled to give a concert in Amsterdam’s  Paradiso 
concert hall with Dutch band De Dijk on Oct. 12 and had just
arrived at Amsterdam Schiphol Airport, Burke’s family said.  “He was on his way to spread his message of love as he
loved to do,” Burke’s family said. “As our family grieves
during this time of mourning, thank you for respecting our
privacy.”  Burke, whose MySpace page describes him as a singer, bishop
and mortician, sold 17 million records. His 1964 song
“Everybody Needs Somebody to Love” was covered by musicians
including The Rolling Stones,  Wilson Pickett  and the Blues
Brothers. He is survived by 21 children, 90 grandchildren and 19
great-grandchildren, according to his website.  Burke had traveled from Los Angeles, Antoinette Spaans-
Huijbers, a spokeswoman for Amsterdam Schiphol Airport, said by
telephone today. His body will be flown to the U.S. on Wednesday
at the earliest, Dutch news agency ANP said, citing an
unidentified employee at the airport’s morgue.  “We’re intensely sad,”  De Dijk  said in a statement on the
band’s website. “His music will continue, we’ll remember his
love forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  