-- Solvay Guards $6.1 Billion Haul as Cash Flow Pays for Expansion
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2010-10-10T22:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/solvay-guards-6-1-billion-haul-from-asset-sale-for-chemical-acquisition.html
Solvay SA ’s chemicals unit is
funding growth from cash flow as the world’s largest producer of
soda ash preserves the $6.1 billion in proceeds from the sale of
a drugs business for an  acquisition .  Solvay is using earnings from materials used to bleach pulp
and make glass for a 400 million-euro ($548 million) investment
program, including a possible venture with  Dow Chemical Co.  on
chemicals for polyurethanes, chemicals division head Vincent De
Cuyper said. The cash from the asset sale is out of bounds.  “Nobody can touch the pot,” de Cuyper said in an
interview in London. “It’s only fair, because if you start
taking money from the pot and have too much in your pockets,
then you make mistakes.”  While a team of acquisition specialists evaluate  potential
targets , de Cuyper is helping implement a revamp of Solvay to
prepare for an eventual purchase. Chief Executive Officer
 Christian Jourquin  has set growth in emerging markets and
finding new value-added products that are less cyclical and
energy intensive as priorities.  The Brussels-based business, which sold its drugs unit to
Abbott Laboratories this year, is creating two global divisions
spanning plastics and chemicals. The move will eliminate about
800 jobs, mostly back-office posts, in one of Solvay’s largest
workforce cuts in its 147-year history.  Possible Targets  “First make the acquisition and then, if there’s any money
left, decide what to do with it and whether to allocate it to
certain projects,” said Mark Van der Geest, an analyst at ABN
Amro in Amsterdam. “Ideally they would spend 5 billion euros”
on a purchase, he said.  Jourquin completed the drugs sale in February, setting in
motion investor speculation about how the proceeds will be used.
 Victrex Plc , the U.K. maker of high-performance polymers, is
among the companies touted as possible targets, analysts said.  Umicore SA , with its emerging market exposure and offerings
of catalysts and metal compounds, could provide the third leg
Solvay is looking for, ABN Amro analyst Van der Geest said. De
Cuyper declined to discuss the potential targets.  “It’s obvious, keeping that money in a pot is not the most
efficient way to run a company and we are fully aware of that,”
de Cuyper said. “The present yield of that money we know that
we have to move. That’s why we really have so many people
concentrated on that.”  Market Conditions  As the world’s largest supplier of hydrogen peroxide and
the No. 2 in caustic soda, Solvay has built a commodity chemical
business based on size rather than quality, de Cuyper said. It
closed a plant in Germany supplying hydrogen peroxide as a
bleaching agent to pulp producers and is converting others to
alternative uses.  Scale has helped Solvay ride out a slump that’s depressed
prices and hurt smaller competitors more, he said.  Earnings at
the chemicals unit  will hold steady in 2010 as higher volumes
offset weaker prices and energy expenses, according to  Bernard Hanssens , an analyst at Bank Degroof.  “You don’t make a difference with the molecules, but the
way you run your business,” de Cuyper said. “There are a
certain number of competitors that financially are in a
difficult situation, and then you get into a spiral when you get
technical problems.”  Solvay’s markets in the third quarter were similar to the
prior period, indicating real underlying demand rather than just
the effect of inventory restocking, de Cuyper said. Solvay’s
hydrogen peroxide plants around the world are operating at full
steam and demand in China is keeping factories supplying pulp
and paper chemicals at a high level, he said.  ‘New Story’  The company’s stock has added 2.6 percent in Brussels
trading this year, valuing the company at 6.56 billion euros.
Smaller rival Arkema SA has climbed 52 percent in the period.  Reinvesting cash and spending on technology will give a new
lease of life to chemical operations, de Cuyper said. Solvay is
already working with BASF SE and Dow Chemical to convert
hydrogen peroxide into propylene oxide, used in the faster-
growing market for polyurethanes.  “You always need to finance your new ideas and sexy things
with a good, strong cash cow,” Eric Mignonat, general manager
of Solvay’s hydrogen peroxide division, said in the Sept. 30
interview in London. “It may be a nice story but if you don’t
have enough cash, it’s not real. We can finance our new story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Noel  in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  