-- Sony’s ‘Social Network’ Top Film With $15.5 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-11T21:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/sony-s-social-network-repeats-as-top-film-with-15-5-million-in-sales.html
“The Social Network” repeated as
the top movie in U.S. and Canadian theaters for a second
weekend, taking in $15.5 million in receipts for  Sony Corp.   The  Katherine Heigl  comedy “Life as We Know It” opened in
second place with $14.5 million in ticket sales for Warner
Bros.,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The repeat win for “The Social Network” follows critical
acclaim for the movie, which chronicles the controversial rise
of Facebook Inc. and its co-founder,  Mark Zuckerberg . Sony said
it spent less than $40 million making the movie. Domestic ticket
sales total $46 million since the Oct. 1 release.  “It shows that the word-of-mouth is very strong on the
film and that the movie is reaching out beyond its core
audience,” said  Gitesh Pandya , editor of Box Office Guru.  The film stars Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg as he builds
the top social-networking website, leaving a trail of lawsuits
and broken friendships. The story is told from several
perspectives.  Justin Timberlake  appears as venture capitalist
Sean Parker.  In “Life as We Know It,” Heigl co-stars with Josh Duhamel
as two young adults who are asked to take custody of their
infant goddaughter after the child’s parents are killed. They
must set aside their differences as they juggle careers and
unexpected parenthood.  ‘Secretariat’  “Secretariat,” about the 1973 Triple Crown-winning
thoroughbred racehorse, opened in third place with $12.7
million. The movie stars  Diane Lane  as Penny Chenery, the
housewife who took over the stable where the horse was trained.
 John Malkovich  co-stars.  Even though “Secretariat” didn’t win or place at the box
office, it’s still a good showing for opening week, Pandya said.  “It’s an adult, female-skewing film so typically that
audience doesn’t rush out on the first weekend,” he said.   Time Warner Inc. ’s animated “Legend of the Guardians: The
Owls of Ga’Hoole” was fourth with $6.9 million. The movie has
generated $39.3 million in three weeks.  The weekend’s other wide release, the  Wes Craven  horror
film “My Soul to Take,” was fifth with $6.8 million for
Relativity Media LLC and distributor Universal Pictures. In the
film, a small town is terrorized 16 years after the apparent
death of a serial killer.  Sales Drop  Weekend sales for the top 12 films fell 15 percent to $81.3
million from $95.6 million a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.
Year-to-date receipts total $8.31 billion, up 3.4 percent from
$8.04 billion. Attendance has fallen 2.1 percent this year.  The following table has figures provided by studios to Los
Angeles-based Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are based on
actual ticket sales for Oct. 8-10. 