-- South Korea September Producer Prices Rise at Fastest Pace in Three Months
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-10-10T03:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/south-korea-september-producer-prices-rise-at-fastest-pace-in-three-months.html
South Korea’s producer prices rose
at the fastest pace in three months in September as the cost of
staple foods including vegetables and fruits increased.  Prices paid to producers were up 4 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a gain of 3.1 percent in August, the Bank
of Korea said in a statement in Seoul today. Prices gained 1
percent in September from the previous month, the most since
July 2009.  The  central bank  will probably weigh quickening inflation
against falling home prices, record household debt and risks
from slower global growth when it decides on borrowing costs
next week. Any increase in the benchmark interest rate may stoke
investor demand for the won, which rose 7.2 percent against the
dollar in the third quarter, threatening the export-led
economy’s trade gains.  “The BOK will likely raise rates in October as policy
makers face more calls to curb rising price pressures while
concerns over a U.S. slowdown have eased compared with August
and July,” Lee Sang Jae, an economist at Hyundai Securities Co.
in Seoul, said before the release.  Prices of agricultural, forestry and fisheries products
gained 30 percent in September from a year earlier, the most
since June 1981, today’s report showed. Vegetable prices rose
126 percent and fruit costs rose 58 percent.  The cost of industrial goods, which include textiles, oil,
plastics and computers, was up 3.6 percent. Electricity, water
and gas prices gained 3.7 percent and services costs rose 1.2
percent.  Volatile Prices  Consumer price inflation  hit a 17-month high of 3.6 percent
last month, accelerating toward the top end of the central
bank’s target of between 2 percent and 4 percent on average
through 2012.  The Bank of Korea raised the benchmark rate by a quarter
percentage point in July from a record low of 2 percent, the
only increase this year and the first since the global financial
crisis.  Governor  Kim Choong Soo  has signaled policy makers may add
to the move, while saying it will take time to normalize
 borrowing costs  as the bank must be certain of the world
economic recovery. The policy board meets on Oct. 14 to set the
benchmark interest rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  