-- Spot the New Hirst as Frieze’s $375 Million Art Tests Demand
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/spot-the-new-hirst-as-frieze-s-375-million-artworks-test-market-recovery.html
Billionaire collectors looking for
the next  Damien Hirst  at the  Frieze Art Fair  will have $375
million of artworks to browse, according to insurer  Hiscox Ltd.   The first estimate of the  value  of Frieze comes days before
the event’s Oct. 13 preview in London. This week also includes
U.K. auctions that have more than 78 million pounds ($124.5
million) of works on offer, satellite fairs and gallery shows.  Frieze is Europe’s biggest commercial fair devoted
exclusively to the work of living artists. This year’s edition
will be held against a backdrop of a contemporary market still
in recovery after the crisis depressed prices for more
expensive, heavily traded names by as much as 50 percent.  “Frieze is much more of a treasure hunt than other
fairs,” said  Robert Read , fine art expert at Hiscox, which has
a corporate collection of contemporary works. “It’s human
nature for buyers to want to find young artists who are going to
be gold in the future. Most of the pieces sell for comfortably
below $100,000,” he said. Hiscox is the second-biggest Lloyd’s
of London insurer.  Hiscox’s ballpark estimate for the works at Frieze was
based on insurance valuations for between 40 and 50 percent of
the exhibitors at the fair, Read said in an interview.  Frieze’s organizers don’t comment on the value of exhibited
works or specific sales. The annual event, now in its eighth
year in a temporary structure in Regent’s Park, has a VIP day
before opening to the public on Oct. 14. The fair reveals only
visitor numbers (about 60,000 for each of the last three years)
and lists of galleries taking part (this time 173, eight more
than in 2009).  New Exhibitors  Brussels-based dealer  Xavier Hufkens  is one of 20 new
exhibitors at the fair.  “Frieze attracts an audience that’s looking for new,
original work,” Hufkens said in an interview. “It’s another
public. We won’t be bringing pieces by older artists.”  Hufkens will be showing four sculptures recently welded out
of found metal by the Los Angeles-based artist  Sterling Ruby 
(born 1972) at the  Chinati Foundation  in Marfa, Texas. Exploring
themes of industrial decay, they will be priced from $43,500 to
$87,000.  “Collectors are looking for artists who didn’t nosedive in
the last couple of years and for those who people are talking
about,” said David Maupin, director of the New York-based
gallery  Lehmann Maupin , one of the fair’s established
exhibitors. “There’s been a cleansing. Buyers want quality and
value.”  Neon Emin  Women artists will dominate Lehmann Maupin’s booth. A
hanging mixed-media piece by the Korean sculptor  Lee Bul  will be
priced at $200,000, while two new paintings by the Iranian
artist  Shirazeh Houshiary  will be offered at 50,000 pounds each.
A new neon piece by  Tracey Emin , from an edition of three, costs
60,000 pounds.  “My belief is that women artists have been undervalued,”
said Maupin, who described the audience at Frieze as “very
sophisticated and open.”  Belgrade-born performance artist  Marina Abramovic , 63, is
an artist that plenty of people are talking about after her 736-
hour performance piece, “The Artist is Present,” at the Museum
of Modern Art, New York, earlier this year.  The Abramovic retrospective at the Marylebone-based  Lisson
Gallery  is one of the numerous dealer and museum shows that will
draw collectors who have flown in for Frieze. Lisson will also
be offering limited-edition photographs and a single screen
projection by Abramovic at the fair. Prices range from 30,000
euros ($41,820) to 250,000 euros.  Frame Names  Last year, Frieze’s reputation for airing emerging names
was enhanced by the introduction of  Frame , a section of more
than 20 galleries fewer than six years old, showing single
artists.  At the 2009 event, East London dealers  Seventeen  sold all
nine of U.K.-artist Susan Collis’s sculptures. Prices ranged
from 6,000 pounds to 35,000 pounds, with five works falling to
New York-based collectors.  This year, the gallery will be showing a video and
sculptures on the theme of iconoclasm by the Berlin-based
Austrian artist Oliver Laric (born 1981). The works are priced
at 4,000 pounds each.  “Frame really freshened up Frieze,” Dave Hoyland,
director of Seventeen, said in an interview. “The fair is
embracing emerging artists at a time when an increasing number
of collectors want to.”  Unlike the  Art Basel  fair in Switzerland, Frieze doesn’t
include dealers who show earlier, 20th-century works.  Pavilion Masters  Those wanting to buy modern masters should make their way
instead to the  Pavilion of Art & Design London  in Berkeley
Square, previewing tomorrow.  Now in its fourth year, having grown out of a specialist
design event, the boutique 50-exhibitor fair of art, design,
decorative arts, jewelry and photography from 1860 to the
present day will have a higher proportion than Frieze of items
priced in millions.  Geneva-based newcomers  Espace Nelombos  will be bringing a
group of 20 privately sourced works by Pablo Picasso tagged at
as much as $6 million. London-based  Simon Dickinson Gallery  will
be showing a Francis Bacon “Head’’ at $4 million and a Henri
Matisse sculpture, “Verve, II, 8’’ at $3.5 million.  Frieze Week satellite events will also include “ Multiplied ”
-- an event devoted to contemporary prints, editions and
photographs, organized and hosted by the auction house
 Christie’s International  at South Kensington -- and the  Moniker
International Art Fair  in east London, focusing on urban art.  These new offerings replace  ZOO  and the New York-organized
 SCOPE London Art Show . The latter, longer-established events
won’t returning this year after experiencing challenging market
conditions in 2009.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 