-- `Biggest Imbalance' in World Economy Is From U.S. Stimulus, Meirelles Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-10T17:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/stimulus-in-u-s-is-biggest-imbalance-in-world-economy-meirelles-says.html
U.S.  monetary stimulus  and not the
accumulation of reserves by emerging nations is creating the
biggest imbalance in world economies, Brazil’s Central Bank
President  Henrique Meirelles  said.  Developing countries that are building up foreign reserves
“won’t assume the responsibility” for an imbalance of exchange
rates, Meirelles told reporters today in Washington during the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting.  “The reserve accumulation policy of emerging markets won’t
take that responsibility,” Meirelles said. “The biggest
imbalance today is the American monetary expansion, which is
being used to fight lower growth and unemployment still high in
the U.S. -- this is the biggest injection of liquidity in the
international economy.”  Asked whether  China  was instead a greater cause of global
imbalances, Meirelles replied he was commenting from Brazil’s
point of view: “We speak for Brazil.”  A massive inflow of dollars to emerging countries is
triggering a “currency war” as nations try to shield their
economies and give exporters some edge amid an outlook of lower
growth in developed markets, Brazil Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Oct. 8. Emerging countries should couple reserve
accumulation policies with “direct control” of their
currencies to stem the inflow of dollars, Mantega said in
another speech yesterday.  Savings, Consumption  Brazil’s monetary chief said increased savings in some
countries and more domestic consumption in others would help
reduce the imbalance in world currencies. High indebtedness by
some nations was also contributing to the problem, he said.  “There’s a global imbalance, on one side countries that
have a very big indebtedness of their societies, companies,
families and now governments,” Meirelles said. “We have other
countries, on the other side, that still have low domestic
consumption, still not developed, that are very dependent on
exports.”  Developing economies are expected to expand an average 7.1
percent this year before slowing to 6.4 percent in 2011, while
advanced economies will grow an average 2.7 percent and 2.2
percent respectively, the IMF said in its World Economic Outlook
released on Oct. 6.  Policy makers advanced discussion of the currency
situation, laying the basis for further progress during a Group
of 20 meeting scheduled for November in Seoul, Meirelles said.  Brazil is moving to stop the inflow of “contamination”
from abroad and is  ready to absorb  excessive liquidity in the
currency market if needed, Meirelles said. Brazil’s economy is
 growing  in a “balanced manner,” Meirelles said.  International Monetary Fund Western Hemisphere Director
 Nicolas Eyzaguirre  said on Oct. 8 there’s a risk that Latin
American currencies may rise too much if the bulk of excess
capital reaches the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Washington at 
 barden@bloomberg.net 
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Washington at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  