-- Subbarao Says India May Act If Capital Inflows Disrupt Economy
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-11T07:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/subbarao-says-india-may-intervene-in-currency-market-on-volatile-inflows.html
India may intervene in the foreign
exchange market if capital flows “disrupt” the economy, the
central bank’s governor,  Duvvuri Subbarao , said after the rupee
rallied to be Asia’s best performer of the past month.  “If the inflows are lumpy and volatile or if they disrupt
the macroeconomic situation, we will do so,” Subbarao said in a
panel discussion at the International Monetary Fund in
Washington on Oct. 9. “We’ve not found the need to intervene so
far,” he told reporters.  The rupee gained 4.5 percent against the dollar in the past
month as global funds pumped a record $21 billion into Indian
stocks this year on optimism about the South Asian’s nation’s
growth prospects. Subbarao’s comments came as countries from
Brazil to South Korea took steps to slow currency appreciation
amid rising capital flows into emerging and Asian economies.  “In recent months, when inflows have swamped most emerging
market economies, several central banks have intervened in the
forex markets,” Subbarao said. “The reason we did not feel the
need to intervene is because our absorption, driven by a
widening current-account deficit as imports have surged on the
back of a positive outlook on growth and investment, has also
increased.”  India’s current-account deficit widened to a record $13.7
billion in the three months ended June 30 as an accelerating
economy boosted imports of oil and machinery. The International
Monetary Fund last week raised its 2010 economic growth forecast
for India to 9.7 percent from 9.4 percent it estimated in July.  Rupee Gains  The rupee today approached a two-year, gaining 0.2 percent
to 44.35 per dollar at 1:15 p.m. in Mumbai. In the past month,
the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  has gained 8 percent
to a near record 20,286.69.  “Our intervention will be to keep liquidity conditions
consistent with activity in the real economy and to maintain
financial stability,” Subbarao said. “And not to stand against
developments driven by changing economic fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Washington at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net 
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net 
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  