-- U.S. Won't Appeal Witness Ruling in Embassy Bombing Case, Prosecutors Say
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m   a n d   D a v i d   E .   R o v e l l a
-- 2010-10-10T20:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/u-s-won-t-appeal-witness-ruling-in-embassy-bombing-case-prosecutors-say.html
U.S. prosecutors told a federal
judge in Manhattan that they won’t appeal his ruling last week
excluding a government witness from the trial of a man accused
of bombing two U.S. embassies.  The government said it chose to forgo an appeal to avoid
further delays in the trial of bombing suspect  Ahmed Ghailani 
and because “many” witnesses already have arrived in New York,
according to a letter today from Assistant U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  to District Judge  Lewis Kaplan .  Kaplan rejected prosecutors’ request that Hussein Abebe be
allowed to testify that he sold five crates of dynamite to
Ghailani before the 1998 blasts in Tanzania and Kenya which
killed 224 people. Abebe’s testimony is too closely tied to
coerced statements made by Ghailani while he was in CIA custody
and must be excluded from the trial, the judge ruled on Oct. 6.  “An appeal at this juncture would obviously cause a delay
-- a delay of uncertain, and perhaps significant, length,”
Farbiarz wrote in the letter. “Even without Hussein Abebe’s
testimony, the government is prepared to meet its burden of
proving the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.”  The judge postponed the start of the trial until Oct. 12
after ruling to disallow testimony from Abebe, a Tanzanian miner
whom prosecutors had said is the only person able to give a
firsthand account of Ghailani’s role in the attacks.  A telephone message left for Ghailani’s lawyer, Peter
Quijano, wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-1023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  