-- Lufthansa, Hochtief, Porsche, Siemens: German Equity Preview
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-10-11T06:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/lufthansa-hochtief-porsche-siemens-german-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in Germany. Stock
symbols are in parentheses and share prices are from the
previous close.  The benchmark DAX index rose 0.3 percent to 6,291.67 on
Oct. 8, a fourth gain.       BASF SE  (BAS GY): the world’s biggest chemical company and
 Linde AG  (LIN GY), the second-biggest maker of industrial gases,
were rated “equal weight” in new research coverage at Barclays
Plc. BASF shares rose 2 percent to 48.73 euros. Linde gained 0.3
percent to 97.48 euros.  Daimler AG  (DAI GY): The second-largest maker of luxury
vehicles is recalling 85,000 Mercedes-Benz models in the U.S.
over a steering problem that could make the vehicles difficult
to control, the New York Times said, citing a report submitted
by the German carmaker to the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration. The shares rose 0.1 percent to 45.44 euros.  Deutsche Beteiligungs AG  (DBA GY): The German private-
equity company will pay shareholders a dividend of 40 cents
($0.56) and may even disburse a special dividend if business
develops well in coming weeks, Wirtschaftswoche reported, citing
Chief Executive Officer Wilken Freiherr von Hodenberg. The
shares fell less than 0.1 percent to 18.17 euros.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  (LHA GY): Europe’s second biggest
airline will trim surcharges on ticket prices for certain low-
cost routes next year even as a new national levy is looming,
Der Spiegel reported, citing no one. The shares rose 3 percent
to 14.40 euros.  Deutsche Postbank AG  (DPB GY): The German lender taken over
by Deutsche Bank AG may charge higher interest on real-estate
loans to contain effects from the new Basel III banking rules,
Euro am Sonntag reported, citing management-board member Michael
Meyer. The shares fell less than 0.1 percent to 25.02 euros.  Fielmann AG  (FIE GY): Europe’s largest chain of opticians
may expand by up to 200 stores in coming years, Euro am Sonntag
reported, citing Chief Financial Officer Georg Alexander Zeiss.
The shares gained 0.5 percent to 70.20 euros.  Hochtief AG  (HOT GY): The German builder’s management-board
members are entitled to 14.7 million euros in cash compensation
if the company is taken over, Bild reported, citing Hochtief’s
annual report. An ad-hoc committee of Hochtief’s supervisory
board will meet Oct. 11 to discuss strategy in the takeover
battle with  Actividades de Construccion y Servicios , spokeswoman
Jutta Hobbiebrunken said by phone. The shares rose 0.1 percent
to 63.75 euros.  Porsche Automobil Holding SE  (PAH3 GY): The sports-car
maker has blocked employees’ access to Facebook Inc. to shield
itself against industrial espionage, Wirtschaftswoche reported,
citing Rainer Benne, the company’s head of security. The shares
gained 0.4 percent to 35.25 euros.  Salzgitter AG  (SZG GY): Germany’s second-largest steelmaker
posted higher revenue in the third quarter after raising prices
for some products, Boersen-Zeitung reported, citing Chief
Financial Officer Heinz Joerg Fuhrmann. The shares rose 0.3
percent to 49.59 euros.  Siemens AG  (SIE GY): Europe’s largest engineering company
may seek state aid for plans to develop solar-electricity
generators in the Sahara Desert, Tagesspiegel reported, citing
the company’s chief coordinator of the so-called Desertec
project. The shares fell less than 0.1 percent to 77 euros.  Volkswagen AG  (VOW3 GY): Europe’s biggest carmaker will
expand vehicle and component production at its German factories
in Wolfsburg and Kassel, Stuttgarter Zeitung reported, without
citing anyone. The company’s preferred shares rose 2.5 percent
to 89.28 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 