-- Vettel Goes Back-to-Back in Japan as Webber Extends F-1 Lead
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-10-10T15:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/vettel-wins-japan-grand-prix-as-webber-extends-his-f-1-championship-lead.html
Sebastian Vettel  rekindled his
Formula One world title bid by heading a Red Bull 1-2 ahead of
championship leader  Mark Webber  at the Japanese Grand Prix.  Vettel, who started from pole position, finished nine-
tenths of a second ahead of Webber at Suzuka yesterday as the
five leading contenders filled the top five places. Ferrari’s
 Fernando Alonso  was third ahead of McLaren duo  Jenson Button  and
 Lewis Hamilton .  Webber, who had an 11-point lead in the drivers’ standings
heading into the race, now has a 14-point advantage over Alonso
and Vettel with three events remaining. Vettel had been 21
points adrift before sealing his third victory of the season and
second straight at Suzuka.  “It’s about time,” Vettel said in a news conference after
winning his first race since June 27. “I’m really happy to be
back and to have won, it’s my second time here which I’m very
proud of. It was a very good day for us.”  Australia’s Webber, seeking his first drivers’ title, has
220 points with Alonso and Vettel on 206, though the Spaniard is
in second place because he has four race wins to Vettel’s three.
Hamilton now has 192 points, 28 down on Webber, while Button has
seen the gap to the leader grow to 31 points.  Twenty five points, the value of a victory, had separated
the top five drivers going into yesterday’s race.  Gap Growing  “The most important thing is that the gap is going the
right way,” Webber said in a news conference. “I need to keep
it like that. Seb deserved the victory, did a good job, but as
we’ve seen this year, five of us are capable of winning races. I
need to win again in the future.”  The 19-event series next shifts to South Korea for the
inaugural Korean Grand Prix on Oct. 24.  The first six laps yesterday took place with the safety car
at the front after two crashes marred the start of the 53-lap
race, forcing  Felipe Massa ,  Nico Hulkenberg ,  Vitantonio Liuzzi 
and  Vitaly Petrov  out.  Renault’s  Robert Kubica , who had overtaken Webber at the
start to go second, also quit when he lost his right rear wheel,
leaving the five championship contenders in the top five places
when racing resumed and Vettel leading by about a second from
Webber, Alonso, Button and Hamilton.  Within three laps, the two Red Bulls were more than a
second clear of two-time world champion Alonso.  Pole, Pit Stops  Germany’s Vettel, who took pole less than four hours before
the race after heavy rain postponed qualifying by a day, made
his pit stop on lap 24 with Alonso. Webber came in on the next
lap, leaving Button at the front.  The pattern stayed the same until Button pitted with 15
laps remaining, allowing Vettel to regain the lead ahead of
Webber, Alonso and Hamilton. Button, last year’s champion,
rejoined the race in fifth place and six laps later passed
Hamilton as his fellow Briton struggled with a gearbox problem
that resulted in him losing third gear.  Hamilton, the 2008 series winner, said his title chances
may have slipped away.  “The championship doesn’t look great at the moment,”
Hamilton said in a team statement. “But there are still three
races to go and 75 points available, so we’ll remain optimistic
and keep doing the best job we can. I’ll keep fighting.”  With four laps remaining,  Nico Rosberg  suffered a failure
on his Mercedes and crashed out as Japan’s  Kamui Kobayashi  made
a series of overtaking moves in his home race to take his Sauber
into seventh place behind Mercedes’  Michael Schumacher .  At the front, Vettel stayed in control to seal his eighth
career victory and join Schumacher and  Mika Hakkinen  as the only
drivers to win consecutive races at Suzuka.  ‘Jackpot’  Red Bull’s third 1-2 finish of the season pulled it further
ahead in the constructors’ standings, with 426 points to
McLaren’s 381 and Ferrari’s 334.  Following Korea’s F-1 debut, the circuit moves to Brazil
before finishing Nov. 14 in Abu Dhabi.  “A one-two finish, 43 points, it’s the jackpot,” Fabrice
Lom, Red Bull’s principal engineer, said in a team statement.
“We really need to focus on these last races, championship-
winning chances like this do not come along very often.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  