-- White House's Axelrod Says Secret Political Donations Threaten Democracy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-10T13:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-10/white-house-s-axelrod-says-secret-political-donations-threaten-democracy.html
White House senior adviser  David Axelrod  said secret donations to outside political groups are
“a threat to our democracy,” singling out the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce for criticism less than a month before elections that
will determine control of Congress.  “If the Chamber opens up its books,” Axelrod said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” program, “then we’ll know. All we
have now is their assertion” that foreign money isn’t used for
advertising in U.S. elections.  Tom Donahue , president of the largest U.S. business group,
said last week the Chamber is starting a new political campaign
against rules on health care, finance, the environment and
labor. The Chamber has said it will spend $75 million backing
pro-business candidates in the Nov. 2 elections and has led
growing business criticism of President  Barack Obama  in recent
months.  Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to gain a majority
in the 435-member House of Representatives. The non-partisan
Cook Political Report in Washington forecasts Republicans will
win at least 40 seats after the Nov. 2 election. In the Senate,
where Republicans hold 41 of 100 seats, the Cook report says
they are poised to pick up from seven to nine seats.  Obama criticized Republican-leaning groups at a campaign
rally for Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley  in Bowie, Maryland,
on Oct. 7, saying their advertising is funded by contributors
whose identity isn’t known.  “Just this week, we learned that one of the largest groups
paying for these ads regularly takes in money from foreign
corporations,” Obama said. “So groups that receive foreign
money are spending huge sums to influence American elections,
and they won’t tell you where the money for their ads comes
from.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 