-- `Free Hand' on Rates Means Best of Bonds Over for Citigroup: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-06T21:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/-free-hand-on-rates-means-best-of-bonds-over-for-citigroup-russia-credit.html
Traders are pricing in the biggest 
increase in Russian interest rates in two years as the central
bank battles inflation.  Benchmark rates will rise by 217 basis points over the next
nine months, the largest increase priced in since October 2008,
forward rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg showed on Nov. 29.
The prospect of higher borrowing costs precipitated a decline in
Russian ruble debt, with bonds due 2012 sliding the most for
four months in November. An  index  of ruble corporate bonds
traded on Russia’s Micex exchange dropped by the most since May.  “It’s never a good thing to have higher rates and the
question is how much they are going to hike,”  Eugene Belin ,
head of fixed income at Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said in a
telephone interview Dec. 2. “We’ve definitely seen the best of
the bond run as everything will be affected.”  Bank Rossii lowered its key interest rates 14 times to
revive a banking sector hobbled by recession and the global
credit crisis. The central bank now has a “free hand” to start
raising borrowing costs, First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev 
said Nov. 29. The government expects the annual rate of
inflation to exceed its 8 percent forecast this year.  Brazil has raised its benchmark interest rate three times
since April 28, to a record 10.75 percent. The yield on 2012
sovereign real debt has risen 47 basis points since July 30 to
12.19 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the comparable Russian Finance Ministry’s OFZ
bond rose 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 5.19
percent in the same period.  ‘Definitely Negative’  Russia’s refinancing rate has been at a record-low 7.75
percent since June, along with the 5 percent rate charged on
overnight repurchase loans and the 2.5 percent deposit rate, the
cost of interest earned by banks that store money with the
central bank overnight. Unlike Brazil, Russia doesn’t have a
single benchmark rate.  “The risk of rate hikes is definitely there, especially
after Ulyukayev’s comments,”  Aleksandra Evtifyeva , an economist
at VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of Russia’s second-
largest lender, said by telephone in Moscow on Dec. 2. “The
first effects will be felt in the bond market where prices will
decline. For the bond market it’s definitely negative.”  Russian inflation  was 7.5 percent in October, the highest
rate since January’s 8 percent rise and versus 5.2 percent in
Brazil and 4.4 percent in China, Bloomberg data show.  Ruble, Swaps  The ruble was little changed at 31.2950 yesterday, trading
near its strongest level since Nov. 25. Non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements and interest rate differentials and allow
companies to hedge against swings, showed the ruble at 31.5407
per dollar in three months.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 6 basis
points to 4.746 percent. The price of ruble notes due July 2015
was little changed, with the yield at 7.21 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 1 basis point to 149,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to pay.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 17
basis points more than similar contracts for Turkey , which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  Extra Yields  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 5 basis points to 215, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes show. The difference compares with 137
for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 174 for Brazil, which is
rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 31 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  While analysts at UniCredit SpA and Credit Agricole SA said
Bank Rossii may raise rates as soon as this month’s review, the
government is concerned higher borrowing costs may slow the
economic recovery.  The central bank shouldn’t raise rates yet even as
inflation accelerates, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach 
said Nov. 30, according to Interfax. Economic growth is still
“very fragile” and it’s not the right time to tighten monetary
policy, the newswire reported him as saying.  Shrinking Economy  After  contracting  a record 7.9 percent last year, the
economy of the world’s largest energy exporter grew at an annual
rate of 2.7 percent in the three months to the end of September,
the slowest quarter of growth this year.  Official borrowing costs will remain at record lows until
at least the middle of next year, said  Herbert Moos , deputy
chairman of VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest bank.  “We don’t see a reason to forecast a rate hike before mid-
2011,” Moos told reporters in Moscow Dec. 2.  Hungary became the first country in the region to lift
borrowing costs, raising its benchmark rate by 25 basis points,
to 5.5 percent on Nov. 29, after 14 cuts since October 2008. The
yield on the country’s five-year  forint-denominated bonds  has
risen 3 basis points since the increase, hitting 15-month high
of 8.34 percent on Nov. 30.  For the next three months, traders were pricing in 82 basis
points of increases to Russia’s key rates at the beginning of
last week, the most since November 2009, according to forward
rate agreements.  The yield on government ruble bonds due August 2012 jumped
18 basis points in November, the most since July, and has gained
5 basis points since the Nov. 26 rates decision, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two-year ruble debt of OAO Gazprom, Russia’s monopoly gas
exporter, yielded 6.43 percent yesterday, up 8 basis points
since Nov. 26. The  Micex index of ruble corporate bonds  lost
half a percentage point last month, the most since May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  