-- L’Oreal Heiress, Daughter End $1.3 Billion Gifts Fight
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-06T15:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/l-oreal-heiress-bettencourt-daughter-end-fight-over-1-3-billion-in-gifts.html
L’Oreal SA  heiress  Liliane Bettencourt  and her daughter agreed to end a three-year-old
dispute over about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in gifts which
France’s richest woman gave to a friend.  Bettencourt and daughter Francoise Bettencourt-Meyers
announced the settlement today without disclosing details. The
legal battle grew from a family dispute into a political scandal
after recordings by Bettencourt’s former butler sparked probes
into President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s 2007 election bid and
influence-peddling allegations against former Labor Minister
 Eric Woerth .  “On the political front, the damage has already been done,
you can’t put the pieces back together again,”  Laurent Dubois ,
a professor at Paris’s Institute of Political Studies, said in a
telephone interview. “In public opinion, the affair will always
be the symbol of the differences between the aristocrats in
their chateaux and the rest of society.”  The dispute shined a spotlight on the private life of one
of France’s richest and most powerful families. Bettencourt is
the daughter of the founder of L’Oreal, the world’s biggest
cosmetics company, and remains its biggest shareholder. As of
March 1, Bettencourt was worth 15.6 billion euros, according to
her spokeswoman. Forbes Magazine rated her the 17th richest
woman in the world this year.  ‘Embrace the Future’  The settlement “meets my wish to see the family united,”
Bettencourt, 88, said in the statement. “We can now embrace the
future together, for the good of all of us and for L’Oreal,
which is so much a part of my life.”  Bettencourt and her daughter both have seats on the  L’Oreal
board  and the family holds a 30 percent  stake in the company .  “This favorable development in their relationship is also
very positive for our group and its employees, given that the
family has also expressed its strong and joint commitment to
L’Oreal,”  Jean-Paul Agon , L’Oreal’s chief executive officer,
said in a statement to company employees about the settlement.  In December 2007, after Bettencourt’s husband died,
Bettencourt-Meyers said a servant approached her saying she’d
overheard the mother discussing the adoption of her friend,
photographer Francois-Marie Banier. Bettencourt-Meyers filed a
criminal complaint saying Banier had manipulated her mother into
awarding him gifts. When that complaint was dropped, she pursued
the case as a private prosecution.  The dispute provoked questions as to whether the
Bettencourt stake could shift hands. The family has a mutual
accord with Nestle SA, L’Oreal’s second-biggest holder, giving
each a right of first refusal should the other decide to sell.  Nestle Agreement  The settlement reduces the chance Nestle will take over
L’Oreal, said Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
Zurich. “The family is again in harmony and there is less need,
if there ever was one, for the family to dispose of the stake
where Nestle had the right of first refusal,” he said.  L’Oreal started 101 years ago as a small hair-dye maker,
and owes its name and origins to Aureole, a nontoxic hair
colorant Bettencourt’s father  Eugene Schueller  developed in 1907
for Paris hair salons. L’Oreal terminated a 10-year consulting
contract with Banier in September, one year ahead of schedule,
after investors in the cosmetics company filed a complaint
saying it was a misuse of company funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 