-- Adafruit Targets Tinkerers With ’Open-Source’ Electronics Kits
-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 2010-12-06T19:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/adafruit-targets-tinkerers-with-open-source-electronics-kits.html
Last month, when Microsoft launched
Kinect, an accessory that lets players control Xbox 360 games by
moving their bodies, Limor Fried posted a  challenge  on her
company’s blog. Adafruit Industries, which sells do-it-yourself
electronics kits, would give $1,000 to the first person to
unlock Kinect’s sophisticated motion sensors from the Xbox so
that any tinkerer could repurpose the technology for such
projects as building robots. In a week Adafruit had a winner, a
Spanish engineer who got Kinect to work with his laptop just
hours after it was released in  Europe . “Now it’s unlocked for
creativity,” Fried  wrote .  That could be the tagline for Adafruit, the company Fried
founded in 2005 while getting her masters in electrical
engineering and computer science at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology . The electronics kits she sells are “open-source
hardware,” meaning that Adafruit shares the designs that
companies usually keep secret. “We’re giving away all our
intellectual property for free,” says Fried, 31. The eight-
employee company will ship more than $3 million worth of kits
this year from its top-floor loft four blocks north of  Wall
Street  in New York’s financial district.  The  software industry  has embraced open source over the past
decade, with such companies as Red Hat built around code that is
public and free for others to modify. The idea is newer to
manufacturing. About 50 companies worldwide are selling open-
source hardware, estimates Ayah Bdeir, who helped organize the
first  Open Hardware Summit  in September at the  New York  Hall of
Science. The business case for publishing product designs is
“counterintuitive for any person [who] invests or works in
product development,” she says. These companies succeed by
providing support and service to customers that distinguishes
them from competitors who could make identical products using
their designs. “The world knows they are experts in what they
do, and [customers] want to purchase from them,” Bdeir says.  LEANING TOWARD THE FANCIFUL  The strategy helped Adafruit double its revenue from 2009 to
2010, and Fried projects it nearly to double again next year, to
$5 million to $6 million. With no outside investment, Fried
launched the company with $10,000 her parents designated for her
MIT tuition to buy parts for her first kit, a synthesizer. “As
soon as we made a profit, I had to take it out to pay tuition,”
she says. Adafruit now sells two dozen unique electronics kits
to hobbyists and students and ships some 100 orders a day. The
projects, which range from about $20 to $100, tend to be
fanciful, such as the MintyBoost, a portable charger for cell
phones and other devices that fits inside an Altoids tin, and
the TV-B-Gone, a remote that can shut off televisions in a 150-
foot radius.  For each kit, the company publishes the computer-aided design
files, schematics for circuit boards, and the firmware or
software code that runs inside a device. Anyone can use this
material under a  Creative Commons  license, provided they credit
the source and publish any related works under a similar open-
source license.  In addition to publishing designs, the company offers online
tutorials, and Fried co-hosts a weekly video chat with Adafruit
designer Phillip Torrone to teach lessons and answer questions.
“She’s really educating people. It’s almost like she’s running a
school in addition to everything else she’s doing,” says Alicia
Gibb, another organizer of the Open Hardware Summit who works as
“gadget wrangler” at Bug Labs, an open-source hardware company
developing wireless devices.  BORN OF FRUSTRATION  Fried’s first kit was born of frustration with a company that
would not sell her the design for a synthesizer she wanted to
build, even though the product was no longer on the market.
“This is completely nonsensical,” she says. “You’re not selling
it, you’re not building it, but you won’t let us build our own.
... We said fine. We’re going to design our own. We’re going to
design it much better than yours. And we’re going to release it
open source so that nobody ever has to go through that again.”  A similar spirit animated Adafruit’s campaign to unlock the
Kinect, a move Microsoft initially condemned with a statement
saying the company “does not condone the modification of its
products.” In response, Adafruit raised its reward for unlocking
Kinect to $3,000. Microsoft later changed its tone, noting that
Kinect had not been modified. “Someone has created drivers that
allow other devices to display the raw data that is output from
Kinect for  Xbox 360 . We are perfectly comfortable with hobbyists
taking advantage of that raw data,” the company said in a
statement to Bloomberg.  Adafruit’s effort resonated with engineers, who have used Kinect
to power virtual  puppet shows , record video in  three dimensions ,
and control vintage Super Mario Brothers  games . Instead of
investing thousands of dollars and hours to develop
sophisticated sensors that detect light, depth, motion, and
sound, they can take Kinect off the shelf for $150. Fried says
her mission as an entrepreneur is to spread the kind of
innovation that flows from opening up electronics and learning
how they work. “We have so little connection to what’s in these
plastic boxes,” she says. “The point of the company is to teach
people and to learn. It’s not just to buy and consume.”  To contact the reporter on this story: John Tozzi at
 jtozzi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  