-- Union Bancaire Settles as Madoff Trustee Sues Ponzi Scheme`s `Net Winners'
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/madoff-trustee-union-bancaire-settle-bankruptcy-claims-for-500-million.html
Union Bancaire Privee, a private
Swiss bank accused of profiting from  Bernard Madoff ’s fraud,
agreed to pay as much as $500 million to settle claims by the
trustee liquidating the con man’s bankrupt investment firm.  Under the settlement, which must be approved by a
bankruptcy judge, UBP will pay $470 million to benefit Madoff’s
victims. The deal provides for an additional payment of as much
as $30 million, according to court papers.  “The UBP settlement agreement is the largest feeder fund
bank cash settlement to date and the first major international
bank settlement,”  Irving Picard , the New York lawyer appointed
as trustee, said yesterday in a statement.  The settlement brings to $2 billion Picard’s recoveries for
creditors of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC. The
agreement follows Picard’s filing of a $9 billion claim against
 HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest lender, on Dec. 5. In the
suit, Picard claimed the bank was aware of concerns that
Madoff’s investment business was fraudulent and didn’t take
steps to protect investors.  The Union Bancaire agreement releases claims against it and
a related company, M-Invest Ltd., a Cayman Islands corporation
it set up to invest money with Madoff. Union Bancaire and
M-Invest don’t admit any liability in the settlement, according
to the agreement.  Planned Lawsuit  Picard reached the settlement before filing a suit that
would have claimed $1 billion from Union Bancaire and M-Invest,
he said in court papers filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan.  “Although UBP strongly denies that it had any liability to
the trustee, it has agreed to the settlement in order to protect
its clients and definitively close this chapter,” the bank said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances.  Including the HSBC suit, Picard is seeking a total of more
than $33 billion from Madoff and his family, former employees,
banks, feeder funds and investors alleged to have profited from
the fraud. That amount is more than the estimated $20 billion in
principal lost by Madoff investors.  Trustee’s Deadline  Picard faces a Dec. 11 deadline to file claims against
parties alleged to have profited from Madoff’s fraud.  HSBC said in a statement that Picard’s allegations are
“unfounded” and that it will defend itself against them in
court.  Last month, Picard sued  UBS AG  for at least $2 billion and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  for $6.4 billion, claiming both firms aided
Madoff’s fraud. UBS and  JPMorgan  said they bear no
responsibility for Madoff’s crimes.  Picard has sued hundreds of so-called “net-winner”
investors who withdrew more money from their Madoff accounts
than they invested.  “Why go after the innocent victims?” asked Ron Stein,
president of the Network for Investor Action and Protection,
which was founded by former Madoff investors. Stein, who has
relatives who lost money to Madoff, said the net winners have in
fact been losers in Picard’s oversight of the Madoff case.  Many in the group are people who had to withdraw from their
accounts to pay taxes or to meet living expenses, Stein said.  The net winner designation comes from a decision by Picard,
endorsed by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , who is
overseeing the case, to consider only invested principal, not
the phony profits reflected in statements Madoff sent to
customers, in determining claims. That decision is on appeal.  New York Mets  Among the wealthier net winners in the Madoff case are
Sterling Equities Inc., owner of the New York Mets baseball
team, the firm’s chief executive officer,  Jeff Wilpon , and Mets
LP.  Picard reported that Mets LP invested $522.7 million in two
accounts with Madoff and withdrew $570.5 million during an
unspecified period.  In an e-mail yesterday, Picard declined to discuss how much
money he is seeking in court claims or how much he expects to
recover for former Madoff investors. Picard said it is
“premature to discuss whether there will be any surplus and, if
so, how it will be distributed.”  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 