-- Global Warming Claims Against AEP, Utilities to Get U.S. High Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-12-06T19:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/aep-utilities-get-u-s-supreme-court-review-on-warming-suit.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  said it will
hear an appeal by four power companies including  American
Electric Power Co. , agreeing to decide whether they must face a
suit by states seeking a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.  The eight states, including New York and California, say
plants operated by AEP,  Xcel Energy Inc.,   Duke Energy Corp. ,
 Southern Co.  and the  Tennessee Valley Authority  contribute to
global warming by pumping 650 million tons of carbon dioxide
into the atmosphere each year. The suit seeks to force cuts in
emissions from the plants.  A ruling barring the suit would be a victory for businesses
beyond the utilities involved in the case. Trade groups
representing automakers, oil companies, farmers, mining
companies, chemical companies and manufacturers all filed briefs
urging Supreme Court intervention, in some cases saying their
members might face similar lawsuits.  The lower court ruling “has staggering economic
implications,” the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said in a court
filing supporting the utilities.  The states contend that the carbon dioxide emissions are a
“public nuisance,” invoking a legal theory more typically used
in cases of localized pollution. In letting the suit go forward,
along with a similar one filed by three land trusts, the New
York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a trial
judge who had concluded that the dispute belonged in the
political arena, rather than the courts.  Avenue Threatened  Supreme Court review threatens to strip environmentalists
of one avenue that might have led to new limits on greenhouse-
gas emissions. The case doesn’t affect the Environmental
Protection Agency’s efforts to regulate emissions, which include
tougher  fuel-economy standards  for vehicles and a requirement
that new and modified industrial polluters, such as power plants,
use the “best available” technology to limit greenhouse gases.  “Public nuisance law would be an unwelcome, unpredictable
and unwieldy addition to the utility regulatory landscape,”
 Christine Tezak , a senior analyst for Robert W. Baird & Co. Inc.,
a Milwaukee-based asset management fund, said in a note to
clients. “It is better for the industry if the EPA or Congress
manages this issue, instead of the courts.”  Efforts to restrict carbon emissions took a blow in last
month’s congressional elections. Republicans won control of the
House of Representatives and gained seats in the Senate, likely
dooming prospects for enactment of so-called cap-and-trade
legislation.  Important Courts  “With some in Congress attacking EPA and the Clean Air Act,
the federal courts are more important than ever to protect the
health and welfare of millions of Americans put in danger by
these power companies’ enormous carbon pollution,”  David Doniger , policy director for the climate center at the Natural
Resources Defense Council, a New York-based environmental group,
said in a  blog post .  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  didn’t take part in today’s
decision to hear the case, signaling that eight justices will
rule on it and raising the possibility of a 4-4 deadlock.
Sotomayor heard arguments in the case as a judge on the 2nd
Circuit, though she didn’t take part in the appeals court’s
ruling.  The case will put the Obama administration in the position
of arguing alongside the power industry. In a brief filed on
behalf of the TVA, acting U.S. Solicitor General  Neal Katyal 
said the courts should defer to Congress and the executive
branch on what steps to take against climate change.  Carbon Dioxide  Katyal had urged the court to set aside the lower court
ruling and order reconsideration, rather than granting a hearing.  Carbon dioxide from the utilities represents about 25
percent of emissions from U.S. power plants and 10 percent of
emissions from all U.S. sources, the states said in their 2004
lawsuit. Vermont, Rhode Island, Iowa, Wisconsin, Connecticut and
New York City are also plaintiffs in the case.  In their appeal, the companies argue that the states lacked
the legal right, or standing, to sue because they can’t show
that they were harmed by anything the utilities did or that they
would benefit from a ruling against the power companies.  “A court is not a regulator and may not enter relief
against a particular defendant where the plaintiff’s injury is
not traceable to that defendant and where relief against the
defendant would not redress that injury,” the companies argued.  Reduced Emissions  State officials led by New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  argue that they have done enough by alleging that a
reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from the plants would ease
climate change. They point to a 2007 Supreme Court decision
backing a state suit that sought to make the EPA take steps
against auto emissions.  “While it may be true that regulating motor-vehicle
emissions will not by itself reverse global warming, it by no
means follows that we lack jurisdiction to decide whether EPA
has a duty to take steps to slow or reduce it,” the five-
justice majority said in that case.  The case, which the court will consider and decide in the
first half of 2011, is American Electric Power v. Connecticut,
10-174.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 