-- Airbus Middle East in Talks With Two Possible Buyers for A380 VIP Version
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-12-06T16:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/airbus-a380-superjumbo-lines-up-two-more-buyers-for-vip-version.html
Airbus SAS , the world’s largest
planemaker, is talking with two private customers about the sale
of its A380 superjumbo, the planemaker’s president for the
Middle East region said.  “We’re preparing offers,”  Habib Fekih  said today at a
briefing in Dubai. “The offers will be submitted in coming
weeks and months for two private operators.”  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , the Saudi billionaire whose net
worth is $19.4 billion according to Forbes magazine, is so far
the only party to order the A380 outfitted in so-called VIP
specification. Airbus has won 234 orders for the plane, which
normally seats about 525 people in a three-class configuration.
Fekih declined to identify the private operators with which
Airbus is talking or say where they’re based.  The list price for A380s is $346 million, though private
buyers could spend considerably more than that after choosing
furnishings. The plane can house as many as three bedrooms,
private lounges, bathrooms, offices, a steam bath and exercise
machines in a VIP set-up, for example.  Al Jaber, a transport group based in the United Arab
Emirates, signed a preliminary agreement in 2007 for the
purchase of two A380s for corporate use. Mark Pierotti, chief
executive of Al Jaber, said in a telephone interview today that
the company changed that agreement, buying two Airbus A319
corporate jets instead of the superjumbos.  Air Show  Fekih, speaking on the eve of the Middle East Business
Aviation  air show , running Dec. 7 through 9 in Dubai, also said
that Airbus has several prospective customers in the region for
the A320 Neo. The Neo is a version of the planemaker’s single-
aisle plane that will be available in 2016, offering new engines
for greater fuel efficiency.  “Many airlines have already expressed an interest, many
airlines also from the Middle East,” he said. “We’re
optimistic to have a lot of customers in the region.”  Fekih identified Qatar Airways Ltd. as a potential buyer of
the Neo. Qatar Chief Executive Officer Akbar Al-Baker said Nov.
25 in Paris that the carrier may be “one of the launch
customers” for the model.  Airbus expects to deliver 16 corporate jets this year, he
said. The jets are single-aisle A320 planes that seat 19 to 90
passengers, compared with the usual 107 to 185 passengers
carried when the planes are configured for commercial airliners.
Airbus has sold about 170 corporate planes to date.  “If we get the level of orders we’re expecting in 2011 and
2012 we can sustain this level of deliveries for the coming five
years,” Fekih said.  The planemaker today said Rizon Jet of Doha, Qatar, will
become a new operator of its corporate jet, managing the plane
on behalf of a Gulf customer that ordered it earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net 
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 