-- American Tower, MTN Group Announce Plan to Set Up Joint Venture in Ghana
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-12-06T08:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/american-tower-mtn-group-announce-plan-to-set-up-joint-venture-in-ghana.html
MTN Group Ltd. , Africa’s largest
mobile-phone company, and antenna operator  American Tower Corp. 
said they will set up a joint venture that will manage MTN’s
infrastructure in Ghana.  MTN will sell as many as 1,876 transmission towers in the
west African nation to the new company, TowerCo Ghana, for as
much as $428.3 million, the companies said today in Johannesburg
stock exchange statements. American Tower will pay as much as
$218.5 million for 51 percent of the new company, which it will
manage, while MTN will own the rest.  MTN’s Ghanaian division will be “the anchor tenant” on
the existing towers, and TowerCo Ghana will build at least 400
more sites for both MTN Ghana and other wireless operators in
the country in the next five years, the companies said. The
transaction is expected to be completed by early 2011.  Phone companies in Africa are looking to cut costs as
increased competition and falling call charges erode profit
margins. South Africa’s telecommunications regulator ordered
staged reductions in October for termination rates charged by
Johannesburg-based competitors  MTN  and  Vodacom Group Ltd .
through 2013.  ‘Absolute Sense’  “Infrastructure sharing makes absolute sense for MTN,”
 Phuthuma Nhleko , the Johannesburg-based company’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement. “The Ghanaian market
has presented us with an opportunity to partner with a leading
independent global tower operator.”  MTN  rose as much as 1.56 rand, or 1.2 percent, to 128.39
rand and was up 0.3 percent as of 10:48 a.m. in Johannesburg
trading. The stock has risen 7.9 percent this year.  American Tower , which is based in Boston, owns and operates
more than 33,000 communications sites in the U.S., Latin America
and India. The company said on Nov. 5 that it agreed to buy as
many as 3,200 towers from Cell C Ltd., South Africa’s third-
largest mobile-phone company, for about $430 million.  The TowerCo venture “reflects the execution of our
strategy to invest in selected African markets with strong
wireless growth potential and a positive investment climate,”
American Tower CEO Jim Taiclet said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 