-- Anti-Corruption Chief Thomas Pressed to Answer Questions Over Integrity
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 2010-12-06T12:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/anti-corruption-chief-thomas-pressed-to-answer-questions-over-integrity.html
India’s Supreme Court ordered the
country’s corruption watchdog chief to respond to arguments that
his former position as the top telecommunications bureaucrat
makes him unfit to oversee a probe into the 2008 sale of
wireless airwaves.  The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice S.H. Kapadia
also issued a notice to the government on public interest
litigation challenging the appointment of P.J. Thomas as  Central
Vigilance Commissioner . Thomas, 59, has separately been named in
court documents relating to the import of palmolein when he was
food secretary in southern Kerala state.  Petitions filed with the apex court contend that Thomas
cannot be considered as having “impeccable integrity” and
faces a “conflict of interest” over the spectrum investigation
as he was secretary in the department of telecommunications from
October 2009 until September.  “I am morally clear,”  Thomas  told reporters last week in
New Delhi, adding that in Kerala he had implemented a decision
taken by the state government. “I am very impartial and take
judicious decisions as per the law on every matter that comes to
me,” he said.  Former Telecommunications Minister Andimuthu Raja, resigned
two days before the country’s chief  auditor  said in a Nov. 16
report to parliament that the sale of wireless telephony
licenses at below-market rates may have lowered government
revenues by 1.4 trillion rupees ($31 billion).  India’s parliament has been stalled for about three weeks
as opposition members demand a cross-party probe into the
spectrum allocation. While the  Supreme Court  is hearing public
interest petitions on alleged irregularities in the sale of
airwaves, the  Central Bureau of Investigation  is also
investigating the matter.  The judges today set Jan. 27 for the next hearing of the
public interest petitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
P.S. Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  