-- Market Maker Rules Aimed at Ending Stub Quotes in Stocks Take Effect Today
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/market-maker-rules-aimed-at-ending-stub-quotes-in-stocks-take-effect-today.html
Quoting obligations aimed at
improving prices in equity markets take effect today as part of
regulators’ attempt to prevent a repeat of the May 6 crash.  The  rules  require market makers to submit bids and offers
within 8 percent of the prevailing price for the biggest U.S.
stocks. They ban stub quotes, or placeholder requests that range
from pennies to thousands of dollars that were adopted in
response to rules requiring traders to maintain bids and offers.
Stub quotes resulted in a “significant proportion” of the
almost 20,800 trades voided on May 6 when $862 billion in equity
value was briefly erased in 20 minutes, regulators said.  “The rules will lead to the removal of stub quotes and the
black eye stub quotes were on May 6,” said  Chris Isaacson ,
chief operating officer of Bats Global Markets, the Kansas City,
Missouri-based exchange operator that accounted for 10.2 percent
of U.S. stock volume last month. “They were an anachronism.
This is a good change for the market.”  Stub quotes were first employed on Archipelago Exchange in
2002 when the venue joined the Intermarket Trading System, which
operated an order-routing network linking exchanges. ITS
required markets to submit two-sided quotes, or both bids and
offers, according to  Jamie Selway , a managing director at
Investment Technology Group Inc. in New York and the chief
economist at ArcaEx at the time. The venue began operating as a
so-called electronic communication network in 1997.  Old Regulation  “Stub quotes were an artifact of old regulation,” Selway
said. “They were never meant to trade.” The new rules will
also establish a buffer of liquidity that will “eliminate the
clearly erroneous trades that trigger trading halts,” he said,
referring to the circuit breakers introduced in June for
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  companies and later expanded to the
Russell 1000 Index and more than 300 exchange-traded funds.  ITS was disbanded in 2007 when the Securities and Exchange
Commission revamped equities trading and forced the New York
Stock Exchange to become faster and more automated. NYSE bought
Archipelago Holdings Inc. in 2006 in a deal that made the 214-
year-old Big Board a publicly traded company. It became  NYSE
Euronext  in a merger completed in 2007.  As trading in the first half of the last decade moved away
from dealer markets and toward what’s known as limit-order
books, in which liquidity comes from brokers and their
customers, some market makers that had two-sided quoting
requirements began widening their spreads, or the difference
between the bids and offers they submitted to exchanges, Selway
said. Stub quotes eliminated the need to repeatedly update one
side of the quote and made the job easier, Selway said.  Best Prices  The new rules probably won’t increase  liquidity  at the best
prices in the market, Isaacson said. By requiring quotes that
guarantee liquidity, they will avoid the problem of voided
trades that occurred on May 6, he said.  NYSE was the sole venue that didn’t cancel trades that day.
Designated market makers and curbs that operated only on that
exchange prevented share prices from plunging on NYSE, often by
pausing trading in stocks for a few seconds or minutes.  For securities subject to single-stock circuit breakers,
market makers will now have to place buy orders within 8 percent
of the national best bid and place sell requests no higher than
8 percent of the national best offer between 9:45 a.m. and 3:35
p.m. New York time.  Wider Band  For the first 15 minutes and last 25 minutes of the trading
day, market makers must quote within 20 percent of the national
best bid or offer, or NBBO. If a stock isn’t in the program of
trading curbs, firms must quote within 30 percent of the NBBO.
The safeguards halt trading for five minutes if a security moves
10 percent within a five-minute period.  “It’s not a big stretch for us to add 100 shares on either
side of the market for the vast majority of issues,” said  Jamil Nazarali , a senior managing director and head of electronic
trading at a market-making subsidiary of  Knight Capital Group
Inc . “Where it may be an issue is for those firms that don’t do
a lot of trading, calling themselves market makers and hanging
out with a very wide quote. They’ll have to decide whether they
want to be market makers.”  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. ’s main exchange had 136 market
makers in October, the most of any venue though down from 143 a
year ago and 429 in 2000,  according  to the company. The number
decreased annually in all but one year this decade as some firms
merged or dropped out of an increasingly competitive business.  Nasdaq, Bats  Market makers on venues such as Nasdaq and Bats will be
able to use exchange systems to automatically update their
quotes to ensure they comply with the new requirements while
limiting the risks as prices move. The exchanges will update
bids and offers so they’re within set ranges of the NBBO. While
NYSE Arca ended its program that facilitated bids at 1 cent and
sell orders at twice the stock’s last closing price, it’s
developing a system that allows firms to automatically quote a
certain percentage away from the NBBO,  according  to a notice.  The quoting requirements could pose risks for some firms in
less-liquid stocks, said Nazarali, who’s based in Jersey City,
New Jersey. For those shares, the spread between the national
best bid and offer may be more than 60 percent of the share
price, he said. To comply with the new rules, market makers will
have to quote within that range, forcing them to buy at higher
prices or sell for less than they would prefer, he said.  “It’s going to force a lot of people who want to be market
makers to post much tighter quotes,” Nazarali said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 