-- Harvard's Governing Board Expanding to 13 Members in Wake of Record Losses
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2010-12-06T20:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/harvard-s-governing-board-expanding-to-13-members-in-wake-of-record-losses.html
The managing board of Harvard
University will almost double in size, adding seats for the
first time since the board’s creation in 1650, after a financial
crisis forced Harvard to borrow $2.5 billion.  The body, known as the Harvard Corporation, will also
establish term limits for members and create three committees to
focus on finance, facilities and governance, the university in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said today in a  statement  on its
website. The governing board is now composed of six members plus
the president,  Drew Faust , and will grow to 13 members in two or
three years.  Harvard, which had a $27.6 billion endowment as of June 30,
lost a record 27 percent on its investments in the year ended
June 30, 2009. The university agreed to pay almost $1 billion to
terminate wrong-way bets it made on interest-rate swaps, and it
borrowed $2.5 billion in December 2008 because investments were
tied up in hard-to-sell assets. That mismanagement showed
Harvard Corporation wasn’t organized to anticipate and prevent
problems, said Mark Williams, who teaches risk management at
Boston University and has studied Harvard’s finances.  “Harvard is admitting it had a weakness,” Williams said
in a telephone interview. “Harvard had a significant corporate-
governance issue, and the fact they were willing to bet $1
billion and lose indicates that they didn’t understand what they
were getting into.”  ‘Special Emphasis’  Harvard Corporation oversees Boston-based Harvard
Management Co., which manages Harvard’s endowment under the
direction of  Jane Mendillo , president and chief executive
officer.  The board, formally named the President and Fellows of
Harvard College, needs to grow to reflect the size and
complexity of Harvard, and it should place a “special
emphasis” on safeguarding its finances, the Harvard committee
that recommended the body’s expansion said in a  report  today.  “The changes we’re pursuing will give us greater scope to
see the big picture and take the long view,”  Robert Reischauer ,
a member of the corporation and president of the  Urban
Institute , a Washington research group, said in the statement.  The composition of the board made dissent difficult, said
Harry Lewis, a Harvard computer-science professor and former
dean of Harvard College.  ‘Healthy’ Expansion  “The number of people with experience in the world of
finance was very limited,” Lewis said in a telephone interview.
“In a small board, the natural tendency is to defer to the
expertise of the people who are supposed to be experts. With
larger numbers, people will have to explain and defend
themselves more, and that will be healthy.”  Harvard’s size demands board members who can commit time to
understand the university, said Frederick Abernathy, an
engineering professor who co-wrote an  opinion article  with Lewis
in the Boston Globe last December about corporate governance at
Harvard. Lifetime appointments meant members couldn’t focus
solely on Harvard, he said. The committee is proposing term
limits of six years with a possible six-year extension.  “The notion to have term limits is terrific,” said
Abernathy, who has been a student or professor at Harvard since
1953, in a telephone interview. “For six years, I can say ‘no’
to everything else and do this.”  Other members of the corporation’s governing board are:
 Nannerl Keohane , a former president of Duke University in
Durham, North Carolina;  Patricia King , a professor of Georgetown
University in Washington; William Lee, a lawyer in Boston;  James Rothenberg , chairman of Capital Research & Management Co., a Los
Angeles-based investment company and the chairman of Harvard
Management; and former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury  Robert Rubin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Staley  in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  