-- Massey Energy Surges as CEO Retirement Spurs Merger Speculation
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2010-12-06T15:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/massey-energy-climbs-as-retirement-of-blankenship-spurs-merger-speculation.html
Massey Energy Co. , owner of the West
Virginia mine where 29 people died in April, surged after it
said Chief Executive Officer Don Blankenship will retire at the
end of this month.  Massey jumped $1.73, or 3.4 percent, to $52.15 at 10:08
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have risen 24 percent this year.  Blankenship, 60, has worked at Massey for 28 years and
served as chairman and chief executive officer since Nov. 30,
2000, the Richmond, Virginia-based company said. He will be
succeeded by Baxter F. Phillips Jr. Last month, Massey said its
board of directors ordered a review of strategic alternatives, a
process that may lead to a sale.  “We believe MEE will be taken out,”  David Khani  and
 Mitesh Thakkar , analysts at FBR Capital Inc. in Arlington,
Virginia, wrote in a report today. "CEO Don Blankenship stepping
down should accelerate this action."  Acquisition  inquiries began earlier this year after the
April 5 accident at the Upper Big Branch mine near Montcoal,
West Virginia. The mishap was the worst U.S. coal mining
disaster in 40 years.  Blankenship, who began his  career  with the company as an
office manager in 1982, has expressed reservations about the
company’s potential sale. Last month, he said merger and
acquisition options would be “fully vetted” when the board met
at the Greenbrier Resort in White Sulphur Springs, West
Virginia, Nov. 21.  ‘Increases Likelihood’  “Don’s departure increases the likelihood that something
will get done,” said  Brian Gamble , an analyst at Simmons & Co.
International Ltd. in Houston. “I’m still of the opinion that
Massey will be acquired rather than being the acquirer.”  Massey, a company that’s been operating for 94 years, is
the largest coal producer in Central Appalachia with 2.8 billion
tons of reserves, 1.3 billion of which are metallurgical coal,
used to produce steel.  BHP Billiton Ltd. is seeking an 8 percent increase in
coking coal prices to $225 a ton for the next quarter in talks
with Japanese steelmakers, according to a report in Nikkei
newspaper. The contract is regarded as the industry’s benchmark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at  