-- AT&T, Verizon Credit Ratings Reduced by S&P on Debt
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-12-06T21:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/at-t-long-term-corporate-credit-rating-cut-to-a-from-a-by-s-p.html
AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon Communications
Inc.  long-term corporate credit ratings were cut by Standard &
Poor’s, which said the two biggest U.S. phone companies won’t be
able to reduce their ratio of debt to earnings quickly enough.  Each company was lowered one step to A-, four levels above
junk status, S&P said today in separate statements. The ratings
company removed both from its “negative implications”
designation. The ratings are S&P’s lowest in 20 years for
Verizon and seven years for AT&T.  The carriers are trying to cope with losses in land-line
clients by adding more customers for mobile, TV and Internet
service. The fixed-line unit at Dallas-based AT&T is
“pressured” by competition from cable companies and wireless
carriers, and Verizon faces similar conditions, S&P said.  S&P said it expects share repurchases by AT&T to limit its
debt reduction. Verizon, based in New York, will trim maturing
debt in the next two years using cash from operations, which
would provide “stability” to its rating, S&P said.  “AT&T continued to maintain a strong balance sheet,
deliver strong cash flows and reduce debt” through last
quarter,  McCall Butler , a spokeswoman for the carrier, said in
an e-mail. “We have continued to have no difficulty accessing
the credit markets at favorable rates.”  AT&T  fell  19 cents to $28.30 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Verizon dropped 1 cent to $32.89.  ‘Significant Strides’  “Verizon has made significant strides in debt reduction
over the past two years, and we are very comfortable with our
efforts to balance our ongoing reduction in leverage and our
return of capital to our shareholders,”  Bob Varettoni , a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.  Credit-default swaps on Verizon Wireless Capital, a Verizon
unit, fell after  Shaw Wu , a Kaufman Brothers LP analyst, said in
a report today that Verizon Wireless may reach an agreement with
Apple Inc. to prevent Sprint Nextel Corp. and T-Mobile USA from
offering the iPhone. Verizon Wireless, the biggest U.S. mobile-
phone carrier, is co-owned by Verizon Communications and
Vodafone Group Plc.  The swaps fell 6.5 basis points to 47.3 at 2:30 p.m. in New
York, according to data provider CMA. Swaps on Verizon
Communications fell 1.1 basis points to 73.1. Credit swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  