-- Mauritius Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Rate at 4.75% to Help Growth
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2010-12-06T14:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/mauritius-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-at-4-75-.html
Mauritius’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged because of concerns a debt
crisis in Europe may harm the country’s economic recovery, even
as inflation accelerates.  The repo rate will stay at 4.75 percent, the Port Louis-
based Bank of Mauritius said in a statement on its website
today. The central bank cut the rate by 1 percentage point in
September to boost economic growth and central bank Governor
 Rundheersing Bheenick  said it would remain unchanged for two
quarters.  The Indian Ocean island nation’s government and central
bank are worried a crisis in Europe may slow its expansion.
Europe is the source of two-thirds of Mauritius’s tourism and
the destination for 71 percent of its manufactured exports,
according to the statistics office.  “The sovereign debt crisis remains a major source of
uncertainty for growth in the euro area, a major export market
for Mauritius,” the central bank said in the statement.  The economy will expand about 4.2 percent this year, it
said, in line with previous forecasts.  Mauritius’s annual measure rose at a rate of 3.9 percent in
November, compared with 3.2 percent a month earlier, according
to data released by the Central Statistics Office today.
Bheenick had warned that inflation will quicken.  Inflation Risks  The monetary policy committee “discussed alternative
interest rate scenarios,” the central bank said. “However, MPC
members felt that the balance of risks did not warrant a change
in the key repo rate at this meeting.”  The decision was expected due to the need to keep an
“equilibrium between inflation and growth,” Raj Makoond,
executive director of the Joint Economic Council, which
represents Mauritian private industry, said in a phone interview
from Port-Louis. “But there may be some risks that inflation
goes up next year,” he said.  Mauritius earns most of its foreign currency from tourism,
and exports of sugar, clothing and textiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kamlesh Bhuckory  in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  