-- Australia Floods Damage Crops, Force Evacuations; Coal Shipments Disrupted
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-12-06T05:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/australia-floods-damage-crops-force-evacuations-coal-shipments-disrupted.html
Flooding and heavy rainfall in
Australia damaged wheat crops, disrupted coal production and
caused communities to be evacuated as eastern states prepared
for further wet weather this week.  The rain may cut the quality of more than 40 percent of the
country’s wheat crop, according to estimates by National
Australia Bank Ltd.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-largest
mining company, said today coal mines in central Queensland
state had partially resumed operation after rains.  Wheat futures in Chicago rallied to the highest level in
four months on concern that the weather in Australia, the
fourth-largest shipper, may reduce global supply of high-quality
milling grain. The rain had wiped as much as A$500 million ($496
million) off the expected A$3.2 billion value of New South Wales
winter crops, state Premier  Kristina Keneally  said today.  “The weather we have been getting over the past couple of
weeks has been terrible,” Michael Creed, an agribusiness
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne, said by
phone. “Harvest conditions are shocking.”  Rainfall of between 25 millimeters (1 inch) and 100
millimeters may extend from eastern South Australia to southern
Queensland in the four days ending Dec. 9, the Bureau of
Meteorology  forecast . Flood warnings are current for rivers in
New South Wales, its northern neighboring state Queensland and
Victoria to its south.  La Nina  The deluge in Australia, caused by a La Nina event that
cools the Pacific Ocean and increases rainfall, helped drive
wheat futures 13 percent higher in Chicago last week. The March-
delivery contract gained 1.8 percent to $7.93 a bushel at 3:56
p.m. Melbourne time.  Australia had its wettest September-to-November spring on
record, according to the Bureau of Meteorology. Thirty-four
shires in New South Wales have been declared natural-disaster
areas since flooding in October, Keneally said.  New South Wales is forecast to be Australia’s largest wheat
producing state this year. Other crops affected by the weather
include barley, canola, chickpeas and lupins, Emergency Services
Minister  Steve Whan  said at the weekend.  More than 10 million metric tons of the Australian crop may
be downgraded to lower-quality classes and most of that could
become feed grade, Creed said. National Australia Bank estimates
total production at 23.8 million tons.  Coal Supply  Macarthur Coal Ltd., Aquila Resources Ltd. and Vale SA said
last week they had declared force majeure, while Xstrata Plc
shut part of its rail system and said it would use stockpiles to
supply customers. Force majeure is a legal clause invoked by
companies when they can’t meet obligations because of
circumstances beyond their control.  The State Emergency  Sevice  in New South Wales evacuated
1,800 people and said up to 3,900 had been isolated in rural
areas. More wet weather this week may also swell rivers, SES
spokesman Phil Campbell said by phone.  “The indication is that we will have a decent band of
rain, particularly through Thursday and that rain has the
potential to raise river levels further,” he said.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia cut its estimate of wheat
exports to 14 million tons in 2010-2011, from an earlier 16
million tons. “Many in the industry suggest the disruptions to
the harvest this year and the implications for grain quality are
the worst in a lifetime,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist
at the bank, said in a report yesterday.  Wheat Forecast  The  Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics  may lower its estimate of the nation’s harvest in a
report due tomorrow from 25 million tons and pare its forecast
on exports from 18 million tons, Commonwealth’s Mathews said.  “Australia is traditionally a producer of quality milling
wheat,” he said, referring to the grade used in bread, pasta
and noodles. The rains may lower the quality of 6 million tons
of milling wheat produced in the east coast, with as much as 35
percent of the harvest, or 5 million tons, at risk of being
classified as feed-quality, he said.  Queensland Sugar Ltd., which ships more than 90 percent of
the country’s sugar, also today cut its export forecast to 2.2
million tons because of weather, compared with an outlook
earlier in the year of as much as 3 million tons.  Australia’s agricultural industry expanded 18.5 percent
last quarter, driven by “strong crop forecasts,” the Bureau of
Statistics said last week in a report that showed the economy
expanded 0.2 percent from three months earlier. That was the
worst performance since a contraction at the end of 2008.  Mick Keogh , executive director of the Australian Farm
Institute, said that if the data “for agriculture were
corrected for the loss of value in the crop sector due to the
rain, it is highly likely Australia would have experienced
negative change in GDP for the quarter,” The Australian
newspaper reported on Dec. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Pugh at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  