-- Australia Raises Wheat Output Forecast to Record, Cuts Exports Estimate
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-12-07T06:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/australia-raises-wheat-harvest-forecast-to-record-cuts-exports.html
Australia, the fourth-largest wheat
exporter, raised its production forecast to a record because of
favorable growing conditions earlier this year, amid concerns
that recent heavy rain will reduce crop quality.  Output may be 26.8 million metric tons in the 2010 to 2011
season, compared with a September prediction of 25.1 million
tons, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics
& Sciences forecast today in a report. Exports may be 16 million
tons, compared with the previous estimate of 18.4 million tons.  Wheat futures in Chicago rose to the highest price in four
months this week on concern that heavy rainfall is delaying the
Australian harvest and damaging crops. The country had its
wettest September-to-November spring on record, according to the
Bureau of Meteorology and further heavy falls are forecast in
grain producing areas this week.  “The numbers for production look extraordinarily high,”
Luke Mathews, a commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia said by phone from Sydney. “If Abares’ numbers are
correct, the supply of feedgrain is going to be significantly
higher than the market had presumed.”  Wheat for March delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade rose
1.2 percent to $8.0275 a bushel today, taking this year’s
advance to 48 percent.  Export Cut  The cut in the shipments forecast reflected reduced
production in export-focused Western Australia because of dry
weather, Bruce Bowen, general manager of agriculture and food at
the Canberra-based forecasting  bureau , said by phone. The
state’s output may drop to 3.6 million tons this year, compared
with a September forecast of 6.1 million tons and production
last season of 8.1 million tons.  Harvesting problems and grain-quality downgrades may also
curb shipments from the east, he said. The production forecast
assumed the weather would allow crops to be harvested, he said.  “Up until recently, many cropping regions in eastern
Australia have had near-ideal growing conditions and this has
boosted crop yields to record levels,” Paul Morris, acting
executive director of the bureau, said in a statement.  Australia’s total winter crop output may reach a record
43.2 million tons, up from the September forecast of 40.7
million tons and 22 percent higher than last season boosted by
the eastern states, according to the report.  Heavy Rainfall  The full impact of recent heavy  rainfall , which has delayed
harvesting and reduced the quality of wheat and barley crops,
won’t be known until more of the harvest was completed in
southern regions, the report said.  As much as 35 percent, or 5 million tons, of the east-coast
wheat crop could be downgraded to feed quality,  Mathews  wrote in
a report on Dec. 5. The bank, which estimates the national crop
at 22.3 million tons, cut its export forecast to 14 million tons
from 16 million tons.  Growers delivering feed grain into  AWB’s  eastern Australian
marketing pool may receive A$271 a ton this season, up A$2 from
a week earlier, the company said in a statement today. The price
forecast for the Australian Premium White marketing pool rose
A$48 to A$362 a ton.  Still, there was significant interest in feed wheat from
customers in Asia and the Pacific who would normally source from
countries such as Canada and Ukraine, said AWB General Manager
Commodities  Mitch Morison  in a statement.  The U.S. is forecast to be the largest wheat exporter in
2010-2011 followed by the European Union, Canada and Australia,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  