-- Australian Milling Wheat Exports May Drop to 3-Year Low on Rain, Drought
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-12-06T07:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/australian-milling-wheat-exports-may-drop-to-3-year-low-on-rain-drought.html
Milling-wheat exports from Australia,
the fourth-largest shipper, may drop to the lowest level in
three years because of drought in the country’s west and rain
damage in eastern states.  Shipments of milling-quality wheat, used in bread, pasta
and noodles, may decline in 2010-2011 to the lowest level since
2007-2008, when total exports fell to less than 10 million
metric tons,  Wayne Gordon , an analyst at Rabobank Groep NV in
Sydney, said by phone today.  Wheat futures gained to a four-month high on concern that
rain is slowing the Australian east-coast harvest and damaging
crops after drought cut output in the west. High-quality wheat
may be “in short supply” in 2010-2011 as rain in Europe and
drought in Russia also curbed production, forecaster Gail
Martell said in a report on Dec. 1. Unharvested crops in South
Australia and Victoria may be less rain-affected, Gordon said.  “There are some big crops to come in and it is just a
matter of what happens in those regions,” he said.  Wheat for March delivery in Chicago rose as much as 2.4
percent to $7.98 a bushel and traded at $7.90 at 6:17 p.m.
Melbourne time after advancing 13 percent last week. Milling
wheat for January delivery on the Australian Securities Exchange
rose 1.2 percent to A$333 ($329) a ton after gaining 29 percent
last week.  Feed wheat accounted for 4.2 percent of Australia’s bulk
wheat exports in 2008-2009, according to the most recent
breakdown from government regulator Wheat Exports Australia.  Export Demand  As much as 5 million tons, or 35 percent, of east-coast
production may be downgraded to feed quality this year,
Commonwealth Bank of Australia analyst  Luke Mathews  wrote in a
report yesterday. The bank estimated total Australian output at
22.3 million tons and exports at 14 million tons.  “This will be the largest feed-wheat production year in
Australia,” Mathews said. Feed wheat typically represented less
than 10 percent of total output, according to the report.  A “super-wet harvest” in Germany, Poland, the Czech
Republic, Slovakia and Hungary this year damaged wheat quality,
meaning higher-quality grain from France and the U.K. “is
flying off the shelf,” Martell said in the Dec. 1 report.  Japan, Asia’s second-largest importer, is accelerating
purchases as supplies tighten and prices climb. The Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries has brought forward an
import tender by two days, Toshiki Tojo at the grain trade
division said. The government last week made its largest tender
purchase in two years.  Australian wheat exports of 14.3 million tons this season
could include more than 3 million tons of feed wheat, based on
conditions in New South Wales, Rabobank’s Gordon said.  National Australia Bank Ltd. forecast at least 10 million
tons of wheat may be downgraded and most of that could be
classified as feed-grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole  at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  