-- Auto Stocks Look Attractive as Sales Rebound: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-12-06T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/auto-stocks-look-attractive-as-sales-rebound-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
Ford Motor Co.  has risen 68 percent
this year, more than any stock in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average, which hasn’t had an automaker in it since General
Motors Corp. was kicked out in 2009.  If you think auto companies are has-beens, it’s time to
reconsider. Vehicle sales in the U.S. are climbing fast, albeit
from a low base. The despairing refrain that consumers won’t buy
cars without a tax incentive like the cash-for-clunkers program
has proven to be unfounded.  In October and November, sales of cars and light trucks
reached a seasonally adjusted annual rate of more than  12
million units , the best showing in more than two years.  A pace of 14 million -- 1 million vehicles below the 20-
year average -- would be enough to propel car manufacturers and
auto-parts makers to large profits because they have cut their
costs. The industry has shed less-profitable divisions, brands
and models, reduced the number of dealerships and negotiated
more modest wage-and-benefit packages.  If this industry is making a comeback, is Ford the best
stock to buy? I like Ford but prefer  General Motors Co. , which
re-emerged as a public company last month. And I like  Kia Motors
Corp.  more than either of those U.S. stalwarts.  Ford has several virtues. The company has been gaining
market share from GM for years. It has posted six quarterly
profits in a row. Alone among U.S. automakers, it disdained
federal aid during the recession. Its November sales increased
24 percent year-over-year. And its stock sells for eight times
earnings, an attractive multiple.  Negative Net Worth  The main thing that troubles me about Ford is that the
company’s net worth is still negative, a vestige of the
recession. As of Sept. 30 its liabilities exceeded its assets by
$1.7 billion.  Granted, that situation is improving rapidly. Ford’s
liabilities exceeded assets by $16 billion in March 2009. In a
quarter or two, the company’s net worth could be positive again.
Yet it makes me extremely uneasy to buy a stock whose equity
figure is written in red.  GM has a better  balance sheet , burnished by its passage
through bankruptcy. In March 2009, one quarter before it
declared bankruptcy, GM reported $173 billion in total
liabilities against $82 billion in assets.  Today, GM has debt equal to less than 38 percent of
stockholders’ equity, putting it in the balance-sheet zone I
like best (debt less than 50 percent of equity). It has reported
three straight quarterly profits.  Better Option  GM also has weaknesses. The company has been losing market
share to Honda, Toyota and Ford for more than a decade. Its
November sales gain failed to match its rivals. GM’s  management 
is relatively untested, and the U.S. government -- potentially
an awkward partner -- still owns about one third of the company.  A better option may be Kia, the South Korean upstart. Kia
has been following the playbook used years ago by Honda Motor
Co. and Toyota Motor Corp.: Start in the U.S. with small,
economical models, then slowly move up.  North America is Kia’s second-biggest market, after South
Korea. I wouldn’t be surprised if Kia gets more sales in the
U.S. than in its home market by 2015. Analysts estimate earnings
will more than double this year on a consolidated basis.  U.S. consumers have pent-up demand for cars, but their
budgets are still tight. Accordingly they may go for Kia’s
relatively economical models.  Kia sells for less than nine times estimated earnings for
calendar year 2010 and about eight times earnings expected for
calendar 2011.  Parts Makers  Investors who are fond of strong balance sheets, as I am,
may want to take a look at parts manufacturers rather than the
automakers. In the U.S. and Canada, there are 20 parts suppliers
with a market value of $100 million or more that have debt less
than 50 percent of equity.  Magna International Inc. , based in Aurora, Ontario, makes a
wide variety of components, has been profitable in 18 of the
past 20 years, and has debt less than 2 percent of equity. I
think it is a good buy at about 16 times earnings.  Disclosure note: I own shares of Dorman Products Inc., an
auto-parts maker, for clients and personally. However, I would
not recommend putting new money into it, partly because it has
more than doubled this year. I currently have no long or short
positions in the other stocks discussed in this week’s column.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  