-- Autoliv Has $1 Billion for Japan Acquisitions as Car Production Rebounds
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-12-07T11:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/autoliv-has-1-billion-for-japan-acquisitions-as-car-production-rebounds.html
Autoliv Inc. , the world’s largest
maker of automotive air bags and seatbelts, has about $1 billion
to spend in Japan and fast-growing segments such as electronic
accident prevention, Chief Executive Officer  Jan Carlson  said.  “We’re better equipped to do acquisitions, and we are
looking to do more of them ahead,” Carlson said in an interview
yesterday at the company’s headquarters in Stockholm. “We have
the strongest  balance sheet  we’ve ever had.”  Autoliv is interested in buying companies in  Japan , where
its 20 percent market share in the country is lower than
elsewhere, Carlson said. Autoliv has a 35 percent share
globally, including about 40 percent in Europe and North
America. The company is holding “loose discussions” with
potential sellers, Carlson said, without identifying candidates.  Global car production has rebounded from the recession,
spurring sales of seatbelts and airbags. About 70.3 million cars
will be built in 2010, up from 57.4 million last year, IHS
Automotive forecasts. Production may surpass 91 million in 2015,
the researcher predicts.  Autoliv’s biggest rival in Japan is Tokyo-based  Takata
Corp ., which Carlson said has about an equal market share in the
country for seatbelts and airbags. Smaller competitors include
 Ashimori Industry Co. Ltd . and  Nihon Plast Co. Ltd .  Smaller Companies  “If Autoliv has $1 billion to spend then Takata is too
big,” said  Hisahiro Yamaoka , an analyst with Nomura Securities
in Tokyo. “They would have to look for some smaller company.”  Autoliv’s Swedish depository receipts  rose  0.6 percent to
549 kronor at 12:43 p.m. in Stockholm trading, giving the
company a market value of 48.7 billion kronor ($7.1 billion.)  The manufacturer this year bought parts of Delphi
Automotive LLP’s automotive safety business in Korea and China.  Outside Japan, Autoliv is now mainly pursuing acquisitions
of companies making “active-safety” products, which include
radar and other electronic equipment that help prevent
accidents, Carlson, 50, said. While this segment’s volume is
many times smaller than the market for seatbelts and airbags,
its growth pace will be “much faster,” he said, adding  Autoliv 
this year will sell almost $100 million worth of active-security
products.  Acquisition Funds  “We would like to do an acquisition in active safety, but
the difficulty is there aren’t many sellers,” he said. “They
probably see the same growth potential in this area as we do.”  Autoliv has the capacity to spend about $1 billion on
acquisitions by using existing cash and borrowing funds while
still not “burdening the debt grade too much,” Carlsson said.
Its  net debt  at the end of September was $338 million, down from
$878 million a year earlier.  Autoliv expects fourth-quarter revenue to grow 15 percent
and the operating margin to hit 12 percent, Carlson said in the
interview, maintaining an earlier  forecast .  Brazil represents one of Autoliv’s biggest growth
opportunities, Carlson said, noting that from 2014 all cars sold
in the country must be equipped with front airbags. Autoliv,
whose Brazilian market share is between 40 and 45 percent, said
last month it’s started construction of an airbag inflator
factory near Sao Paulo.  In China the company has invested between $90 million and
$100 million in expanding and upgrading some of its 11 local
factories. Autoliv aims to boost its share of the Chinese market
to 35 percent by 2012 from today’s 30 percent, Carlson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 