-- Lawmakers Embrace U.S. Social-Security, Tax-Break Cuts as Debt Plan Fails
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/lawmakers-embrace-cuts-to-social-security-tax-breaks-as-debt-plan-fails.html
Lawmakers may embrace plans by
President  Barack Obama ’s debt commission to curb the costs of
Social Security and $1 trillion in tax breaks even as
comprehensive deficit reduction hinges on whether both parties
seek confrontation or accommodation.  While the commission lacked the votes to send its proposal
to Congress, bipartisan agreement on the panel will open a
debate over the retirement system and the tax breaks, which
include the home-mortgage deduction, several lawmakers and
analysts said.  Any significant effort confronts what commission co-
chairman  Erskine Bowles  called “the threat pressed upon us by
these ever-increasing  deficits .” Senate Budget Committee
Chairman  Kent Conrad , a Democrat, wants Obama to convene a
summit, and House Republicans  Dave Camp , incoming Ways and Means
Committee chairman, and  Paul Ryan , who will head the Budget
Committee in January, say they’ll use the plan as a basis for
hearings on the deficit.  “I put the likelihood at 15 percent that we would have any
kind of deficit-reduction package in the next two years,” said
 Diane Swonk , chief economist for Mesirow Financial Inc. in
Chicago. “That’s not that high. But it’s higher than I would
have put it two weeks ago.”  Obama thanked the panel for highlighting “the magnitude of
the challenge facing us” without embracing specific proposals.
White House Budget Director  Jack Lew  has invited commission
members to meet.  ‘Strong Beginning’  “I would prefer to even go further in deficit reduction
than this package,” Conrad, a commission member, said yesterday
on “Fox News Sunday.” He called the proposal, backed by 11 of
the panel’s 18 members, “a strong beginning,” with the “next
logical step” a meeting between Obama and bipartisan Congress
leaders.  Pressures to extend Bush-era tax cuts and respond to 9.8
percent unemployment will hamper fiscal restraint for now, said
 Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC, a unit of
London-based ICAP Plc, the world’s largest broker of trades
between banks.  “It is difficult for the congressional leadership to drive
two conflicting processes at once,” Crandall said. “Congress
is probably going to have to take things one step at a time.”  Still, 10-year Treasury note yields were at 3.01 percent on
Dec. 3, suggesting the bond market isn’t too concerned yet about
the deficit.  Voters Concerned  The federal budget deficit for the fiscal year ended Sept.
30 was $1.3 trillion or 8.9 percent of gross domestic product,
according to a calculation released by the Treasury Department
in October. Voters consider the shortfall their second most
pressing concern, according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  The  plan  by Bowles, a former chief of staff to President
 Bill Clinton , and Republican co-chairman  Alan Simpson , a former
senator from Wyoming, would increase taxes by $1 trillion by
2020. It would scale back or eliminate hundreds of tax
deductions, exclusions or credits such as those allowing
homeowners to write off interest on their mortgage payments. It
would also cut individual and corporate income tax rates.  Social Security benefits would be reduced, the gas tax
would go up by 15 cents, discretionary spending would be lowered
by $1.6 trillion and Medicare pared by $400 billion.  Tweaks Needed  Peter Orszag , who was running the White House budget office
when Obama formed the panel, said if Congress makes any progress
on the debt-reduction proposal, it’s most likely to be on Social
Security’s long-term financial challenges.  “The most auspicious part of these proposals is in Social
Security, where you need some tweaks to get bipartisan
agreement, but they are tweaks,” said Orszag, who led the
Congressional Budget Office before joining the Obama
administration in 2009.  That sentiment was echoed by panel members including  Alice Rivlin , another former CBO director, and  Andrew Stern , president
emeritus of the Service Employees International Union, among the
nation’s largest labor organizations.  “Almost everybody mentioned it at some point in the
deliberations,” said Rivlin. “Social Security can be done, I’m
convinced now,” said Stern.  Republicans signal they intend to make their first order of
business federal programs directed at specific groups.
Republicans “must immediately start a conversation with the
nation about the kind of entitlement changes that are
necessary,” Majority Leader-elect  Eric Cantor  said in a
statement Dec. 3.  Higher Earners  On Social Security, the commission’s report proposes moving
to a formula that slows future benefit growth, particularly for
higher earners, and raising the retirement age to 68 by 2050.  Previous efforts by Presidents Clinton and  George W. Bush 
to overhaul the retirement system failed.  Now,  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat,
says: “If we want to come up with something bipartisan to work
on together, Social Security is a good candidate.”  Durbin also said in an interview that “this commission
opened a door that nobody has looked behind a long time, and
that’s tax expenditures.”  Clearing out tax breaks appeals to Republicans looking to
simplify the code and lower income tax rates.  Representative  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican who becomes
House speaker next month, said in an August speech in Cleveland
that lawmakers need to “take a long and hard look at the
undergrowth of deductions, credits, and special carve-outs that
our tax code has become.”  Lower-Income Earners  Democrats can be brought on board by making sure the plan
helps lower-income earners, said  Mark Warner , a Virginia
Democrat leading a bipartisan group of senators seeking common
ground.  Higher-earning filers benefit the most from the exemptions
because they are more likely to itemize their returns. That
would allow Democrats to argue that doing away with them and
cutting rates helps those who earn less, said Rivlin.  Edward Kleinbard , a tax professor at the University of
Southern California who once headed the staff of Congress’s
Joint Committee on Taxation, said limiting tax breaks may be
gaining bipartisan support though Congress probably would have
to phase in changes over 10 years.  “You can’t go cold turkey on removing these kinds of
subsidies,” he said.  The commission report would allow taxpayers to claim a
mortgage deduction up to $500,000 on their primary homes.  Bumpy Road  Even with the show of goodwill on the panel, the road to
congressional consensus will be bumpy. Swonk said the
transformation of deficits to surpluses during the 1990s came
only after a series of politically painful actions.  Tax increases contained in the 1993 deficit-cutting package
that Clinton passed through Congress were in turn taken up by
Republicans as a campaign issue in the 1994 midterm election.
Clinton’s Democratic Party lost control of both houses.  It may take a fiscal shock, such as a drop of confidence in
state or local bonds that spreads to the Treasury market, to
spur action on the commission’s proposals, Orszag said.  The commission has “put ideas back on the table that, if
we do run into a fiscal tremor, can be picked up,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 morning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 