-- Axiom Pulls U.A.E.'s First IPO in Two Years on Market Concerns
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-07T13:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/axiom-cancels-u-a-e-s-first-ipo-in-almost-two-years-update1-.html
Axiom Ltd. , a mobile-phone retailer
based in Dubai, canceled plans to raise at least $100 million in
an initial public offering, dealing a blow to expectations of a
market recovery as the emirate grapples with a debt crisis.  The company abandoned the IPO because of “widespread
concerns about market conditions and liquidity,” Axiom said in
a statement yesterday. It had orders for all the shares, which
were slated to begin trading on Nasdaq Dubai on Dec. 9, the
company said. An Axiom spokesman declined to comment further.  Dubai’s economy is struggling to recover from a 2009 slump
and the weight of about $112 billion of debt amid fears that
some government-owned entities won’t be able to refinance loans.
The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index has gained 11 percent this year,
trailing the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 14 percent increase.  “I didn’t see Axiom as expensive at all,”  Fadi Al Said ,
head of equities at ING Investment Management (Dubai) Ltd., said
by phone today. “People were a little skeptical about Nasdaq
Dubai as the experience with listings there has not been good.”  Axiom cut the maximum price at which it would sell the
shares to $1 each on Dec. 2, according to a term sheet for the
sale obtained by Bloomberg News. The company had been offering
the shares for 80 cents to $1.15 previously, a range that would
have valued Axiom at $760 million to $1.1 billion. The share
offering was open to institutional investors only.  DP World Ltd. , the world’s fourth-biggest port operator,
interiors contractor  Depa Ltd.  and jewelry retailer  Damas Ltd. 
have all performed poorly after their Nasdaq Dubai listings.  Growth Plans  Axiom had planned to use some of the money to finance
growth and at least $100 million to pay debt, Chief Executive
Officer  Faisal Al Bannai  said on Nov. 21. Deutsche Bank AG,
Citigroup Inc. and Dubai-based investment bank Shuaa Capital PSC
were arranging Axiom’s share sale.  “Even at the low end, Axiom was pricey, with very low net
profit margin,” Shehzad Janab, asset management head at Dubai-
based Daman Investments PSC, said in an e-mail today. “That the
deal has been pulled is not good for the U.A.E. market.”  An offer price of 80 cents values Axiom’s shares at about
8.5 times to 9.5 times its estimated 2011 earnings, Al Said at
ING said. The company “has about 60 percent market share with
no reliance on one brand” and its earnings could have grown at
a rate in the “high teens” over the next three years, he said.  Market Valuations  Jarir Marketing Co., a Saudi Arabia-based retailer and
wholesaler of office supplies and engineering products, trades
at an estimated price-earnings multiple of 14.9, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The 200 companies listed on the
Gulf’s benchmark share index are trading at  16.6 times
historical earnings  compared with  15.2 times for Dubai’s index 
and  14.5 times  for the MSCI EM Index, the data shows.  Companies in the Persian Gulf aren’t benefiting from record
demand for share sales in emerging markets as concerns over debt
and sluggish economic growth dampens investor confidence.  Omani mobile-phone operator  Nawras  and  Aluminium Bahrain
BSC , the operator of an 850,000-metric-ton-a-year smelter, sold
shares last month at the bottom of the range used to canvas
investor interest in the stocks. The six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council region generated $1.41 billion of initial public
offerings this year, compared with $2.27 billion in the same
period a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The average daily volume of shares traded in Dubai has
slumped to 159 million this year from 448 million in the year-
earlier period, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Secondary Market  “Conventional bank financing, bonds and sukuk are likely
to be the preferred mode of raising funds for regional
corporations until the profitability of issuers and investor
sentiment improves,”  Phil Gandier , Ernst & Young, Middle East’s
managing partner, said in an e-mail today. “The IPO markets
normally recover after the secondary markets and we have been
seeing a gradual recovery in the stock markets around the
region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 