-- Bernanke Says More Fed Easing Possible With Jobless Rate Set to Stay High
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-12-06T09:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/bernanke-says-more-fed-easing-possible-with-jobless-rate-high.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy is barely expanding at a sustainable
pace and that it’s possible the Fed may expand bond purchases
beyond the $600 billion announced last month to spur growth.  “We’re not very far from the level where the economy is
not self-sustaining,” Bernanke said in an interview broadcast
yesterday by CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. “It’s very
close to the border. It takes about 2.5 percent growth just to
keep unemployment stable and that’s about what we’re getting.”  Bernanke, in a rare appearance on a nationally broadcast
news program, defended the Fed’s efforts to prop up a recovery
so weak that only 39,000 jobs were created in November. The
unemployment rate last month rose to 9.8 percent, the highest
level since April, the Labor Department said on Dec. 3, three
days after the Bernanke interview was taped. Republican
lawmakers have said the Fed’s policy of “quantitative easing”
may do little to help unemployment and may fuel inflation.  “At the rate we’re going, it could be four, five years
before we are back to a more normal unemployment rate” of about
5 percent to 6 percent, Bernanke said. The purchase of more
bonds than planned is “certainly possible,” said Bernanke, 56.
“It depends on the efficacy of the program” and the outlook
for inflation and the economy.  Bernanke said a return to a recession “doesn’t seem
likely” because sectors of the economy such as housing can’t
become much more depressed. Still, a long period of high
unemployment could damage confidence and is “the primary source
of risk that we might have another slowdown in the economy.”  Treasuries, Dollar  Treasuries rose, pushing yields down from a four-month high
after the remarks were published, with yields on 10-year notes
falling 7 basis points to 2.94 percent at 9:11 a.m. in London,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The dollar advanced 0.8
percent to $1.3301 per euro.  The Fed’s decision to undertake new bond purchases sparked
a political backlash in Washington. The program, known as
quantitative easing, has been criticized by officials in
countries including China and Germany. Policy makers in emerging
markets expressed concern it would drive down the dollar and
cause a surge of capital abroad that created asset-price
bubbles.  “Bernanke is defending his decisions to a mass American
audience” on the CBS program, said  Sean Callow , a senior
currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp. “He is
not giving way to criticism, whether it is domestic or
international,” he said, adding that “it’s another reminder
that the dollar is a side effect of quantitative easing and not
a top factor in the Fed’s view.”  China Criticism  Bernanke in the interview reiterated U.S. complaints that
China’s policy of limiting gains in its exchange rate is hurting
the U.S. economy.  “Keeping the Chinese currency too low is bad for the
American economy because it hurts our trade,” the chairman said
in excerpts of the interview posted on the CBS News website.
“It’s bad for other emerging market economies. It’s bad for
China because among other things it means China can’t have its
own independent monetary policy.”  Sarah Palin , the 2008 vice-presidential candidate who has
said she’s considering a run for president in 2012, wrote in a
Nov. 18 letter to the Wall Street Journal that “It’s time for
us to ‘refudiate’ the notion that this dangerous experiment in
printing $600 billion out of thin air, with nothing to back it
up, will magically fix economic problems.”  Employment Mandate  Asia’s policy makers would be more likely to impose
“soft” capital-control measures should the U.S. expand its
bond-purchase program and increase the risk of fund flows into
the region, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Key policy makers in Asia are on edge,”  Michael Buchanan , chief Asia Pacific economist at Goldman Sachs, said in
a press briefing in Hong Kong today. Further quantitative easing
in the U.S. “would increase the chance of soft capital controls
being imposed in many countries around the region,” he said.  Two U.S. Republicans, Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker  and
Indiana Representative  Mike Pence , last month proposed removing
the Fed’s maximum employment mandate to focus the central bank
on stable prices alone. Corker plans to introduce such
legislation next year.  ‘Overstated’ Fears  Bernanke said fears of inflation are “overstated” and
that keeping inflation under control isn’t a diminished priority
for the Fed.  The rate of inflation has slowed this year, with the
personal consumption expenditures index, excluding food and
energy, rising at a 0.9 percent annual pace in October, the
slowest in 50 years. Including all items, the index increased
1.3 percent.  Without action by the  central bank , the economy might have
tipped into a period of deflation, or a prolonged drop in
prices, Bernanke said.  “Because the Fed is acting, I would say the risk is pretty
low” of deflation, Bernanke said. “But if the Fed did not act,
then given how much inflation has come down since the beginning
of the recession, I think it would be a more serious concern.”  Bernanke said he is “100 percent” confident that, when
necessary, the central bank can control inflation and reverse
its accommodative  monetary policy .  Targeting Inflation  “We’ve been very, very clear that we will not allow
inflation to rise above 2 percent,” he said.  “We could raise interest rates in 15 minutes if we have
to,” he said. “So, there really is no problem with raising
rates, tightening monetary policy, slowing the economy, reducing
inflation, at the appropriate time.”  “That time is not now,” he said.  The Fed’s policy of purchasing Treasury securities
shouldn’t be considered simply printing money, Bernanke said.  “The amount of currency in circulation is not changing,”
he said. “The money supply is not changing in any significant
way. What we’re doing is lowering interest rates by buying
Treasury securities.”  The Fed has increased its balance sheet by expanding excess
reserves at banks. The Fed reports two measures of the money
supply. M1 includes all currency held by consumers and companies
for spending, money held in checking accounts and travelers
checks. M1 has risen 6.9 percent in the past year, compared to a
4.3 percent average increase since 2000, the Fed said last week.  Policy ‘Trick’  “By lowering interest rates, we hope to stimulate the
economy to grow faster,” Bernanke said. “The trick is to find
the appropriate moment when to begin to unwind this policy.”  Longer-term interest rates, which had been falling since
April as the economy slowed and speculation increased that the
Fed would have to do more, have risen since the Fed’s Nov. 3
announcement of the bond purchases.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has increased 44
basis points since Nov. 3 to 3.01 percent on Dec. 3, while the
30-year Treasury yield has risen 27 basis points to 4.31
percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Bernanke gave his first televised interview as Fed chief on
“60 Minutes” on March 15, 2009, near the lowest point for the
stock market in more than a decade. He said then that “green
shoots” were beginning to appear in financial markets. On March
9 of that year, the Standard & Poor’s 500 closed at 676.53, the
lowest level since 1996.  Communication Policy  Bernanke’s interview comes as Fed officials are undertaking
their broadest review of public communications in three years.
 Janet Yellen , the Fed’s vice chairman, is chairing a
subcommittee to ensure the public is “well informed about
monetary policy issues.”  Yesterday’s “60 Minutes” interview was taped in Columbus,
Ohio, during a visit in which Bernanke joined in a panel
discussion at the Ohio State University campus with business
leaders, including  Alan Mulally , president and chief executive
officer of Ford Motor Co. The gathering was part of a series of
public appearances and question-and-answer sessions by Bernanke
this year.  Bernanke appeared in a June question-and-answer session
with  Sam Donaldson , the ABC News journalist, in Washington. In
May 2010, Bernanke toured a Philadelphia shipyard and a Tasty
Baking Co. factory in a part of the city that is being
redeveloped. Bernanke also answered questions from college
students in Providence, Rhode Island, in October and in
Jacksonville, Florida, in November.  “This is just another way to try to get our messages out
and try to talk effectively about monetary policy,” St. Louis
Fed President  James Bullard  said in a Dec. 3 interview on C-Span
television’s “Newsmakers” program broadcast yesterday.  “Since we’re in such an unusual situation, it looks like
we’re going to be here for a while, we probably need to think
about ways to more effectively communicate,” Bullard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  