-- Biggs Says Technology at Start of Bullish Cycle on Asian Demand: Tom Keene
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-12-06T17:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/biggs-says-technology-at-start-of-bullish-cycle-on-asian-demand-tom-keene.html
Demand from Asia is spurring a bull
market for computer and software makers, according to  Barton Biggs , manager of the Traxis Partners LLC hedge fund.  “The big capital spending cycle, the last one, was from
1995 to 2000, and it was a transforming cycle,” Biggs, the
managing partner of New York-based Traxis and former chairman of
Morgan Stanley Asset Management, said in an interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The developments in
terms of the cloud, storage and a whole series of new devices is
the beginning of a new technology cycle.”  While the peak season for spending by technology companies
was once Christmas, the cycle for semiconductor makers and
companies such as  Apple Inc . has changed to revolve more around
the Chinese New Year in January or February, Biggs said  Biggs reiterated his view that equity markets may rise,
citing increased projections for U.S. economic growth from  Ed Hyman  of ISI Group Inc. and  Jan Hatzius  of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc . Hatzius boosted his growth forecast for the U.S. economy
last week to a rate of 2.7 percent from a previous forecast of 2
percent.  “I feel really good about the markets here,” Biggs said.
“Everything’s not perfect. The Case-Shiller, in terms of U.S.
housing, and the European problems haven’t been solved. But
nevertheless, it’s pretty clear the world is emerging from the
soft spot it was in and we’re getting poised for pretty decent
growth.”  Smallest Since January  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
climbed in September from a year earlier by the smallest amount
since January, data last week showed. The S&P 500 fell to its
low for the year, 1,022.58, on July 2 amid concern widening
budget deficits in Europe could derail the global economic
recovery. The benchmark measure of U.S. stocks slipped 0.2
percent to 1,222.51 as of 12:03 p.m. in New York today.  Biggs, who said his fund was up “low double-digits” in
2010, predicted that earnings by companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 could be higher than $93 a share in 2011. He said
half his portfolio is in emerging markets, primarily in Asia,
with substantial positions in China and Hong Kong.  “There are all kinds of doomsayers wandering around
mumbling about a bubble that’s going to burst,” he said.
“China’s done a magnificent job of engineering a soft
landing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 