-- Birla Sun's Patil Bets on Indian Phone, Auto Stocks for Growth
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-12-06T08:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/birla-sun-life-s-patil-bets-on-indian-phone-carmakers-stocks-for-growth.html
Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co.,
India’s fifth-biggest fund manager, is betting  phone companies 
and carmakers will extend gains next year in the world’s best
performing major stock market as economic growth spurs spending.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s biggest wireless operator, and
 Tata Motors Ltd. , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, are among
companies  Mahesh Patil , who oversees about $3 billion as head of
domestic equities at Birla Sun Life in Mumbai, has been buying
in the past six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stocks are among the top 10 holdings in his biggest stock
fund, the data show.  “We are reasonably positive on telecom,” Patil said in an
interview today, while declining to comment on specific stocks.
A scandal involving the government’s sale of licenses two years
ago at below market prices “will strengthen the incumbents.”  Patil is optimistic on growth in India, which  Nouriel Roubini , the New York-based economist who predicted the global
economic crisis, forecast last week to expand more than China in
the next decade. Earnings of companies in the benchmark Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, may expand by an
average 19 percent in the year through March 2012, Citigroup
Inc. said in a Nov. 30 report.  The Sensex has climbed 15 percent this year, the most among
key indexes in the world’s 10 largest stock markets, as optimism
over India’s economic growth lured a record amount of foreign
funds into the country’s equities. Companies in the stock gauge
are valued at an average 19.1 times estimated profit, the most
among Asia Pacific stock benchmarks.  ‘Sound Wicket’  “We are on a pretty sound wicket,” Patil said. “There
will be bouts of volatility; it could be global or domestic
events. But the medium to long-term outlook is positive.”  Patil’s  Birla Sun Life Frontline Equity Fund   has beaten 95
percent of its peers in the past five years, according to
Bloomberg data. His firm has $14.9 billion in assets.  The Sensex has fallen 4.9 percent from a Nov. 5 peak
through last week amid corruption scandals involving the
government’s issuing of the telecom licenses and some companies
handling of loans. Morgan Stanley said Nov. 25 that the nation’s
stocks faced their “stiffest test” amid the probes.  A threat by the government to cancel some of the licenses
will be "detrimental for the new players,’’ Patil said.  Best Performer  The government auditor submitted a report to Parliament on
the below-market-price sale of licenses on Nov. 16. Bharti’s 10
percent  gain  since then through Dec. 3 makes it the best
performer in that period on the  Sensex , which added 0.5 percent.  Rising salaries and an expanding workforce will boost
Indian “discretionary consumption” on products from cars to
entertainment, the fund manager said. Government spending and
corporate expansion may boost infrastructure-related shares,
lenders and large equipment makers, while software exporters and
drugmakers stand to gain from a global recovery, he said.  Automakers and lenders make up seven out of the top 10
performers on the Sensex this year.  Patil is avoiding cement makers as excessive supply drags
on prices of the raw material, though said he may change his
stance should demand and infrastructure spending pick up.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government plans to
double spending on infrastructure to $1 trillion in the five
years to 2017, according to the country’s Planning Commission.  Purchases of Indian equities by overseas fund managers this
year are at a record $29.4 billion as investors sought to
benefit from the country’s economic expansion. India’s economy
grew 8.9 percent in the last two quarters, the fastest pace of
growth among the world’s major economies after China.  Earnings of Indian companies will expand by an average 18
percent to 20 percent for the next two to three years, Patil
predicts. “India stands out clearly in terms of its growth
outlook,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  