-- BNP Paribas Fund Favors Ireland, Shuns Spain for Clean Power Investments
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-12-06T13:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/bnp-paribas-fund-favors-ireland-shuns-spain-for-clean-power-investments.html
BNP Paribas  Clean Energy Partners GP
is studying opportunities to buy clean-power assets in Ireland
after the European Union-led bailout bolstered the debt-ridden
nation’s capacity to pay above-market electricity rates.  “We think the tariff continues to be attractive,” Chief
Executive Officer  Joost Bergsma  said today in a telephone
interview. “Now they have been through their rescue package.”  Bergsma already owns Irish and French wind farms as well as
Italian solar generators in the 437 million-euro ($581 million)
investment fund that completed its capital raising last week.
The fund, which targets onshore wind farms, photovoltaic power
plants and small hydro and biomass generators with secure cash
flows exceeded its target size by 25 percent.  The fund-raising effort took place as clean-energy stocks
slumped and hedge funds increased their bets against an industry
that has seen cutbacks in government support. The WilderHill New
Energy Index has lost 17 percent this year.  “We’ve done better than we expected,” Bergsma said of the
fund-raising efforts. “There is some appetite out there. It
takes a little while to find it.”  Italian solar power and German wind farms are among the
other assets that the firm is examining, Bergsma said. Spain’s
decision to reduce the above-market rates earned by wind and
photovoltaic generators will likely deter investment.  “That’s still kept us sitting on the fence,” he said.
“They will cut tariffs for new projects quite significantly.”  The fund has already made six investments and will deploy
the remaining money over the next two years, Bergsma said. He
declined to say how much remains to be invested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  