-- Boeing Alters Timetable for Assembly of Some Dreamliner Sections
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-12-06T23:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/boeing-alters-timetable-for-assembly-of-some-dreamliner-sections.html
Boeing Co.  has altered the assembly
dates for sections of some 787 Dreamliner jets by 16 working
days as it assesses how an in-flight fire last month affects the
plane’s delivery schedule.  The “adjustment” for moving 787s into the so-called
final-body join, in which the wings, fuselage and other major
parts are connected, took effect in late November,  Scott Lefeber , a spokesman, said today in an e-mail. Boeing factories
operate on a five-day week, he said.  Lefeber said Boeing’s adjustment of the assembly timetable
doesn’t affect the first-delivery schedule.  The  company , based in Chicago, began contacting some
suppliers, which it refers to as partners, about the updated
schedules on Nov. 21, Lefeber said.  “Rather than pass along out-of-sequence work to our final-
assembly factory, we’ve asked those partners to take some
additional time to complete the work at their facilities,”
Lefeber said. The suppliers weren’t asked to stop production, he
said.  The  Dreamliner  has been delayed six times and is about
three years behind schedule because of parts shortages,
redesigns and Boeing’s greater reliance on suppliers in a
production system developed for the plane.  The  company  said in November it’s assessing the overall
program schedule to help resolve issues associated with a test
787 that was forced to make an emergency landing in Laredo,
Texas, after an electrical fire.  Boeing  expects to complete a
revised program schedule in a few weeks, Lefeber said.  “We continue to make temporary schedule adjustments as
needed to ensure the entire production system flows as designed
and to minimize adverse impacts to final assembly,” Lefeber
said. “That’s a process we began using earlier this year and
will continue to use as needed going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  