-- BofA Loses $5.9 Billion Adviser to Todd Thomson Firm
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-12-06T21:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/bofa-loses-5-9-billion-wealth-adviser-to-todd-thomson-venture.html
Todd S. Thomson , Citigroup Inc.’s
former head of wealth management, lured a top  Bank of America
Corp.  financial adviser with $5.9 billion in client assets to
join a new business that caters to independent advisory firms.  Michael C. Brown , 52, said he left Bank of America’s U.S.
Trust  unit  last week to join New York-based Dynasty Financial
Partners, founded by Thomson and Shirl Penney, another ex-
Citigroup manager. Brown’s clients had a typical net worth of
$50 million, according to Barron’s, which ranked him 28th on its
2009  list  of the top 100 U.S. financial advisers. He managed
about $5.9 billion when he departed Bank of America, according
to a person briefed on his move.  His departure may revive concern about the ability of
brokerages such as Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch to keep top
producers as the companies grapple with mergers, stagnant stock
prices and bad publicity tied to probes of mortgages and
securities underwriting. More than 7,300 advisers have left the
four largest full-service brokerages from the beginning of 2009
through June, according to research firm Aite Group LLC.  “I can see why someone would want to go where
compensation is more directly related to what they do rather
than to a much larger firm,” said  Charles Geisst , a finance
professor at Manhattan College in Riverdale, New York, who has
written about Wall Street’s history.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender, took $45 billion
from U.S. bailout programs and had to offer retention packages
to keep top advisers when the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
company acquired Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009. Its biggest rivals
include Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo & Co. and UBS AG.  Big Against Small  “Every one of those businesses is in some way in a bit of
disarray,” Thomson, 49, chairman of Dynasty, said in an
interview. “It used to be an advantage to have a large brand on
your card. I think many today feel it’s a disadvantage. If
you’re a financial adviser, you don’t want to spend time talking
to clients about what’s going on at your firm.”  Matt Card , a spokesman for Bank of America, said yesterday
the bank had no immediate comment, and media representatives for
Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo and UBS didn’t return calls placed
after regular business hours.  Brown, who will be director of wealth management at Dynasty
and an investor, declined in an interview to specify how many
Bank of America clients will migrate with him. Typically,
advisers take about 70 percent of their customers when they
leave a brokerage, said Tim White, a partner at Dallas-based
executive recruitment firm Kaye/Bassman International Corp.
 Charles Britton , a member of Brown’s U.S. Trust team, joined him
at Dynasty, the firm said today in a statement.  Thomson’s Return  Dynasty is a potential comeback for Thomson, who was once a
candidate to succeed ex-Citigroup Chief Executive Officer
Charles O. “Chuck” Prince. Thomson was dismissed by Prince
from the New York-based bank in January 2007 after infractions
that included inappropriate use of company aircraft, three
people with knowledge of the decision have said.  Thomson was head of Citigroup’s brokerage and private bank
for two years and was the bank’s  chief financial officer  for
four years before that. Penney, Dynasty’s CEO, worked for
Thomson in various roles, including director of business
development for global wealth advisory services at Citigroup’s
Smith Barney, according to Dynasty. He left Citigroup in 2008.  Dynasty investors include  William Donaldson , 79, former
chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and ex-
CEO of the New York Stock Exchange, and  Harvey Golub , 71, the
former American Express Co. chief who resigned as chairman of
insurer American International Group Inc. this year. Both men
are also directors. They confirmed their participation in
Dynasty without elaborating.  Assets Increase  Penney cited research by Boston-based  Cerulli Associates 
that independent advisers will reach $5 trillion in client
assets and said Dynasty can capture 1 percent of that, or $50
billion, by 2016. His firm offers a technology and services
platform for independent advisers, some of whom, like Brown,
left established brokerages.  Penney is in talks with about 30 teams managing more than
$15 billion in assets who are independent or considering making
the leap, he said. Dynasty will also extend loans to pay for
setting up offices and returning retention bonuses, he said.  Brown graduated from Columbia University in New York, where
he played football, according to Dynasty. He began his career
three decades ago at Merrill Lynch, spending six years there and
about 10 years at Bear Stearns Cos. before joining Bank of
America in March 2001 through its purchase of Montgomery
Securities, leading a six-person team.  Focused Approach  His departure from Bank of America could serve as a
template for other wealth advisers weary of being yoked to huge
financial organizations with disparate missions, Penney said.
 Consumer finance divisions  at U.S. banks are being pressured by
slow growth and new regulations.  “Our only focus here is wealth management,” Brown said in
an interview. “No other business is going to have a negative
impact on our firm.”  Bank of America, led by CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 51,  declined 
21 percent this year through last week in New York trading on
concern that costs from improper foreclosures and soured
mortgages may be a drag on profit. The bank also endured public
hearings and  investigations  tied to its takeover of New York-
based Merrill Lynch, which spurred the bank to take a second
round of U.S. bailout funds. The money was repaid last December.  The bank’s shares dropped 22 cents, or 1.9 percent, to
$11.64 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Dynasty provides research on institutional money managers,
private equity and hedge funds, enabling advisers with at least
$250 million in client money to attend to the “sophisticated
needs” of individuals worth more than $10 million, Thomson
said.  Retention Pay  By eliminating pressure to sell house brands, the business
model lets brokers “sit on the same side of the table as their
client and act as an adviser and get paid for advice, not have
to act as a sales professional,” Penney said.  Bank of America has spent millions of dollars to keep its
best financial advisers. In November 2008, the bank said more
than 6,200 Merrill brokers accepted retention packages,
including 99.3 percent of those who generated annual revenue of
more than $1.75 million. About 6,600 brokers who generated more
than $500,000 were eligible for bonuses from 50 percent to 100
percent of annual production.  As the merger took shape, recruiters said some veteran
brokers were worried Bank of America would impose a more
hierarchical, cost-conscious style.  Sallie Krawcheck , 46, the
head of wealth management, vowed in August 2009 to preserve
Merrill’s own culture.  Wealthy Clients  U.S. Trust, founded a decade before the Civil War, was
purchased by Charles Schwab Corp. in 2000. Bank of America
agreed to pay $3.3 billion for the business in 2006 to add to
its units that manage the assets of wealthy Americans.  Brokerage firms are ramping up expansions that cater to the
wealthy. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG are hiring bankers devoted to helping
more affluent clients.  Meanwhile, assets under management at the four top
brokerages declined 16 percent to $4.75 trillion from 2007
through 2009, while jumping almost 14 percent to $1.54 trillion
at independent firms, according to Aite.  Bank of America had about 20,000 brokers, advisers and
wealth-management bankers with $2.2 trillion of client balances
as of Sept. 30, according to its website.  Competition  Wells Fargo, which  acquired  Wachovia Corp. in 2008, has
about 15,000 advisers running $1.1 trillion of client assets.
The bank is based in San Francisco. New York-based Morgan
Stanley’s wealth-management business has about 18,000 advisers
and $1.6 trillion of  client assets .  The figures include the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
brokerage, created last year through a joint venture with
Citigroup, which is still 11 percent owned by the U.S.
government following a $45 billion bailout in 2008.  Zurich-based UBS, which had to get its own bailout from the
Swiss government, has about 6,800 advisers with about 743
billion Swiss francs ($763 billion) of  client assets  in its
Americas wealth-management unit. While the government has since
sold its stake, the shares remain down 76 percent since the
start of 2007 through last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  