-- Bond Market Favoring Obama Over Merkel as Euro Threatens Germany as Haven
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-12-06T20:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/bond-market-favoring-obama-over-merkel-as-euro-threatens-germany-as-haven.html
Germany is being penalized in the
global bond market as European leaders fail to show investors
they have a plan that will succeed in curing the region’s most-
indebted economies.  Yields on 10-year bunds are poised to rise above comparable
maturity U.S. Treasuries for the first time since June 2009 on
concern Germany will assume a greater burden to support the
European Monetary Union. The difference narrowed to as little as
7 basis points on Nov. 29, from 90 basis points in April as the
85 billion-euro ($114 billion) aid package for Ireland failed to
stem concern that Europe’s debt crisis will broaden.  German borrowing costs have risen relative to the U.S. as
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  pushed to limit spending on bailouts
and European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
disappointed investors when he didn’t announce new measures to
spur a recovery. In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  has run
consecutive $1.4 trillion budget deficits to boost the economy
and prevent the financial and auto industries from collapsing.  “The ECB and the policy makers in Europe didn’t learn from
the experience of the United States that you have to address
these problems aggressively, quickly and effectively, and if you
don’t, it’s only going to get worse,” said  James Kochan,  chief
fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management, which
oversees $175.6 billion of bonds in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin.
Investors have been “frightened out of the euro-currency
markets, and they’re buying Treasuries again,” he said in a
Nov. 30 interview.  Yield Spread  Bunds are underperforming Treasuries even though Germany’s
economy is growing faster and its debt is lower than in the U.S.
German gross domestic product may expand 3.5 percent in 2010
with a budget deficit that is 3.75 percent of GDP, according to
the median economist forecasts in Bloomberg surveys. The U.S.
will grow 2.7 percent, with a budget deficit projected at 9
percent of GDP.  Treasuries have returned 0.95 percent on average since the
end of June, compared with a loss of 0.5 percent for bunds,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The gap in yields between bunds and Treasuries has narrowed
from 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point, on Aug. 27, when
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during a Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, symposium that the central bank would provide
additional stimulus as needed.  Yield Forecasts  Trichet told reporters on Dec. 2 after leaving interest
rates unchanged that the central bank will delay the withdrawal
of emergency funding. Trichet nevertheless refused to say
whether the ECB will boost or broaden its bond purchases and
said the central bank will keep sterilizing them, unlike similar
programs at the Federal Reserve and Bank of England.  “Further, decisive, policy action is needed to prevent
further escalation of the crisis,” economists at Barclays Plc
in London wrote in a research report dated Dec. 3.  The median estimate of more than 19 strategists and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for bund yields to rise
above Treasuries next quarter and stay there through 2011.  The yield on the benchmark 2.5 percent German note due
January 2021 climbed 12 basis points last week to 2.86 percent
as the price of the security fell 1.04, or 10.40 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 96.89. The yield closed at 2.85
percent in London. The 2.625 percent U.S. Treasury due November
2020 jumped 14 basis points last week to 3.01 percent as its
price dropped 1 5/32, or $11.56 per $1,000 face value, to 96
23/32. The 10-year note yielded 2.94 percent at 3:02 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data.  Relative Yields  Bunds have yielded 18 basis points on average less than 10-
year Treasuries since 1990, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The difference reached a record 123 in October 2005.  U.S. yields last fell below those in Germany in November
2007 as the financial crisis that began with subprime mortgages
began to spread, freezing credit markets and driving America’s
economy into recession.  Treasury yields remained below bunds until June 2009, when
signs of a recovery spurred investors to buy riskier securities
such as  stocks  and corporate bonds. At the same time, Treasury
sales rose to a record to pay for $862 billion in fiscal
stimulus and the $700 billion Troubled Asset Recovery Program,
pushing the budget  deficit  to an all-time high.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries would be eight to 10 basis
points higher if it wasn’t for increasing concerns about smaller
European economies, such as Ireland, Portugal and Spain,  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in Memphis,
Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients published Nov. 29. The
rise in bond yields in those countries has spread to Belgium and
Italy, he said.  Additional Liabilities  “As we’ve learned, it’s not all about math and analysis,”
Vogel said in telephone interview. “It’s political will; it’s
leadership; it’s the direction things are going.”  The response of European policy makers is piecemeal and
insufficient to stem the spread of contagion to healthier
sovereign credits, said  Scott Mather,  a managing director who
helps oversee global debt at Pacific Investment Management Co.
The Newport Beach, California-based firm manages about $1.2
trillion, including the biggest  bond fund .  “The additional liabilities accumulate for Germany with
each and every bail-out,” Mather said in an interview last
week. “Near term the major issue is who’s next in Europe.
Portugal’s almost a foregone conclusion. It seems they’re
constantly two, three, four steps behind the market, and so
they’re always in crisis-response mode and not proactive,” he
said in reference to policy makers.  Conflicting Policies  The adoption of the euro by most of western Europe in 1999
helped Germany by lowering barriers to exports and providing a
more easily traded currency, according to  Brian Kim,  a currency
strategist at UBS AG in Stamford, Connecticut. It also cut
borrowing costs, fueling the indebtedness that presaged the
current crisis, he said.  Germany’s  trade surplus  has risen to 16.8 billion euros
from about 5 billion euros at the time of the creation of the
common currency. The  difference  in yields between German and
Irish 10-year debt shrank to less than 50 basis points in 1999
from about 180 in 1994 and about 300 in 1992, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gap reached 668 last week.  Conflicting policies in Germany and Greece and Portugal,
which have trade deficits, “hamstrings the ability to use the
currency as a policy tool,” Kim said in a Dec. 3 interview.
“The peripherals would love to be able to devalue currency at a
time like this,” but can’t because it would spark faster
inflation in Germany, he said.  Auction Concerns  The strategist forecasts the euro will fall in the next six
months to between $1.20 and $1.25 as policy makers continue with
country-by-country solutions to the crisis. The euro weakened to
$1.2969 on Nov. 30, from last month’s high of $1.4282 on Nov. 4,
before ending last week at $1.3414.  Rising concern about Germany was evident in the 4.76
billion euro auction of 10-year bunds on Nov. 24, according to
 William O’Donnell , head U.S. government bond strategist in
Stamford, Connecticut, at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The
offering was originally slated at 6 billion and wound up
generating 5.91 billion of bids.  When concerns about Greece’s finances first surfaced a year
ago, it took until May for the ECB to produce a $1 trillion aid
package for countries with sovereign debt troubles, which by
then had expanded to Portugal and Spain.  “The ECB has a completely different philosophy about how
they intervene,” said  Dominic Konstam , head of interest-rate
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “The U.S. has always
been about keeping liquidity as easy as possible, and the ECB
has been more careful about trying to set monetary policy for
the euro zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  