-- Bonds Jump Most in 21 Months as PBOC Tackles Cash Shortage: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-06T08:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/bonds-jump-most-in-21-months-as-pboc-tackles-cash-shortage-china-credit.html
China’s bonds rallied the most in
almost two years last week as policy makers pumped funds into
the financial system, easing a shortage of cash after banks were
ordered twice last month to set aside more money as reserves.  The ChinaBond Treasury Bond Aggregate Total Return  Index 
climbed 0.7 percent, the biggest gain since February 2009. The
yield on the government’s benchmark 3.29 percent note due in
September 2020 dropped 18 basis points from a two-year high of
4.07 percent, according to Chinabond prices. The People’s Bank
of China  injected  166 billion yuan ($25 billion) through open-
market operations in the last three weeks.  “We judged the 4 percent yield level for 10-year bonds a
buying opportunity, and that opportunity will get even better
should the government use more aggressive measures to combat
inflation,” said Mao Shuirong, who manages 1.58 billion yuan of
funds at Huashang Fund Management Co. in Beijing.  “Prudent” monetary policies will be pursued, the state-
run Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 3, after a meeting of the
ruling Communist Party’s Politburo. The government had described
its stance as “moderately loose” since late 2008, a position
reiterated as recently as last month by the central bank. The
People’s Bank of China raised lenders’ reserve requirements for
the fifth time this year on Nov. 19, a month after increasing
interest rates for the first time since 2007.  Tightening Measures  China’s benchmark 10-year yield closed at a two-week low of
3.89 percent on Dec. 3 and Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co.
forecast it will decline to 3.8 percent or less this month.
Rates on similar-maturity bonds in  Brazil  dropped 28 basis
points last week to 12.46 percent,  Russia ’s slipped two
basis points to 5.80 percent and  India ’s climbed 21 basis
points to 8.18 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Concern about quickening inflation has eased a bit after
the central bank’s series of tightening measures in the past two
months,” said  Qu Qing , a fixed-income analyst at Shenyin Wanguo
in Shanghai. The “tight funding situation has also eased”
since the passing of the Nov. 29 deadline for banks to comply
with the last increase in their reserve ratios, he said.  Cash holdings at Chinese finance companies will also
increase this month because the finance ministry usually spends
more in December to complete its annual budget, according to Liu
Junyu, an analyst at China Merchants Bank Co. in Shenzhen. The
ministry withdrew 986 billion yuan of  fiscal deposits  from the
central bank in December 2009 and 1.04 trillion yuan in December
2008, the most during those years, central bank data show.  New Debt Sale  The government sold 32.14 billion yuan of five-year bonds
on Dec. 1 at a yield of 3.64 percent, less than the 3.7 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 15 finance companies.  “The heat in the five-year government bond sale reinforced
expectations that the yield rally was temporarily over,” said
Shi Lei, the head of fixed-income research in Shenzhen at Ping
An Securities Co., a subsidiary of China’s second-largest
insurer. “But that sentiment probably won’t last long. It’s
very likely the central bank will raise interest rates after the
government’s economic work conference.”  The annual conference, which will set guidelines for
monetary and fiscal policies in 2011, may be held Dec. 10-12 in
Beijing, the Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 3.  Consumer prices 
climbed 4.4 percent from a year earlier in October, the biggest
gain in two years, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
a 4.7 percent increase for November.  Rate Forecast  Shi predicted China will raise interest rates as many as
four times by the end of next year and boost lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios three times by June 30. He forecast the  yield 
on 10-year bonds will slip to as low as 3.85 percent, before
rebounding in about a week, and said expectations of monetary
tightening are driving money-market rates higher.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, fell 24 basis points today to 3.09 percent in a
five-day decline, according to daily fixing by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The three-month Shanghai interbank
offered  rate , or SHIBOR, climbed three basis points to 3.37
percent today, the highest level since November 2008. The rate
is still lower than the one-month Shibor, which dropped five
basis points to 3.77 percent.  One-year interest-rate  swaps  slid 10 basis points today,
after dropping 27 points last week, to a nine-day low of 3.01
percent. The prior week’s closing level of 3.38 percent was the
highest since August 2008.  Yuan Outlook  President Hu Jintao reiterated that the nation must balance
growth with the need to restructure the nation’s economic model
and control inflation expectations, Xinhua News reported Dec. 3,
citing comments he made at a Nov. 30 meeting in Beijing. The
central bank raised its benchmark one-year lending rate by a
quarter-percentage point on Oct. 19 to 5.56 percent and the
deposit rate by the same amount, to 2.5 percent.  The yuan strengthened 0.2 percent today to 6.6480 per
dollar in Shanghai, bringing the gains since a two-year peg
ended on June 19 to 2.4 percent, and 12-month non-deliverable
forwards reflect bets for a 2.3 percent advance in the coming
year.  Gradual and small yuan gains can help stabilize consumer
prices in China, Sheng Songcheng, head of the central bank’s
statistics and analysis department, wrote in a commentary in the
Financial News newspaper today. Inflation in December will be
below 5 percent and will be less than November levels, the China
Securities Journal reported today, citing Zhou Wangjun, deputy
director of the pricing department at the National Development
and Reform Commission.  Chinese government dollar bond risk was little changed last
week, credit-default swaps show. Five-year contracts on the
nation’s debt traded at 69.8 basis points on Dec. 3, from 70.5 a
week earlier, according to CMA prices. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to debt agreements.  -- Belinda Cao ,  Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan ,  Laura Zelenko   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  