-- Bordeaux Wines Bust Price Records With High-Tech Radio ID Tags
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2010-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/bordeaux-wines-bust-price-records-with-high-tech-radio-tags-elin-mccoy.html
Henning Thoresen  has a simple
explanation for why wine buyers bid big for his 2000 Bordeaux at
 Sotheby’s  latest New York auction, including $72,600 for a case
of Petrus.  “That’s the power of provenance,” said the sandy-haired,
soft-spoken chairman and chief executive officer of Bordeaux
Winebank, after six of his wines set records. “When wines have
it, collectors pounce and pay.”  The 128 cases of first and top second growths, in original
wooden cases, carried tamperproof traceability seals and used
eProvenance’s radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags to
register whether they’d been subjected to extreme heat or cold
during storage or shipping. A certificate for each case
guaranteed it came direct from chateau cellars and had been
stored in Bordeaux since release.  Thoresen watched as cases of Lafite fetched $36,300, while
Palmer ($4,235), Haut-Brion ($14,520) and La Mission Haut-Brion
($12,100) set records, all from the great 2000 vintage. It is
the result of what Thoresen calls “5-Star Provenance,” a term
he’s trademarked.  He’s built his Bordeaux-based  BWB Group , with $110 million
of top labels, on the idea that prices for wines with the best
provenance will sell for much more than those that have changed
hands many times in the market.  Of his first auctioned wines, 94 percent sold for well over
their high presale estimates. Another 128 lots will be offered
by  Sotheby’s  next month in Hong Kong. Then it’s on to London.  Asian Market  Most top lots at the New York sale went to phone buyers
bidding briskly in Mandarin, showing once again how important
the Chinese have become for great Bordeaux. That’s surely why
Chateau Lafite’s 2008 bottle will carry the Chinese symbol for
“8,” a lucky number there. And just last week Chateau Mouton-
Rothschild revealed that the artist selected for their 2008
label is Chinese painter Xu Lei.  The day before the auction, we sat in plush chairs and
drank tea in midtown Manhattan as he told me his plans to take
Bordeaux Winebank global. Thoresen, 46, had flown in from
Taiwan, where he’d attended 13 wine lunches and dinners for
private clients in a week. That evening he would be wooing more
buyers at Sotheby’s lavish pre-sale dinner. He’d spent the
following week scouting for potential business partners.  In 2011, he plans to open Winebank facilities in New York
and Hong Kong with storage centers, collector services and
tasting galleries, echoing his operation in Bordeaux.  Chateaux Visits  A Norwegian who began his career importing wines for his
country’s liquor monopoly, Thoresen was seduced by Bordeaux on
his first visit when he drove a tiny rented Renault Twingo up to
Chateau Margaux to snap photos. When he set up BDXV luxury wine
company in Singapore in 2003 (rebranded  BWB Singapore ), he
decided to source wines only from chateau cellars.  “You can’t just call up a chateau and ask for an
allocation,” he said. “‘Who are you?’ they’ll say. I had to
work with top negociants and take a very humble approach.”  He brought Asian clients to visit various chateaux and knew
he was getting somewhere when Prince Robert of Luxembourg, owner
of Chateau Haut-Brion, gave him a special room to taste in.  To raise money to buy more 2005 futures, Thoresen drew on
400 private Asian clients to start a Cayman Islands-based wine
fund three years ago. Though affected “big time” by the
financial crisis, he said he didn’t have to sell off any wine.
He moved the fund to Luxembourg in July to attract more European
investors.  ‘Big Con”  “People in France think you’re laundering money or hiding
taxes or dealing drugs when they hear Cayman Islands,” he said.  Wines direct from a chateau take away the worry of fakes
and minimize the risk of damage because of poor storage,
problems buyers may not otherwise discover until they open a
bottle.  Michael Egan, Winebank’s director of authenticity and
auctions, said he’s seen collections that were 90 percent fakes.  “It’s like buying a second-hand car -- you don’t know
where the wines have been,” he said. “Large format bottles are
the big con now, because few chateaux have records for them.”  Egan is the Bordeaux liaison for billionaire  Bill Koch , who
is suing several auction houses and collectors for selling wines
he says are counterfeits. So far, none of the wines has been
judged fake in court.  Provenance has become more important for auction houses and
merchants, with companies like Bordeaux’s eProvenance improving
shipment tracking and facilities like Corsham, England-based
Octavian Vaults issuing certificates of pristine storage.  Another part of Thoresen’s global strategy is getting
younger drinkers to fall in love with Bordeaux.  Wine Credit  That’s the idea behind his Max Bordeaux Wine Gallery on
Bordeaux’s main shopping street, opened in 2009, where you can
sample 48 crus classes by the glass under a hanging sculpture of
600 sparkly glasses. In the stark, high-ceilinged space, glass
towers hold bottles and six Enomatic machines offer 25 ml to 75
ml tastes.  On a visit earlier this year, I purchased a plastic card
with 50 euros ($67) credit, slid it into the slot above Lafite,
punched a button, and a tiny 25 ml sample streamed into my glass
for 23 euros. (A full bottle costs 591 euros.) A sip of 2006
Ausone? 38 euros. Mouton and sweet stunner d’Yquem? A mere 10
euros each. It’s a wine lover’s version of a sweet shop and
totally addictive -- I had to add more funds to my card.  All tasted as good as if poured at the chateaux. I hope
Bordeaux Winebank’s gallery in New York opens soon. This is one
part of globalization I can afford.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 