-- Barnes & Noble Surges as Pershing, Borders May Team Up on Takeover Offer
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-12-06T21:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/borders-holder-pershing-square-offers-to-finance-barnes-noble-takeover.html
Barnes & Noble Inc.  and Borders Group
Inc. surged in New York trading after William Ackman’s Pershing
Square Capital Management LP offered to work with Borders on a
takeover of the bookstore chain’s larger rival.  Ackman’s New York hedge-fund firm is willing to help
Borders fund an offer of $16 a share, saying the move would lead
to savings, according to a regulatory filing today. Borders
reiterated its interest in a deal and in “continuing those
discussions,” according to an e-mail from spokeswoman  Mary Davis .  The offer price would value Barnes & Noble at about $960
million, based on the shares outstanding. The proposal from
Pershing, the largest Borders holder after Chief Executive
Officer  Bennett LeBow , would combine the two biggest bookstore
chains in the U.S. as sales of paper books slump further and
digital books become more popular.  “It’s been swirling around for a while, given the
challenges in the industry,” said  Peter Wahlstrom , a retail
analyst at Morningstar in Chicago. “There could be merits to
it, but it doesn’t seem like a match made in heaven. I don’t
think it solves all that much.”  Barnes & Noble  rose  $1.41, or 11 percent, to $14.69 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the largest
gain since Aug. 4. Borders increased 31 cents, or 29 percent, to
$1.39 for the biggest advance since April 1.  Pershing Ownership  Pershing  owned  about 15 percent of  Ann Arbor, Michigan-
based Borders’ common stock as of Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The exercising of warrants and equity
swaps could increase that stake to about 42 percent, according
to today’s filing.  Bethany Norvell, a spokeswoman for Pershing, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  Mary Ellen Keating , a
spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble, declined to comment.  The chains face increasing competition as consumers shift
to downloading digital books to read on devices such as
 Amazon.com Inc.’s  Kindle. That’s led both companies to invest in
digital reading. Barnes & Noble released its Nook e-reader last
year, helping it gain about 20 percent of U.S. e-book sales.
Borders began selling e-books from its website in July and
expanded its e-reader offerings in August.  Bookstores’ Peformance  Even with the investments in digital reading, both chains
have lost money. Borders hasn’t reported an  annual profit  in the
past four years and has sold off international operations to
raise cash. Sales at  Barnes & Noble  stores open at least a year
have declined for 12 straight quarters and the company has
posted a loss in four of the past five three-month periods.  Ackman  has a history of buying shares in companies he deems
undervalued, and then pursues changes to help boost shareholder
returns. He pushed for a share buyback at Target Corp. in 2007
and persuaded Wendy’s International Inc. to spin off its Tim
Hortons doughnut chain. Pershing invested in Borders in 2006 and
pushed it to close its mall-based stores.  Ackman previously wanted to combine the booksellers,
according to court documents and testimony from Barnes & Noble’s
lawsuit over a so-called poison pill provision with  Ron Burkle ’s
Yucaipa Cos. Pershing sold a stake of more than 6 million Barnes
& Noble shares in 2008.  Notes taken by a Barnes & Noble lawyer during a board
meeting recorded founder  Leonard Riggio  saying that Burkle was
working with Ackman, then the largest shareholder in Borders, in
pursuing a deal.  Benefiting Both Companies  Burkle also said during testimony that he told Riggio that
he had met with Ackman and they discussed Barnes & Noble buying
some Borders assets if the company went bankrupt.  A combination would benefit both chains, allowing Borders
to reduce its store size and Barnes & Noble to eliminate a
competitor, said  Jim McTevia  of Bingham Farms, Michigan-based
McTevia & Associates, a turnaround consultant.  “It’s a smart move, and now is the time to do it,” said
McTevia. “You have two troubled companies in a troubled
industry in a country where the consumer is troubled. This is in
the best interest for the future of both companies.”  Last month, New York-based Barnes & Noble  forecast  a wider
annual loss than initially projected. The company also said then
that it’s still completing a strategic review of its options,
including a possible sale. Meetings with strategic and financial
institutions have taken place and there is no guarantee a
transaction will occur, the company said.  Riggio Bid  In October,  Riggio  agreed to seek approval from the board
before joining a group to make a bid for the company. The
executive has survived opposition from shareholders such as
Burkle’s Yucaipa, which unsuccessfully tried to unseat him from
the board this year.  Barnes & Noble shareholders aren’t likely to vote for such
a deal, said  Michael Souers , an analyst for Standard & Poor’s in
New York. Barnes & Noble would have to take on the costs of
combining the two companies and at $16 a share, many investors
would lose money, he said.  “From Barnes & Noble’s standpoint, there would be very
little synergies, if any at all,” said Souers, who recommends
holding shares of both chains. “The cost of reducing stores and
head count would be prohibitive.”  Borders is scheduled to report third-quarter results Dec.
9. The bookstore chain had $25.1 million in cash and cash
equivalents in the quarter ended July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 Mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  