-- BRIC Consumers `Key Investment' of Our Lifetimes, Goldman's O'Neill Says
-- B y   L i n d a   Y u e h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-07T04:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/bric-consumers-to-provide-investment-of-lifetime-goldman-s-o-neill-says.html
Consumer spending in Brazil, Russia,
India and China may surpass U.S. purchases in 15 years and
companies that sell to emerging-market shoppers are some of the
best investments “of our lifetime,”  Goldman Sachs  Asset
Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said.  Spending in the so-called BRIC countries may climb by more
than $500 billion a year, O’Neill said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in London yesterday. BRIC consumer spending was about
$4 trillion in 2009, compared with about $10 trillion in the
U.S., O’Neill wrote in a Dec. 3 research note.  “Having exposure either directly or indirectly to the
consumers in the BRIC and Next-11 countries remains the key
investment strategy of our lifetime,” said O’Neill, who coined
the BRIC acronym in 2001 and four years later created the “Next
11” grouping of smaller emerging nations, including Turkey and
 Indonesia , with the most potential to affect world growth.  The shares of  consumer companies  in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index have climbed 30 percent as a group this year, the
top gain among 10 industries. That compares with a 7.4 percent
advance in the MSCI All-Country World Index of emerging and
advanced-nation stocks.  Investors should consider buying consumer companies in
developing markets or “Western multinationals,” depending on
relative valuations, O’Neill said.  Parkson, Tingyi  China’s department stores will post “the strongest growth”
as disposable income rises, Xiaopo Wei, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at CLSA Ltd., said in a phone interview today. He
recommends buying  Parkson Retail Group Ltd. ’s shares.  The Beijing-based department-store chain controlled by
Malaysia’s Lion Group will have same-store sales that will
“easily surpass 11 percent (if not 12 percent)” this year, Wei
said in a note to clients last month. Parkson fell 2.4 percent
to HK$12.78 at 11:56 a.m. in Hong Kong and has lost 6.7 percent
this year, compared with a 6.8 percent gain for the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  Foodmaker  Tingyi (Cayman Islands) Holding Corp. , personal
hygiene products manufacturer  Hengan International Group Co.  and
 Tsingtao Brewery Co.  are among the companies whose stock CLSA
Ltd. recommends buying. China’s retail sales have  grown  by a
monthly average of 18.3 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. , the Chinese government-
backed partner of  SABMiller Plc  that also operates retail
businesses, will probably see its margins widen “amid mild
inflation” next year, CLSA said in a note to clients last month.
Its  stock  has gained 18 percent this year in Hong Kong after
 more than doubling  last year.  O’Neill joined New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  as
co-head of global economics research and chief currency
economist in 1995 and was named chairman of the money management
unit, which oversees about $820 billion, in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Yueh  at 
 yueh@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 