-- Britons to Spend $786 Million Online in ‘Mega Monday’ Splurge
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-12-06T00:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/britons-to-spend-786-million-online-in-mega-monday-splurge.html
Online shopping is set to reach an
annual peak in the U.K. today as Britons splurge on Christmas
gifts from “Toy Story 3” DVDs to Apple Inc. iPads, according
to trade organization Interactive Media in Retail Group.  Internet spending today and yesterday will be more than 500
million pounds ($786 million),  IMRG  said in a statement. About
two-thirds of that will be on the busier of the two days, known
as “Mega Monday,” according to the researcher, which forecasts
6.4 billion pounds will be spent on the Web in December.  Online sales may get an additional boost this year as snow
and freezing temperatures sweep across the U.K., keeping
shoppers at home. Web sales will probably increase by 15 percent
this Christmas, compared with growth of about 1 percent in total
retail spending, according to estimates by Deloitte LLP.  “Consumers have looked to spread the costs of Christmas a
bit more this year due to the economic climate, but Dec. 6 is
the day that our retailers expect sales activity to be at its
highest,” said David Smith, managing director at IMRG.  U.K. online sales are set to surge in coming years as
retailers extend their delivery coverage and more shoppers use
the Web. Total online revenue may account for 20 percent of
retail spending by the end of the decade, compared with less
than 10 percent now, according to Deloitte.  Snowy weather is boosting U.K. online spending by about 130
million pounds, or 19 percent, a day as consumers stay at home
and order on the Internet, according to a study commissioned by
price comparison website Kelkoo and conducted by the Centre for
Retail Research. By contrast, daily sales at stores are down by
about 110 million pounds, or 9 percent, the research shows.  ‘Bananagrams’  The earliest widespread snowfall in the U.K. since 1993 has
disrupted road, rail and air traffic, with very low temperatures
likely to continue this week, according to the  Met Office .  John Lewis Partnership Plc said that online revenue surged
62 percent in the four days through Dec. 2, while sales at its
department-store chain stopped growing.  Top-sellers for the holiday will include the Kindle e-
reader, “Call of Duty: Black Ops” video game and Bananagrams
toy, according to  Amazon.co.uk , which on last year’s busiest day
got orders for 2 million items at a rate of about 23 per second.  “This is likely to be our biggest Christmas on record,”
 Brian McBride , managing director of the U.K. unit of  Amazon.com
Inc.  said in the IMRG’s statement.  3-D Gaming  Best Buy Europe expects strong demand for 3-D gaming and
 Samsung Electronics Co.’s  GalaxyTab tablet-computer, Andrew
Brem, multichannel and services director, said in the statement.  Online holiday sales are already ahead of last year,
according to Venda, which processes about 2 percent of all U.K.
non-food e-commerce transactions. The number of orders placed on
Nov. 28 exceeded the highest number recorded on any day last
year and the following day saw a further 21 percent increase,
the e-commerce provider said in an e-mailed statement.  “We will continue to see new records in the volumes of
transactions in the run-up to Christmas as consumers put more
trust in the online operation of brands,”  Eric Abensur , Venda’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 