-- Ontario Teachers' Joins Group Buying Stake in Brazilian Bank BTG Pactual
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2010-12-06T19:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/btg-pactual-will-sell-1-8-billion-stake-to-investors-including-singapore.html
BTG Pactual, the Brazilian bank
controlled by billionaire  Andre Esteves , agreed to sell a $1.8
billion stake to a group of investors including the Rothschild
and Agnelli families as well as Middle East and Asia funds.  The group includes U.S. investment firm J.C. Flowers & Co.,
the Government of Singapore Investment Corp., China Investment
Corp. and the Abu Dhabi Investment Council, the Sao Paulo-based
firm said in a statement today. The group will own about 19
percent of BTG following the transaction.  Esteves and his partners bought Banco BTG Pactual, Brazil’s
biggest equity underwriter, back from  UBS AG  for $2.5 billion
last year. BTG, which cited market conditions for canceling an
initial public offering in June, is expanding its mergers
advisory and underwriting businesses as Latin America’s largest
economy grows at the fastest pace in more than two decades.  “It’s the first transaction of this magnitude in our
region and a very special transaction if you consider that BTG
Pactual is an emerging-market bank,” Esteves, 42, said on a
conference call with reporters today.  BTG, based in Sao Paulo, managed $3.07 billion of Brazilian
equity sales this year, putting it in seventh place among the
country’s top underwriters. The bank advised on 42 mergers and
acquisitions involving Brazilian companies that totaled $24.9
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Rich Agenda’  Brazil’s  gross domestic product  will expand 7.54 percent
this year, according to a central bank survey of economists
published today. Economic growth is benefitting from rising
domestic demand and foreign direct investment, which increased
26 percent in October from a year earlier to $6.77 billion, the
highest since December of 2008.  One of the goals of the transaction is to support the plans
of the bank’s new partners to invest in Brazil, according to
Esteves. Those investors have a “rich agenda” for Brazil and
Latin America that includes infrastructure projects, which are
being announced on a “daily basis,” he said.  For Exor SpA, the Agnellis’ holding company, the BTG stake
will provide more opportunities in emerging markets after
investments in China and India, Exor Chairman  John Elkann  said
in an e-mailed statement.  BTG Pactual is still considering an initial public offering
as a “natural development” for the bank, Esteves said on a
conference call. BTG may also make acquisitions in the region,
he said.  “The capital increase, from this highly respected group of
investors, will allow us to consolidate our position as a
leading emerging market-based investment bank and asset
manager,” Esteves said in a written statement.  Linklaters LLP is representing the investor group, and
Citigroup Inc. is providing financial advice. Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP is representing BTG Pactual.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net 
 Helder Marinho  in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Adriana Arai at   aarai1@bloomberg.net  