-- Spanish, Italian Government Bonds Slide as Splits Emerge Before EU Meeting
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-06T17:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/bunds-rise-ahead-of-eu-meeting-as-concern-rises-that-u-s-growth-slowing.html
Spanish and Italian bonds fell on
concern divisions among European officials will hamper efforts
by finance ministers meeting in Brussels to stem the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  The declines drove the extra yield investors demand to hold
the bonds of high-deficit nations instead of benchmark German
securities higher for the first time in four days. Irish and
Portuguese bonds outperformed their peers as traders said
central banks bought the nations' debt today. Ministers will
discuss today details of a permanent mechanism to support
economies struggling to raise funding, which is intended to
replace the European Financial Stability Facility in 2013.  “The uncertainty over the euro mechanism is being priced
into the market and that’s driving the yield movements,” said
 Michael Kruse , a fixed-income analyst in Zurich at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “The uncertainty is not great for the markets.”  The 10-year Spanish bond yield climbed 12 basis points to
5.20 percent as of 4:11 p.m. in London. The 4.85 percent
security due in October 2020 fell 0.87, or 8.7 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,329) face amount, to 97.33. The extra yield, or spread,
with bunds increased 10 basis points to 229 basis points, or
2.29 percentage points.  Italian 10-year yields rose five basis points to 4.5
percent, and the yield on similar-maturity Belgian debt advanced
five basis points to 3.96 percent. Credit-default swaps on Italy
jumped 8.5 basis points to 217.5, while those on Spain increased
20 basis points to 317, according to CMA prices. Contracts on
Ireland were 12.5 basis points higher at 555 and those for
Portugal were up 15.5 basis points to 443.5.  The euro slumped 0.9 percent to $1.3292, snapping a three-
day gain.  EU Bond Buying  Government bonds from the euro area’s so-called peripheral
nations surged last week amid speculation the European Central
Bank bought the assets to cool the region’s debt crisis. ECB
policy makers also extended extraordinary stimulus measures to
stem the fallout in financial markets following Ireland’s Nov.
28 bailout agreement.  “The rally that we saw last week was a bit excessive,
probably boosted by purchases of Portuguese and Irish bonds,”
said  Ioannis Sokos , an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas
SA in London. “I expect volatility and uncertainty to remain.”  ECB Governing Council member and head of Cyprus’ central
bank  Athanasios Orphanides  said today the ECB is “actively”
operating in the government bond market and the central bank
will act in the markets as necessary.  Irish, Portuguese  The ECB settled 1.965 billion euros of purchases last week,
the most in 22 weeks, it said today. Most transactions between
Dec. 1 and Dec. 3 haven’t yet settled, the central bank said.  The ECB bought Irish and Portuguese government bonds today,
according to three traders with knowledge of the transactions,
who declined to be identified because the deals are private. A
spokeswoman at the ECB in Frankfurt declined to comment.  Irish 10-year yields were little changed at 8.37 percent,
while similar-maturity Portuguese debt yields added one basis
point to 6.09 percent.  “The fact that Portugal and Ireland are outperforming
seems to indicate that the European Central Bank is active in
the markets,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at
WestLB AG, said by phone from London.  The purchases are providing a “false sense of stability”
that may lead to a larger crisis at a later date, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  ‘Lack of Solidarity’  “The tension in spreads will not stop,” rates strategists
 Harvinder Sian ,  Simon Peck  and  Biagio Lapolla  wrote in a
research report on Dec. 3. “The real market moves are now
driven by higher default risk on the lack of solidarity from
core Europe and potentially lower recovery rates from the
European Stability Mechanism’s preferred-creditor status.”  Standard & Poor’s said last week it may downgrade Greece
because the ESM, which will succeed the financial stability
facility, could assign a preferred-creditor status to future
lending by euro-area nations, potentially reducing investors’
ability to get paid in the event of default.  Countries including Greece are “in denial” in saying
they’ll be able to repay their full borrowing bills,  Kenneth Rogoff , a Harvard University professor and former International
Monetary Fund chief economist, told Bloomberg Television today.
“We’d be very lucky to avoid restructuring.”  The IMF said the ECB should buy more bonds and will ask the
European Union to enlarge the bloc’s rescue package, Reuters
reported yesterday, citing a report from the IMF that it
obtained. Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said two days
ago that the region’s 750 billion-euro bailout fund could be
increased to stem contagion from the sovereign debt crisis,
breaking ranks with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Merkel Opposition  ECB council member  Guy Quaden  told reporters at a briefing
in Brussels today that he also favors increasing the size of the
bailout fund.  Merkel told reporters in Berlin today she opposed adding to
the rescue fund. She also rejected a suggestion by  Jean-Claude Juncker , prime minister of Luxembourg and leader of the group of
euro-area finance ministers, and  Giulio Tremonti , finance
minister of Italy, that European nations should issue joint
bonds as a response to the crisis. Merkel also said Germany
“will always do everything” it can to ensure a strong and
stable euro.  Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  said proposed joint
eurobond issuance is a “possibility to be explored.”  LCH Clearnet Ltd. said today it will reduce the extra
deposit it charges clients on Irish government bond trades to 30
percent from 45 percent.  The Irish government will lay out details tomorrow of 6
billion-euros of spending cuts and tax increases. Prime Minister
 Brian Cowen ’s Fianna Fail party has a minority of seats in
parliament and may need the backing of independents who have yet
to declare support for the budget.  The yield on the 10-year bund declined one basis point to
2.85 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  