-- Buy Taiwan Options as China Trade, Tourism Ties Surge, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-06T02:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/buy-taiwan-options-as-china-trade-tourism-ties-surge-morgan-stanley-says.html
Investors should buy bullish options
on Taiwan’s benchmark stock index because it will extend gains
as Chinese trade and tourism increase and rising technology
sales boost corporate profits, Morgan Stanley said.  Viktor Hjort , a Hong Kong-based strategist, recommended
buying over-the-counter  Taiex Index  call options which expire in
March and have a strike price 5 percent above the current index
level. The index of  721 companies  traded on the Taiwan Stock
Exchange rose 3.8 percent last week to 8,624.01, the highest
since  June 2008 .  The Taiex may surge to 10,000 next year as improved
relations with China boost tourism and lifts the island’s
technology sales, Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Frank A.Y. Wang 
wrote in a Dec. 3 report. Technology companies, which account
for 46 percent of the benchmark’s  market value , will rally as
global companies increase equipment purchases, Hjort wrote in a
separate report.  “More cross-strait trade policies with China, the global
tech upgrade cycle in 2011 and implied volatility around multi-
year lows favor call options as the index is at multi-year
highs,” Hjort wrote. “With improved balance sheets and
earnings quality we also expect 2011 to be the main phase of the
recovery leading to a positive earnings upgrade cycle ahead
driven by tech.”  Implied volatility , the key gauge of option prices, for
three-month options 5 percent above the index level fell 7.1
percent to 15.20 on the Taiwan Futures Exchange last week, down
from this year’s peak of 25.02 in May, according to Bloomberg
data. It dropped to a three-year low of 14.63 in September.  Calls, Puts  Investors who want to make a longer bullish trade and
eliminate the cost of the transaction should buy an October call
that’s 5 percent above the index while selling an October put
that’s 17 percent below, Hjort said. The put’s strike is about
the same as Wang’s “bear case” level to which stocks may slide,
the report said.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain amount,
the strike price, by a set date. Puts give the right to sell.
Selling a put is a bet that the underlying security will remain
above the strike price, allowing the seller to keep the premium
paid.  The Taiex rose 0.9 percent to 8,699.83 at 9:53 a.m. local
time, adding to a 6.2 percent advance this year, after jumping
78 percent in 2009 as Taiwan’s President  Ma Ying-jeou  helped
cement closer ties with China by abandoning his predecessor’s
pro-independence stance. The government has signed 14 agreements
with the mainland since Ma took office.  China Tourists  Mainland visitors are expected to be the biggest source of
arrivals for the first time this year, surpassing the 1 million
projected for Japanese visitors, Chang Shi-chung, chief
secretary at Taiwan’s Tourism Bureau, said Nov. 23. Taiwan
expects foreign tourist numbers to climb to 6 million next year
from 5.4 million this year, the Cabinet said in a statement on
its website Nov. 30.  Taiwan’s stocks were also raised to “bullish” from “bearish”
at Nomura Holdings Inc. today, which cited better global growth
prospects. The brokerage also said the Taiex offers “significant
potential upside” and favored financial companies, technology
brands, lower valued notebook computer makers and tourism-
related companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 