-- Buy All Securitized Debt as Market to Shrink by $270 Billion, BofA's Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-06T18:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/buy-all-types-of-securitized-debt-as-supplies-will-be-shrinking-bofa-says.html
Investors should be buying bonds in
all categories of U.S. securitized debt, in part because the
market will continue to shrink next year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch analysts.  “We recognize that heading into 2011, recommending an
overweight of all sectors of securitized products may appear
exceedingly bullish,” the New York-based analysts led by  Chris Flanagan  wrote in a year-end outlook published Dec. 3.
“However, the return performance for 2010 indicates that would
have been the appropriate strategy for this past year.”  Securities backed by loans and leases, including
 government-backed agency mortgage bonds , have outperformed U.S.
Treasuries by 2.58 percentage points this year, with some
commercial-mortgage debt gaining almost 50 percent, according to
Barclays Capital index data. Those excess returns, the second-
best in at least 10 years, are more than double the gains of
corporate bonds relative to similar-maturity government debt.  U.S. securitized debt may contract by $270 billion next
year, led by a  drop  in non-agency home-loan bonds that lack
government guarantees, according to the Bank of America
analysts. Issuance will be limited as potential borrowers and
investors remain wary and new regulations curb sales, while
defaults eliminate  outstanding debt , they said.  Net supply of corporate bonds may total $346 billion and
the Treasury market may expand by $1.4 trillion, the analysts
estimated.  The securitized-debt market will contract by an estimated
$629 billion this year, compared with about $1 trillion of
growth in each of 2006 and 2007, according to Bank of America.
Net supply across U.S. fixed-income markets will probably total
$1.1 trillion in 2010, down from a record $2.4 trillion in 2007.  ‘Top Picks’  Securitized debt outperformed Treasuries with maturities
similar to its projected lives by a record 7 percentage points
last year, as bonds rallied from  record lows  reached after the
global financial crisis, according to Barclays index data, which
doesn’t include all types of notes.  The Bank of America analysts’ “top picks” for 2011 in the
market include “weaker and lower credit” commercial-mortgage
securities, as well as interest-only slices of agency home-loan
securities that will gain as homeowner refinancing slows.  Flanagan said in a telephone interview that the
securitized-debt market also stands to be bolstered by a “slow,
steady” U.S. economic recovery.  Sovereign Crisis  Risks include a possible intensification of Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis or currency fluctuations, he said. While
such events outside the market may cause yields on U.S.
securitized debt to widen relative to benchmark rates, spreads
will probably narrow afterward, he said.  In a survey by Institutional Investor magazine this year,
Flanagan’s team was the second-ranked for consumer asset-backed
securities, and third-ranked for real-estate asset-backed
securities and non-agency mortgage-backed securities.  Recommending investors get “overweight” in particular
bond categories typically means suggesting that they hold more
of the debt than found in benchmark bond indexes.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts, who were top-ranked for a
number of securitized-debt categories in the Institutional
Investor survey, suggested in a Nov. 24 report that investors
buy several types of the debt, including non-agency home-loan
bonds and unusual asset-backed securities, also in part because
of declining supply.  At the same time, an additional $200 billion to $250
billion of debt may emerge in the agency mortgage-bond market on
top of “traditional supply,” JPMorgan analysts led by  Matt Jozoff  wrote in their 2011 outlook.  This “shadow supply” will come from refinancing and home
sales by consumers with loans backing securities currently held
by the  Federal Reserve , Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, they said.
The Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage bonds in a program
that ran from January 2009 through March of this year to bolster
the housing and financing markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 