-- C-Bass Bankruptcy Judge Approves Auction to Seek Bids Topping FIG Offer
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-12-06T17:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/c-bass-bankruptcy-judge-approves-auction-to-seek-bids-topping-fig-offer.html
Credit-Based Asset Servicing &
Securitization LLC, the bankrupt subprime mortgage investor, won
permission to auction its collateral-management business to seek
bids higher than the $2.4 million offered by FIG LLC.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper  in Manhattan today
approved a sale procedure which calls for bids to be received
before Dec.31, and an auction to be held Jan. 10. A break-up fee
of $100,000 and expense reimbursement will protect the so-called
stalking-horse bidder, which is an affiliate of Fortress
Investment Group, said Peter Partee, a lawyer for C-Bass.  C-Bass also won approval of a revised request to use cash
collateral on an interim basis in bankruptcy.  Andrew Rickert, C-Bass’s executive vice president, said in
court papers that the company used most of its collateral over
the 10 months leading up to its bankruptcy to pay down the
balance on its senior loans, reducing $1.9 billion to $170
million. Remaining collateral included subordinated tranches of
mortgage-backed securities, whole loans, claims against third
parties, furniture and intellectual property, and its
collateral-management business.  FIG LLC made an offer for that business, which services 17
privately offered collateralized bond obligations, under a
purchase agreement dated Nov. 9, according to court papers.  Gropper had denied the company’s first request to use
$50,000 to $100,000 worth of its lenders’ collateral. He said
that C-Bass, as it’s known, hadn’t shown it needed the money on
an emergency basis and that an agreement between the company and
its lenders needed to be vetted by a committee representing
unsecured creditors.  The case is In re Credit-Based Asset Servicing &
Securitization LLC, 10-16040, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 