-- California Gay Marriage Ban Protects State's `Vital Interest,' Court Told
-- B y   P a m e l a   A .   M a c L e a n
-- 2010-12-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/california-gay-marriage-opponents-ask-appeals-court-to-reinstate-2008-ban.html
California’s voter-approved
initiative banning same-sex weddings protects society’s “vital
interest” in reproduction and childrearing and shouldn’t be
thrown out, supporters of the law told an appeals court.  Lawyers for supporters of Proposition 8 asked a three-judge
panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals to overturn a lower-court
ruling that declared the law unconstitutional. U.S. District
Judge  Vaughn Walker  in San Francisco struck down Proposition 8
in August, saying it violated the constitutional rights of gay
people to equal protection and due process.  “The people of California and Americans are engaged in a
profound debate about the meaning of marriage,” Charles Cooper,
an attorney for opponents of same-sex marriage, told a three-
judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals yesterday. “It is
fundamental to the existence of the human race.”  Judge  Michael Daly Hawkins  asked whether the people of
California could “reinstitute school segregation” if they
passed another ballot initiative.  “No, it would be inconsistent with the Constitution,”
Cooper responded, while saying that same-sex marriage is nothing
like racial restrictions that have been overturned by the U.S.
Supreme Court.  The case before Walker was the first to go through a
federal trial testing whether same-sex unions are protected by
the U.S. Constitution. Whichever side loses before yesterday’s
panel may seek review by an 11-judge panel of the same court or
appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Berkeley, Burbank  Same-sex marriages were legalized by the California Supreme
Court in a 4-3 decision in May 2008. In November of that year,
52 percent of voters approved Proposition 8, triggering a
lawsuit in federal court by the city of San Francisco and gay
couples from Berkeley and Burbank. After the January trial over
Proposition 8, Walker concluded in August that San Francisco and
the gay couples had demonstrated by “overwhelming evidence”
that Proposition 8 violated constitutional rights. He prohibited
California from enforcing the ban on same-sex marriage.  Proposition 8 backers say the desire of gays and lesbians
to marry is outweighed by the state’s interest in promoting
child rearing through traditional heterosexual marriages.  They said in court papers that before recent movements to
include same-sex relationships in the definition of marriage,
“it was commonly understood and acknowledged that the
institution of marriage owed its very existence to society’s
vital interest in responsible procreation and childrearing.”  ‘Responsible Procreation’  Same-sex marriage supporters have countered that the
Constitution doesn’t permit unequal treatment under the law.
They contended in court filings that the “responsible
procreation” justification can’t pass constitutional muster as
a means to create a separate classification of relationships.  “What this case comes down to is that California has built
a fence around its gay and lesbian citizens and around
marriage,”  Ted Olson , an attorney for supporters of same-sex
unions, argued before the appeals court yesterday. “The same-
sex couples outside that fence are denied access and that is a
violation of due process and equal protection rights.”  “The U.S. Supreme Court has said 14 times in addressing
marriage, the right to marry is an aspect of the right to
privacy, association and liberty,” Olson said. “Mr. Cooper
talks about society’s rights. This is not society’s right. It is
not California’s right. It is the right of individuals.”  18,000 Gay Couples  About 18,000 gay couples married in California before
voters passed Proposition 8. As of 2006, there were an estimated
109,000 gay couples in California, more than any other state,
according to U.S. Census data compiled by the University of
California, Los Angeles.  Since California approved its ban in 2008, Iowa, Vermont,
New Hampshire and Connecticut have legalized same-sex marriage.
Massachusetts did so in 2004.  On Aug. 16, the appeals court put Walker’s decision on hold
temporarily, barring additional gay marriages in California at
least until after the panel rules.  The appeal raises a procedural issue that could determine
the outcome. Both California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and
Attorney General  Jerry Brown  declined to defend Proposition 8 in
court. The measure’s campaign organizers from
ProtectMarriage.com moved in to defend the amendment.  Walker said in August that he doubted supporters of the ban
could proceed on appeal. He said they don’t have anyone
officially representing the state of California on their side
and therefore lack legal standing to pursue the case.  ‘State’s Interest’  The proponents say they are acting as “agents for the
people” of California and as such are legally permitted to
“assert the state’s interest,” according to a court filing.  The three-judge appeals panel set aside the first hour of
yesterday’s two-hour proceeding to deal with so-called standing
issues.  “No, we did not seek to apply or coerce the attorney
general to appeal,” Cooper said when asked by Judge  N. Randy Smith  whether there was an effort to ask or force Brown to
represent Proposition 8 in court.  David Boies , an attorney for same-sex marriage supporters,
told the appeals panel “it is crystal clear” that his
opponents lack standing to pursue their appeal.  Judge  Stephen Reinhardt  said that Boies’s clients are
counting on California’s governor and attorney general to expand
the enforcement of Walker’s ruling from two counties where the
plaintiff couples live to the entire state.  “As a practical term, we do have to depend on the governor
and the attorney general,” Boies said.  Imperial County  Imperial County in Southern California filed an appeal
jointly with marriage-ban supporters, raising an additional
question of whether a local government can act on behalf of the
state.  Hawkins  was appointed to the appeals court by President
 Bill Clinton  in 1994,  Smith  was appointed by President  George W. Bush  in 2007, and  Reinhardt  was appointed in 1980 by President
 Jimmy Carter . Reinhardt refused last week to disqualify himself
from the case after gay-marriage opponents complained that his
wife, the executive director of the Southern California chapter
of the American Civil Liberties Union, had participated in the
lawsuit.  The three judges were selected for the panel by a random
drawing. The panel didn’t say when it will rule.  The case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 10-16696, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco.) The district
court case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 09-02292, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pamela A. MacLean at   pmaclean@pacbell.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 