-- Candover Investments Plans to Sell Candover Partners; Chairman Steps Down
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-12-06T17:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/candover-investments-plans-to-sell-candover-partners-chairman-steps-down.html
Candover Investments Plc, the British
private equity firm that halted investments in January, agreed
to sell its Candover Partners Ltd. buyout unit and part of its
portfolio as it seeks to return cash to shareholders.  Candover Partners  will be sold for “nominal
consideration” to Arle Capital Partners LLP, a new firm formed
by some of Candover Partners’ executives, the company said today
in a statement. The investment trust will also sell 29.1 percent
of its portfolio to a unit backed by Arle and Pantheon, a
London-based fund of funds manager, for as much as 60 million
pounds ($94 million), or a 14 percent discount to the value
carried in the firm’s books, it said.  “The sale of Candover Partners to its executives will
create an independent, motivated and incentivized manager
focused on maximizing and realizing the value in the
portfolio,”  Malcolm Fallen , chief executive officer of Candover
Investments, said in the statement.  Candover Partners was forced to shut its 3 billion-euro ($4
billion) leveraged buyout fund in January after Candover
Investments, its publicly traded parent, ran out of cash and
canceled a 1 billion-euro commitment to the pool in March 2009.
Candover Investments said in August it wouldn’t back any other
funds and that it would focus on returning cash to shareholders,
which stoked talks among executives at the buyout unit about a
spinoff, people familiar with the matter said previously.  Stable Investment Team  “It is good to see Candover finally resolve the management
issue, with the team now taking themselves out of the listed
vehicle,” said  Iain Scouller , an analyst at Oriel Securities
Ltd. with a “hold” rating on Candover Investments. “This
should give stability to the investment team, who will be
important when working out the investment portfolio over the
next few years.”  Gerry Grimstone , chairman of Candover Investments since
2006, will stand down once the sales are completed and a search
for a successor has begun, Candover also said today.  The firm rose as much as 3.3 percent, before closing
unchanged at 702 pence in London.  Arle, which was named after a river that runs through the
Candover valley in the southern English county of Hampshire,
will be led by  John Arney , the firm said. The 42-year-old became
managing partner of Candover Partners in August 2009 after  Colin Buffin  resigned and  Marek Gumienny  became chairman.  New Fund  The buyout team will continue to manage Candover’s 2001,
2005 and 2008 buyout funds, the firm said. Arney’s plan is to
try to raise another pool in 18 to 24 months, once his team has
shown good returns selling assets, people familiar with the
matter said previously.  The deal gives the team options “including raising a new
fund, but there’s no timeline to do that,”  Helen Walsh , a
spokeswoman for Candover Partners, said in an interview.  Gumienny, 51, is planning to retire once the firm exits
investments he led in Dutch machinery manufacturer Stork BV,
Italian gym equipment supplier Technogym, Swiss automotive
intelligence provider EuroTaxGlass’s Group and Spanish amusement
park operator Parques Reunidos SA, Walsh said.  Arle’s future investment plans will be led by deal partners
Arney,  Mark Dickinson ,  Javier Abad  and  Nils Stoesser , Walsh
said. The investment team will be reduced from 36 executives to
about 24, she said.  Investing With Pantheon  The buyout team agreed to invest 4 million pounds in the
Pantheon-controlled holding company that will buy the assets
from Candover Investments, Fallen said on a conference call
today.  Pantheon, which manages $22.4 billion of assets, bought
secondary interests in Candover’s funds raised in 2008 and 2005
before approaching Fallen directly about a sale a few months
ago,  Elly Livingstone , head of Pantheon’s secondary unit, said
in an interview. Candover Partners’ independence “was a
condition for us, which the Plc fully agreed on,” Livingstone
said.  “We were very familiar with the portfolio, we like the
team,” Livingstone said. Pantheon recently raised $3 billion to
target stakes in buyout funds sold by limited partners.  Candover Partners had gross assets of 53 million pounds as
of June 30. The sale of part of the portfolio will help reduce
net debt to 16 million pounds from 59 million pounds on June 30,
Oriel’s Scouller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  