-- Carlyle to Buy Majority Stake in Credit Hedge Fund Claren Road
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-12-06T15:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/carlyle-to-buy-55-stake-in-credit-hedge-fund-claren-road-asset-management.html
Carlyle Group, the world’s second-
largest private-equity firm, agreed to buy a 55 percent stake in
Claren Road Asset Management, a $4.5 billion long-short hedge
fund focused on liquid credit assets.  Citigroup Inc., which invested in Claren Road in 2006, and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Petershill Fund, which bought a
minority stake in 2008, will sell their holdings, according to
an e-mailed statement by Washington-based Carlyle. Claren Road
founders  Brian Riano ,  John Eckerson ,  Sean Fahey  and  Albert Marino  will continue to manage the day-to-day operations and
make all investment decisions.  Carlyle is adding more liquid investments as it prepares
for a public share sale to join listed rivals Blackstone Group
LP and KKR & Co., who have diversified after the credit crisis.
Apollo Global Management LLC, which is seeking to move its Class
A shares, now held by private investors, to the New York Stock
Exchange, yesterday entered into an alliance to offer hedge-fund
investments for clients. A previous effort by Carlyle to add
hedge funds failed in 2008 when the firm liquidated a pool hurt
by investments in mortgage securities.  “We have a view of which strategies are necessary to
exploit the market opportunities,” said  Mitch Petrick , global
head of Credit Alternatives and Capital Markets at Carlyle.
“Claren Road is an important piece of the puzzle and we are in
various stages of development on additional strategies.”  Petrick, who joined Carlyle in March, is seeking to build
out the firm’s credit business, which oversees $14.7 billion in
34 funds as of Sept. 30.  Going Public  The renewed push into hedge funds and more liquid
investments may help Carlyle should it decide to sell shares in
an initial public offering, according to  Daniel Fannon , a San
Francisco-based analyst at Jefferies & Co.  William Conway , who founded Carlyle in 1987 with  David Rubenstein  and  Daniel D’Aniello , said the company is gearing up
for a public share sale to amass permanent capital and contend
with the growing challenge of raising money for buyout funds.  “There will be significant advantages to having a lot more
capital,” Conway, 61, who oversees the Washington-based firm’s
investments, said in an interview with Bloomberg Businessweek.
“Investors are reducing commitments to funds and making
economic terms much less attractive.”  Carlyle has considered an initial public offering since at
least June 2007, when larger rival Blackstone began trading on
the New York Stock Exchange. Plans were put on hold soon after
when debt markets froze. Carlyle instead sold a 7.5 percent
stake to Mubadala Development Co., an arm of the Abu Dhabi
government, in September 2007.  Apollo Forms Alliance  Apollo, the buyout firm run by  Leon Black , yesterday agreed
to make a $75 million convertible note investment in HFA
Holdings Ltd., the parent company of Lighthouse Investment
Partners LLC, a manager of funds of hedge funds with $4.5
billion under management. Through the alliance, Apollo will add
hedge-fund and managed-account products to its offering for
investors. Both firms will stay independent.  Bloomberg News reported in September that Carlyle was
talking to firms including one hedge fund with as much as $5
billion in assets, according to people briefed on the plans.
Carlyle is also seeking $1.5 billion for a new distressed fund
and is marketing a new vehicle focused on mezzanine debt, the
people said then.  Carlyle will pay for the Claren Road stake with a
combination of cash, stock and payments contingent on
performance, according to the statement.  ‘Scalable’  Claren Road’s founders, former members of Citigroup’s
credit trading department who established their firm in 2005,
will invest “substantially all” of the cash proceeds into
their funds. As a long-short fund, Claren Road can profit from
rising as well as falling asset prices.  “We see the strategy as very scalable and will grow the
business as opportunity presents itself,” said Claren Road’s
Riano, who has worked with Eckerson and Fahey since 1994.  The credit crisis forced Carlyle two years ago to shut its
only hedge fund, a venture it had started in March 2007 with
Deutsche Bank AG executives  Rick Goldsmith  and  Ralph Reynolds .
Assets in that fund had dropped by a third to $600 million.  Another fund, the publicly traded mortgage-bond fund
 Carlyle Capital Corp. , was suspended from trading that year
after it failed to meet more than $400 million of margin calls
on mortgage-backed collateral. The firm had started the fund
less than two years before, hiring  John Stomber , a former
managing director of Cerberus Capital Management LP, to head it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 