-- Carlyle Aims for IPO to Boost Buyout-Fund Capital, Conway Says
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-12-06T15:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/carlyle-closing-in-on-ipo-for-buyout-fund-capital-conway-says.html
William Conway , the deal maker who
helped build Carlyle Group into the world’s second-biggest
private-equity firm, said the company is gearing up for a public
share sale to amass permanent capital and contend with the
growing challenge of raising money for buyout funds.  “There will be significant advantages to having a lot more
capital,” Conway, 61, who oversees the Washington-based firm’s
investments, said in an interview with  Bloomberg Businessweek .
“Investors are reducing commitments to funds and making
economic terms much less attractive.”  Carlyle has considered an initial public offering since at
least June 2007, when larger rival  Blackstone Group LP  began
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Plans were put on hold
soon after when debt markets froze. Carlyle instead sold a 7.5
percent stake to Mubadala Development Co., an arm of the Abu
Dhabi government, in September 2007.  After participating in $16 billion of buyouts this year,
more than any other private-equity firm, Carlyle plans to file
IPO papers late in 2011, said people with knowledge of the
matter. The stock sale may not occur until the following year,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
plans are private.  Private-equity funds are struggling to raise money even as
buyouts more than tripled this year to $133 billion from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Firms
attracted $71 billion from investors through the third quarter
and are set to have their worst fundraising year since at least
2004, data from researcher PitchBook Data Inc. in Seattle show.
The wealthy individuals and institutions that traditionally have
backed private equity are increasingly reluctant to commit fresh
capital after the financial crisis.  Deals, Diversification  Carlyle, which was founded in 1987 by Conway,  David Rubenstein  and  Daniel D’Aniello  with $5 million in seed capital,
would use proceeds from the IPO to invest in its funds and
continue to expand beyond corporate buyouts.  The firm today agreed to buy a 55 percent stake in Claren
Road Asset Management, a $4.5 billion long-short hedge fund
focused on liquid credit assets. Citigroup Inc., which invested
in Claren Road in 2006, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
Petershill Fund, which bought a minority stake in 2008, will
sell their holdings, Carlyle said in a statement.  Claren Road founders  Brian Riano ,  John Eckerson ,  Sean Fahey 
and  Albert Marino  will continue to manage the day-to-day
operations and make all investment decisions.  Petrick, Arpey  The firm in March hired  Mitch Petrick , Morgan Stanley’s
former sales and trading chief, to build out its credit
business.  Michael Arpey , former head of Credit Suisse Group AG’s
customized funds business, joined Carlyle in November to lead
fund formation and development of new products.  Carlyle, which oversees $98 billion, appointed both to the
firm’s special committee, which oversees operations in 19
countries and 78 funds. The firm also hired  Rodney Cohen  from
Pegasus Capital Advisors to lead a fund it hopes will raise $1
billion to buy small companies.  Stock as Currency  When Blackstone went public, it said having stock would
give it a currency to buy companies, recruit and retain
employees and enable founders Stephen Schwarzman and Peter G.
Peterson to convert their ownership stakes into shares and cash.
The New York-based  company  has fallen 55 percent from the $31
IPO price.  KKR & Co., which also weighed going public during the IPO
boom, later merged with a European-listed affiliate and moved
the stock to New York. It has gained 22 percent since the switch
to the  New York Stock Exchange  in July.  Conway, in a Dec. 3 interview, said he expects Carlyle to
add at least one yuan-denominated fund to the pair it’s already
marketing, one of which is a joint venture. Petrick’s Carlyle
Global Credit Alternatives group is aiming to start two debt
funds.  Conway decided at the start of the year to ramp up buyouts
after an almost two-year stretch when Carlyle was largely absent
from deal making.  “At the beginning of 2010, I became more bullish on the
economy than many others, based on data from portfolio companies
that showed improvement,” he said. “Another factor was the
Federal Reserve -- it pumped a massive amount of liquidity into
the system and it worked.”  Conway’s Marching Orders  By year-end, the firm expects to have put $10 billion in
equity into new investments worldwide. Its clients, who received
$1 billion in cash distributions in 2009, have already seen
payouts increase to $5.7 billion 2010. That’s more than
Blackstone and KKR combined.  At the beginning of each year, Conway writes a memo to all
Carlyle employees. In addition to laying out his views on the
investment environment, this year’s seven-page letter responded
to investor concerns that Carlyle had “too much unfunded
capital” at its disposal by explaining that the decision not to
put capital to work earlier put it in a better position than its
competitors to capitalize on current opportunities.  He directed the firm’s 400 investment professionals to use
the economic uncertainty to their advantage and exceed the $5.2
billion they spent in 2009.  Vitamins, Fiber Optics  Carlyle has announced 33 deals this year, compared with one
last year. Four deals are valued at more than $2 billion. The
firm beat out Blackstone and TPG Inc. to buy  NBTY Inc. , the
maker of Nature’s Bounty, MET-Rx and Solgar nutritional
supplements, for $3.8 billion in July.  The deal was Carlyle’s largest since its $6.3 billion
acquisition of nursing-home operator Manor Care Inc. in 2007.
Carlyle in October agreed to buy  CommScope Inc. , a manufacturer
of fiber-optic networks, for $3.9 billion.  “We worked on NBTY and CommScope for a couple of years,”
Conway said. “The hard work started a long time before the
process got underway. In fact, you were behind if you started
due diligence when you got the book from Goldman Sachs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 