-- Carney May Keep Interest Rate Unchanged on Sluggish Growth: Canada Credit
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-06T17:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/carney-may-keep-interest-rate-unchanged-on-sluggish-growth-canada-credit.html
The Bank of Canada may keep interest
rates unchanged tomorrow and signal no move until at least March
because of sluggish economic growth, even amid signs consumer
prices are advancing faster than policy makers predicted.  Governor  Mark Carney  will keep the  target overnight rate 
for overnight commercial bank loans at 1 percent in a decision
due at 9 a.m. New York time tomorrow, according to all 24
responses in a Bloomberg News survey. The 1.03 percent yield on
three-month overnight index swaps also suggests no change at the
following meetings in January and March.  Canada’s  economic growth  slowed to a 1 percent annualized
third-quarter pace, less than the central bank’s 1.6 percent
prediction, as imports rose and exports declined. That hasn’t
slowed  inflation  -- the latest report said consumer prices
advanced at a 2.4 percent annual pace in October, the fastest in
two years.  “The nice thing about the Bank of Canada is they don’t
rush into things, they don’t react to single pieces of data,”
said  Jeff Herold , who helps oversee C$2.5 billion ($2.5 billion)
as lead fixed-income manager at J. Zechner Associates Inc. in
Toronto. “It won’t push them to do something unless inflation
moves higher again and stays higher.”  Since the central bank’s Oct. 19 meeting, Canadian
government bonds have lost investors 1.68 percent, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, which tracks 31 bonds
sold by the federal government.  Three-Year Auction  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian corporations rather than its
federal government widened 1 basis point Friday to 143 basis
points. Spreads reached 134 basis points on Nov. 15, the
narrowest since May 10. Yields fell 3 basis points to 3.99
percent.  Relative yields on provincial bonds widened one basis point
to 54 basis points on Friday from the day before, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Spreads were as low as 51
basis points last month and as high as 54. Yields fell to 3.27
percent on Friday.  Canada will auction C$3.2 billion of three-year bonds on
Dec. 8. The securities mature in March 2014. The previous
auction of three-year bonds, held on Aug. 4 drew an average
yield of 1.891 percent and a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.78 times.  Trinidad Drilling Ltd., the Canadian drilling contractor,
may sell $450 million of eight-year U.S. dollar denominated
notes as soon as this week, according to a person familiar with
the transaction. The senior unsecured debt may be non-callable
for four years, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  Economic Slack  Half the gain in October  inflation  came from gasoline
costs. Inflation will probably recede to a 2.1 percent pace in
the first three months of next year, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey.  The central bank “looks at where CPI will be 18 months out
and steers interest rates between now and then to aim at a 2
percent inflation rate at that point,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief
economist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview.  Shenfeld said the Bank of Canada focuses on so-called core
inflation, which excludes the most volatile components, to gauge
what prices are doing in the short-term. “Given the degree of
slack in the economy, the bank will likely assume that the
monthly core CPI numbers will stay quite tame.”  Core inflation accelerated to 1.8 percent in October,
according to Statistics Canada. It’s been below 2 percent since
March.  More Protection  Some bond investors are demanding more protection against
inflation. The so-called  breakeven yield  on 10-year bonds that
is a gauge of inflation expectations was 2.31 percent on Dec. 2,
the highest since May. Today, the yield was 2.30 percent at
12:15 p.m. in Toronto.  The breakeven yields in Canada reflect the relative
scarcity of real-return bonds compared with regular debt, Herold
said. Canada on Dec. 1 auctioned C$700 million of 30-year real-
return bonds, drawing a median yield of 1.07 percent.  The yield on the 3.5 percent bond due in June 2020 fell 4
basis points today to 3.14 percent. Last week, the yield rose 7
basis points, and is up 33 basis points since the start of
November.  “In the very near term the bond market has captured a lot
of bad news,” and has “probably gone too far,” said  Mark Chandler , head of Canadian fixed income and currency strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.  Canadian 10-year bond yields may decline by 10 to 20 basis
points over the next month or so, Chandler said. The Bank of
Canada may not raise interest rates until April and the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s plan to purchase another $600 billion of
assets to keep interest rates low will influence Canadian bond
yields, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 