-- Cartier-Bresson, Leica Nosebody, Magnum Great, Gets S.F. Show
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2010-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/cartier-bresson-leica-nosebody-magnum-founder-gets-s-f-retrospective.html
Henri Cartier-Bresson ’s early images
capture life on the run, with anonymous people doing ordinary
things, depicted in a beautiful way.  In “Hyeres, France” (1932), for example, a spiral
staircase with a black handrail leads down to a curved
cobblestone street where a bicyclist in silhouette races by in a
blur.  Over the years, the visual poet turned into a skeptical
photojournalist.  A handsome retrospective at the  San Francisco Museum of
Modern Art  traces four decades of the life of this great
photographer, who was born into a wealthy French family in 1908
and died in 2004.  Influenced by the Surrealists, he began to pursue
photography seriously in the early 1930s, using a small Leica
35-millimeter camera, which made it possible to shoot
inconspicuously. He also became involved in leftist politics,
worked as an assistant to film director Jean Renoir and joined
the army.  Captured by the Germans in 1940, he was held as a prisoner
of war for almost three years before escaping.  His work afterward was more hard-nosed, more socially
engaged, more reportorial. In 1947 he co-founded the Magnum
Agency with  Robert Capa  and others. By the 1950s he was arguably
the greatest “street” photographer of the time, often on
assignment for Life magazine, and led the way for  Robert Frank ,
 Lee Friedlander , Garry Winogrand and others.  Nazi Informer  After the war, Cartier-Bresson traveled almost
continuously, to India and China, Spain and Italy, Russia and
America.  In 1945 he captured the furious denunciation of a Nazi
informer by a woman in Dessau, Germany. He depicted the panic of
the Communist takeover of China in a 1948 image of Shanghai bank
depositors jostling each other as they wait in line to withdraw
their savings. His 1954 picture of a workers’ dance in Moscow
shows not just the proletarian unstylishness of the women in
baggy pants but also their optimism and grit.  Along the way he produced a slew of memorable portraits: a
young  Truman Capote  lounging in a white T-shirt;  George Balanchine  in loafers, demonstrating how a dancer should point
his toe; Robert Capa, cigarette in mouth, counting his winnings
at the Longchamp racetrack in Paris.  Cartier-Bresson’s attitude toward the U.S. was ambivalent
at best. A view of McCann-Erickson’s flashy New York advertising
office seems to recognize America as the land of the new. He
also saw it as the land of the bizarre.  Indian Republicans  In a 1960 image from Greenville, Indiana, two women dressed
in beaded Indian-squaw costumes emerge from a storefront
Republican campaign office, flanked by window-size photos of
 Richard Nixon  and his running mate, Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. The
picture is both deadpan and strange, as if the master has picked
up a trick from the younger Friedlander or Winogrand.  Speaking of strange, the museum has mounted another
ambitious photography exhibition, “Exposed: Voyeurism,
Surveillance and the Camera Since 1870.”  The show looks at the appeal of, and tries to find
connections between, photographs as unrelated as Civil War
battle scenes, paparazzi shots of  Elizabeth Taylor  and  Richard Burton  making out on a yacht, the famous image of a busboy
kneeling over  Robert F. Kennedy  moments after he was shot in Los
Angeles, military air-reconnaissance photos, and arty images
that seem to celebrate the mundane and pointless.  The show could have been called “200 Weird and Creepy
Photos in Search of a Concept.” Yet the power of the images
wins out over the thematic confusion.  “Henri Cartier-Bresson: The Modern Century” runs through
Jan. 30 and “Exposed” through April 17 at the San Francisco
Museum of Modern Art, 151 Third St. Information:
 http://www.sfmoma.org ; +1-415-357-4000. “Henri Cartier-
Bresson” opens Feb. 19 at Atlanta’s High Museum of Art, and
“Exposed” opens May 21 at the Walker Art Center in
Minneapolis.  ( Stephen West  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
 Stephen West  in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 