-- LCH Lowers Extra Margin Charge on Irish Bond Trading to 30%
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-12-06T08:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/lch-lowers-extra-margin-charge-on-irish-bond-trading-to-30-as-yields-fall.html
LCH Clearnet Ltd. reduced the extra
deposit it charges clients to trade Irish government bonds to 30
percent from 45 percent after the yield on the nation’s debt
declined.  The additional charge will be calculated on net exposure at
the close of business today and reflected in a margin call
tomorrow, LCH Clearnet said on its  website . LCH increased the
deposit three times last month as Irish yields soared to more
than 600 basis points above the Bloomberg Fair Value benchmark
of AAA euro-region sovereign debt. The  yield spread  widened five
basis points to 509 basis points today.  “LCH is reflecting an improvement in the market over the
past week,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt
strategy at ING Groep NV in London. “It’s a small change. I
don’t expect it to have much of an effect.”  Clearing houses such as LCH guarantee investors’ trades are
completed by standing in the middle of two counterparties, and
raise margin requirements to protect themselves against losses
should one side of the trade fail.  LCH added a 15 percent extra margin requirement on Nov. 10,
before raising it to 30 percent on Nov. 17 and 45 percent on
Nov. 25.  “Our tendency is to give margin back to people as soon as
we reasonably can,”  John Burke , head of fixed income at LCH,
said in a telephone interview on Dec. 2. “On the way up, it was
the fact that levels were sustained that we were checking.
Likewise, in the reverse, it has to be sustained when it goes
below the threshold on the way down, and it depends on how far
below it has gone and the speed at which it got there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  