-- China's Coal Prices Fall for First Time in 3 Months on Stockpiling Surge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-06T04:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/china-s-coal-prices-fall-for-first-time-in-three-months-as-stockpiles-gain.html
Power-station coal prices at
Qinhuangdao port, a Chinese benchmark, fell for the first time
in three months after stockpiles of the fuel surged and the
government called for stability in the cost of commodities.  Coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories per
kilogram slipped 0.6 percent from a week earlier to between 795
yuan ($120) and 810 yuan a metric ton today, according to data
from the China Coal Transport and Distribution Association.
That’s the first decline since Sept. 8.  Power stations have been building inventories since early
September to meet winter heating demand, while the official
Xinhua News Agency said in August that the nation was expected
to experience abnormally low temperatures this year because of
the La Nina weather pattern. Coal stockpiles at Qinhuangdao
jumped 15 percent from a week ago to 6.73 million tons,
according to the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association today.  “Coal demand hasn’t risen as much as expected so the
winter stockpiling seems a bit overdone,”  David Fang , a
director at the association, said by telephone from Beijing.
“Demand remained weak because of government measures to meet
energy conservation goals, and there were no surprises in the
weather.”  China aims to reduce energy use per unit of GDP by 20
percent in the five years ending this month and has taken steps
to curb consumption, including shutting factories. Energy
intensity fell about 3 percent in the first nine months, Zhao
Jiarong, a deputy secretary general at the National Development
and Reform Commission, said in a speech posted on the NDRC’s
website today.  Price Stability  The coal-price decline at Qinhuangdao follows calls by the
government to ensure price stability, after inflation rose to
the highest in more than two years in October.  Power-station coal prices under term contracts for 2011
must be unchanged from 2010 levels, Xinhua reported on Dec. 1,
citing Cao Changqing, head of pricing at the NDRC.  “The contract-price freeze will affect sentiment on spot
prices,” Fang from the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association said. “It’s hard for spot prices to go higher if
contract prices are to remain at this level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  