-- China Outstrips Fed in Liquidity Surge Threatening Inflation Spike in 2011
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-07T03:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/china-outstrips-fed-in-liquidity-surge-threatening-inflation-spike-in-2011.html
China’s reluctance to allow a
stronger exchange rate has hamstrung its efforts to rein in
inflation and endangered a campaign to shift the economy toward
domestic demand.  The central bank continues to add liquidity, with  money
supply  rising 19 percent in November from a year ago, according
to the median estimate of 29 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
before a government release this month. That needs to be curbed
to 15 percent to 16 percent to rein in inflation, said  Fred Hu ,
the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chief China economist who
has founded financial advisory firm Primavera Capital Group.  China has held off executing a series of interest-rate
increases in part because that would put pressure on a currency
officials have kept down to shelter exports. The strategy will
leave  inflation  accelerating past 4 percent for 2011, a three-
year high, according to a separate survey. The cost: diminished
consumer spending and narrower margins for domestic industries.  “China is behind the curve” on reining in the monetary
measures adopted during the global financial crisis, said Hu, 47,
who is based in Beijing and gives talks to Communist Party
members on the economy. “Policy makers have been complacent and
failed to anticipate the inflationary consequences of the
massive stimulus program.”  2011 Forecasts  Economists anticipate a 1 percentage point rise in the
benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates by the end of next
year, according to the medians of 13 forecasts in the Bloomberg  
survey taken last week.  Gross domestic product  will rise 9.2
percent in 2011, the median projection shows, compared with the
10 percent gain estimated by the World Bank for 2010.  The PBOC boosted the rates by a quarter point each in
October, to 5.56 percent and 2.5 percent, leaving it lagging
behind counterparts from Malaysia to Thailand, Taiwan and South
Korea in boosting borrowing costs this year.  Inflation will average 4.2 percent in 2011, the survey
indicated, little changed from the two-year high of 4.4 percent
reached in October. That would leave a negative so-called real
rate for deposits, meaning households’ purchasing power is
eroded by the increases in consumer prices.  “This is like adding fuel to the fire,” said Hu,
referring to negative real interest rates.  Politburo’s Shift  The Communist Party’s Politburo, meeting Dec. 3, signaled
it plans to tighten monetary policy in the coming year while
sustaining a fiscal boost to growth. Officials “will adopt
proactive fiscal policies and prudent monetary policies,” the
state-run Xinhua News Agency said. Policy makers had previously
used the term “moderately loose” for the central bank’s stance.  A candidate to succeed Premier  Wen Jiabao ,  Li Keqiang ,
viewed Chinese GDP figures as unreliable, the Telegraph reported,
citing a 2007 diplomatic cable that was published by Wikileaks.
Li, then leader in Liaoning province, told the U.S. ambassador
at the time that he relied instead on electricity consumption,
rail cargo volume and loan disbursement tallies to gauge the
local economy, the newspaper reported.  Electricity and new-loan figures have indicated a slowing
in China’s expansion this quarter, with electricity-production
growth moderating to an 8.9 percent pace in October from 13.4
percent in September, according to China Economic Information
Net. Credit growth probably eased to 500 billion yuan in
November from 587.7 billion in October, according to the median
estimate ahead of a release this month.  Move ‘Gradually’  The People’s Bank of China will raise rates “gradually”
as a more aggressive policy would risk unsettling the stock and
property markets, PBOC adviser  Li Daokui  said in a Dec. 3
interview.  While China’s officials have faulted the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s plan to purchase $600 billion of Treasury securities
for the risk of a wave of capital flooding into emerging markets
and pushing up asset prices, there’s little sign yet of a jump
in American liquidity.  The U.S. M2 measure rose 3.2 percent in October from a year
before. Consumer prices in the U.S., excluding food and fuel,
gained 0.6 percent in October from a year before, the least in
records going back to 1958.  “If anyone is printing money it is China’s central bank,
not the U.S.,” said  Stephen Green , head of research for Greater
China at Standard Chartered Plc. in Shanghai. Actual price
increases faced by Chinese consumers and businesses are probably
even higher than official reports, and pushing up rates now “is
the wisest course of action,” he said.  Equities Strategy  Slowing growth may itself help damp price pressures, along
with diminished credit expansion, said  Qu Hongbin , co-head of
economic research at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. Qu sees
just one quarter-point move before the PBOC finishes its job for
the duration through 2011.  HSBC analysts said last month investors should sell  stocks 
likely to be more affected by a rate rise, such as banks and
developers, and instead buy stocks of higher value-added
manufacturers such as makers of precision machinery.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and  Carrefour SA  are among the
international companies that may be affected as the government
threatens price controls in an effort to rein in food inflation
that reached 10 percent in October.  Wal-Mart, Carrefour  The southwestern city of Kunming, has asked five retailers
including Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart and Paris-based
Carrefour to give reasons for planned price increases two days
in advance of any alterations, the National Development and
Reform Commission’s local branch said on its website Dec. 3.  China’s  non-manufacturing  industry, incorporating services,
saw input costs outpace prices charged in November, shrinking
profit margins, the  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing  said
last week. Consumer confidence is also weakening, with a
sentiment index falling for the first time in six quarters, a
survey by Nielsen Co. and the Chinese  statistics bureau ’s
Economic Monitoring and Analysis Center showed last month.  President  Hu Jintao ’s five-year plan, starting in 2011, is
aimed in part at buttressing domestic demand and reducing
reliance on exports, which tumbled during the contraction in
global trade because of the financial crisis. Domestic
consumption has shrunk to about 35 percent of GDP from 45
percent a decade ago, Societe Generale SA has calculated.  Trade Tension  Little of such rebalancing is evident in economists’ 2011
forecasts, with China’s  trade surplus  seen at $183 billion next
year, according to the median projection. The surplus was $148
billion in the first 10 months of 2010, fueling charges China’s
currency policy provides a subsidy to its exporters. President
 Barack Obama  said last month that “China spends enormous
amounts of money” keeping the yuan undervalued. The nation’s
foreign-exchange reserves were a record $2.6 trillion in
September.  “China can’t have its own independent monetary policy” as
long as it manages the exchange rate, Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in a excerpts of an interview released by
CBS Corp.’s “60 minutes” program Dec. 5.  Authorities have let the yuan rise less than 3 percent
against the dollar since allowing greater flexibility in June,
with the currency at 6.6488 at 10:55 a.m. in Shanghai. It will
reach 6.25 by Dec. 31, 2011, the Bloomberg survey indicates.  Investors should bet on yuan gains through six-month non-
deliverable forwards because officials will recognize the need
for a stronger currency to fight inflation, said  Mitul Kotecha ,
head of global foreign exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB
in Hong Kong. Forwards are pricing in a yuan rise to about 6.58
against the dollar in six months. Kotecha estimates the currency
will rise to 6.43 by the end of June.  -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from  Jay Wang  and  Sophie Leung .
Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Paul Panckhurst .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  