-- China's Bright Food May Buy Vitamin Retailer GNC For $3 Billion, WSJ Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-07T01:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/china-s-bright-food-may-buy-vitamin-retailer-gnc-for-3-billion-wsj-says.html
China’s  Bright Food Group Co.  is
close to an agreement to buy  GNC Holdings Inc.  for as much as $3
billion, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified
people familiar with the situation.  The purchase for between $2.5 billion and $3 billion would
give the Shanghai-based company control of 7,100 retail outlets
selling vitamins, nutrition supplements and sports drinks, the
Journal said Dec. 6. Chen Chunshan, a spokesman in Shanghai for
Bright Food, declined to comment. Laura Brophy, an external
spokeswoman for GNC, said by e-mail today that the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or market speculation.  Bright Food, Shanghai’s biggest food and dairy company, is
targeting overseas acquisitions to bolster growth. The company
entered talks in September to buy the U.K.’s United Biscuits
Holdings Ltd. and in April offered A$1.75 billion ($1.7 billion)
in an unsuccessful bid for the sugar unit of Australia CSR Ltd.  GNC is seeking bidders for a possible sale of the company
that may fetch about $2 billion, and hired Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to help find a buyer and prepare
for a possible initial public offering, three people familiar
with the matter said in October. Bright Food is among companies
that expressed interest and signed a confidentiality agreement,
the people said at the time, declining to be identified because
the talks are private.  Bright Food was established in August 2006 by the Shanghai
municipal government and Shanghai DaSheng Holdings Co.,
according to information on its  website . It controls four
publicly traded companies, including  Bright Dairy & Food Ltd. 
and Shanghai First Provisions Store Co.  China Venture  GNC agreed in February to partner Bright Food in the
nutritional products market in China, citing significant growth
opportunities.  GNC has more than 4,800 retail locations in the U.S. and
franchise operations in 48 markets overseas, according to its
 website .  It was founded in 1935 as General Nutrition Companies. The
company was publicly traded until 1999 and has since had owners
including private-equity funds and Royal Numico NV. The chain’s
largest market outside the U.S. is Mexico, where it has 352
stores. Ares Management LLC and Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan
Board bought GNC in 2007 for $1.65 billion from private-equity
fund  Apollo Management LP .  Net income at GNC rose to $51.1 million in the first six
months of the year from $37.4 million a year earlier, according
to a filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Revenue
increased 5.5 percent to $920.7 million. GNC posted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $227.7
million on revenue of $1.71 billion for full-year 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeran Wittenstein  at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net . 