-- Chrysler May Pay Back Loans Early to U.S., Canada Governments, Chief Says
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-12-07T11:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/chrysler-may-pay-back-loans-from-u-s-canada-before-2013-marchionne-says.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by  Fiat SpA , may repay its U.S. and Canadian
government loans before 2013, allowing the Italian automaker to
take a 51 percent stake, the companies’ top executive said.  “It’s one of the options that we’re looking at,”  Sergio Marchionne , who is chief executive officer of both Chrysler and
Fiat, said yesterday. “It’s not required to go public.”  Fiat, which holds 20 percent of Chrysler, aims to increase
that stake to 35 percent next year by achieving milestones
outlined in the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based automaker’s
restructuring last year. Marchionne said on Sept. 16 that he
will probably take Chrysler public in the second half of 2011.  The CEO has also said he wants to improve Chrysler’s
capital structure before the initial public offering and that it
may include refinancing the automaker’s U.S. and Canadian
government loans, which have effective interest rates as high as
20 percent. Interest payments have kept the company from posting
a net income, he has said.  Fiat  rose  as much as 41 euro cents, or 3 percent, to 13.98
euros and was up 2.7 percent as of 11:57 a.m. in Milan trading.
The stock has  gained  36 percent this year, valuing the Turin,
Italy-based carmaker at 16.7 billion euros ($22 billion).  $7.46 Billion Owed  The face value of Chrysler’s debts to the U.S. and Canadian
governments is about $7.46 billion. Some of Chrysler’s
government loans mature by the end of next year while the
majority mature in 2017, according to the U.S. company’s third-
quarter financial statement.  Repaying those loans would allow  Fiat  to exercise an option
to buy an additional 16 percent of Chrysler’s equity and raise
its position to a 51 percent majority. Fiat may save as much as
$2 billion by doing so before holding an IPO of Chrysler stock,
Barclays Capital said last week in a research report whose lead
author was  Kristina Church , an industry analyst.  Fiat can’t raise its position beyond 35 percent until 2013,
the Italian manufacturer has said.  It may be possible for  Fiat  to take advantage of the 16
percent option before 2013 if it pays off the government loans
first, Church said in the note, co-written with  Brian Johnson ,
another Barclays analyst. Fiat executives have been traveling
across Europe to promote the spinoff of the Fiat Industrial SpA
heavy-truck and tractor business.  ‘We’ll See’  Asked if  Fiat  wants to use the 16 percent option in advance
of a Chrysler IPO, Marchionne said: “We’ll see.”  The reduction of Chrysler’s interest cost and creating a
stable capital base are more important than increasing Fiat’s
ownership stake, Marchionne told reporters yesterday while
visiting a Chrysler plant in Sterling Heights, Michigan.  “My option is not going to die tomorrow,” he said.  Prices for the Chrysler stake are based on multiples of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda.  “Fiat has the option to acquire another 16 percent of
Chrysler for a multiple, if it is pre-IPO, that does not exceed
Fiat’s own multiple -- which, after the spin-out and a potential
sale of Ferrari, is likely to be well below that of” U.S. peers
such as  Ford Motor Co. , Church said.  Her report goes on to say that if Fiat were “to wait until
after an IPO to exercise its 16 percent option, it would likely
pay a higher multiple than its own multiple.”  IPO’s Timing  Fiat has leverage to encourage such a scenario through its
ability to delay the Chrysler IPO until after January 2013,
Church said.  “If any of the non-Fiat stakeholders want to see an IPO
prior to 2013, Fiat could require them to consent to a
refinancing and repayment of the government loans to allow Fiat
to exercise its option,” Church said.  Chrysler’s majority shareholder is the  United Auto Workers 
union trust for retiree health care.  Marchionne is spinning off Fiat Industrial to focus on
carmaking and the Chrysler turnaround after the U.S. automaker’s
bankruptcy reorganization last year.  Fiat may sell its auto-parts division Magneti Marelli SpA
and a stake in Ferrari SpA before consolidating with Chrysler,
analysts, including  Erich Hauser  of Credit Suisse, have said
Marchionne told them.  Sterling Heights Investment  Marchionne spoke yesterday at an event celebrating the
production of the new Chrysler 200 and refreshed Dodge Avenger
midsize sedans. Chrysler invested $850 million in the Sterling
Heights plant for a new paint shop, machinery and other
equipment, a decision that reversed a plan to close the factory.
A second shift is slated to begin in the first quarter of 2011.  The plant will get new midsize cars in 2013, Marchionne
said. The company hadn’t specified the vehicle type before.  He also said Chrysler’s assembly plant in Detroit, which
makes the Jeep Grand Cherokee, will begin building a Maserati
sport-utility vehicle in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 