-- Cleveland Bets Vornado Can Revamp Economy as Health-Care Hub
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-12-06T20:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/cleveland-bets-465-million-vornado-can-revamp-economy-as-health-care-hub.html
Cleveland, which has poured almost $1
billion into such projects as three sports stadiums and the Rock
& Roll Hall of Fame, is on the verge of spending $465 million in
an effort to remake itself as the epicenter for the sale of
medical equipment and supplies.  The city’s planned Medical Mart & Convention Center,
scheduled to start construction next month, would transcend
earlier renewal efforts and attract the kind of high-tech jobs
the area needs, said  Tim Hagan , a Cuyahoga County commissioner
who has championed the project.  “I don’t think a baseball stadium or football stadium or
even the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame really redefines a
community,” said Hagan, 64, who leaves office next month after
22 years as a county commissioner. “High-tech medical, biotech,
that’s going to be the new face of the community. What we hope
is when you think of Cleveland, you think of a medical center.”  The city of 416,000 is teaming up with a unit of New York-
based Vornado Realty Trust to redevelop the space underneath the
14-acre  Cleveland Mall , a public square overlooking Lake Erie,
as it seeks to build a reputation as a health-care hub with the
nearby Cleveland Clinic hospital.  Critics ranging from local activists to comedian and
Cleveland native Drew Carey opposed the project, saying it puts
too much of the risk on county taxpayers. Under the terms of  the
deal , the public would pay the entire $465 million construction
budget and also subsidize  Vornado’s  operating expenses.  Tax Surcharge  The county last month signed agreements with the developer,
the city, the construction contractor and affected landowners,
according to County Administrator James McCafferty. The planned
422,000 square-foot (39,200 square-meter) exhibition center will
be funded mainly with a quarter-cent sales tax surcharge that
was adopted in 2007.  All told, taxpayers may put as much as $840 million into
the development, including costs of amortizing over 20 years and
about $40 million from a tax on hotel bookings, said Tim
Offtermatt, senior vice president at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., the
St. Louis-based investment bank that is managing a county bond
offering for the project.  Vornado is contributing about $20 million for tenant
installations and $8.5 million through forgoing lease payments.
It also is responsible for cost, repair and operating overruns,
Offtermatt said.  ‘Shot in the Dark’  Whether the new concept will pay off in terms of jobs and
revenue is an open question, said  Tom Murphy , a senior resident
fellow at the  Urban Land Institute  in Washington. The Medical
Mart has yet to sign any permanent tenants for its showroom.  “It’s a shot in the dark in some ways, in their ability to
create a new economic diversity for their economy,” said
Murphy, who was mayor of Pittsburgh from 1994 through 2005. “I
would want to see some commitments before I would spend that
kind of money.”  Vornado unit Merchandise Mart Properties Inc., operator of
Chicago’s 4.2 million square-foot  Merchandise Mart  showroom
complex, is Cuyahoga County’s partner in the project. Dave
Johnson, a Merchandise Mart spokesman, declined to comment on
the project or the funding criticism.  The Medical Mart project is unfolding against the backdrop
of a federal corruption probe that resulted in the September
 arrest  of County Commissioner  Jimmy Dimora  on 26 counts of
bribery and fraud, none of them related to the development.
Dimora and Hagan were two members of the three-person commission
to vote in 2007 to tax residents for the project.  No Participation  Two companies run by people associated with businesses
targeted in the probe -- an electrical and a heating/plumbing
firm -- have sought contracts to work on the Medical Mart, the
Cleveland Plain Dealer reported on  Nov. 5 . The county has
assurances that neither of those individuals will have
participation in the project, said Jeffrey Appelbaum, an
attorney from the firm Thompson Hine LLP of Cleveland, who
represents the county on the project. The county has the right
to reject anyone “if it’s determined they have some role with
the corruption,” he said.  The Plain Dealer last year questioned whether Hagan’s ties
to Merchandise Mart President  Christopher Kennedy  and his family
were a conflict of interest. Christopher Kennedy is the grandson
of Kennedy family patriarch Joseph P. Kennedy, who bought
Chicago’s Merchandise Mart building in 1945. It stayed in the
family until its 1998 sale to Vornado.  40-Year Friendship  Hagan said he has had a 40-year friendship with the Kennedy
family, serving on their charitable foundation. He is also the
godparent to one of the children of Christopher Kennedy’s sister
 Kathleen Kennedy Townsend , he said.  “There was not one other entity in the country that showed
any interest when it was open for discussion,” Hagan said. “No
one approached us. So you deal with the person who wants to
dance with you.”  Merchandise Mart Properties calls itself the world’s
leading owner and operator of showroom buildings and trade show
venues, hosting more than 300 events a year. Its namesake
Merchandise Mart is one of Chicago’s signature buildings, a 25-
story hulk by the Chicago River.  The Merchandise Mart division produced $194.4 million of
revenue through the first nine months of this year, or about 9
percent of Vornado’s $2.1 billion of  sales , most of which comes
from New York and Washington office buildings. The unit’s
revenue was down 2 percent from the same period last year.  Cleveland Clinic CEO  The Medical Mart is the brainchild of  Delos “Toby” Cosgrove , chief executive officer and president of the Cleveland
Clinic, a sprawling complex east of downtown that ranked fourth
this year on U.S. News & World Report’s  list  of top U.S.
hospitals. The clinic is where shooting victim Connie Culp
became the nation’s first face-and-jaw transplant recipient in
2008.  The medical center is the largest non-government employer
in northern Ohio and second-biggest in the  state , with about
40,000 workers.  Since 2000, Cuyahoga County has lost 41 percent of its
manufacturing  jobs , which totaled 68,500 in 2009, according to
the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services. Jobs in health-
care and social assistance increased 19 percent to 118,000.  Saudi Arabian Sheik  The Medical Mart idea sprung from a conversation about 12
years ago between Cosgrove and a Saudi Arabian sheik, who was
considering a similar project in Dubai, Cosgrove said in an
interview. He was the hospital’s chairman of cardiothoracic
surgery at the time.  “I thought gosh, this would be something that would be
perfect in Cleveland, though it never came to pass in the Middle
East,” said Cosgrove, who became the clinic’s CEO in 2004. “In
order to build a hospital, I wound up traveling all over the
country and the world to see various pieces of equipment. It
would be nice to have all those things in one place.”  Customers would be able to see the latest in medical
equipment on display and then watch them in use at the clinic,
Cosgrove said. If done right, the showplace will do more than
just fill hotel beds and restaurant tables. Suppliers and
manufacturers will be compelled to locate operations in the
area, creating permanent jobs, he said.  Soon after Cosgrove became CEO, a friend,  John Cushman III ,
co-chairman of the real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield
Inc., set up an introduction to Vornado. Cosgrove arranged for
Christopher Kennedy to meet then-Mayor  Jane Campbell .  Mall Site  After considering other sites, Cleveland settled on a plan
to use the underutilized convention center beneath the lakefront
mall. The mall, designed by turn-of-the-century architect Daniel
Burnham as a smaller version of Washington’s National Mall, was
meant to be the center of city life. It is surrounded by Beaux
Arts buildings including the Public Auditorium, which has hosted
Elvis, the Beatles, two Republican conventions, and the 1980
Carter-Reagan presidential debate.  The underground halls were the U.S.’s first modern
convention center, said Linda Henrichsen, staff planner of the
city’s planning commission. The center’s ceilings are too low,
and its columns too massive and close together to accommodate
today’s exhibitors, she said.  An overhaul may fail to bring in enough revenue to cover
costs. Publicly subsidized convention halls are “loss leaders”
for cities even when the business for industry meetings is
thriving, said  Heywood Sanders , professor of public
administration at the University of Texas-San Antonio and a
critic of publicly subsidized convention centers.  Delivering on Expectations  Vornado is “getting a convention center and the Medical
Mart property essentially for nothing,” Sanders said in a phone
interview. “The question is can it deliver on its
expectations?”  The exhibition and trade show industry slumped along with
the economy in 2008 and 2009, according to the Center for
Exhibition Industry Research, a Dallas-based trade organization
for exhibitors. Revenue dropped 16 percent nationwide last year,
and square feet sold declined almost 14 percent.  Medical and  health care  shows, the biggest industry group,
fared better. Space sold fell 4 percent, while revenue increased
1 percent. Attendance decreased 6 percent, compared with an 8
percent decline overall.  Nashville Competition  Market Center Management Co., the trade show management arm
of Dallas-based Crow Holdings LLC, is building its own health-
care showcase in Nashville, Tennessee, scheduled to break ground
next year. That project will have about 10 times the 100,000
square feet of permanent showroom space for medical products
planned for Cleveland, Bill Winsor, president and CEO of Market
Center Management, said in a phone interview.  Unlike the Cleveland project, the Nashville center already
has an announced tenant, Chicago-based Healthcare Information &
Management Systems, a nonprofit international organization that
promotes information technology for medical providers.  In its most recent project update, dated Nov. 12, Vornado’s
Merchandise Mart said it has 40 letters of intent for the
Cleveland facility’s permanent showroom, and another 16 letters
of intent for conferences, conventions and trade shows. It
hasn’t released the names of any of the signees.  Merchandise Mart and its general contractor, Turner
Construction, will take control of the site on Jan. 3, and
should begin construction soon afterward, said Appelbaum, the
attorney representing the county. The project is scheduled to be
completed by 2013.  ‘Skin in the Game’  Local criticism of the development has centered on
Merchandise Mart’s lack of “skin in the game,” and the sales
tax surcharge, said  Michael Polensek , a city councilman for 32
years. Opposition has subsided, and now residents want to
something to show for their investment, he said.  Matt Bolek, who ran unsuccessfully for county office this
year, said the city would get a bigger benefit if the money
being spent was distributed to grassroots efforts to support
local small businesses. He cited as an example the city’s  Gordon
Square Arts District , where new and restored theaters and
housing are attracting restaurants and shops.  “That’s how you rebuild a city, slowly, neighborhood by
neighborhood,” he said. “Not digging a big hole and then
putting it back.”  Carey, the host of television’s “The Price is Right” and
former star of the Cleveland-set sitcom “The Drew Carey Show,”
criticized the Medical Mart in an online documentary for the
Reason Foundation titled “Reason Saves Cleveland.” The Los
Angeles-based foundation is a libertarian organization that
believes in minimal government involvement in the economy.  ‘Silver Bullet’  The video excoriated the project as “the next
redevelopment silver bullet” requiring hundreds of millions of
tax dollars.  “I didn’t know Cleveland was such a bustling convention
city,” Carey said in the video. “Take that, Vegas!”  Carey declined a request to elaborate through his
representative Christina Papadopolous.  Assuming 25 conventions a year, the project could generate
$124 million of spending, $7 million of tax revenue and a total
annual economic benefit of $205 million for Cuyahoga County,
according to a 2008 study by Team NEO, a business organization
that promotes the region. NEO stands for northeastern Ohio.  The quarter-cent sales tax would generate more than $800
million over its 20-year lifespan and be used to make non-tax
revenue available to pay debt service on the $350 million of
bonds that will be sold to finance the Medical Mart, said
Offtermatt of Stifel Nicolaus.  Surcharge Dissenter  Peter Lawson Jones, the lone county commissioner to vote
against the tax surcharge in 2007, said he preferred to seek the
state’s permission to raise hotel, food and beverage levies so
visitors would bear more of the costs. He also wanted
Merchandise Mart to contribute more.  “I was looking for sources of revenue where there was a
more appropriate nexus between who was being taxed and who would
benefit,” Jones said in an interview. “I thought the sales tax
was regressive.”  Cuyahoga County voters have since replaced the commission
form of government with a county executive and an 11-member
council. In the Nov. 2 election, Democrat Edward Fitzgerald, who
supports the project, defeated a Republican candidate who pushed
for a “rigorous” reconsideration of the plan.  Recent negotiations have resulted in more risk exposure for
Merchandise Mart and Turner Construction, Appelbaum said. For
example, unspent funds would revert to the county, whereas under
the prior agreement they went to the developer, he said.  Jones said that while he still thinks the arrangement
favors Merchandise Mart, the project “could have a lot of
positive spinoffs, not only boosting our tourism industry, but
also further burnishing our reputation as the epicenter for
health care, at least in the United States,” he said.  Cosgrove said he doesn’t see many disadvantages.  “What’s the worst thing that could happen if this fails?”
he said. “You have a brand new building and a new convention
center. So the downside isn’t too bad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  