-- Colombia Recovers 17 Bodies From Mudslide as Death Toll From Rains Climbs
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2010-12-06T17:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/colombia-recovers-17-bodies-from-mudslide-as-death-toll-from-rains-climbs.html
Rescuers in Colombia have recovered
17 bodies following a mudslide yesterday, pushing the death toll
from weeks of heavy rains and harsh winter weather to more than
180 people nationwide.  Hundreds of emergency workers are searching for as many as
145 victims believed to be buried under tons of rocks and mud
that swept away a poor, hillside neighborhood outside the city
of Medellin, according to Luis Alfredo Ramos, the governor of
Antioquia province.  “It’s a tremendous tragedy,” Ramos said today in comments
posted on the province’s website. “We’re extremely worried.”  President  Juan Manuel Santos  said adverse weather will
affect as many as 2 million Colombians this winter amid flooding 
and mudslides that are also hurting the nation’s coffee harvest. 
Over the weekend, Santos cut short his trip to Argentina, for a
summit with leaders from Latin America, Spain and Portugal, to
return to Colombia and oversee the deployment of food and
clothing to flooded areas.  Above-average rainfall in neighboring Venezuela has left at
least 32 people dead and tens of thousands homeless, while in
Colombia more than 260,000 homes have been affected by the bad
weather, the government’s disaster relief agency said Dec. 4 on
its website.  Deadly Slide, Harvests  The mudslide yesterday in Colombia’s municipality of Bello
hit as families met for lunch, increasing the number of victims
in a community built of makeshift homes.  The mud buried about 50 residences in a neighborhood where
houses are cobbled together from wooden slats, brick and
plastic, Bogota-based broadcaster  Caracol  Radio reported.  Colombia, the second-largest producer of arabica coffee
beans after Brazil, will miss forecasts this year after rainfall
pummeled the crop, Santos said last week.  The harvest this year “hardly will reach 9 million bags,”
he said then. Growers in January forecast output of as much as
12 million bags. Each bag weighs 60 kilograms, or 132 pounds.  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 1,890.35 per dollar at 11:39
a.m. New York time from 1883.30 on Dec. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Walsh  in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  