-- Connecticut's $760 Million Deficit Bond May Be Delayed by Lawmaker's Suit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-06T21:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/connecticut-s-760-million-deficit-bond-may-be-delayed-by-lawmaker-s-suit.html
A lawsuit may delay  Connecticut , the
state with the highest tax-supported debt, from borrowing as
much as $760 million to plug a budget deficit.  Joe Markley, a Republican elected in November to the
Connecticut Senate, filed the  complaint  in October seeking to
block regulators from imposing a surcharge on electric bills to
back deficit bonds.  “It’s a very underhanded effort by the Legislature to grab
some money,” said Markley. “They did it surreptitiously.”  Connecticut’s Superior Court today postponed a hearing on
Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal ’s motion to dismiss the
lawsuit, said Tara Downes, a spokeswoman. Markley plans to amend
his complaint or file a new one, he said.  The Democratic-controlled Legislature in May  authorized  the
deficit financing. Lawmakers have emptied a $1.4 billion reserve
and borrowed more than $900 million in the past 18 months to
offset spending gaps amid the worst recession since World War
II. The state’s credit grade was lowered one level to AA by
Fitch Ratings in June because of the reliance on so-called one-
time fiscal fixes.  The law requires the Department of Public Utility Control
to impose a surcharge on customers of Connecticut Light & Power
Co., a division of  Northeast Utilities , and  United Illuminating 
Co.  The fee would begin as soon as another expires; in 1998 the
companies began collecting money to cover losses after
Connecticut made them sell power plants, said Philip Dukes, a
spokesman for the public utility department.  Lawmakers who approved the new charge assumed customers
would be oblivious, Markley said.  Taxing Power  Connecticut Light & Power customers would start paying
$2.42 a month in January, Dukes said. United Illuminating
customers wouldn’t begin until 2013, he said. The surcharge is
to expire in 2018, he said.  Markley said the fee is unconstitutional because the
Department of Public Utility Control can’t tax and because some
electric customers won’t be paying it. The levy wouldn’t be
imposed on customers of six municipal electric utilities because
they aren’t state-regulated, he said.  Lawmakers should cancel the surcharges, said Blumenthal who
is a U.S. senator-elect.  “My office has a duty to defend this claim against the
state -- despite disagreeing with the policy of depriving
consumers of electric rate relief,” Blumenthal said in a news
release.  Trimming the Issue  Lawmakers initially planned a $1 billion sale backed by the
surcharge. Governor  Jodi Rell , a Republican who signed the law
in May, lowered the amount to a maximum $760 million as revenue
rebounded this year.  Rell, who didn’t seek re-election, last month asked
Treasurer  Denise Nappier  to accelerate the sale to prevent
lawmakers from reverting to the $1 billion plan if finances
worsen. The securities couldn’t be offered without extra expense
because of the lawsuit, Nappier said in a Nov. 30 letter to Rell
released by her office.  “Investors will require an extraordinary call provision
which could add as much as $10.5 million in added interest over
the life of the bonds,” Nappier, a Democrat, wrote. “Such a
provision would protect bondholders in the event that an adverse
court ruling rendered us unable to implement the charges to
repay the bonds.”  Connecticut is the wealthiest state, with per-capita
personal income of $55,063 in 2009, according to Commerce
Department  data . It has the highest net tax-supported debt of
all states, at $4,859 per person, according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  