-- Continental Airlines Is Convicted by French Judge Over 2000 Concorde Crash
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-06T18:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/continental-airlines-guilty-of-manslaughter-in-fatal-paris-concorde-crash.html
Continental Airlines Inc . was
convicted of manslaughter over the deaths of 113 people in the
Concorde crash outside Paris 10 years ago and ordered to pay 1.2
million euros ($1.6 million) in damages and fines.  There is an “incontestable link” between the “negligence”
of Continental and the fireball that brought down the supersonic
jet on July 25, 2000, which ignited when its tire ran over a
piece of metal from one of the U.S. carrier’s planes on takeoff,
Judge Dominique Andreassier said today in Pontoise, France.  The ruling, which included a suspended jail sentence for a
Continental maintenance engineer, “will send a shock wave
across the industry” and could lead to pilots and mechanics
“clamming up for fear of criminal prosecution,” said  Kenneth Quinn , a partner at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP.  The crash hastened the demise of Concorde, with flights
grounded for 16 months after the disaster and the plane
returning to service just as demand for air travel fell
following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Bookings never fully
recovered on the 1,350 mile-per-hour (2,172 kmph) plane, used by
celebrities including Britain’s  Princess Diana  and former Beatle
 Paul McCartney . Concorde’s last commercial takeoff was in 2003.  Continental must pay a 200,000 euro fine and 1 million
euros to  Air France-KLM Group , operator of the doomed flight.
 Air France  had sought as much as 15 million euros.  Verdict ‘Absurd’  Continental, which has its main hub in Houston, said the
verdict was “absurd” and that “to find that any crime was
committed in this tragic accident is not supported either by the
evidence at trial or by aviation authorities and experts.”  Olivier Metzner , a lawyer for carrier, which merged with
United Airlines in October to form  United Continental Holdings
Inc ., said it would appeal. “It is a political decision, a
decision that suits all the French parties,” he said. “Once
again, it is the French interests that are of concern.”  Continental mechanic John Taylor received a 15-month
suspended sentence and a 2,000-euro fine after the court ruled
he ignored the risk of using the wrong materials in maintenance.
His manager, Stanley Ford, was cleared of wrongdoing.  “Prosecuting honest mistakes really has no place in
aviation safety,” said Pillsbury’s Quinn in Washington, adding
that the crash arose from “a chain of errors and omissions that
contributed to a catastrophe,” with “no evidence uncovered
that this was willful or intentional by anyone.”  German Charter  The Concorde crashed while operating a German charter
flight carrying 100 passengers to New York’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport, most of them planning to join a cruise to
Ecuador. The service, Air France AF4590, also had nine crew, and
a further four people were killed in a hotel hit by the plane.  French crash investigator BEA issued its final report in
2002, saying the plane ran over a metal strip from a Continental
DC-10 that took off earlier. The strip tore into the Concorde’s
wheel, sending debris into fuel tanks, sparking a fire. The
danger posed by exploding tires, noted after five incidents in
1979 and two in 1993, was also faulted in the report.  Continental lawyer  Metzner  disputed the findings during the
four-month trial, saying the investigation ignored witnesses who
said the plane was already on fire when it hit the debris. The
court rejected his arguments today.  The court cleared  Henri Perrier  and Jacques Herubel, former
employees of Concorde’s French manufacturer Aerospatiale, while
saying they should have undertaken “a fuller examination” of the
consequences of a fuel leakage resulting from the perforation of
the lower surface of the plane’s fuel tank after a tire burst.  EADS Liable  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. , the owner of
Aerospatiale’s successor, Airbus SAS, was held “civilly liable
as the employer,” the court said, due to “a missed
opportunity” to address the risk.  EADS, Continental and Taylor were ordered to pay 11
individuals and a victims’ group 195,000 euros. Continental and
the mechanic alone were ordered to pay 613,000 euros to a French
health insurance fund. Air France resolved claims from families
of the dead soon after the accident.  Jacques Rocca , a spokesman for EADS, said the company
reserved the possibility of an appeal.  “The civil decision is a surprising one,” he said.
“There’s no link established between the accident and reasons
for the court condemning EADS in a civil action.”  The fifth defendant, Claude Frantzen, a former official at
France’s civil aviation authority, was also cleared.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 