-- Cotton Crop Dry Spell May Limit 2011 Output Gains in U.S., Flanagan Says
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-12-06T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/cotton-crop-dry-spell-may-limit-2011-output-gains-in-u-s-flanagan-says.html
Cotton output  in the U.S., the
world’s largest exporter, may be limited next season as a La
Nina weather pattern brings unusually dry conditions to the
largest  growing regions .  While planted acreage probably will increase after
prices surged to a record $1.5195 a pound last month, more
fields will be abandoned by farmers as dry weather compounds
already below-normal moisture from Texas to Alabama, said  John Flanagan , the president of Flanagan Trading Corp. In the U.S.,
11.04 million acres were sown this season, up 21 percent from a
year earlier, the government said.  “We shouldn’t expect to see the crop emerge as healthy as
this year,” Flanagan said by telephone from Fuquay-Varina,
North Carolina. Plantings may reach 13.5 million acres next
season, he said.  Rainfall is 27 percent below the five-year average since
the end of August in Texas, the biggest producing state, and 43
percent less in Louisiana, CustomWeather Inc. data show. La
Nina, a weather pattern caused by cooling equatorial waters in
the Pacific Ocean, would mean more dry weather during planting,
according to Commodity Weather Group LLC.  “There is a dryness risk in West Texas in the planting
season” that will likely last into May, said  Joel Widenor ,
Commodity Weather’s director of agricultural services in
Bethesda, Maryland. The U.S. planting season usually runs from
March through June. Crops in the Great Plains and Mississippi
River Delta regions also may be hurt, he said.  Price Rally  Cotton prices are up 75 percent this year on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York on concern that mounting demand in China would
outpace shrinking global  supplies , especially in the U.S. Cotton
for March delivery rose the exchange limit for a third straight
day on Dec. 3, closing at $1.3234.  Prices are up even as output is forecast to increase. World
production will rise 9.2 percent to 27.3 million metric tons in
the year that starts Aug. 1, compared with a 15 percent gain
this year, the International Cotton Advisory Committee said on
Dec. 1.  In the U.S., about 15 percent of next year’s planted acres
will be abandoned because of the dry weather, Flanagan said.
That would be up from the 2.4 percent that will go unharvested
this year, the lowest rate since 1947, according to U.S.
Department of Agriculture  data . Abandonment averaged 12 percent
over the past decade.  “Especially in Texas, they’re going to increase acres, but
a good percentage of those acres are going to be dry-land acres,
and they are subject to a higher abandonment rate,” Flanagan
said.  ‘Dried-Out Topsoils’  Farmers in Texas are finding “low-moisture conditions”
and “dried-out topsoils” as they prepare for spring planting,
Texas AgriLife, a unit of Texas A&M University in College
Station, said in a Nov. 30  report .  A prolonged dry spell in 2007 led to a surge in cotton
prices to a three-year high, after planting was disrupted in the
southeastern U.S. Output that season fell 11 percent as farmers
slashed acreage, according to the USDA.  Farmers “need some of those spring rains to get the crop
emerged,” Widenor said in a telephone interview on Nov. 30.  As of the fourth week of November, rainfall in Texas
totaled 7.95 inches (about 20 centimeters) since harvesting
began at the end of August, down from the five-year average of
10.86 inches, according to data collected by San Francisco-based
CustomWeather.  “If the U.S. does have a dry spring, then these markets
will go crazy,” said  Rogers Varner , the president of brokerage
Varner Bros. in Cleveland, Mississippi. Cotton for delivery in
December 2011 “ought to be pretty well supported,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  