-- Cowen Relies on Sugar Daddy to Gain Support for Irish Budget: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-12-06T11:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/cowen-relies-on-sugar-daddy-to-gain-support-for-irish-budget-euro-credit.html
Among his supporters in the southwest
of Ireland, lawmaker  Jackie Healy-Rae  is known as the “Sugar
Daddy” for championing his region. Now Irish Prime Minister
 Brian Cowen  may depend on his former political ally to pass next
year’s budget and keep international patrons sweet.  The government will lay out details tomorrow of 6 billion
euros ($7.9 billion) of spending cuts and tax increases. Cowen’s
Fianna Fail party has a minority of seats in parliament and may
need the backing of independents such as Healy-Rae and  Michael Lowry . They have yet to declare support for the budget.  The 67 billion-euro aid package Ireland sought from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund depends on the
passing of the budget. A collapse of the Irish rescue accord
might reignite the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis and the
contagion that swept across Europe last week, pushing the euro
down to a 10-week low against the dollar and pummeling Italian,
Belgian and Spanish government bonds.  “It is a real possibility that Ireland will not pass the
proposed budget,” Mark Grant, managing director at Southwest
Securities Inc. in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, said in a Nov. 30
e-mail. “Then another tailspin down for the euro and for
European bank and sovereign debt is in the gun sights.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
debt over German bunds climbed to a euro-era high on Nov. 30
before falling after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers will extend their extraordinary
stimulus measures.  ‘Wrong Signal’  The Spanish  spread  over German bonds of a similar maturity
rose to 228 basis points today, up 9 points from Dec. 3. The
premium investors charge to hold Irish debt over bunds, Europe’s
benchmark, climbed by 8 basis points to 537 points. The  premium 
reached a record 652 basis points on Nov. 11.  Surging yields forced Ireland’s government to ask for a
bailout on Nov. 28, with the release of the first installments
dependent on the budget passing.  “It would send the wrong signal if Ireland rejects the
budget and puts pressure on other countries,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“There is a lot of huff and puff, but when push comes to shove,
things are so fraught, it will go through.”  Cowen has the support of 82 lawmakers in the  parliament ,
compared with 80 for the opposition, including independents.
That leaves Cowen reliant upon Healy-Rae, introduced as “Sugar
Daddy” before his victory speech after the 2007 election.  Playing Sax  Healy-Rae was a saxophonist in Ireland in the 1960s before
going on to run a pub. He split from Cowen’s Fianna Fail party
in 1997 after the party’s leadership refused to nominate him as
a candidate for the general election that year, according to his
website. He didn’t return calls to his parliamentary office in
Dublin seeking comment for this story.  The 79-year-old said he was “coming under desperate
pressure in my constituency” to vote against the budget in this
week’s initial vote, the  Irish Times  reported on Nov. 30. He
told the newspaper he had an “open mind.”  The government is also relying on a second independent
lawmaker, Lowry. Once a member of the biggest opposition party,
Fine Gael, he left the party amid an investigation into the
awarding of Ireland’s second mobile phone license while he was
communications minister in the 1990s.  Lowry denies any wrongdoing. The Tipperary lawmaker said on
Nov. 22 that he was unlikely to support the budget, though the
Irish Times reported a week later he may back it. He didn’t
return messages left at his office in Tipperary.  Tight Numbers  Cowen may have secured the support of both independent
lawmakers, the Dublin-based  Sunday Business Post  reported
yesterday without saying where it got the information.  “My instinct is that that the budget will pass on the
night,” said  Kevin Rafter , the author of a 2002 biography of a
top Fianna Fail adviser and a history of Fine Gael published
last year. “But it’s easy for something to go wrong in the
later votes. The numbers are so tight.”  Irish bonds are the second-worst performers in Europe this
year, having dropped 11 percent, compared with an 18 percent
decline in Greek debt and a 5.1 percent slide for Portuguese
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Lawmakers vote on the budget in four separate ballots, and
it must be passed within four months of Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  presenting it to parliament on Dec. 7. Irish Transport
Minister  Noel Dempsey  today told Dublin-based broadcaster RTE
all votes on the budget will be “tricky.”  Early Elections  Cowen said this week he will hold national elections in
early 2011 once he’s secured support for the budget.  Support for Cowen’s Fianna Fail plunged to 13 percent, the
Irish Independent said on Dec. 3, citing a survey of 1,000
people carried out for the Sun newspaper. Fine Gael, the biggest
opposition party, was at 32 percent. The Labour Party was at 24
percent and Sinn Fein stood at 16 percent, the paper said.  “You probably need a new government coming in with a firm
mandate and sense that these guys are here to straighten things
out,” said  Austin Hughes , chief economist at KBC Ireland in
Dublin. A change may lead to “less awful sentiment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  