-- D.E. Shaw Aims to Capture More Japan Pension Fund Money, Hire Extra Staff
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-12-06T01:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/d-e-shaw-aims-to-capture-more-japan-pension-fund-money-hire-extra-staff.html
D.E. Shaw & Co., the $20 billion
asset manager founded by David Shaw, aims to capture more money
from Japanese pension funds by adding staff and offering
alternative investments such as hedge funds.  The money manager, whose Tokyo office has two employees
including country representative  Scott Roney , plans to hire or
relocate staff from other parts of the world, said  Julius Gaudio ,
who oversees the Asian business of the New York-based firm.  “Assets from Japanese clients will grow substantially over
time,” Gaudio, 40, who moved to Hong Kong last month from New
York, said in an interview in Tokyo on Dec. 3. “I’m personally
excited to get more involved in the pension space -- given
Japan’s unique demographics, pension asset management is
particularly compelling here.”  D.E. Shaw joins foreign asset-management firms such as
 Neuberger Berman Group LLC  and Robeco Group that are trying to
capture a slice of Japan’s more than 60 trillion yen ($727
billion) corporate pension market, as retirement funds seek to
diversify from traditional asset classes such as bonds and
equities.  D.E. Shaw, which opened its Tokyo office in September, has
“several hundreds of millions of dollars” from Japanese
clients including financial institution and pension funds, said
Gaudio.  ‘Plant the Seed’  “The pension business takes time to develop in Japan,”
Roney, 47, who opened Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Tokyo
office in 1998, said in the same interview in Tokyo. “We want
to start planting the seeds with pensions, knowing that it’s
probably a multiyear process.”  Japanese pension plan returns have been weighed by two
decades of slumping markets, an aging population, and a
dependence on retirement packages immune to investment
performance.  “In Japan’s corporate pension sector, I believe the
average allocation to alternatives is 10 percent or more,” said
Roney. “That’s a relatively high amount, so we see a lot of
activity there that’s very exciting.”  The firm offers multistrategy hedge funds that trade
everything from equities to fixed income, structured equity
products and equity 130/30 funds, which wager on rising as well
as declining share prices, among its products.  D.E. Shaw, which has been investing in the region for 22
years, has had a presence in Asia since 1996 starting with its
office in Hyderabad, in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It
now has six locations in Asia, including Shanghai, and Mumbai,
according to Gaudio.  “There is still plenty to do in Japan,” Gaudio said. “It
is in some ways an often overlooked economy and market because a
lot of people are focused on higher growth emerging markets, so
we’re still very busy finding plenty to do.”  Shaw, a former Columbia University computer science
professor, founded D.E. Shaw in 1988. He ceded oversight of his
firm to a six-person committee in 2002, when client assets were
about $2 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 