-- Dangote Cement May Seek $5 Billion in London Share Sale to Boost Capacity
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-12-06T16:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/dangote-cement-may-seek-5-billion-in-london-share-sale-to-boost-capacity.html
Dangote Cement Plc , Africa’s biggest
producer of the building material, is working with three banks
to raise as much as $5 billion in a London share sale, said two
people with knowledge of the plan.  Dangote will probably seek $3 billion to $5 billion in a
London sale of global depositary receipts, valuing the company
at as much as $20 billion, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the plans are private. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley are helping
Dangote prepare the sale, slated for next year, the people said.  The Lagos-based company, which raised 13.5 billion naira
($90 million) in an initial public offering in October, plans to
increase capacity more than fivefold by 2015 to 46.2 million
tons through investing in Nigeria and other African countries.
Demand for cement in Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s second-
biggest economy and the continent’s most-populous nation, is
expected to rise 45 percent in 2010, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc said
in October.  Tony Chiejina, Dangote’s spokesman in Lagos, declined to
comment when reached on his mobile phone. The cement producer is
96 percent owned by Nigerian billionaire Aliko Dangote’s  Dangote
Group .  Dangote Cement, valued at $12.8 billion in Lagos trading,
surpassed  Nigeria Breweries Plc  on its Oct. 26 listing date to
become the heaviest weighted stock listed on the  West African
nation’s bourse .  ‘Absorb the Volume’  Dangote Cement is planning the sale because the Nigerian
market isn’t “deep” enough to absorb the volume of shares
needed to meet a required 25 percent free float, said Babatunde
Obaniyi, an analyst at Afrivest West Africa Ltd., one of the
advisers on Dangote’s October IPO.  “The best thing to do is to look for a market that is deep
and can absorb the volume of shares without having a negative
effect on pricing,” Obaniyi said by phone from Lagos today.  A spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs in London declined to
comment.  Brian Marchiony , JPMorgan’s spokesman in London, and
 Michael Wang , Morgan Stanley’s spokesman in London, declined to
comment.  Global depository receipts are negotiable certificates held
in the bank of one country representing a specific number of
shares of a stock traded on an exchange of another country.  Companies from Russia and Ukraine are among those that sold
GDRs in London this year to gain better access to international
investors. Mail.ru Group Ltd., a Russian internet company,
raised $912 million last month. Ukraine’s largest egg farmer,
Avangardco Investments Public Ltd., sold $187.5 million of GDRs
in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net 
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  