-- De La Rue Rejects $1.4 Billion Bid by Oberthur, Calling It `Opportunistic'
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-12-06T15:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/de-la-rue-rejects-1-4-billion-takeover-from-oberthur-update1-.html
De La Rue Plc , the world’s biggest
printer of banknotes, rejected an 896 million-pound ($1.4
billion) takeover approach from closely-held rival Francois-
Charles Oberthur Fiduciaire SA.  Management refused to discuss Oberthur’s 905 pence-a-share
cash proposal, presented on Nov. 10, the Paris-based company
said in a statement today. That offer is 43 percent more than
the close of De La Rue  stock  that day.  “Oberthur very much hopes that the board of De La Rue will
agree to enter into substantive discussions, possibly leading to
an offer which would benefit the company’s customers, its staff
and its shareholders,” the company said.  In a separate statement today, De La Rue called Oberthur’s
proposal “opportunistic.” The Basingstoke-based company had
lost about one-third of its value this year prior to the
proposal, after incurring a dent to  earnings  because of a
deliberate breach in paper quality by some employees.  De La Rue  rose  as much as 211 pence, or 33 percent, to
858.5 pence, its largest gain since at least 1995, and traded at
847 pence at 3:33 p.m. in London, valuing the company at 838
million pounds.  Reputational ‘Catalyst’  The company is seeking a new chief executive officer after
James Hussey resigned in August in the wake of the paper quality
breach. Discussions are under way with a candidate, former
Chloride Plc CEO  Tim Cobbold , De La Rue said Nov. 24.  The 200-year-old company produces currencies for more than
150 nations as well as security documents including passports
and fiscal stamps, according to its  website . A limited number of
customers were affected by the falsified paper quality
certificates, De La Rue said on Sept. 7.  Oberthur, the third-largest private producer of banknotes,
said it would look to make an offer that could be “the catalyst
for restoring the company’s reputation.”  De La Rue announced in March it would sell its stake in
Camelot Group Plc, the organizer of Britain’s National Lottery
for 77.8 million pounds.  As of last week, 4.83 percent of De La Rue’s shares
outstanding were on loan, according to Data Explorers analysis
on Bloomberg, likely to short sellers. That represented a
quarter of all stock available to borrow. Short-sellers borrow
stock on expectations they can sell it and later purchase it
back more cheaply before paying back the loan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  