-- Desire Petroleum Plunges as Falkland Oil Tests Dash Prospect of Discovery
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-12-06T16:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/desire-says-falkland-oil-tests-dash-prospect-of-first-discovery.html
Desire Petroleum Plc , the U.K. energy
explorer, plunged after saying the Rachel North well off the
Falkland Islands won’t produce oil.  Shares fell  50 percent to 67.25 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
London close on the news, which reversed the company’s Dec. 2
report that the well may have made a commercially viable find.
 Rockhopper Exploration Plc , which has a 7.5 percent stake in
Rachel, declined 10 percent.  Rockhopper remains the only company with a potentially
commercial discovery near the South American islands 8,000 miles
(13,000 kilometers) from the U.K. that Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  went to war to defend in 1982. Today’s drop erases
Desire’s 45 percent share-price gain this year that was driven
by speculation of another strike.  “It is extremely disappointing that the subsequent
wireline logs and fluids sampling have dashed all the earlier
promise of this being Desire’s first oil discovery in the North
Falkland Basin,”  Stephen Phipps , chairman of Malvern, England-
based Desire, said in a statement in London today. “Despite
this setback, the presence of hydrocarbons and good reservoir
development have been identified in a number of the Rachel fan
sands.”  Further sampling and logging of the Rachel North well
showed the salinity levels in the target sands to be different
than expected, and is now interpreted to be water-bearing,
Desire said.  Desire will plug and abandon Rachel and continue 3-D
seismic mapping of the area. Its drilling rig will now move to
the Dawn/Jacinta prospect in which Desire has a 100 percent
interest. Desire’s current cash balance is about 75 million
pounds ($118 million), enough to cover the drilling and mapping
costs, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  