-- Discover Deceives Credit-Card Holders, Minnesota Attorney General Claims
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-06T19:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/discover-deceives-credit-card-holders-minnesota-attorney-general-claims.html
Discover  Bank telemarketers, selling
identity-theft and credit-score monitoring services, fail to
tell consumers when they’re agreeing to buy those products,
Minnesota Attorney General  Lori Swanson  said in a lawsuit.  The credit-card company, a unit of  Discover Financial
Services , reaped more than $300 million in revenue last year
from selling those products, Swanson said today in a statement
announcing the filing of the suit in state court in Minneapolis.  “It is particularly ironic for credit-card companies like
Discover to charge people’s accounts for optional fee-based
products without their informed consent because the credit-card
company touts its fraud prevention capabilities,” she said.  Discover Bank and Riverwoods, Illinois-based  Discover
Financial  are each named as defendants in the lawsuit, which
Swanson said seeks injunctive relief, civil penalties and
restitution.  “It’s not in Discover’s interest to sell a product that
doesn’t enhance our relationship with our card members,”
Matthew Towson, a spokesman for the  company , said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Towson said many of customers “find Discover’s protection
products valuable as they provide peace of mind.” He declined
to specifically comment on the attorney general’s allegations.  Swanson said card company callers used oblique questions
and omitted disclosure terms when describing products to
customers in an effort to sell the offered services.  Some cardholders were “tricked into unwittingly signing up
by giving an affirmative response like ‘OK’ or ‘yes’ to a
seemingly benign statement or question,” she said.  A copy of the complaint couldn’t immediately be obtained
from Swanson’s office or confirmed independently with the court.  Discover Financial  rose 18 cents, or 1 percent, to $19.02
in New York Stock Exchange trading at 2:06 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 