-- Discounted Debt Sold in Hong Kong May Rally on Yuan Outlook: China Credit
-- B y   S o n j a   C h e u n g
-- 2010-12-07T08:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/discounted-debt-sold-in-hong-kong-may-rally-on-yuan-outlook-china-credit.html
China, in an effort to lure Hong Kong
savers to its debt, starts selling 3 billion yuan ($450 million)
of two-year bonds today at a higher yield than it offered on
longer-maturity notes sold to institutions last week.  The December 2012 securities are being offered to
individual investors with a 1.6 percent coupon, 60 basis points
more than fund managers got on the three-year notes. The yield
is likely to drop at least 30 basis points, or 0.30 percentage
point, this month as prospects for yuan gains fuel demand,
according to analysts at Credit Agricole CIB, Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc and Standard Chartered Plc.  “There will be an overwhelming response from the Hong Kong
public given deposits are rising and the yuan should
appreciate,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a senior economist at
Credit Agricole in Hong Kong. “There’s a good chance we’ll see
queues outside banks. This bond is a rare gem in the market.”  China is seeking to broaden the range of investment options
for its currency in Hong Kong, where yuan deposits jumped 67.8
billion yuan in October to a record 217 billion yuan. The coupon
offered on the December 2012 debt compares with the 3.08 percent
yield for similar-maturity government bonds on the mainland,
reflecting limited access to the market for offshore investors.  HSBC Holdings Plc’s Hong Kong unit offers interest of 0.71
percent on 12-month deposits of less than 500,000 yuan, compared
with 2.5 percent at its branches in mainland China. The amount
of outstanding yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong is about 55
billion yuan, a quarter of the city’s deposits, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The People’s Bank of China increased
the number of companies eligible for cross-border yuan trade
settlements to 67,359 from 365, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority
in a statement yesterday.  Exim Bank, Caterpillar  Last week’s sale of December 2013 bonds in Hong Kong was
part of a 5 billion yuan offering that drew orders from fund
managers for 10 times the securities available. The sale
included 10-year debt with a 2.48 percent coupon and five-year
notes at 1.8 percent. Yields have since slipped to 2.42 percent
and 1.71 percent, respectively, while the rate on the three-year
debt has declined six basis points to 0.94 percent.  Export-Import Bank of China’s two-year debt in Hong Kong
yield 1.24 percent, down from 1.95 percent when it was issued on
Dec. 2, Treasury Markets Association data show. The state-owned
lender’s notes were included in a 5 billion yuan offering
primarily targeted at individual investors that drew orders for
14 times the amount of notes available.  So-called dim sum notes issued a day earlier by  Caterpillar
Inc ., the world’s biggest maker of construction equipment, with
a coupon of 2 percent yield 1.36 percent. Caterpillar has a
foreign-currency debt rating of A from Standard & Poor’s, the
sixth-highest grade, while China’s local-currency rating was a
level higher at A+.  Yield, Appreciation  The rate on China’s two-year notes will drop by about 30
basis points before the end of the month, according to Credit
Agricole’s Kowalczyk and  Pin Ru Tan , a strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland in Singapore. A decline of as much as 50 basis
points is possible, said  Delphine Arrighi , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Standard Chartered.  “Investors are attracted by the marginal yield pickup and
potential for the currency to appreciate,” said Arrighi, whose
bank is one of 19 handling the sale. “Given the lingering debt
woes in Europe and uncertainties surrounding the impact of
quantitive easing in the U.S., the China story is even more
compelling and sort of appears as a new safe haven.”  Ireland  Ireland joined Greece on Nov. 28 in seeking a bailout from
the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, while
the cost of insuring bonds issued by Portugal, Spain and Italy
climbed to records last week. The Federal Reserve last month
announced plans to buy $600 billion of Treasuries, a policy
known as quantitative easing that boosts the supply of dollars,
after $1.7 trillion of previous asset purchases failed to boost
the economy sufficiently.  The yuan has appreciated 2.7 percent in Shanghai since a
two-year peg ended in June and non-deliverable forwards indicate
the currency will gain 2.2 percent in the coming 12 months. The
currency was unchanged today at 6.6485 per dollar. The offshore
rate was at 6.6390.  Expectations for the fastest currency gains among the so-
called BRIC nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China are also
adding to the allure of yuan assets. The yuan will gain 5.9
percent by the end of 2011, compared with 4.2 percent for the
Indian rupee, 4.2 percent for Russia’s ruble and a 2.9 percent
decline for Brazil’s real, according to the median estimates in
Bloomberg surveys of analysts.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps on Chinese government bonds
fell one basis point to 68 basis points today, ICAP Plc prices
in Hong Kong show. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to debt
agreements.  The yield drop on China’s new two-year note will likely
become “more sluggish” as the rate starts to near returns on
deposit accounts in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland’s Tan
said. The subscription period for the sale will end Dec. 14, and
the debt will be issued Dec. 20, according to a Ministry of
Finance statement.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd., the casino operator part-
owned by Permira Advisers LLP, plans to sell 1 billion yuan of
bonds in Hong Kong, Robert Drake, chief financial officer, said
in a phone interview yesterday.  Shui On Land Ltd., Hong Kong billionaire Vincent Lo’s real
estate company, hired Deutsche Bank AG, Standard Chartered Plc
and UBS AG to help it explore opportunities for yuan debt,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Yuan Story  McDonald’s Corp. sold 200 million yuan of three-year notes
in September in Hong Kong, becoming the first foreign company to
sell dim sum bonds. United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest
aluminum producer, said in September that officials met bankers
to learn about the market.  “An offshore yuan bond market is a great way for investors
to get exposure to the yuan story without having such tough
restrictions as investing onshore,” said  Sergey Dergachev , who
helps manage the equivalent of $8.5 billion of emerging-market
debt at Union Investment in Frankfurt. “We will see more
companies that will follow McDonalds and issue yuan-denominated
bonds in Hong Kong. This will induce more inflows and support
the yuan’s dynamics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in Hong Kong at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 