-- Don Meredith, Former Cowboys Quarterback, Dies at 72 From Brain Hemorrhage
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-12-06T20:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/don-meredith-former-cowboys-quarterback-dies-at-72-from-brain-hemorrhage.html
Don Meredith , a quarterback for the
Dallas Cowboys who went on to become a familiar broadcast voice
on “Monday Night Football,” has died. He was 72.  Meredith’s death last night was confirmed by Arturo
Delgado, a spokesman for  Christus St. Vincent Regional Medical
Center  in Santa Fe, New Mexico. He gave no other details.  The Associated Press said Meredith suffered a brain
hemorrhage and lapsed into a coma. Meredith had fought emphysema
in recent years and suffered a minor stroke in 2004, according
to the Dallas Morning News.  “Don was without question one of the toughest people you
will ever come across in your life,” said  Gil Brandt , the
Cowboys’ former vice president of player personnel. “He played
with broken ribs and a long list of injuries other guys would
never have walked on the field with.”  The man nicknamed “Dandy Don” grew up in Mount Vernon in
East Texas and signed a personal-services contract with the
 Cowboys  on Nov. 28, 1959, two months before the franchise
officially joined the National Football League.  He was a three-time Pro Bowl pick and won the Bert Bell
Award as the NFL’s top player in 1966  Monday Night  Retiring after the 1968 season, Meredith became an
announcer on ABC’s “Monday Night Football” telecasts. He was
often a foil for fellow broadcaster  Howard Cosell  and would mark
a game-turning play by singing the country-western tune, “Turn
Out the Lights, the Party’s Over.”  Cosell called Meredith “Danderoo.”  “One of the most important things to the success of the
NFL was what Don and Frank (Gifford) and Howard did with ‘Monday
Night Football,’” Brandt said in a telephone interview. “They
brought a whole new audience to our game. Women started
watching. It was just a new way of watching football
altogether.”  Gifford said in a statement that he suggested when Meredith
retired as a player that he talk with  Roone Arledge  at ABC
Sports about a “new project Roone had in mind, prime-time
football on Monday nights.”  “To say that Don was an instant success would be an
understatement,” Gifford said. “We spent a lot of years
together, not only on ‘Monday Night Football’ but in sharing so
much of our personal lives.”  The last time Brandt spoke to Meredith was two years ago.
When Brandt asked Meredith what he did to occupy himself during
his retirement, Meredith said, “I have a tee-time at 11 a.m.
every morning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  