-- Dubai Shares Rise to 2-Week High on Qatar World Cup Contract Speculation
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-12-06T13:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/dubai-shares-advance-on-speculation-developers-may-win-contracts-in-qatar.html
Dubai’s  shares  rose to the highest in
two weeks, led by construction and real-estate companies, on
speculation they may benefit from Qatar’s infrastructure
spending for the 2022 soccer World Cup.  Arabtec Holding PJSC,  the biggest construction company in
the United Arab Emirates, surged the most since March.  Emaar
Properties PJSC  rose 1.6 percent after saying it will pursue
development contracts in Qatar. The  Dubai Financial Market
General Index  increased 1.1 percent to 1,706.24, the highest
since Nov. 22, at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. Dubai’s
market was closed from Dec. 2 for holidays. Qatar’s  QE Index 
rose 0.6 percent to the highest in more than two years. It
soared 3.6 percent yesterday.  “Companies that have an on-the-ground presence in Qatar,
especially in construction infrastructure related spaces” are
gaining, said  Shehzad Janab , head of asset management at Dubai-
based Daman Investments PSC. “What this World Cup win means is
that spending will be accelerated with a new impetus” by Qatar.  Qatar will be the first nation from the Middle East to hold
the world’s most-watched sporting event. Russia was chosen to
host the 2018 tournament. The emirate plans to spend $4 billion
on stadium construction and refurbishment program, and build a
rail and metro network, costing more than $25 billion.  Arabtec soared 9.1 percent, the most since March 28, to
2.03 dirhams. Arabtec Construction, a unit of the builder, in
June won a 520 million-riyal ($143 million) contract to build
the World Trade Center Tower in Qatar.  Qatari Unit  Drake & Scull International PJSC , an engineering contractor
with a unit in Qatar, increased 6.5 percent to 1.02 dirhams, the
highest since November 2009. The company is building a district
cooling plant in Doha,  according to its website.   Emaar, the company with the heaviest weighting on Dubai’s
index and builder of the world’s tallest skyscraper, rose the
most since Nov. 21 to 3.73 dirhams. “If there is any
opportunity, you will see me in Qatar,” Chairman Mohamed
Alabbar said in an interview with Al Arabiya television. Dubai’s
 real estate index  climbed 2.4 percent.  Oil traded near its highest in 26 months on speculation the
U.S. may extend stimulus measures, bolstering demand in the
world’s largest consumer of crude. Crude for January delivery
rose as much as 0.6 percent to $89.76 a barrel in electronic
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The six Gulf Arab
nations, including Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E., supply about a
fifth of the world’s oil.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  increased 0.1 percent, while
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  was little changed,
dropping less than 0.1 percent. Bahrain’s  All Share Index 
rose 0.5 percent and Oman’s  MSM30 Index  advanced 0.3 percent.
Kuwait’s  gauge  increased less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  