-- Duke Utility Head Turner Quits After E-Mails Showed Improper Indiana Ties
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-12-06T21:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/duke-utility-head-turner-quits-after-e-mails-showed-improper-indiana-ties.html
Duke Energy Corp. ’s top utility
executive resigned, citing e-mail exchanges with an Indiana
regulator that were published amid an investigation of improper
ties between the company and the state agency.  James L. Turner , 51, president of U.S. franchised electric
and gas, won’t be replaced and the company’s four utility heads
will report directly to Chief Executive Officer  Jim Rogers , Duke
said today in a statement. Turner was responsible for Duke’s
regulated businesses, the largest unit of the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based company.  E-mails obtained under an open records request showed
Turner and David Lott Hardy, then the chairman of the Indiana
Utility Regulatory Commission, discussing personnel matters and
personal topics and “sometimes trading messages eight or 10
times day,”  according  to a Nov. 28 article in the Indianapolis
Star newspaper.  “I have a duty to exercise the highest level of
professionalism,” Turner said in today’s statement. “In
certain e-mails to a former commissioner in Indiana, I fell
short of this standard.”  Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels  fired Hardy in October
because he failed to do anything about a commission staffer who
was allowed to preside over regulatory matters with Duke as he
was discussing a job with the company. Duke fired the man and
the head of its Indiana utility in November.  Duke hasn’t challenged the content of the e-mails as
reported by the newspaper,  Tom Williams , a company spokesman,
said today in an interview. Turner said his departure will
enable the company and its employees to “move on from this
distraction.”  Indiana Audit  Indiana regulators plan to audit all cases involving a
$2.98 billion coal-gasification power plant Duke is building in
Indiana, as part of an investigation into improper ties between
the company and the state agency, Duke said Oct. 14. Duke
announced its own investigation Oct. 12.  Turner served under Rogers as chief financial officer and
as president of Cincinnati-based Cinergy Corp. before Duke’s
2006 acquisition of the company. He was Indiana’s official
advocate for utility customers from 1991 to 1993, according to a
 biography  on Duke’s website.  Duke  fell  11 cents to $17.68 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. They have risen 2.7 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 