-- ECB Steps Up Bond Purchases to Fight Market Tensions
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-12-06T15:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ecb-steps-up-bond-purchases-to-fight-acute-tensions-in-financial-markets.html
The European Central Bank increased
its bond purchases last week after President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
pledged to fight “acute” financial market tensions.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it settled 1.965 billion euros
($2.61 billion) of purchases, the most in 22 weeks. Most
transactions between Dec. 1 and Dec. 3 have not yet settled, the
ECB said in a statement. It will take seven-day term deposits
tomorrow to neutralize 69 billion euros of liquidity created by
bond purchases since the  program  started on May 10.  The ECB last week delayed its withdrawal of emergency
liquidity measures and said its asset-purchase program was
“ongoing” as concerns grew that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
may spread. As Trichet briefed journalists about the decision on
Dec. 2, ECB staff embarked upon a new wave of bond purchases,
triggering a surge in Irish and Portuguese paper.  Today’s statement “puts some measurable figures behind the
rhetoric from the ECB last week,” said  Nick Matthews , senior
European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “The program picked up and there’s more to come.”  The central bank bought Irish and Portuguese government
bonds today, according to three traders with knowledge of the
transactions who declined to be identified because the deals are
confidential. An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment.  The ECB only publishes the amount of purchases settled each
week, not details of which bonds it has bought. The program aims
to smooth the functioning of some euro-region bond markets to
improve monetary-policy transmission. Bundesbank President
 Axel Weber  has argued that there’s no evidence the purchases
achieve this. He said on Nov. 19 the program should be stopped
“sooner than later.”  Ireland last month became the second euro member to be
bailed out by the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  