-- EDF Sells EnBW Stake to German State for $6.2 Billion
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-06T17:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/edf-agrees-to-sell-enbw-energie-baden-wuerttemberg-stake-for-6-2-billion.html
Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, said it agreed to sell its stake in
German utility EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG for 4.7
billion euros ($6.2 billion) because of “political”
considerations.  The state of Baden-Wurttemberg offered 41.50 euros a share,
representing a 19 percent premium on its last closing price, the
Paris-based company said in a statement today.  “The prospects of EDF’s development in Germany were not
very promising,” Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  told a
conference call. “This was a political decision which would
have cost EDF a lot to fight.”  The French state-controlled utility announced in the past
four months the sale of its U.K. grid and a deal to take control
of a joint venture to develop atomic reactors in the U.S.
Today’s sale doesn’t mean EDF wants to focus on fewer markets,
Proglio said.  “The strategic development of EDF in Europe and the world
is not called into question,” Proglio said, before explaining
that a decision by the state of Baden-Wurttemberg to concentrate
EnBW’s activities locally and give it a “strong” local
shareholding was behind the deal.  Oversupply  An oversupply of power in Germany, which is expected to
increase with the development of thermal plants, as well as
taxes on nuclear and thermal electricity, amounted to a
“difficult regulatory and legislative” environment, he said.  EDF had already reached its target for asset sales with the
U.K. grid deal, Chief Financial Officer  Thomas Piquemal  said in
September. That agreement lowered EDF’s debt by 6.8 billion
euros. The German deal will allow EDF to reduce debt by about 7
billion euros, resulting in “increased financial flexibility,”
the company said today.  “EDF has a stable outlook at all ratings agencies but its
credit ratings are stretched,” said  Christian Kleindienst , an
analyst at Unicredit SpA in Munich.  The utility also has a minority stake in Edison SpA,
Italy’s second-largest power producer. EDF is now
“concentrating” on Edison and the Italian market, Kleindienst
said.  Put Option  EDF  owns a 45 percent stake in EnBW while OEW, the other
major shareholder made up of local authorities, won’t sell its
stake to the German land or exercise a put option against EDF
for part of its holding, the French utility said. EnBW, which
has nuclear, hydroelectric and thermal power plants, said the
German state plans to place the shares back in the capital
market.  The deal price is at a multiple of around six times EnBW’s
2011 estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, EDF said.  Following the deal to sell the stake in EnBW, EDF said its
net debt-to-Ebitda ratio will be around 2.2 for the full year.  EnBW  rose 17 percent to 41.10 euros as of the 4:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt. EDF increased 0.6 percent to 31.81 euros in
Paris.  OEW “has decided not to sell its subordinated shares to
the land and not to exercise its preemption rights” on EDF’s
stake, according to EDF.  OEW had a put option against EDF for the portion of its 45
percent stake subject to a July 2000 shareholders’ agreement.
That accord meant OEW could sell a 25 percent stake to EDF at
any time through the end of 2011 at a price of 37.14 euros,
according to EDF’s 2009 annual report. This resulted in a 2.3
billion off-balance commitment last year.  The renegotiation of the shareholders’ pact “would not
have left any possibility of gaining control of the company and
would have put in difficulty our role as an industrial
company,” Proglio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  