-- EDF Agrees to Sell Entire Stake in EnBW for $6.2 Billion to German State
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-06T14:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/edf-agrees-to-sell-entire-stake-in-enbw-for-6-2-billion-to-german-state.html
Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, agreed to sell its stake in German
utility EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG for 4.7 billion euros
($6.2 billion) to cut debt.  The state of Baden-Wurttemberg offered 41.50 euros a share,
representing a 19 percent premium on its last closing price, the
Paris-based company said in a statement today.  The French state-controlled utility has announced in the
past four months the sale of its U.K. grid and a deal to take
control of a joint venture to develop atomic reactors in the
U.S. It also has a minority stake in Edison SpA, Italy’s second-
largest power producer.  “EDF has a stable outlook at all ratings agencies but its
credit ratings are stretched,” said  Christian Kleindienst , an
analyst at Unicredit SpA in Munich. The utility is now
“concentrating” on Edison and the Italian market, he said.  EDF  owns a 45 percent stake in EnBW while OEW, the other
major shareholder made up of local authorities, won’t sell its
stake to the German land or exercise a put option against EDF
for part of its holding, the French utility said. EnBW, which
has nuclear, hydroelectric and thermal power plants, said the
German state plans to place the shares back in the capital
market.  Reached Target  EDF had already reached its target for asset sales with the
U.K. grid deal, Chief Financial Officer  Thomas Piquemal  said in
September. That agreement lowered EDF’s debt by 6.8 billion
euros. The German deal will allow EDF to reduce debt by about 7
billion euros, resulting in “increased financial flexibility,”
according to EDF’s statement today.  “EDF appears to want to focus on fewer countries,”  Myriam Cohen , a financial analyst at Alphavalue SAS in Paris, said by
telephone. “Energy is a very capex demanding industry. They
have to invest huge amounts.”  The deal price is at a multiple of around six times EnBW’s
2011 estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, EDF said.  EnBW  rose as much as 18 percent and was trading at 41.03
euros as of 2:30 p.m. in Frankfurt. EDF increased 0.8 percent to
31.86 euros in Paris.  A planned renegotiation of a EnBW shareholders’ agreement
“would have taken place against a complex and uncertain
economic environment,” EDF said. It didn’t offer any other
explanations in the statement for the decision to sell the
stake.  OEW “has decided not to sell its subordinated shares to
the land and not to exercise its preemption rights” on EDF’s
stake, according to EDF.  OEW had a put option against EDF for the portion of its 45
percent stake subject to a July 2000 shareholders’ agreement.
That accord meant OEW could sell a 25 percent stake to EDF at
any time through the end of 2011 at a price of 37.14 euros,
according to EDF’s 2009 annual report. This resulted in a 2.3
billion off-balance commitment last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  