-- Russia Energy Weapon ‘Nonsense,’ Medvedev Tells Poles
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-12-06T17:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/medvedev-says-talk-of-russian-energy-weapon-nonsense-during-warsaw-visit.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  urged
Poland to open its energy industry to Russian investment, saying
claims Russia uses its power as a natural-gas and oil exporter
to achieve political aims are unfounded.  “There is an opinion that practically all Russian energy
projects are politicized, that Russia’s wish is to turn Europe
into an energy junkie for political gain,” he said at a press
conference in Warsaw today with his Polish counterpart,
 Bronislaw Komorowski . “We think that’s absolute nonsense.”  Poland imports two-thirds of its gas from Russia, and the
two countries completed an agreement in October that will
increase deliveries by as much as 38 percent. Russian companies
may be interested in “a range of big energy projects” as
Poland sells state assets, Medvedev said today.  Medvedev, 45, met with 58-year-old Komorowski in Warsaw to
discuss topics ranging from energy cooperation and sea transport
to Baltic Sea pollution and an investigation into the plane
crash that killed Polish President  Lech Kaczynski  and 95 others
on Russian territory earlier this year. It is the first official
visit of a Russian head of state to Poland since January 2002.  Russian companies such as  OAO Gazprom ’s oil arm and  OAO
Rosneft  are interested in acquiring the 53 percent stake Poland
is selling in  Grupa Lotos SA , the country’s second-biggest
refiner, Energy Minister  Sergei Shmatko  said today in Warsaw.  No ‘Discrimination’  “It’s politically very important to signal that our
companies are ready to come and at least to hear from Poland
that there won’t be any discrimination in decision-making,”
Shmatko said.  Poland has been suspicious of Russian intentions following
more than four decades of Soviet rule after World War II.
Relations remained strained after Poland’s Solidarity movement
toppled the communist regime in 1989 and Poland became a member
of the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  10 years later.  “It’s an ideal moment to talk about concrete issues,”
Polish Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said after a late-afternoon
meeting with the Russian president.  Medvedev today said he hoped that Poland would become
“more actively involved” in Russian conversations with NATO
and the European Union and could help to resolve “various
issues” between Russia and the two international institutions.
The Russian president said last month at a meeting with NATO
leaders that Russia should be accepted as “an equal” in talks
on a missile defense system.  Missile Shield  U.S. President  Barack Obama  in September 2009 canceled
plans by former President  George W. Bush  to locate parts of a
missile shield in Poland and the Czech Republic in favor of a
solution closer to Russian proposals for a joint system.
Medvedev has said a new arms race could break out within the
next decade unless Russia reaches an agreement with the U.S. and
its allies on a joint missile-defense shield.  “Poland believes that NATO should take a decision that
will primarily safeguard the security of NATO members,”
Komorowski said today. The alliance should “also seek solutions
to threats that could affect other countries such as Russia,”
he said.  The Russian president will travel to Brussels tomorrow to
complete an agreement with the EU on its 17-year bid to become a
member of the World Trade Organization. Poland “looks
favorably” on Russia’s WTO entry as an extension of free-market
safeguards and principles, Komorowski said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katya Andrusz  at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
 Lyubov Pronina  in Warsaw via Moscow office at at
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  