-- Mubarak's Ruling Party Wins Egyptian Parliamentary Elections by Landslide
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-12-06T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/egypt-s-mubarak-ruling-party-sweeps-parliamentary-elections.html
Egypt’s ruling party won the
country’s parliamentary election by a landslide, eliminating its
main Islamist rival ahead of next year’s presidential poll that
may see the first leadership change in 30 years.  The ruling National Democratic Party of President  Hosni Mubarak  won more than four-fifths of the 508-seat assembly, the
government’s State Information Service said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday in Cairo. The first round of voting was Nov.
28 and runoff elections were held Dec. 5.  The  Muslim Brotherhood  pulled out of the election, saying
it was rigged, a charge the NDP has denied.  “Egypt doesn’t have a parliament that represents the will
of the people,” senior Brotherhood official Essam El-Erian
wrote on the group’s website. “It represents the will of the
riggers and the thugs who have kidnapped the will of the
nation,” he said. The election commission overseeing the vote
said any violations didn’t affect the final outcome.  President  Mubarak , in power since 1981, hasn’t announced
whether he will run for another six-year term in 2011.
Opposition groups including the Brotherhood have said that the
president is grooming his son,  Gamal Mubarak , a senior NDP
official, to succeed him. Both men deny this.  The lack of a designated successor to Mubarak, 82, has
fueled concern that a succession crisis may lead to political
unrest. That could endanger foreign investment needed to create
jobs and expand output in the most populous Arab country.  ‘Numerous’ Violations Reported  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said last week that it
had received reports of “numerous” violations, including
authorities detaining journalists and preventing the staff of
opposition candidates from entering 30 polling stations the
group visited.  The government rejected calls by the U.S. administration
and the European Union to allow international observers to
monitor the election.  “I was concerned by reports of irregularities, restricted
access for independent observers and candidates’ representatives
into polling stations, media restrictions as well as arrests of
opposition activists,” EU High Representative  Catherine Ashton 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The National Democratic Party won 420 out of 504 contested
seats, the government said. Elections for the four remaining
seats will be held at a later date, the state-run Middle East
News Agency reported, citing Sameh El Kashef, spokesman for the
High Election Commission.  Opposition groups, led by the Wafd and the Tagammu parties,
won 14 seats, while independent candidates won 70 seats, the
government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 