-- Elan Names Ex-Glaxo Executive Robert Ingram Chairman, Replacing McLaughlin
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-12-06T17:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/elan-names-ex-glaxo-executive-robert-ingram-chairman-replacing-mclaughlin.html
Elan  Corp., under pressure from
activist shareholder Ib Sonderby, named  Robert Ingram  chairman
to replace  Kyran McLaughlin  after voters at the company’s annual
general meeting opposed his re-election.  The appointment is effective Jan. 26 and Ingram, who turns
68 today, will join the board immediately, the Dublin-based
company said today in a statement. Ingram didn’t return calls
made to his U.S. office seeking comment. Paul McSharry, a
spokesman for Elan, said Ingram wouldn’t be available for an
interview.  Danish investor Ib Sonderby, who owns 2 million shares of
Elan, has called for new board members, questioning why the
company paid Davy Stockbrokers, where McLaughlin serves as vice
chairman, $2.3 million for consulting work. About 28 percent of
voters at the company’s annual general meeting in May opposed
the re-election of McLaughlin, who had been on the board for 10
years and served as non-executive chairman for five.  Ingram is the former chief executive officer of Glaxo
Wellcome Plc and former vice chairman of pharmaceuticals at
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc . He has been a general partner at Hatteras
Venture Partners LLC and has been an adviser to the CEO of
Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker. He serves on the boards of
Allergan Inc., Cree Inc., Edwards Life Sciences Corp., Lowe’s
Companies Inc. and  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International  Inc.  OSI Chairman  Ingram was chairman of OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. in May when
it agreed to be sold to Astellas Pharma Inc. after the Japanese
drugmaker raised its bid. Glaxo and Valeant developed the
epilepsy drug ezogabine, which last week was rejected by U.S.
regulators for “nonclinical” reasons.  UBS AG analysts raised their rating today on Elan’s stock
to buy from neutral, citing multiple sclerosis drug Tsyabri soon
becoming a blockbuster and potential late-stage data from its
Alzheimer’s drug bapineuzumab in 2011. UBS also cited Elan’s
deal with Johnson & Johnson over its Alzheimer’s portfolio which
“significantly de-risked” Elan’s balance sheet and will allow
the company to become profitable this year.  Elan rose 25 cents, or 6.4 percent, to 4.15 euros in
Dublin. It was the stock’s biggest gain in almost six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 