-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for Fourth Day After Bernanke Fed Comments
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-12-06T13:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-fourth-day-after-bernanke-fed-comments.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced, with
the benchmark index gaining for a fourth day, after U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank may buy
more U.S. securities to boost growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.3 percent to
1,124.54 as of 12:48 p.m. in London, adding to a three-day, 4.3
percent advance. Taiwan’s  Taiex  climbed to the highest since
June 2008 after Nomura Holdings Inc. became the third brokerage
this month to recommend buying the island’s equities. The  BUX 
stock index fell 1.4 percent after Moody’s Investors Service
lowered Hungary’s credit rating to one step above junk.  Bernanke said that Fed purchases of Treasury securities
beyond the $600 billion announced last month are possible. U.S.
unemployment may take five years to fall to a normal level, he
said in an interview with CBS Corp.’s "60 Minutes" program,
which aired in the U.S. yesterday night.  “The Fed is trying to sustain the momentum of the global
economic recovery by stabilizing the financial system,” said
 Fitz Aclan , who helps manage $13 billion at Manila-based Banco
de Oro Unibank Inc. “This is partly driving the general
bullishness in emerging markets. Funds have been shifting into
emerging markets because of better growth outlook.”  Moody’s downgraded Hungary to Baa3, its lowest investment
grade ranking, and kept the negative outlook, the ratings
company said in a statement today. The government’s plan to
reduce the budget deficit relies on “temporary measures” and
leading to a “gradual but significant loss” of financial
strength, Moody’s said. The forint tumbled 2 percent against the
dollar and depreciated 1.3 percent versus the euro, the most
since Nov. 29.  OTP, Richter  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, slid 1.7 percent.
 Richter Gedeon Nyrt.,  the country’s largest drugmaker, lost 2.2
percent.  The cost of insuring Hungarian sovereign debt rose about 16
basis points to 371 basis points, according to CMA prices for
credit-default swaps.  The difference between the return investors require from
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries widened 4 basis points
to 2.45 percentage points, according to the  JPMorgan Chase & Co.
EMBI+ index.   The Polish zloty lost 2 percent against the dollar and 1
percent against the euro. The rand retreated 0.5 percent against
the dollar. The Korean won and the Taiwanese dollar both gained
at least 0.5 percent against the dollar on speculation
developing Asia’s exports will grow.  Brazil, Shanghai  Futures for Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index fell 0.1 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite index  rose 0.5 percent, aided by a
4.7 percent surge in  PetroChina Co .  Taiwanese stocks rose 0.9 percent to the highest level
since June 2008.  Nomura boosted its rating for Taiwan stocks to “bullish”
from “bearish,” saying the index may offer “significant
potential upside.” The brokerage joined Morgan Stanley and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in recommending Taiwan shares next year
as increased cooperation with China boosts tourism and spurs
investment.  Tata Steel  Ltd. jumped 3.3 percent after Riversdale Mining
Ltd., 24.16 percent owned by the Indian company, said it had
discussions with  Rio Tinto Group  on a possible A$3.5 billion
($3.46 billion) takeover proposal.  Russia’s  Micex  stock index gained 0.5 percent.  The price of oil gained 0.1 percent to $89.26 a barrel in
New York, near a 26-month high.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100  stock index jumped 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  