-- England Chases Six Australia Wickets to Take Lead in Ashes Cricket Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-06T13:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/england-declares-first-innings-at-620-5-in-second-ashes-test.html
England needs six wickets on the last
day to win the second Ashes cricket Test after  Kevin Pietersen 
reached a career-best score and removed  Michael Clarke  to have
Australia struggling to avoid defeat at 238-4.  England dismissed  Simon Katich ,  Ricky Ponting  and  Shane Watson  yesterday after declaring its first innings at 620-5 in
Adelaide. Clarke and  Mike Hussey  held up the victory push with a
104-run stand before Pietersen, who earlier top-scored with 227,
dismissed Clarke in the last action of the day.  Australia’s hopes of avoiding defeat may rest with the
weather. The Bureau of Meteorology  forecasts  showers and
thunderstorms today.  “In an ideal world we probably would have them eight or
nine down but it’s not an ideal world and we’re facing a very
resilient Australian team,” England spinner  Graeme Swann , who
took two wickets, told reporters. “Clarke’s their best player
of spin and to get him out like that was magic.”  The Australians, bowled out for 245 on day one, still need
another 137 runs on a wearing Adelaide Oval pitch to make
England bat again as they try to avoid going 1-0 down in the
best-of-five contest. England holds the Ashes following last
year’s 2-1 series triumph in the U.K.  A victory in Adelaide -- where England declared its first
innings at 551-6 four years ago before losing the match -- would
leave the touring team needing one win from the remaining three
Tests to be sure of retaining the trophy.  ‘Outplayed’  After a 57-minute delay in the last session because of bad
light and rain, Clarke and Hussey raised Australian hopes of
saving the match and heading to the third Test in Perth with the
series tied at 0-0.  “If we can draw the match, England will see it as a loss
so that’s got to drive us on,” Hussey told reporters. “We’ve
certainly been outplayed, no question, but if we can get away
with 0-0 it will be a great result for us. A little bit of rain
would help, that’s for sure.”  Hussey, who top-scored for Australia with 93 on day one and
made 195 in the drawn series opener, resumes on 44.  Marcus North , the remaining specialist batsman in Australia’s lineup,
is yet to face a ball.  “We’ve opened one end up which is important,” Swann said.
“We’ve got North coming in there’s a lot of pressure on him now
and then we’re only a couple of balls away from the bowlers. If
we can get Hussey early with the new ball it’s going to be
fantastic.”  Clarke Appeal  Australia’s openers took the score to 84-0 before Swann
dismissed a hobbling Katich, caught behind for 43, and Ponting
for 9 as  Paul Collingwood  took a low two-handed catch at slip.
Watson brought up back-to-back half-centuries before edging a
Steven Finn ball to England captain  Andrew Strauss  when on 57.  Clarke successfully appealed against being given out caught
off Swann’s bowling when on 67. The Australian vice-captain
immediately referred the decision for video review, which showed
the ball missing the bat.  After reaching 80, he wasn’t let off again when he clipped
the second ball of the last over off his thigh to  Alastair Cook 
at short leg. Umpire Tony Hill initially declined the appeal for
a catch against Clarke, though the review gave occasional bowler
Pietersen the wicket and brought play to a close.  “We’re going to have to keep fighting hard,” Hussey said.
“It was a bit of a kick in the guts to lose that one in the
last over.”  Strauss called a halt to England’s first innings in the
morning session following a 41-minute spell in which the batsmen
added 69 runs off 54 balls.  ‘Box Seat’  England, which only lost the wicket of Pietersen for his
highest Test score of 227, has amassed 1,137 runs for six
wickets in its last two innings in this series.  Pietersen, resuming at 213, smashed spinner Xavier
Doherty’s first ball of the day for four to bring up England’s
fourth straight century partnership in Adelaide.  The right-hander passed his previous best score of 226
against the West Indies in May 2007, then got out caught at slip
trying to slog a Doherty delivery.  Ian Bell  and  Matt Prior  maintained the run-scoring spree by
adding an unbeaten 52-run partnership off 34 balls. Bell
finished 68 not out, with Prior on 27.  England’s total, following its 517-1 declared in the drawn
series opener in Brisbane, was its second-highest in Tests on
Australian soil behind 636 at Sydney in 1928-29.  “We’re confident, we’ve played some very good cricket
since day four in Brisbane,” Swann said. “If we can turn up
and continue in that vein then we are in the box seat.”  Paceman Ryan Harris was the standout Australian bowler with
2-84 from 29 overs as Doherty, Doug Bollinger and  Peter Siddle 
all conceded more than 100 runs.  Australia was bowled out on day one after winning the toss
at a ground where it’s lost once in the past 15 matches. It
was the home team’s worst performance in the first innings at
Adelaide since 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Adelaide through the Sydney newsroom at 
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  