-- Espirito Santo Sells Notes to to Bank Clients as Investors Shun Portugal
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-12-07T17:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/espirito-santo-sells-notes-to-clients-as-investors-shun-portugal.html
Banco Espirito Santo SA , Portugal’s
largest bank by market value, sold 176 million euros ($234
million) of notes to customers as Europe’s debt contagion leaves
the nation’s banks shut out of international markets.  Espirito Santo  offered  an interest rate of 8.5 percent on
the subordinated notes, its first sale to Portuguese consumer-
banking clients, said  Paulo Ferreira , head of funding at the
Lisbon-based lender. It plans to sell an additional 75 million
euros of the notes, and use the funds to augment capital.  Portugal’s banks, locked out of the bond market since
March, are looking for ways to raise funds as concern escalates
that the nation will follow Greece and Ireland in requesting a
bailout from the European Union. The three biggest publicly
traded lenders -- Espirito Santo, Banco BPI SA and Banco
Comercial Portugues SA -- have a combined 9.2 billion euros of
debt due next year.  “It’s very hard for the Portuguese banks, not just because
of the price they have to pay to issue,” said  Filipe Silva , who
manages about $80 million, including Portuguese bonds, at Banco
Carregosa SA in Porto, Portugal. “The other problem is that
there are no buyers.”  While selling debt to consumer-banking customers is unusual
in Portugal, it’s more common in Spain and Italy. Ferreira said
Espirito Santo is offering clients an attractive yield for the
so-called perpetual notes, which the bank can choose to redeem
starting in March 2016. Payment of interest isn’t guaranteed and
the debt, which the company describes as “deeply”
subordinated, can be used to absorb losses.  Alternatives to Wholesale  “Getting financing is not the main goal of our issue to
clients, but it is a consequence,” Ferreira said. Even so,
“conditions are difficult, and we need to find alternatives to
funding wholesale.”  John Raymond , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in London,
said Espirito Santo’s offer looks less generous than sales of
similar debt to institutional investors. Milan-based Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s second-biggest bank, sold subordinated
perpetual notes in September with a 9.5 percent coupon.  Portuguese banks, though  profitable , may face rising loan
defaults as the government implements austerity measures.
Portugal plans to reduce state workers’ salaries and raise taxes
to convince global investors it can shrink its budget gap, the
fourth-largest in the euro region as a percentage of gross
domestic product. Greece’s debt crisis led to a surge in
borrowing costs for debt-laden EU nations, forcing Ireland to
become the second euro country to seek a bailout on Nov. 21.  ‘Captive’ to Sovereign  S&P said on Dec. 3 that Espirito Santo,  Banco BPI SA , Banco
Comercial Portugues SA, Banco Santander Totta SA and state-owned
Caixa Geral de Depositos SA may have their credit ratings
lowered. New York-based S&P made the announcement three days
after saying Portugal’s A- debt rating was at risk of a cut.  Bank of Portugal Governor  Carlos Costa , a member of the
European Central Bank’s governing council, said Oct. 4 that
Portuguese banks are “captive” to the country’s sovereign
risk.  Espirito Santo fell as much as 1.6 percent in Lisbon
trading, and was 0.5 percent lower at the close, bringing the
decline this year to 37 percent, the seventh-worst performance
on the 53-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index. Banco Comercial Portugues dropped 0.5 percent, extending
this year’s slump to 26 percent. Banco BPI gained 2 percent,
paring its 2010  decline  to 32 percent.  Portugal’s planned spending cuts for next year are set to
be the biggest since at least 1978, according to the EU. The
measures may hurt  economic growth , which averaged less than 1
percent a year in the past decade. The International Monetary
Fund forecasts that Portugal’s economy may shrink 1.4 percent
next year.  ECB Assistance  The cost of insuring the debt of Portugal rose to 552 basis
points on Nov. 30, the highest among European Union member
states aside from Ireland and Greece. The credit default swaps
have since declined, after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said on Dec. 2 the central bank would delay the withdrawal of
emergency liquidity measures and buy more government bonds to
fight “acute” financial market tensions.  Trichet said the ECB will keep offering banks as much cash
as they want through the first quarter, for periods up to three
months, at a fixed interest rate. The ECB also embarked on a new
wave of bond purchases, triggering a rebound in Irish and
Portuguese debt.  ‘Creative’ Methods  The inability of Portuguese lenders to tap wholesale
markets has forced the industry to rely on the ECB to meet
funding needs. Portugal’s banks have about 40 billion euros in
borrowings from the ECB, equivalent to about 7.2 percent of
banking assets, according to central bank data. That compares
with 7.8 percent for Ireland and about 2 percent for Spain.  The lenders, which probably have their funding needs
covered until March or April, are competing for client funds and
using “more creative” methods, said Silva at Banco Carregosa.  “The Portuguese banks just have to keep looking for
alternative sources of funding and trying to use any contingency
plans they have,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in London. That may mean
paying higher rates on deposits, he said.  Lenders have started to do so. Portuguese banks raised the
average rate on 12-month savings deposits for individuals to
2.29 percent in October from 1.91 percent in September and 1.49
percent a year ago, ECB figures show.  Competing for Deposits  “Banks can use the ECB to address their short-term
liquidity needs and in the medium term they will likely have to
deleverage,” said  Carlos Peixoto , an analyst at Banco BPI in
Porto. “Deposits are another alternative for funding, but I
don’t expect this segment to experience a significant increase
next year as disposable income will be pressured by wage cuts
and higher taxes.”  Portuguese household deposits stood at 116.9 billion euros
in September, compared with 118.3 billion euros in August and
115.2 billion euros a year ago, according to Bank of Portugal
data.  Espirito Santo’s total  deposits  jumped 15 percent to 29.9
billion euros in the third quarter from the previous three
months, and the lender cut its net borrowings at the ECB to 4.3
billion euros from 6.9 billion euros. The bank said in its
third-quarter report that ECB lending has been fundamental in
Portugal, Spain and Ireland “to overcome the lack of
liquidity.”  Eligible Assets  While Banco Comercial’s deposits in Portugal rose 2.5
percent to 30.4 billion euros in the third quarter, they fell
from a year before. Total deposits at the bank, Portugal’s
largest by assets, rose 2.8 percent to 45.3 billion euros in
September from June, and increased 1.7 percent from a year
earlier.  Banco Comercial , based in Porto, doesn’t plan to sell
subordinated notes to its consumer-banking customers, though it
issued 1 billion euros of the debt in 2009 through its branch
network and to institutional investors, said spokesman Erik
Burns.  The bank plans to cover its 2011 refinancing needs by going
back to the markets “when possible,” Burns said. “At present
we are focusing on increasing our assets eligible for
discounting at the ECB -- we aim to have more than 20 billion
euros in eligible assets by the end of 2010 -- and on continuing
to reduce our commercial gap.”  The bank’s annual  financing  needs have been decreasing and
are expected to drop to 1 billion euros by 2013, he said. Banco
Comercial increased its use of central bank funding to 14.1
billion euros in the third quarter, from 11.6 billion euros in
the second, company reports show.  All the banks are looking at alternatives to ECB funding,
said Ferreira at Espirito Santo, who added that “necessity is
the mother of invention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  