-- MetLife Adds Privately-Placed Debt, Hedges Portugal
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-12-06T16:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/metlife-bets-on-privately-placed-bonds-hedges-portugal-debt.html
MetLife Inc. , the largest U.S. life
insurer, is expanding private lending to corporations as Chief
Investment Officer  Steven Kandarian  seeks to bolster returns on
the firm’s $443 billion portfolio amid near-zero interest rates.  “In four of the last five years, we’ve been the No. 1
asset originator in this sector,” Kandarian said today at a
presentation in New York, where MetLife is based. “You get paid
an illiquidity premium for holding these kinds of securities.”  MetLife  increased  its investment portfolio by about 25
percent with the purchase last month of American Life Insurance
Co. for $16.2 billion. Kandarian said MetLife is drawing down
the cash hoard built up for the acquisition and hedging bonds
that Alico, previously owned by  American International Group
Inc. , had accumulated in Portugal.  The insurer built private placements to $46 billion from
about $35 billion at the end of last year’s third quarter,
seeking higher-yielding assets than government debt and publicly
traded corporate bonds as the Federal Reserve maintains near-
zero rates. Historically, the privately placed debt pays as much
as 50 basis points more than similarly rated corporate debt in
the public market, and last year paid a premium of more than 70
basis points, Kandarian said in December 2009.  ‘Downside Protection’  “You have lower losses in this sector, higher recoveries
than public bonds, and that proved to be the case in this last
economic downturn,” Kandarian said today. “It’s because you
have very good downside protection, you have covenants and
oftentimes collateral posted as well for these kinds of
securities.” A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Alico acquisition will help boost MetLife’s earnings
next year, the company said. Operating profit, which excludes
some investment results, will probably be $4.75 to $5.15 a
share, compared with the average $5.02 estimate of 19 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, MetLife said.  MetLife advanced 36 cents to $40.50 at 11:44 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer has climbed
about 15 percent this year, compared with the 17 percent gain in
the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Henrikson  is retreating from
the market for long-term care insurance as he seeks to expand in
more-profitable businesses. Alico’s presence in more than 50
countries allowed MetLife to add customers outside a U.S. life
insurance market that the 63-year-old Henrikson described in
March as “relatively slow-growth.”  Portugal, Greece  Kandarian began altering MetLife’s portfolio in
anticipation of the Alico purchase, buying $200 million of
credit-default swaps to protect against declines in Portugal’s
 sovereign debt . MetLife has about $379 million in exposure to
Portugal’s debt and $735 million to Greece, the firm said in the
presentation today.  MetLife plans to boost holdings of investment-grade and
high-yield credit. The company said today that investment-grade
bonds, which account for 35.5 percent of its portfolio, will
probably rise to about 36.75 percent of total holdings. Junk
bonds may make up 5 percent of the portfolio next year, from 4.5
percent, MetLife said.  Cash and short-term holdings will account for 5.75 percent
of investments next year, compared with 7.7 percent, the company
said. U.S. Treasury and agency securities will decline to 7.5
percent of the portfolio from 8.3 percent, the insurer said.  Yields are hovering below 3 percent on the benchmark 10-
year  Treasury note  and at about 4 percent on investment-grade
debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The
average yield on junk bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, is
8.01 percent, the index data show.  ‘Crossover Buyers’  Buyers of BB debt, the highest-rated junk securities,
include investors who typically allocate less to the bonds, said
 Andrew Feltus , a money manager at Pioneer Investment Management
Inc. in Boston.  “The BB demand is being driven by crossover buyers,
whether that’s a multisector fund or an insurance company,”
said Feltus, whose $2.8 billion  Pioneer High Yield Fund  has
outperformed more than 90 percent of its peers in 2010.
“Someone that doesn’t have to be in high-yield, they’ll look at
the relative value and say, hey, this looks pretty attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  