-- MetLife Says 2011 Earnings Will Climb After Alico Acquisition
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-12-06T12:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/metlife-says-2011-earnings-will-climb-after-alico-acquisition.html
MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life
insurer, said earnings will climb in 2011 after the firm bought
a non-U.S. business from American International Group Inc.  Next year’s operating profit, which excludes some
investment results, will probably be $4.75 to $5.15 a share,
compared with the average $5.02 estimate of 19 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Profit for 2010 will be $4.26 to $4.36, MetLife said,
compared with the $4 to $4.40 it predicted in December 2009.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Henrikson  sold debt and
issued stock to meet the $16.2 billion price for AIG’s American
Life Insurance Co. last month. Alico, which has businesses from
Chile to Japan, allows MetLife to add clients outside of a U.S.
life insurance market that the 63-year-old Henrikson described
in March as “relatively slow-growth.”  “They’re bolting on a different business,” said  Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, who has an
“outperform” rating on MetLife stock. “What they are hoping
to find in Alico is both higher growth potential and higher
margin potential by writing insurance in less efficient, less
regulated markets.”  MetLife  gained 14 percent this year through Dec. 3, compared
with the 17 percent jump in the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index .  MetLife will probably post 2010 operating earnings of  $4.27 
a share, according to the average estimate of 19 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rivalry  MetLife is extending its rivalry with Prudential Financial
Inc., the second-biggest U.S. life insurer, as bailed-out rivals
including AIG and  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.  scale
back. In September, Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential agreed
to buy two Japanese life insurers from AIG for $4.8 billion.  MetLife’s U.S. business posted operating revenue of  $32.5
billion  in the first nine months of the year, up 6 percent from
the same period in 2009. International business revenue jumped
24 percent to $4.9 billion.  Henrikson is retreating from the market for long-term care
insurance as he seeks to expand in more-profitable businesses.
MetLife will halt new sales of the policies at the end of the
year, while honoring previously written contracts, Henrikson
said on Nov. 17.  Investments  The insurer, which had investments of $386 billion at the
end of September, is making more from bond coupons and dividends
this year after drawing down the cash holdings it built during
the financial crisis. Net investment income rose 15 percent to
$12.8 billion in the first nine months of the year.  Results have been helped by an improvement in so-called
variable investments, including real estate, private equity and
hedge funds and MetLife’s securities-lending program. Chief
Investment Officer  Steven Kandarian , who in December 2009
forecast  $400 million to $800 million  in variable investment
income for 2010, has posted $902 million in the nine months
through the end of September.  MetLife paid $7.2 billion in cash and $9 billion in
securities for Alico. AIG will sell the securities subject to
market conditions, “following the lapse of agreed-upon minimum
holding periods,” the company said.  MetLife expects to receive a “very healthy dividend” from
Alico late next year, Chief Financial Officer  William Wheeler 
said in October.  U.S. life insurers extend loans to property owners as part
of their investment strategy. MetLife’s portfolio included $35.5
billion of property loans and $15.5 billion of commercial
mortgage-backed securities at the end of September. Combined,
that accounted for about 13 percent of the firm’s investments.
MetLife owned $45.9 billion of securities tied to home loans.  Life insurers, including Prudential and Lincoln National
Corp., have said this year they’re seeking to lend more as the
economy grows and helps relieve pressure on real estate owners.
U.S. commercial property prices rose 4.3 percent in September,
Moody’s Investors Service said last month.  Prices  are about 43
percent below October 2007 peaks, according to Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 