-- European Union Rules Out Immediate Aid Boost, Banks on ECB to Fight Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-12-07T14:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/eu-ministers-rule-out-immediate-aid-boost-as-ecb-steps-up-bond-purchases.html
European finance ministers ruled out
immediate aid for Portugal and Spain or an increase in the 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) crisis fund, counting on European
Central Bank bond purchases to calm debt-spooked markets.  A week after handing Ireland an 85 billion-euro lifeline,
the finance chiefs voiced confidence that Spain and Portugal
will tame their budget deficits and said the existing credit
line is enough to defend them in an emergency.  “Whoever bets on the collapse of the euro is wasting his
money,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
reporters in Brussels after a two-day meeting. “We shouldn’t
make markets any more nervous. Instead, we should do everything
to get markets to have a more realistic view of the situation.”  A 22-week high in ECB bond-buying brought a respite from
speculative attacks, masking divisions between the 16 euro-area
governments over the next steps to fight the explosion of debt
that threatens the  currency .  As the Irish parliament prepared to approve spending cuts,
finance ministers from all 27 European Union countries endorsed
the EU budget’s 22.5 billion-euro share of the support program
and gave Ireland an extra year, until 2015, to bring its deficit
down to European limits.  ‘Huffing and Puffing’  “As the market ‘wolves’ are likely to keep huffing and
puffing, we believe that European leaders will ultimately take
further steps rather than have the house blown down,”  Michala Marcussen , head of global economics at Societe Generale SA in
London, said in an e-mailed note. “For now, the ECB remains the
best line of defense.”  European bonds fell in unison today as investors poured
money into stocks. Portugal’s extra yield over German 10-year
bonds fell 1 basis point to 308 basis points. Spain’s was
unchanged at 230 basis points and Italy’s fell 3 basis points to
162 basis points. All three spreads remained below the levels of
Nov. 28 when the Irish package was announced and the ECB stepped
up its buying of government debt.  Forecasts of 1.7 percent euro-area growth in 2010, led by
Germany’s export-driven 3.7 percent, show that “everything is
not as black as it may seem,” EU Economic and Monetary
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said. “There is a certain dualism, even
a contradiction, between the developments on the one hand in the
real economy and on the other hand in the financial markets.”  The forecasts, released Nov. 29, indicate a slowdown to 1.5
percent growth in 2011 as Germany’s surge moderates and the
spending squeeze prolongs the recession in Portugal and Greece.  Germany led the opposition to an increase in the crisis-aid
fund or the launch of joint bond sales, with Chancellor  Angela Merkel  dodging further costs for taxpayers in Europe’s largest
economy.  Portugal in Crossfire  Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos 
bucked “strong” pressure to ask for aid, Lisbon-based Publico
newspaper reported today, citing an unidentified European
diplomat. Teixeira dos Santos declined to comment in Brussels.  The Frankfurt-based central bank said yesterday that it
settled 1.965 billion euros of  bond purchases  last week. While
the figure was the highest since June, it didn’t include bonds
bought between Dec. 1 and Dec. 3. The bank bought Irish and
Portuguese government bonds today, according to at least two
people with knowledge of the transactions.  The policy is controversial inside the bank. “It’s not up
to the ECB to save countries where governments run the risk of
becoming insolvent,”  Nout Wellink , the Dutch central bank
chief, said late yesterday in Amsterdam.  Merkel’s Calculus  Facing criticism for underwriting aid for fiscally reckless
governments, Merkel is drifting back into the role she played in
the early stages of the crisis, when Germany held out against an
aid package for  Greece .  Greece won a 110 billion-euro EU-IMF rescue in May, leading
the EU to create the three-year facility that was first tapped
by Ireland.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  indicated last week that
EU governments might need to top up the emergency fund, a
position echoed by Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  and
 Guy Quaden , Belgium’s representative on the ECB’s policy-setting
council.  Klaus Regling , who manages the 440 billion-euro part of the
package financed by euro governments, said it is a mistake to
think the EU hasn’t set aside enough to deal with  any
contingency .  “This is wrong,” Regling told reporters. “There are
sufficient resources left to deal with other relevant cases if
needed.” He said the first sale of 5 billion euros of bonds to
finance Ireland’s package will take place in the second half of
January.  Eurobond Debate  Germany also sought to stifle public debate over possible
joint bond sales after Italy announced its backing for “E-
Bond” proposals. In a Financial Times commentary yesterday,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  and Italian
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  urged the creation of jointly
sold securities to cover as much as half of the borrowing of
euro-area governments.  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  objected, telling
reporters in Brussels that governments that fail their budget-
cutting homework shouldn’t benefit from lower borrowing costs
provided by “countries committed to economic discipline that do
the hard work and maintain stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  