-- Germany Rejects Pleas to Increase European Aid Fund, Introduce Joint Bonds
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-12-06T17:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/eu-officials-debate-larger-bailout-fund-to-stem-sovereign-crisis-contagion.html
Germany rejected calls to increase
the European Union’s 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) aid fund or
introduce joint bond sales, signaling its refusal to bear extra
costs to stamp out the debt crisis.  With European finance ministers gathered in Brussels today
for their monthly meeting, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
rebuffed pleas from Belgium and central bankers to boost the
emergency fund to save countries such as Portugal and Spain from
falling prey to speculation.  “Right now I see no need to expand the fund,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin. She said EU treaties bar joint bond sales,
which might force up Germany’s borrowing costs, the lowest in
the euro area.  European political discord pushed down bonds in Spain and
Italy today, reversing gains made last week after purchases by
the European Central Bank briefly eased concern about the
spreading crisis. The ECB bought the most bonds in a week since
June, according to a statement today.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year notes climbed 9 basis points
to 5.08 percent as of 5 p.m. in London. Italy’s yield rose 7
basis points to 4.47 percent. The euro halted a three-session
rally, dipping 1 percent to $1.3283.  ‘No Credibility’  Europe has “no credibility” in ruling out debt
restructurings,  Kenneth Rogoff , a Harvard University professor
and former International Monetary Fund chief economist, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview broadcast today. “Greece will
be very lucky to avoid restructuring, Ireland, Portugal --
they’re just in denial, saying it can’t happen. They really
haven’t drawn clear lines, they haven’t really said what they
wanted to do, they haven’t really made choices.”  Under pressure to shield taxpayers in Europe’s largest
economy, Merkel is drifting back into the role she played in the
early stages of the crisis, when Germany held out against an aid
package for  Greece .  The political standoff may saddle the ECB with more of the
crisis-management burden, said Citigroup Inc. economists
including  Juergen Michels  and  Michael Saunders  in London in a
Dec. 3 e-mailed note.  “Eventually the ECB will be forced to increase its
contribution to the rescue packages substantially,” the
economists wrote. “We expect that after another round of market
tensions, the European fiscal policy makers will eventually come
up with additional measures to fight the crisis.”  ECB Bond Purchases  The Frankfurt-based central bank said today it settled
1.965 billion euros of  bond purchases  last week. While the
figure was the highest in 22 weeks, it didn’t include bonds
bought between Dec. 1 and Dec. 3.  The bank is “actively” operating in the government bond
market, Governing Council member  Athanasios Orphanides  said
today in Nicosia. The ECB will act as necessary, said
Orphanides, who heads the Cypriot central bank.  Greece won a 110 billion-euro EU-IMF rescue in May, leading
the EU to create the three-year facility that was first tapped
by Ireland with an 85 billion-euro program last month.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  indicated last week that
EU governments might need to top up the emergency fund, a
position echoed Dec. 4 by Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders .  Reynders said the IMF also wants the EU to put up more
money and would boost its 250 billion-euro share. IMF spokesman
 William Murray  declined to comment. Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  is at tonight’s Brussels meeting.  Quaden’s Call  Belgium’s central bank governor,  Guy Quaden , today called
for an increase, telling reporters in Brussels: “It’s up to
politicians to decide that, but personally I’m rather in
favor.”  Belgium, with the third-highest debt in the euro area, came
under speculative attack last week. Its  10-year borrowing costs 
rose as high as 139 basis points over Germany’s on Nov. 30, the
widest spread in at least 17 years.  Germany also sought to stifle public debate over possible
joint bond sales after Italy announced its backing for “E-
Bond” proposals by Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the chairman of tonight’s euro meeting.  Merkel said the European consultations “should be goal-
oriented and conducted internally, because anything else causes
renewed anxiety.”  In a Financial Times commentary, Juncker and Italian
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  urged the creation of jointly
sold securities to cover as much as half of the borrowing of
euro-area governments.  Austrian Objections  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  objected, telling
reporters in Brussels that “countries committed to economic
discipline that do the hard work and maintain stability”
shouldn’t be forced to subsidize the fiscally weak.  To deal with that opposition, bonds of countries with
higher budget deficits could be converted into European bonds at
a discount, Juncker and Tremonti said.  Eurobonds are “intellectually attractive,” EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn said . Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  told reporters in Brussels that it is
time to “seriously discuss” the idea.  Finance ministers from the 16 euro countries met at 5 p.m.
in Brussels to consider the next steps, including the shape of a
permanent crisis-resolution framework to replace the temporary
fund when it runs out in 2013.  The two-day Brussels meetings conclude tomorrow when
ministers from all 27 EU countries give formal approval to the
Irish aid package announced Nov. 28, designed to stabilize the
banking system and push down the deficit.  “We’ve come here to decide what we prepared Sunday a week
ago,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said. “We
don’t need to have new debates every week. I think we’ve
prepared the necessary decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  