-- Euro Weakens as European Officials Split Over Fund Increase; Dollar Climbs
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-12-06T14:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/euro-declines-as-european-officials-split-over-fund-increase-dollar-rises.html
The euro fell against most of its
major counterparts as European officials showed divisions about
how to contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  The Dollar Index rose for the first time in four days as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said another recession
“doesn’t seem likely.” Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said a euro-zone bailout fund might be expanded,
breaking ranks with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Hungary’s forint declined after a
credit rating downgrade and Taiwan’s dollar rose before a report
forecast to show shipments increased.  “The focus is coming back toward the euro zone,” said
 Brian Kim , a currency strategist at UBS AG in Stamford,
Connecticut. “People are refocusing on the fact that there is
still no solution for the euro zone. Those disagreements weigh
on sentiment.”  The euro weakened 1.1 percent to $1.3267 at 9:03 a.m. in
New York. It rose to $1.3414 Dec. 3, the highest close since
Nov. 22. The common currency slid 0.7 percent to 109.98 yen,
from 110.73. It touched 111.19 yen on Dec. 2, the strongest
since Nov. 29.  The 16-nation euro weakened against 12 of the world’s 16-
most traded currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  Bailout Fund  Reynders, whose country holds the rotating European Union
presidency until the end of this year, told reporters on Dec. 4
that a 750 billion-euro ($995 billion) bailout fund could be
increased. He said European finance ministers meeting in
Brussels will discuss the outlook for Portugal amid speculation
it will need a bailout.  “If we decide this in the next weeks or months, why not
apply it immediately to the current facility?” Reynders said.  European Central Bank council member  Guy Quaden , speaking
in Brussels, said he also favors increasing the fund. The
meeting also comes after Luxembourg Finance Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  and Italian counterpart  Giulio Tremonti  wrote a letter
to the Financial Times newspaper calling for the introduction of
a joint European government bond.  “E-Bonds” would be sold by a European Debt Agency, which
could be created as early as this month and finance as much as
50 percent of the issuances by EU members to create a deep
market, they said. A switch would also be offered between E-
Bonds and current government bonds.  Merkel Stand  Merkel, who heads Europe’s largest economy, rejected the
common bonds and reiterated in Berlin that she opposes adding to
the rescue fund for indebted nations.  “I see no need to expand the fund right now,” Merkel told
reporters. European treaties don’t “allow Eurobonds, as far as
we’re concerned.”  The most accurate foreign-exchange strategists said the
euro’s worst annual performance since 2005 will extend into next
year as the region’s sovereign-debt crisis saps economic growth.  Standard Chartered Plc, the top overall forecaster in the
six quarters ended Sept. 30 based on data compiled by Bloomberg,
predicted the euro may weaken to less than $1.20 by mid-2011.
Westpac Banking Corp., the second most accurate, is “bearish in
the short term,” and No. 3 Wells Fargo & Co. cut its outlook at
the end of last week.  The euro has fallen 9.3 percent this year in a measure of
the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. Ireland last month
accepted an 85 billion-euro bailout package from the European
Union and International Monetary Fund.  Ireland Votes  The Irish government will lay out details tomorrow of 6
billion euros of spending cuts and tax increases. Prime Minister
 Brian Cowen ’s Fianna Fail party has a minority of seats in
parliament and has yet to declare support for the budget.  The dollar has fallen 1.3 percent this year and the yen has
advanced 12.2 percent, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes show.  The dollar rose to 82.89 yen, from 82.53 yen on Dec. 3, the
lowest since Nov. 12. The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S.
currency against six trading partners including the euro and
yen, gained 0.6 percent even as Bernanke said the economy is
barely expanding at a sustainable pace and that it’s possible
the Fed may expand bond purchases beyond the $600 billion
announced last month to spur growth.  ‘Not Self-Sustaining’  “We’re not very far from the level where the economy is
not self-sustaining,” Bernanke said in an interview broadcast
yesterday by CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. “It’s very
close to the border. It takes about 2.5 percent growth just to
keep unemployment stable and that’s about what we’re getting.”  Bernanke said a return to a recession “doesn’t seem
likely” because sectors of the economy such as housing can’t
become much more depressed.  The dollar appreciated 0.9 percent against the Swiss franc
after earlier touching the lowest in more than three weeks.  Hungary’s forint fell, extending the biggest decline among
emerging-market currencies this year, after Moody’s Investors
Service lowered the nation’s credit rating to Baa3, its lowest
investment-grade ranking.  The forint tumbled 2.5 percent to 211.33 per dollar, from
206.15. It has lost 10 percent this year.  Taiwan’s dollar rose the most against the greenback among
the 16 major currencies as economists in a Bloomberg survey
predict data tomorrow will show shipments gained for a 13th
month in November.  Taiwan’s currency added 0.6 percent to NT$30.144.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  