-- European Stocks Fluctuate as Bernanke Says More Easing Possible
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-06T10:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-as-bernanke-weighs-stimulus.html
European  stocks fluctuated and U.S.
index futures fell as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the world’s largest economy may need more stimulus. Asian
shares were unchanged.  Hochtief AG gained 2.9 percent after the company said Qatar
Holding LLC aims to become a major shareholder in the builder.
Bank of Ireland Plc rose 7.2 percent after J.  Christopher Flowers  signaled he is continuing to look for Irish banking
assets. Hermes International SCA slipped 4.2 percent after
family shareholders stepped up their defense against a possible
takeover by LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained less than 0.1 percent to
271.02 at 10:42 a.m. in London. The benchmark gauge advanced 1.6
percent last week as the European Central Bank delayed its
withdrawal of emergency liquidity measures and bought Portuguese
and Irish government bonds. The gauge is now trading within 1
percent of this year’s highest level on Nov. 9.  “I don’t think we should be surprised” by Bernanke’s
comments, said London-based  Manoj Ladwa , a senior trader at
Monecor London Ltd. on Bloomberg Television. “It’s pretty much
the only thing he’s got left in his arsenal, he can’t really
reduce interest rates any further so he has to go down the route
of purchasing more debt.”  Fed Chairman Bernanke said the U.S. economy is barely
expanding at a sustainable pace and it’s possible policy makers
may expand bond purchases beyond the $600 billion announced last
month to spur growth.  ‘Certainly Possible’  The purchase of more bonds than planned is “certainly
possible,” Bernanke said in an interview broadcast yesterday by
CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. “It depends on the efficacy
of the program” and the outlook for inflation and the economy.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures slipped
0.4 percent today, while the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  was
unchanged.  European finance ministers travel to Brussels today as
officials voiced divisions over the steps needed to stop the
sovereign debt crisis after contagion spread from Greece and
Ireland.  Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  told reporters on
Dec. 4 that the region’s 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout
fund might be expanded if ministers decide to introduce a larger
permanent facility when the current temporary one expires,
breaking ranks with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and France’s
 Nicolas Sarkozy . Luxembourg and Italy today called for the
creation of joint European bonds, a move rebuffed by German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble .  Hochtief, which is battling a takeover bid by Spain’s ACS
SA, gained 2.9 percent to 61.84 euros. Qatar Holding is aiming
to own almost 9.1 percent of the German builder after Hochtief
announced today it will increase its capital stock by about 10
percent by issuing stock at 57.114 euros each.  Bank of Ireland gained 7.2 percent to 34.4 euros in Dublin
as Flowers, founder of New York-based private equity firm J.C.
Flowers & Co., said in an interview that “if we can find the
right opportunity to invest in Ireland, we would like to do
that.”  Punch Taverns Plc  surged 6.9 percent to 69.4 pence after
the Mail on Sunday reported CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is in
talks with Punch’s adviser Goldman Sachs Group Inc. about a
possible bid for the company, without saying where it got the
information.  TPG Capital is also talking to Goldman about buying some or
all of the assets, the newspaper said. TDR Capital LLP, Apax
Partners LLP, Bridgehouse Capital, Charterhouse Capital Partners
LLP and Cinven Ltd. are also interested, the Mail reported.  ‘Opportunistic Approach’       De La Rue Plc  jumped 22 percent to 709.5 pence, the biggest
gain in eight years, after saying it has received a “highly
preliminary and opportunistic approach.” Sky News reported that
the world’s biggest printer of banknotes received and rejected a
takeover bid from France’s Oberthur Technologies SA, without
saying where it got the information.  Lonza Group AG rallied 4.3 percent to 82.25 francs and
Syngenta AG gained 2.1 percent to 284.7 francs as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. upgraded European chemical companies to “neutral”
from “cautious.”  Analysts raised their price forecast for Lonza shares to 95
francs from 83 francs previously, and the estimate for Syngenta
to 410 francs from 325 francs.  Hermes  paced declining shares, falling 4.2 percent to 144.3
euros, after the family shareholders, who own a 73.4 percent
stake, set up a holding company for more than 50 percent of the
share capital.  Hermes family members need a mechanism to allow
shareholders to sell without LVMH swooping on the stock, said a
person familiar with the matter. Family members sold an average
0.5 percent of the share capital annually over the last decade,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the talks
were private.  Michelin & Cie.  dropped 2.5 percent to 54.84 euros after
UBS AG downgraded the world’s second-largest tiremaker to
“sell” from “neutral” and lowered its 2011 earnings estimate
by 13 percent.  Desire Petroleum Plc  plunged 45 percent to 73 pence, the
largest drop since March, after the U.K. energy explorer said
the Rachel North well off the Falkland Islands won’t produce
oil.  That reverses the company’s Dec. 2 report that the well may
have made a commercially viable find. Rockhopper Exploration
Plc, which has a 7.5 percent stake in the Rachel well, said
testing showed some reservoirs were mostly water bearing with
residual oil. The shares sank 9.8 percent to 310.25 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 