-- Dollar Weakens on Concern Central Bank Will Add to Treasury Purchase Plan
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-12-07T08:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/euro-retreats-as-european-officials-debate-more-aid-ireland-plans-budget.html
The dollar weakened against most
major counterparts amid speculation the U.S. central bank will
expand monetary easing to keep the economy from slipping back
into recession.  The dollar reached a three-week low against the yen.
Federal Reserve policy makers will meet on Dec. 14 to review a
plan to buy $600 billion in  Treasuries  through June, after
central bank Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said an increase in the
purchases was “possible.” The yen erased gains as Asian stocks
rebounded, damping demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  “The dollar sell-off is coming back in the markets as the
Fed said it may expand the bond purchases, increasing
uncertainty about the U.S. economy,” said  Kengo Suzuki , manager
of the foreign bond department in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co.  The dollar slipped 0.5 percent to $1.3369 per euro at 8:21
a.m. in London from $1.3308 in New York yesterday, when it
touched $1.3442, the lowest since Nov. 23. The greenback was at
82.64 yen from 82.66 yen, after reaching 82.34 yen, the lowest
since Nov. 12. The yen was at 110.46 per euro from 110.  The  Dollar Index,  which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, fell 0.3 percent to 79.349.  President Barack Obama said he would agree to sustain tax
cuts for high-income taxpayers in exchange for extending federal
unemployment insurance.  ‘Rock and Hard’  “The U.S. dollar is caught between a rock and a hard place
at the moment,”  David Forrester , a currency economist at
Barclays Capital in Singapore, said on Bloomberg Television. The
extension of the President George W. Bush-era tax cuts “places
less of an onus on monetary policy to actually stimulate the
economy. Which is good news; less of a chance of an extension of
QE2. But you do have Bernanke out there continuing to be
dovish.”  The yen erased early gains as the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
of regional shares rose 0.3 percent. The Shanghai Composite
Index, which tracks the bigger of China’s stock exchanges,
climbed 0.8 percent, after dropping as much as 1.7 percent.  Demand for the euro may be limited as European finance
ministers ruled out immediate aid for Portugal and Spain or an
increase in the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) crisis fund.  Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said late
yesterday after chairing the ministers’ meeting that his group
would “do everything to secure the financial stability in the
euro zone.”  Europe’s Crisis  Ireland’s parliament will vote today on its budget, which
must be passed for 85 billion-euro aid package to go into
effect. European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio 
will deliver a speech at a conference in Paris today.  “I can’t be bullish on the euro,” said  Daisaku Ueno ,
president in Tokyo at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a
unit of Japan’s largest currency margin company. “The crisis
won’t ease anytime soon, as officials’ opinions have been
divided over how to deal with it. This may deteriorate the
region’s economic fundamentals next year as well.”  The euro has declined 9.3 percent this year in a measure of
the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar is down 1.8
percent, while the yen has gained 12 percent.  Australia’s currency rose 0.3 percent to 99.25 U.S. cents
from 98.99 cents, after dropping 0.3 percent yesterday. It
fetched 82.05 yen from 81.82 yen.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board left the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent today
as Australia’s growth slows and risks to the global economic
recovery persist.  “Increasingly, the risks are that now the RBA will be
sidelined till the middle of 2011,” said Sue Trinh, a senior
currency strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank of Canada. “The
Aussie’s direction is going to be dependent on European
peripheral developments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 