-- Eurostar's Brussels Services Delayed; Scottish Airports Close on Snowfall
-- B y   P e t e r   B r a n t o n   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-06T19:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/eurostar-s-brussels-services-is-delayed-snowfall-closes-scottish-airports.html
Eurostar Group Ltd. canceled two
trains between London and Brussels and delayed other Belgian
services as ice formed on power lines, while Scottish airports
were shut by fresh snowfalls as Europe’s cold snap continued.  Eurostar  scrapped  one Brussels-London service this morning
and an evening train in the opposite direction as a consequence
of disruption over the weekend. Other departures were delayed
after three Thalys International SCRL trains broke down because
of iced-up overhead lines, blocking the route, Eurostar said.  “There is an infrastructure problem that meant that Thalys
trains were stopped and this is causing a knock-on effect,”
leading to delays on some Brussels services, said  Richard Holligan , a spokesman for Eurostar. The company’s London-Paris
services were running at a “near-normal” standard, he said.  Eurostar has been canceling services to avoid a repeat of
last winter, when five trains carrying 2,000 people were
stranded in the Channel Tunnel after snow disabled their
electrics. Airports closed across Europe last week as the
unseasonably cold weather caused blizzards across the continent.  Eurostar scrapped seven trains yesterday and 10 on Dec. 4.  Thalys, which runs the high-speed link between Brussels and
Paris, suffered delays of up to 2 1/2 hours because of the
power-line problems in Belgium, according to spokeswoman
Patricia Baars. The issue has been resolved, although passengers
should still expect delays, she said.  Edinburgh, Glasgow  Edinburgh Airport reopened just before 6 p.m. local time
following a closing because of snow, it said on its  website .
Glasgow Airport reopened at 2 p.m. today with delays expected
for the rest of the day, said Neil Richardson, a spokesman for
the airport. Wick and Inverness airports are shut, according to
the British Broadcasting Corp.  London City  Airport reported some “delays and
cancellations.” Dublin Airport may see disruption if weather
conditions deteriorate further, according to its  website .
Heathrow Airport said “most” flights are operating, with some
airlines experiencing cancellations because of snow disruption
at other airports. Belfast and City of Derry airports are now
closed, according to the BBC.  Snow will mainly affect Scotland and Northern Ireland today
with England likely to remain “snow free” for the rest of this
week, Helen Chivers, a spokeswoman for the U.K.’s Met Office,
said.  Blizzard Conditions  The  Met Office  warned of “widespread icy roads” across
Scotland this week. Blizzard conditions on many roads are making
driving treacherous as more snow falls. Rail services in
Scotland are experiencing “significant” disruption, Chris
Mitchell, a spokesman for Network Rail Ltd., said. The East
Coast main line between London and Edinburgh has a reduced
service.  Snow and sludge caused some train delays in Germany this
morning, although traffic is running “much smoother” than in
previous days, said Kathrin Fellenberg, a spokeswoman for
Deutsche Bahn AG.  Hundreds of accidents have taken place on Germany’s roads
overnight and this morning, with at least two people killed,
after highways iced up, Der Spiegel reported, citing police.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Branton  at 
 pbranton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  