-- Euro’s Worst Ahead as Analysts See Crisis Spreading
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-06T04:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/euro-s-worst-to-come-as-trichet-fails-to-calm-crisis-top-forecasters-say.html
The most accurate foreign-exchange
strategists say the euro’s worst annual performance since 2005
will extend into next year as the region’s sovereign-debt crisis
saps economic growth.  Standard Chartered Plc, the top overall forecaster in the
six quarters ended Sept. 30 based on data compiled by Bloomberg
predicted the euro may weaken to less than $1.20 by mid-2011
from $1.3352 today. Westpac Banking Corp., the second most
accurate, is “bearish in the short term,” and No. 3 Wells
Fargo & Co. cut its outlook at the end of last week.  The 16-nation currency’s first weekly  gain  against the
dollar since Nov. 5 may prove short-lived amid mounting concern
that more nations will need rescues. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  delayed the end of emergency
stimulus measures last week and stepped up government-debt
purchases as “acute” market tensions drove yields on Spanish
and Italian bonds to the highest levels relative to German bunds
since the euro started in 1999.  “We’re going to get a continuation of the problems that
Ireland, Portugal, Spain and others are suffering,” said  Callum Henderson , Standard Chartered’s global head of foreign-exchange
research in Singapore. “The fundamental issue is these are
countries that have relatively large debts, large budget
deficits, large current-account deficits, they don’t have their
own currency and they can’t cut interest rates. The only way
they can get out of this is to have significant recessions.”  Sentiment Reverses  Ireland’s budget deficit will rise to more than 32 percent
of gross domestic product this year, including the cost of
bailing out the nation’s banks, European Commission data from
Nov. 29 showed. Spain’s deficit will be 9.3 percent in 2010.
Portugal’s total debt will reach almost 83 percent of GDP this
year from about 76 percent in 2009, according to the commission.  Just a month ago the euro reached $1.4282, the strongest
level since January, as traders sold the dollar on speculation
the Federal Reserve would debase the greenback by printing more
cash to purchase $600 billion of Treasuries in so-called
quantitative easing.  Now, those concerns are being overshadowed by the
possibility that Europe’s economy slows next year as governments
impose austerity measures to reduce budget deficits, while
officials drive bond investors away with talk of forcing them to
take losses as part of future bailouts.  Risk Reversals  Demand for options granting the right to sell the euro over
the next three months relative to those allowing for purchases
reached the highest level since June last week. The so-called
25-delta risk reversal rate fell to negative 2.5225 percentage
points from negative 0.5725 in October.  European banks paid the biggest premium to borrow in
dollars through the swaps market since May last week, a signal
the outlook for the euro may deteriorate. The price of two-year
cross-currency basis swaps between euros and dollars reached
minus 51.8 basis points on Dec. 1, from minus 20.9 on Nov. 4.  “We have a lot of time to go” before the situation in
Europe is resolved,  John Taylor  chairman of FX Concepts LLC, the
world’s biggest currency hedge fund, said Dec. 2 at the Hedge
Funds New York Conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link . “That means
the market is going to be twitching.”  Taylor predicted some nations may leave the common currency.
Stronger members “have to say ‘enough, you guys, get out of the
euro,’” he said. “The risk that Spain and Italy will get into
trouble is going to cause the euro to get quite weak.”  The region’s economy may expand 1.4 percent next year,
compared with 2.5 percent in the U.S., according to the median
estimate of more than 20 economists in Bloomberg surveys.  Market ‘Tensions’  “Uncertainty is elevated,” Trichet told reporters after
the ECB left its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent on Dec. 2.
“We have tensions and we have to take them into account.”  The ECB will keep offering banks as much cash as they want
through the first quarter over periods of as long as three
months at a fixed interest rate, Trichet said. That marks a
shift from last month, when he said that the ECB could start
limiting access to its funds.  While the euro rose 1.3 percent against the dollar last
week, it’s down 5.6 percent from Nov. 4. For the year, it has
fallen 6.8 percent, following a gain of 2.51 percent in 2009.  Westpac predicts the euro may weaken to $1.2650-$1.2670 in
one month, said  Lauren Rosborough , a senior strategist in London.
The bank then expects the Fed’s bond-purchase plan to weigh on
the dollar, according to  Robert Rennie , head of currency
research at Westpac in Sydney.  ‘Source of Negativity’  “As we progress through next year, we see quantitative
easing in the U.S. as an ongoing source of negativity for the
U.S. dollar,” Rennie said. “We’ve got the euro up to $1.35 by
March and $1.38 by June.”  Unlike the Fed, the ECB isn’t conducting quantitative
easing. That helped keep the euro from matching this year’s low
of $1.1877 reached on June 7.  Outside of the most accurate forecasters, strategists are
hesitant to reduce their estimates. Even as the euro slumped 6.9
percent last month, the median mid-2011 estimate of 41
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg rose to $1.36 from $1.35.  Germany is making up for some of the weakness in the
economies of Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain. Last week the
Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said the number of Germans
out of work declined a seasonally adjusted 9,000 to 3.14 million,
the lowest level since December 1992. German business confidence
surged to a record in November as domestic spending increased,
the Ifo institute in Munich said on Nov. 24.  Trichet’s Signal  Trichet signaled on Nov. 30 that investors are
underestimating policy makers’ determination to shore up the
region’s stability. He said in Paris on Dec. 3 that euro-area
governments need a “quasi” fiscal union.  “There will be sufficient political will to find measures
that will bind the system together,” said  Jane Foley , a London-
based senior currency strategist at Rabobank International, one
of the most bullish on the euro among the most accurate
forecasters. “The euro will come out of this stronger.”  Foley said the euro will strengthen to $1.40 in the first
quarter and to $1.45 by the end of June.  Traders are anticipating more declines as the U.S. economy
picks up speed.  Diverging Economies  The U.S. created jobs in November for a second month, data
from the Labor Department in Washington showed Dec. 3. Two days
earlier, the Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
showed manufacturing expanded for a 16th month. By contrast,
growth in Europe’s GDP slowed to 0.4 percent in the third
quarter from 1 percent in the three months ended June 30,
according to EU figures on Dec. 2.  As the euro region’s most-indebted nations cut spending to
bring their deficits under control, a weaker euro will be needed
to cushion their economies, said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency
strategist in London at BNP Paribas SA, the fifth most accurate
forecaster. The bank says the euro will trade at $1.25 by the
end of June and $1.20 in the third quarter.  Declines in the bonds of euro-region members including
Ireland and Spain have accelerated after EU leaders agreed on
Oct. 29 to consider German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s proposal
to force bondholders to share the cost of future bailouts.  Wells Cuts  The crisis prompted Wells Fargo to lower its first-quarter
target for the euro to $1.37-$1.38 from a November forecast of
$1.41, said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of foreign-exchange strategy
in New York. He sees the currency at $1.25 by late next year.  The debt crisis “will remain with us for longer, which is
why we lowered our targets,” he said. “The move in the euro
has been particularly rapid and you can say the currency markets
have been panic driven, so we feel like it’s overdone. We do
expect the euro to fall over time but we expect the decline to
be more orderly than has been the case recently.”  Companies participating in the ranking were compared based
on seven criteria: six forecasts at the end of each quarter for
the close of the next, starting in March 2009, plus one annual
estimate, which was made at the end of September 2009 for
currency rates as of Sept. 30, 2010.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
currency pair were ranked for it, and only those that qualified
in at least five of eight pairs were included in the ranking of
best overall predictors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  