-- Ex-New York Insurance Superintendent Dinallo Joins Debevoise & Plimpton
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-12-06T20:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ex-new-york-insurance-superintendent-dinallo-joins-debevoise-plimpton.html
Eric R. Dinallo , the former New York
Superintendent of Insurance who oversaw the industry during the
peak of the financial crisis, joined  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP  as
a partner in the law firm’s Manhattan office.  Dinallo said today he expects to represent financial-
services companies on enforcement issues, internal
investigations and mergers and acquisitions. He was approached
by Debevoise partner Wolcott Dunham after losing a race in
September to become the Democratic candidate to replace  Andrew Cuomo  as the state’s attorney general, Dinallo said.  “It was the only firm I spoke with,” Dinallo said in a
telephone interview. “It has a unique compensation structure.
Partners within a class are paid the same, so there is no eat
what you kill, just a bunch of super-smart lawyers pulling on
behalf of the client.”  Presiding partner  Martin Frederic Evans  declined to be more
specific about Dinallo’s role. Debevoise, with about 700 lawyers
worldwide, represented American International Group Inc. in its
$20.5 billion spinoff of AIA Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, and has
advised companies including Amazon.com Inc., Prudential
Financial Inc. and Dell Inc. on merger deals, according to the
firm’s website.  The firm, with Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, represents
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in national litigation related to mortgage
foreclosures,  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, said in
an e-mail. Debevoise also has a large private-equity practice.  Ethics Rules  New York’s ethics rules will prohibit Dinallo from
appearing before the state’s insurance department for six
months. “There may be some matters that I will need to review
whether I will have to be recused,” he said.  Dinallo last worked at a law firm in 1995, when he left his
position as an associate at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP to join the Manhattan district attorney’s office.
He later joined the state attorney general’s office under  Eliot Spitzer  and headed the investor protection bureau.  He had stints at Morgan Stanley and Willis Group Holdings
before Spitzer, who had been elected governor, appointed him
superintendent of insurance. Dinallo oversaw the settlement of
claims stemming from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Center, as well as the crisis in the municipal bond
insurance market in 2008. He resigned from the insurance
department last year.  Dinallo said he will continue to teach professional
responsibility at New York University’s Stern School of
Business, although on a reduced schedule. He has no plans to run
for office again, he said.  This year’s campaign, Dinallo said, “cured that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 