-- Mexico Boom Obscures Harm Done to Small Firms by Drug Warfare
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2010-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/mexico-s-boom-obscures-harm-done-to-small-companies-by-narcotics-violence.html
Victor Hugo Barragan saw sales
plummet 40 percent in the first nine months of 2010 at his
homemade-ice-cream shop in Guadalupe,  Mexico . A grenade blast
that injured 14 people in the town’s central square in October -
- the first drug-trafficking attack on the general public ever
in this Monterrey suburb -- made a bad year even worse.  Days later, a police officer and elderly bystander died
from narcotics-gang gunfire near the same spot, as Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its January issue.  “People are afraid to come down here,” Barragan, 30,
says.     The Barragan family has been selling ice cream for 15
years in front of the tree-lined plaza bookended by Guadalupe’s
cathedral and the municipal palace’s 100-year-old clock tower.  “Look at it,” Barragan says. “The plaza is empty. This
is the worst year that I’ve seen here.”  So far, the violence that has gripped northern Mexico since
2006 has done little to deter large companies, which can afford
their own security forces, from building new  factories . But many
small businesses in regions plagued by drug-cartel killings are
suffering or shutting down amid extortion and kidnappings by
crime gangs.  Mexico’s small and medium-sized businesses -- those that
employ 250 workers or fewer -- account for 52 percent of the
 economy  and 72 percent of formal employment, according to
Mexico’s Economy Ministry.  Homicides Rise  American companies say they choose Monterrey for investment
because it’s a two-hour drive from the U.S. border, and its
universities provide a highly skilled  workforce . The country’s
third-largest metropolitan area, with 3.6 million people, is
part of the state of Nuevo Leon.  The annual homicide rate in the Monterrey region has risen
97 percent since 2006, to 954 in 2010, as of Oct. 30.  “If Monterrey falls to the level of other border cities,
it would be catastrophic for the Mexican economy, not just
Monterrey itself,” says  Scott Wine , chief executive officer of
 Polaris Industries Inc.  The Medina, Minnesota-based maker of
all-terrain vehicles and snowmobiles is building a 435,000-
square-foot (40,000-square-meter) factory near the city that
will employ about 500 people.  In cities across northern Mexico,  soldiers  often clash with
drug traffickers armed with grenades and machine guns in convoys
of pickup trucks. In Monterrey, local police patrols are so weak
that common criminals feel emboldened, says Juan Ernesto
Sandoval, president of the city’s chamber of commerce.  Closing Early  Many small businesses close early to avoid robberies, and
owners dress like employees to avoid abduction, he says.  “Businesses are opening at their own risk because,
unfortunately, the police aren’t capable of guaranteeing
security,” Sandoval says. “This is very serious.”  By the numbers, Mexico’s economy seems little fazed with
the drug violence that has claimed about 30,000 lives since
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  declared war on organized
crime four years ago. The central bank estimates that the
economy grew as much as 5 percent in 2010.  More than 850,000 jobs were created in the first 10 months
of 2010. Mexico’s  IPC index  of the 35 largest stocks reached a
record high of 36,543.40 on Nov. 8, and foreign investment in
the first half of 2010 increased by 28 percent from a year
earlier. The  peso  gained 7.1 percent against the dollar in 2010,
and the benchmark interbank interest rate dropped to a seven-
year low of 4.83 percent on Nov. 3.  Paying Ransom  Mexico would be growing faster if small businesses didn’t
have to pay crime gangs ransom or protection money, says  Alonso Cervera , an economist at  Credit Suisse Group AG  in Mexico City.
The cost of violence to Mexico’s economy is difficult to
calculate because much of it is tied to lost opportunity,
Cervera says.  Retailer cash that goes to gangs would otherwise be invested
to expand and hire employees, he says. The Finance Ministry
estimates that organized crime shaves 1.2 percentage points
annually from gross domestic product growth.  Cervera says that number falls short because it’s based on
just violence between drug gangs and police, not damage to
innocent bystanders and shopkeepers.  “The issue of extortions and kidnapping should not be
underestimated,” Cervera says. “Focusing only on the inter-
cartel killings is misleading. It’s only part of the problem.”  The effects of the violence are beginning to crop up in
statistics, he says. Gross fixed investment was flat in Mexico
in the first half of 2010 compared with the same period in 2009.
That contrasts with increases of 17 percent in Brazil and 19
percent in Chile in 2010 as of Nov. 8.  Security Measures  The number of tourists visiting northern Mexico dropped 8.5
percent in the first eight months of 2010.  The large Mexican companies that operate small convenience
stores nationwide are spending money to protect their outlets.
 Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB , owner of Mexico’s largest
convenience store chain, outfits its Oxxo stores with
surveillance cameras and trains employees on security, says
Chief Executive Officer  Jose Antonio Fernandez . It keeps no more
than $40 in store cash registers, to deter robberies.  The Monterrey-based company, which has a market value of
$20 billion and controls Latin America’s largest  Coca-Cola Co. 
bottler, has pressured authorities to detain criminals caught on
in-store video, Fernandez says. The measures have helped cut the
number of thefts by 50 percent in its Tijuana stores and are
making progress in Monterrey, he says.  ‘More Serious’  Family-run stores that don’t have the money or the
political clout of  Oxxo  should join together to combat crime,
Fernandez says.  Nuevo Leon authorities were caught off guard by the
magnitude of the drug-related violence and didn’t move quickly
enough to quell it, Fernandez says. That’s changing.  “Now that we’ve realized the problem is much more serious
than what we thought, we’re reacting,” he says.  Foreign investors, meanwhile, remain bullish on Mexico.
 Christopher Palmer , who manages $6 billion as head of global
emerging markets at  Gartmore Investment Management Ltd.  in
London, is overweight in Mexican stocks. He says he’s confident
the government can beat back the drug cartels.  “The more-organized companies that can afford
sophisticated security are going to do better,” Palmer says.
“It does shift the burden to the relatively unprotected.”  Investment Rises  Foreign companies and investors are watching closely how
President Calderon deals with crime gangs in Monterrey, the
industrial hub of northern Mexico. In the state of Nuevo Leon,
where Monterrey is the capital city, foreign investment rose to
$1.8 billion in the first 10 months of the year, topping the
total for each of the previous two years.  Along with Polaris, Easton-Bell Sports Inc. is constructing
a $50 million plant to make football helmets and Lego A/S is
spending $100 million to expand a toy factory.  Violence related to organized crime claimed 10,035 lives in
Mexico in 2010 through Oct. 30, according to a tally by Mexico
City’s Reforma newspaper. The border state of Chihuahua, where
Ciudad Juarez is the largest city, led the country with 2,797
deaths. Nuevo Leon had the sixth-worst record among 31 states
and Mexico City, with 524 deaths this year.  Calderon is trying to fight organized crime by creating a
unified police force for each state to replace municipal law
enforcement. Leaders of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party, 
the largest party in the lower house of Congress, have said they
oppose Calderon’s plan.  Corrupt Police  The move is needed to clean up corrupt local police
departments that have allowed crime gangs to flourish, says Juan
Miguel Alcantara, executive secretary of the  National Public
Security System . Calderon says improved law enforcement is
necessary to protect lives and boost Mexico’s economy and
employment.  City patrolmen lack training and decent  wages  to be
effective, Alcantara says. Local officers in more than 60
percent of city police forces earn about 4,000 pesos ($324) a
month, he says. Mexican factory workers, on average, make more
than twice that, or 9,980 pesos a month, according to government
labor statistics.  In cities in northern Mexico, as many as 70 percent of
officers have failed confidence-control tests, Alcantara says.  “No officer making 4,000 pesos is going to risk his life,”
he says.  Eliminating Extortion  In  San Pedro Garza Garcia , population 122,000, a suburb of
Monterrey that’s the richest municipality in Mexico, Mayor
Mauricio Fernandez has eliminated gang extortion of shopkeepers
with a $70 million public project. The community pays patrolmen
three times more than most Mexican cities do, installs cameras
that read license plates and recognize faces and purchases squad
cars and motorcycles.  By eliminating extortion, retailers and other small
businesses hold on to more revenue, Fernandez says.  Officers earn base pay of 12,000 pesos a month and undergo
scores of exams, including polygraph and drug tests, Fernandez
says. The local patrols have gained the confidence of residents
and store owners, who in turn are assisting with the city’s
security.  “When people are afraid of their police, which many times
in Mexico that’s the case, they don’t report crimes,” Fernandez
says. “Here in San Pedro, they do trust the police and they
report.”  Fernandez’s chief bodyguard, Carlos Reyes, was gunned down
on Nov. 4, shortly after the mayor gave a speech in his city.
Police have made no arrests.  State Control  The government of Nuevo Leon recognizes that the health of
its economy depends on improving security and is committed to
working with Calderon, says Javier Trevino, the state’s
secretary general. The state plans to be the first to adopt
Calderon’s program to unify municipal law enforcement under
state control, Trevino says.  “It’s an issue of professionalizing and dignifying the
police,” he says.  With broken police forces and courts, Monterrey organized
crime will increase, says the Nuevo Leon chapter of a Mexican
business group known as Coparmex. That will create a breeding
ground for more criminals, the group says. Its leaders no longer
make statements as individuals on concern over safety.  “Of course, there’s a risk the violence could reach levels
even greater than what exist in the state,” the group says.
“This is why it’s urgent to take pertinent actions to attack
the problem in a serious and committed manner.”  ‘We’ll Survive’  Combating drug crime is essential for small businesses to
return to profitability so they can hire more workers, the group
says.  Barragan, the ice-cream shop owner, says he saves up during
good times to weather the economic downturns that have plagued
Mexico. He’s hoping those savings will outlast the crime wave.  “If we’ve lived through so many crises before,” he says,
“we’ll survive this one, too.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;  Jonathan Roeder  at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net . 