-- Facebook's Hughes Says IPO Would Be a `Good Thing' for Networking Website
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-12-06T21:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/facebook-s-hughes-says-ipo-would-be-a-good-thing-for-networking-website.html
Facebook Inc. co-founder Chris
Hughes, a former roommate of Chief Executive Officer Mark
Zuckerberg, said he would like to see the social-networking site
sell shares to the public.  “Having a public offering to enable a diverse group of
shareholders to have a chunk of the company is a good thing,”
Hughes, 27, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan .” “I’m sure an IPO will
happen at some point.”  Facebook, which was unveiled in February 2004, is valued at
about $43.1 billion by SharesPost Inc., an exchange for closely
held companies, and has about half a billion users. An IPO would
be “a step along a path in building a strong, healthy company -
- from a financial perspective and from a product perspective on
what it provides users,” said Hughes, who holds an undisclosed
stake in Facebook.  Zuckerberg, in comments aired yesterday, said an IPO is a
possibility for Facebook, without offering any details or a
timetable.  “A lot of people who build startups or companies think
that selling the company or going public is this end point,”
Zuckerberg said in an interview on CBS’s “60 Minutes.” “You
win when you go public. That’s just not how I see it.”  The company is likely to put off its IPO until 2012, three
people familiar with the matter said in July.  Hughes’s work at Palo Alto, California-based Facebook led
to the company’s communications and product management teams. He
later helped run Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign on
the Web. Hughes is now executive director at Jumo, a social
network for philanthropy that he founded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivek Shankar  in San Francisco at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at   jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  