-- Steelers Beat Ravens 13-10 for NFL Division Lead; Falcons, Giants Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-06T05:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/falcons-beat-tampa-bay-improve-to-10-2-giants-top-redskins-nfl-week-13.html
The Pittsburgh Steelers beat the
Baltimore Ravens 13-10 in a showdown of division co-leaders as
 Troy Polamalu  forced a fumble that set up the winning touchdown
with 2:51 remaining.  Ben Roethlisberger  threw a nine-yard touchdown pass to
 Isaac Redman , three plays after a blitzing Polamalu stripped
the ball from Ravens quarterback  Joe Flacco  and  LaMarr Woodley 
recovered it just inside the Baltimore 10-yard line.  The Steelers improved to 9-3 and take sole possession of
first place in the American Football Conference’s North
Division. The Ravens fell to 8-4 and lost for the first time in
six home games this season.  “This whole team is all about fight, we do that from
start to finish,” Roethlisberger, who suffered a broken nose
during the first quarter, said in a televised interview.  The Steelers’ comeback win capped a day in which the
Atlanta Falcons improved to a National Football League-best 10-
2 by scoring two fourth-quarter touchdowns to beat the Tampa
Bay Buccaneers 28-24. The New York Jets or New England Patriots
can join the Falcons at 10-2 when the division rivals meet
tonight in Foxboro, Massachusetts.  The New York Giants beat the Washington Redskins 31-7
yesterday to keep pace with the Philadelphia Eagles atop the
National Football Conference East Division at 8-4.  “It’s December in the National Football League -- it’s
the time,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said during a news
conference. “If you’re going to have an opportunity to get
into position, it’s now.”  Saints, Bears Win  The Super Bowl-champion New Orleans Saints and the Chicago
Bears rallied in the fourth quarter in other Week 13 matchups
to lift their winning streaks to five games and improve to 9-3.
The Saints scored a touchdown with 31 seconds to play to beat
the Cincinnati Bengals 34-30, while the Bears downed the
Detroit Lions 24-20.  Minnesota Vikings quarterback  Brett Favre  made his record-
extending 297th consecutive NFL start before being knocked out
of yesterday’s 38-14 win over Buffalo with a shoulder injury.
The 41-year-old quarterback left in the first quarter after
being hit by Buffalo Bills linebacker  Arthur Moats  and throwing
an interception on his first pass attempt.  Favre was replaced by  Tarvaris Jackson , who threw two
touchdown passes and three interceptions as the Vikings had
their highest-scoring game of the season.  The Dallas Cowboys beat the Indianapolis Colts 38-35 in
overtime, while the Kansas City Chiefs improved to 8-4 with a
10-6 win over the Denver Broncos. In other games, it was Green
Bay 34, San Francisco 16; Jacksonville 17, Tennessee 6; Seattle
31, Carolina 14; Oakland 28, San Diego 13; Cleveland 13, Miami
10; and St. Louis 19, Arizona 6.  Steelers Win  In Baltimore, the Steelers held on for their third
straight win as Flacco threw an incomplete pass on a 4th-and-2
play from the Pittsburgh 32-yard line with 33 seconds left.  Seven of the last eight meetings between the teams have
been decided by six points or less, including the Ravens’ 17-14
win in Pittsburgh in October.  In Tampa, Florida, the Falcons extended their winning
streak to six games as  Eric Weems  scored on a 102-yard kickoff
return and  Matt Ryan  threw a nine-yard touchdown pass to
 Michael Jenkins  with 4:31 remaining.  “Resiliency is our trademark,” Falcons coach  Mike Smith 
said in televised comments from the locker room. “We never,
ever blinked.”  The Falcons maintain a one-game lead in the NFC South over
the Saints, who won in Cincinnati on  Drew Brees ’s 3-yard
touchdown pass to  Marques Colston  with 31 seconds left. New
Orleans (9-3) blew a 20-6 third-quarter lead before extending
the Bengals’ losing streak to nine games.  Six Turnovers  At New Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey,
the Giants won their second straight as  Ahmad Bradshaw  and
 Brandon Jacobs  each had two rushing touchdowns. New York’s
defense forced six turnovers, the team’s most since 2005.  The Giants stay tied with the Eagles, who improved to 8-4
by beating the Houston Texans four days ago. The Giants host
the Eagles on Dec. 19.  McNabb threw two interceptions and was sacked four times
for the Redskins, who fell to 5-7. Manning, who hasn’t been
sacked in five games, completed 15 of 25 passes for 161 yards
and one interception for the Giants. Jacobs finished with 103
rushing yards and Bradshaw added 97.  The Giants have now won five straight games against the
Redskins, their best run against division rivals since six
consecutive victories between 1993 and 1995.  “It was an important win for us, a very dominating win on
our part, four quarters of football again,” Giants cornerback
 Terrell Thomas  said. “I’m proud to say that we’re back on
track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 