-- Fed Avoiding Deflation May Depend on Canadian Experiments in CPI-Targeting
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-12-06T16:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/fed-avoiding-deflation-may-depend-on-canadian-experiments-in-cpi-targeting.html
Montreal undergraduates may help
reshape the Bank of Canada’s monetary policy and give Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Bank of Japan Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  clues about how to ward off deflation.  About 240 students so far have spent two hours in a 25th-
floor computer lab near McGill University, earning an average of
C$30 ($29.88) by viewing combinations of economic data,
including  unemployment  and gross domestic product, and then
predicting what would happen to inflation. Central bank
researchers are taking part in the project to see whether people
can make such forecasts more easily if policy makers target
specific levels in the  consumer price index  instead of the
inflation rate -- which might help households and companies make
better decisions about spending and investing.  The more accurate the test subjects are, the more they
earn. One did so well, “we tried to track this person to see if
we could hire her,” said  Jean Boivin , 38, a Bank of Canada
deputy governor who is helping with the research and has also
 co-written papers  with Bernanke.  The experiments will help Canada decide if it should switch
from inflation targeting to price-level targeting in 2012 and
may help the bank better communicate its policies to the public,
Boivin said. The test results also might benefit Fed policy
makers, who discussed price-level targets on Oct. 15 and voted
Nov. 3 to inject another $600 billion of reserves into the
banking system to avoid deflation -- a widespread  drop  in prices
that has plagued Japan for more than a decade.  Broader Agenda  “Central banks need to know more about how expectations
are formed, and so we see that as part of a much broader
agenda,” Boivin said in an interview at the Bank of Canada’s
Ottawa headquarters in the room where he, Governor  Mark Carney 
and four other policy makers decide on  interest rates , including
a decision tomorrow that’s scheduled for 9 a.m. New York time.  The ability to make more credible forecasts may reduce the
extra yield bond investors demand from corporate and government
borrowers to account for rising prices.  “Since it’s not being done anywhere else and it’s
certainly new to Canada, the initial investor reaction might be
much more cautious and might exert cheapening pressure on
Canadian bonds,” said  Wan-Chong Kung , a money manager who helps
invest $89 billion at FAF Advisors Inc. in Minneapolis.  “As the  central bank  gains more experience and the market
becomes more comfortable with its ability to keep a check on
inflation, then maybe ultimately that becomes a very comfortable
thing for markets,” she said.  Investor Returns  Canadian government bonds have returned investors 5.42
percent so far this year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data, compared with a 4.02 percent return for an index of
global sovereign bonds.  Canada led the Group of Seven by adopting an inflation
target in 1991, a policy about two dozen central banks now use,
including the Bank of England and the European Central Bank.
Canada may again be at the forefront if it switches next year to
targeting the consumer price-index level after the expiration of
its  five-year agreement  with the government to target a 2
percent inflation rate.  The main difference between the two systems is how
officials take past inflation into account when making decisions
about interest rates. With inflation targeting, “bygones are
bygones,” the Bank of Canada said in a  2006 paper  it published
the last time the agreement was renewed. Policy makers who
target 2 percent inflation, like Canada’s, will always adjust
interest rates aiming to bring about 2 percent inflation, no
matter how badly they missed the target in the past.  Offset Misses  By contrast, targeting specific CPI levels obliges the bank
to adjust the pace of price changes, setting interest rates to
engineer quicker or slower inflation to offset past misses.  As long as inflation behaves as the central bank wants,
there’s no practical difference between the two policies.
Officials who successfully target 2 percent annual inflation for
five years will make the same decisions as those who want the
CPI to go from 100 to 110.4 in the same period. It’s when
inflation is persistently off course, as has been the case in
Japan, that the implications of the difference become clearer.  First, the magnitude of interest-rate moves may differ.
When inflation is persistently slower than a price-level
targeting central bank wants, it may bring CPI back to the
desired path by leaving interest rates lower for a longer period
of time than it would if it targeted inflation.  Price Expectations  Second, and most relevant, is the idea that targeting the
price level will help central banks deal with deflation. If
consumers and companies expect the CPI will go from 100 today to
110.4 in five years, they will be less likely to delay  purchases 
in the hope that costs will drop, potentially breaking the
deflationary spiral of falling demand and prices.  “By providing households and businesses with greater
certainty about the price level well into the future,” such
targeting “might reduce the risks associated with entering into
long-term financial obligations,” the Bank of Canada said in
the 2006 paper.  Canada’s Ivey index of business and government spending
released today showed its  price gauge  fell to 60 in November,
the lowest in four months. Readings greater than 50 indicate
prices increased. Canada’s  consumer prices  advanced 2.4 percent
in October from a year earlier, the fastest pace in two years,
Statistics Canada said Nov. 23.  More confidence about price movements would “absolutely”
help the economy, said  Larry O’Brien , founder of Ottawa-based
technology staffing company  Calian Technologies Ltd.  and a
former mayor of the Canadian capital.  More Guidance  Workers would be discouraged from seeking “inflationary
agreements” in labor talks, and people would have more guidance
when they “don’t know if we’re getting inflation or
deflation,” O’Brien said.  While studies have suggested price-level targeting may
allow people to predict prices more accurately over longer
periods, it has almost no history outside Sweden, which used it
in the 1930s to help stop deflation, according to a 1998 paper
by  Claes Berg  and Lars Jonung of Sveriges Riksbank, the
country’s central bank.  “There are potential benefits to price-level targeting,”
Canada’s Carney told the House of Commons Finance Committee Oct.
26. “It is a powerful mechanism, potentially, to avoid
deflation.”  Student Volunteers  The students participating in the tests were drawn from a
database created by the Montreal-based  Center for
Interuniversity Research and Analysis on Organizations .  Jim
Engle-Warnick , an associate professor of economics at McGill
University, is leading the testing.  Students  volunteer  through the Internet and sign a privacy
and consent form when they come to the lab, which has about 20
private computer work stations, Engle-Warnick, 46, said in a
telephone interview. The undergraduates, who represent a variety
of disciplines, are paid C$10 for participating and can make
about C$5 to C$45 more based on their accuracy, he said.  “They are on time, they are serious,” he said. “I can’t
really play the game that well.”  While the identities of students who did the test in the
lab can’t be released because of the experiment’s privacy rules,
Dina Tasneem agreed to an interview because she took the test as
part of a class she was auditing in September.  “We were given detailed instructions on how to go through
the experiment, and from that you could see the difference”
between the two systems, the 28-year-old  doctoral  economics
student said, adding that the test was neither difficult nor
“very easy.”  Don’t Change  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said during the 2008 election
campaign that he favored keeping the present system.  “I see no reason why we shouldn’t continue with the
general inflation targets that we’ve had for the last several
years,” he said.  The benefits of a new system could be lost “if the
learning curve is too long,” Deputy Governor  John Murray  said
in an Aug. 24  speech . The success of the 2 percent inflation
target “represents a relatively high bar against which any
future changes must be judged,” he said.  Other research by central banks has mainly “favored price-
level targeting over inflation targeting, although the
differences are not always large or statistically significant,”
Murray said.  ‘Practical Bit’  Policy makers in other countries would watch “very
closely” if the Bank of Canada “does go ahead and adopt a form
of price target,” said  Spyros Andreopoulos , a London-based
global economist at Morgan Stanley. “It’s always good when
somebody else does the practical bit for you.”  Fed policy makers discussed “adopting a numerical
inflation objective or a target path for the price level” in an
Oct. 15 videoconference. The Fed’s monetary policy currently
aims to maximize employment and keep prices stable.  A group of lawmakers from the ruling Democratic Party of
Japan said Dec. 3 that the central bank should adopt an
inflation target to eradicate price declines and help bolster
employment. Japan’s consumer prices fell for a 20th month in
October.  Shirakawa has said deflation can’t be overcome with
monetary policy alone, and excessive bond buying by the Bank of
Japan might be interpreted as monetizing government debt,
possibly causing rapid inflation.  Economic Models  Even if the Bank of Canada keeps its current target, the
student project will provide insight into how people form price
expectations, Boivin said. The tests use different  scenarios  to
help the bank learn the best way of explaining the two systems,
and officials plan to refine the tests before trying them on a
“representative” sample of people beyond the undergrads, he
said, adding that policy makers could use the results to change
their economic models and public communications.  “It’s important for monetary policy, but it’s also
important more broadly to understand how people behave,” Boivin
said.  The Bank of Canada also is  considering  lowering the 2
percent inflation target and whether it should use monetary
policy to help ward off future asset bubbles.  Adopting a price-level target in 2012 “might be a bit of a
jump, given how jittery people are,” said  William Robson ,
president of the nonpartisan C.D. Howe Institute in Toronto and
head of its Monetary Policy Council, which makes interest-rate
recommendations to the Bank of Canada. Even so, he hopes next
year’s agreement “will open the door to something more
ambitious” in the future, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  