-- Fed’s Bond Program May Complicate Exit, Lacker Says
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-12-06T20:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/fed-s-600-billion-credit-easing-may-complicate-stimulus-exit-lacker-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the purchases of $600 billion in
U.S. Treasuries risk spurring inflation in a few years and may
make it harder for the Fed to eventually withdraw the stimulus.  “Further balance sheet expansion now could require more
rapid balance sheet reduction later on, complicating the
withdrawal of monetary stimulus when it becomes necessary to
maintain price stability,” Lacker said today in a speech in
Charlotte, North Carolina. “It is appropriate” to regularly
review the purchases, he said.  Policy makers meet next week to review their plan to buy
Treasuries through June and expand record stimulus in a bid to
reduce 9.8 percent unemployment and keep inflation from
dropping.  The Fed may expand its bond purchases beyond the initial
$600 billion, depending on the outlook for the economy and
inflation, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview with
CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program broadcast yesterday. He is
trying to boost growth after near-zero interest rates and $1.7
trillion in securities purchases helped pull the economy out of
recession without bringing down joblessness from close to a 26-
year high.  “The provision of further monetary stimulus at this point
in the business cycle is not without risks,” Lacker said.
“Historical experience, including the inception of the Great
Inflation of the 1970s, suggests that central banks should be
careful not to steer monetary policy off course by targeting the
unemployment rate.”  Risks Outweigh Benefits  Lacker’s concern echoed his remarks in a Bloomberg News
interview on Dec. 1 in which he said he had opposed the
purchases because the risks outweighed the benefits. He told
reporters after his speech that it was “too early to say” how
well the bond purchase program was working.  Lacker said in his speech he expects a gradual recovery in
the economy next year, with growth “a bit higher” than the
consensus expected by economists of about 3 percent.  “This is a cautious outlook calling for a gradual,
measured increase in the pace of economic growth, and a modest
decrease in unemployment,” he said. “In the last few months,
we’ve seen an improved rate of expansion in consumer spending”
that should accelerate in coming months.  “The economy is self sustaining,” Lacker said to
reporters. “It is very sluggish, but the economy is moving
ahead under its own steam.”  Barely Moving Forward  In contrast, Bernanke said in the interview broadcast
yesterday that the recovery was just barely moving forward at a
sustainable pace.  The European debt crisis probably won’t have much effect on
U.S. growth, Lacker said in response to an audience question.
“The magnitude of the likely fallout to the United States
economy is relatively manageable and relatively minor.”  The U.S. unemployment rate rose to 9.8 percent in November
and payrolls increased by 39,000, less than the most pessimistic
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor
Department figures showed on Dec. 3.  While inflation is “well contained” for now, “this
favorable inflation picture should not be taken for granted,”
he said in his speech.  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, was up 0.9 percent from a year earlier in October, the
smallest gain since records began in 1960. Fed  policy makers 
have a long-run goal of 1.6 percent to 2 percent inflation that
they see as consistent with achieving legislative mandates for
maximum employment and stable prices.  Tricky Timing  “I’m 100 percent confident we can raise interest rates and
can reduce stimulus by drawing down bank reserves,” Lacker told
reporters after his speech. “Getting the timing right is
tricky.”  The Fed has faced political criticism since its decision to
buy more Treasury securities.  Representative  John Boehner , nominated to be speaker of the
U.S. House, and three other Republicans sent Bernanke a letter
Nov. 17 expressing “deep concerns” about a policy they said
risked weakening the dollar and fueling asset bubbles. A letter
from 23 people, including former Republican officials and
economists, urged the Fed to end the program early, asserting
that it will cause prices to surge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  