-- Billionaire Resnick's Fiji Water Acquires Vineyard, Turns Water Into Wine
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   E d w a r d   R o b i n s o n
-- 2010-12-06T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/fiji-water-acquires-justin-vineyards-as-winery-sales-increase.html
Billionaire  Stewart Resnick ’s Fiji
Water LLC will acquire  Justin Vineyards & Winery  in Paso Robles,
California, for an undisclosed price, adding upscale wine to his
investments in bottled water and pomegranate juice.  Justin, which makes about 50,000 cases of wine a year, was
founded in 1981 by former investment banker  Justin Baldwin  and
his wife, Deborah. The 160-acre property includes a hotel and a
restaurant.  “It’s actually a perfect match,” said John Cochran,
president of  Fiji Water , in an interview. “The Justin folks
have done an exceptional job of building a great business,
primarily based on fantastic products. And despite all the
success that they’ve had, there’s still a great opportunity,
given consumer demand for the product, to carefully grow that
consumer presence and distribution.”  The acquisition is one of eight this year for California
wineries, twice as many as last year and the most since 2007,
when eight purchases were completed before the recession,
according to the San Francisco-based  Wine Institute .  “There will be more deals like this, without question,”
said Jack Daniels, co-founder of  Wilson Daniels Ltd. , a wine
marketing firm in St. Helena.  Before the recession, the market was flooded with bottles
priced from $25 to $100 as existing wineries ramped up
production and new entrants came to the market, Daniels said.
Now many are sitting on excess inventories as middle-class
consumers cut back purchases of pricey wine and opt for bottles
below $20.  ‘Excellent Reputation’  Justin, which sells wines ranging from a $15 sauvignon
blanc to a $62 cabernet sauvignon blend called Isosceles, has
“an excellent reputation and are perceived as a high-quality
producer,” Daniels said. “But there’s a lot of those wineries
out there today.”  What makes the deal for Justin unusual is that the company
doesn’t appear to be in trouble, unlike many other purchases
this year, said  Vic Motto , co-founder and chief executive
officer of Global Wine Partners LLC, an investment bank in St.
Helena, California.  “It’s an outlier,” Motto said. Since the economic slump,
expanding wineries have been reluctant to sell for a discount,
and those that have are in distressed situations, he said.
“Those wineries that were highly leveraged were squeezed as
sales went down. They just couldn’t sustain that.”  Troubled Assets  This year’s wine deals included purchases of troubled
assets. In June, Sutter Home Winery paid $6.5 million for the
real estate of former Havens Wine Cellars, which was liquidated
last year. Last month, Foley Family Wines picked up Eos Winery
in Paso Robles, which was in  receivership .  Jeff Menashe , chairman of  Demeter Advisory Group LLC , the
San Francisco firm that worked on the Justin deal, wouldn’t say
how much the winery sold for. He said it was comparable to five
other sales in the past two years that involved growing luxury
wineries in California.  Among those was Diageo Plc’s $105 million purchase of
Rosenblum Cellars, a 200,000-case property in Alameda, a 2008
transaction that Demeter worked on. Another was the 2009 sale of
Kosta Browne, a 10,500-case winery in Sonoma County specializing
in pinot noir, to Vincraft Group, for about $40 million,
according to the Wine Institute.  During the recession, consumers drank less in restaurants,
hurting producers who relied on sales of bottles that cost more
than $10. California wholesale wine sales were unchanged in 2009
from the previous year, and the value of retail sales  dropped  3
percent to $17.9 billion, the Wine Institute said.  Best Year Ever  The situation is different with Justin, Baldwin said.  “We’re finishing up the best year we’ve ever had,” he
said. Part of the reason he decided to sell is for financial
planning, Baldwin said. He was also concerned that to “build
off of what we’ve developed in our 30-year history,” they
wouldn’t have “the financial wherewithal” to do that on their
own.  “It’s not a distressed asset,” Fiji’s Cochran said.  Resnick is no stranger to the world of agriculture. He and
his wife are the biggest growers of citrus, pomegranate, almonds
and pistachios in the U.S. His Roll International Corp. owns
Fiji Water, the bottled water shipped from the remote South
Pacific island; POM Wonderful pomegranate juice; Teleflora, the
flower delivery service; and Suterra, an environmentally
friendly pesticide.  The Resnicks had been looking to buy a winery for years and
never found a match until they were introduced to the Baldwins
by Demeter, according to Cochran.  “They’ve done such a nice job of building up a business,
most of the things you look at are such a train wreck,” Cochran
said. “Stewart’s been buying businesses for 40 years, and it’s
rare that he’s looked at one that got better as the process went
on, not worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Robinson  in San Francisco at 
 edrobinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  