-- Forint Tumbles Most in Week as Moody's Cuts Hungary's Credit; Bonds Fall
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-12-06T16:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/forint-tumbles-yields-rise-after-moody-s-downgrades-hungary-by-two-steps.html
The forint tumbled, extending the
biggest decline among emerging-market currencies this year, and
bonds and stocks fell after Moody’s Investors Service lowered
Hungary’s credit rating to one step from junk.  The forint snapped a four-day rally, sliding 1.4 percent to
280.32 per euro at 5:15 p.m. in Budapest, the most among more
than 150 currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide. The yield on
bonds maturing in February 2016 rose 10 basis points to 8.06
percent. The  BUX Index  of stocks dropped 0.7 percent.  Hungary, the first European Union nation to get an
international bailout during the credit crisis in 2008, is
levying special taxes and funneling assets from pension funds to
plug the budget gap. The government is relying on “temporary
measures rather than sustainable” fiscal policies, leading to a
“gradual but significant loss” of the eastern European
nation’s financial strength, Moody’s said in a report today.  “We do not like what is happening in Hungary and see the
forint as one of the most vulnerable currencies in the region,”
 Elisabeth Andreew , chief foreign currency strategist at Nordea
Bank AB in Copenhagen, wrote in a note to clients. “Market
forces to some extent will prevent the government from doing
even more harm.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s cabinet on Nov. 24 approved a
plan to strip citizens of state pensions unless they move
privately managed retirement funds to the state. The government
is imposing special taxes on selected industries until at least
2014 to cut the budget deficit below the European Union limit of
3 percent of output next year.  Default Swaps  Moody’s downgraded Hungary to Baa3, its lowest investment-
grade ranking, the company said today in a statement from
London.  Standard & Poor’s put Hungary on review for downgrade in
July after talks on economic policy failed between the
government and the International Monetary Fund. S&P kept
Hungary’s rating on Nov. 3 at BBB-, its lowest investment-grade
category, with a negative outlook.  Fitch Ratings said last month it may cut Hungary from BBB,
the second-lowest investment-grade ranking, because the pension
changes are “negative” for public finances.  “There is now a clear risk that, at some time over the
next year, Hungary loses its investment grade status,”  Timothy Ash , head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London, said in an e-mailed note. “The message
from all three rating agencies is that they feel uncomfortable
with the course of government policy making at present.”  Bond Risk  The cost of protecting the country’s debt against non-
payment with credit default swaps rose 15 basis points to 370.9
basis points, less than 10 basis points from the highest level
since June reached on Nov. 30, according to data from CMA. It
compares with 300.7 basis points for Romania, which is rated at
the same level as Hungary by Moody’s and a step lower at non-
investment grade of BB+ by S&P.  The default swaps market has “already downgraded Hungary
to junk status,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in London, wrote in a note to clients.  Credit default swaps, which rise as the perception of
creditworthiness deteriorates, pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The yield on Hungary’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing in
January 2020 widened 18 basis points to 6.36 percent today,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Creditor Base  A downgrade to junk by two credit companies would mean the
country’s dollar bonds will have to leave major U.S. credit
indexes, “eroding part of Hungary’s credit investor base,”
Barclays Capital strategists including  Koon Chow  and  Christian Keller  in London wrote in a note to clients.  The forint has weakened 3.7 percent against the euro this
year and 11 percent versus the dollar, the steepest decline
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungary last week became the first of the EU’s eastern
members to raise interest rates this year to combat the fastest
inflation since June and support the forint. The increase in the
benchmark two-week deposit rate to 5.5 percent from a record-low
5.25 percent signals the start of a monetary tightening cycle,
online news portal Index said on Dec. 3, citing central bank
President  Andras Simor .  “It’s possible foreign players will try to squeeze out
further rate increases” from the central bank, said  Attila Behan , head of trading at K&H Bank, a unit of KBC Groep NV in
Budapest. The government “does not care what messages they send
abroad, they are not trying at all to convince or calm down
international markets,” Behan said in a phone interview today.  Central Bank  The government has called on Simor to resign and said it
wants to strip him of the right to nominate policy makers
responsible for setting interest rates, giving parliament the
power to select future policy makers. The terms of four of the
seven Monetary Council members will expire in March.  Traders in interest derivatives have bolstered their bets
for borrowing-cost increases in the past month. Three-month
forward rate agreements are trading at 6.26 percent, or 65 basis
points above the three-month  Budapest Interbank Offered Rate  at
5.61 percent. The spread rose from 10 basis points on Nov. 4.  Hungary will probably be able to sustain state finances on
expectations that the new government will continue to narrow the
budget deficit, said  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $2 billion
of emerging-market debt including Hungarian bonds, at Aviva
Investors in London.  Orban’s government plans to cut the budget shortfall to
2.94 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, down from a
targeted 3.8 percent this year. The previous government’s
austerity measures narrowed the shortfall from a record 9.3
percent four years ago.  “If reforms come along, there is a lot of upside in the
assets,” Curtis said. With the yield on forint-denominated 10-
year bonds above 8 percent, “Hungary is an OK place to
invest,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  