-- Galaxy Plans 1 Billion Yuan Bond Sale in Hong Kong
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-07T09:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/galaxy-entertainment-plans-1-billion-yuan-bond-sale-in-hong-kong.html
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. ,
part-owned by Permira Advisers LLP, plans to raise 1 billion
yuan ($150 million) by selling bonds in Hong Kong, making it
the first casino operator to access the market.  Galaxy  will begin marketing the bonds to investors
immediately,  Robert Drake , chief financial officer, said in a
phone interview yesterday.  Bank of America Corp. , BOC
International,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and UBS AG were hired to
manage the sale, the casino operator said in a statement.  “This is opportunistic financing,” Drake said. “There’s
a strong demand for renminbi out there and this is just another
example of how we use opportunities to increase
our financial flexibility and strengthen our  balance sheet .”
The yuan is a denomination of the renminbi.  Galaxy , which is building a $1.9 billion casino resort in
Macau, said it will use the proceeds from the sale for its non-
gambling business and for general corporate purposes.
Casino  revenue  in Macau, the world’s biggest gambling hub, has
grown 57 percent in the first 11 months of this year to 169.5
billion patacas ($22 billion).  “It’s good for them to have a deal because they have
financial needs” including a bond that is due next year,
 Gabriel Chan , a Hong Kong-based equity analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said in a phone interview yesterday. The
funds may also be used as the casino operator opens its project
in Macau next year, said Chan, who has a “neutral”
 rating  on Galaxy.  Bond Investors  The casino operator’s  stock  fell 0.5 percent to HK$8.24 at
the 4 p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong.  Galaxy , whose  market value  has surged 157 percent this
year, owes about $165 million of zero coupon convertible bonds
that are due December 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company bought back $75 million last year of the
$240 million issued, the data show.  The company will meet bond investors in Hong Kong and
Singapore from Dec. 7, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  “We view the reported renminbi bond issuance as
opportunistic financing to increase the company’s balance sheet
strength and liquidity in preparation for the opening of Galaxy
Cotai early next year and the maturing of its HK$1.1 billion
zero-coupon convertible notes due December 2011,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analysts said in a note to clients.  Market Opened  Galaxy  has spent HK$7 billion of the HK$14.9 billion
budgeted for the casino project,  Simon Cheung ,  Justin Kwok 
and  Janet Lu , Hong Kong-based analysts for Goldman Sachs, said
in their report. They have a “neutral” rating on the stock.  China  is allowing greater use of its currency in global
trade to reduce reliance on the dollar, and opened the yuan
bond market in Hong Kong to overseas firms in February.  Caterpillar Inc. , the world’s biggest maker of
construction equipment, sold 1 billion yuan of debt after
 McDonald’s Corp. ’s 200 million yuan deal became the first sale
in the currency by a foreign company in Hong Kong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Galaxy , operator of the StarWorld casino in Macau, had a
market share of 9.8 percent last month, according to
estimates by CLSA Ltd. Billionaire  Stanley Ho ’s  SJM Holdings
Ltd.  had the biggest share of the former Portuguese colony’s
six casino operators, at 32.3 percent, according to the
brokerage’s estimates.  Macau surpassed the Las Vegas Strip as the world’s biggest
casino hub in 2006, after the city government ended Stanley
Ho’s four-decade gambling monopoly and allowed the entry of
foreign operators, including  Las Vegas Sands Corp.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  