-- Gay, Bisexual, Lesbian Adolescents More Likely to Be Arrested, Expelled
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/gay-bisexual-lesbian-adolescents-more-likely-to-be-punished-study-shows.html
Bisexual, gay, and lesbian youth are
more likely than their straight peers to be punished by their
school or the criminal justice system for the same
transgressions.  In an analysis of the  National Longitudinal Study of
Adolescent Health , teenagers attracted to people of the same sex
were 41 percent more likely to be expelled from school, and 42
percent more likely to be convicted of a crime as an adult,
according to a study in the journal  Pediatrics .  The study highlights the extent of bias and intimidation
experienced by non-heterosexual teens, said study author Kathryn
Himmelstein. Some suicides of gay teenagers, including that of
Rutgers University student Tyler Clementi, have been linked to
peer bullying. It appears that bias against gay, lesbian and
bisexual teenagers extends to adults as well, Himmelstein said.  “It’s not just kids who are bullying, adults are stacking
the deck,” said Himmelstein, who is now a  high school teacher 
in New York. The paper was completed when she was an
undergraduate at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut.  The differences weren’t explained by greater participation
by gay and lesbian teenagers in illegal behaviors or actions
that violated rules, the paper found.  The research also found that gay and lesbian teenagers were
38 percent more likely to be stopped by the police, compared
with heterosexual teenagers, and 53 percent more likely if they
identified themselves as gay, lesbian or bisexual.  Suicide Risk  Research has shown that gay and lesbian teenagers are more
than four times as likely to attempt suicide. Suicides of
students such as Clementi, who was a freshman at Rutgers
University in New Brunswick, New Jersey, have sparked campaigns
against bullying.  Clementi plunged from the George Washington Bridge into the
Hudson River on Sept. 22, three days after live video of a
sexual encounter between him and another man was transmitted on
the Internet, according to Middlesex County, New Jersey,
prosecutor Bruce Kaplan. Two persons were charged with invasion
of privacy in the incident.  In October, the U.S. Department of Education said schools
that don’t address the bullying of gay students may lose
government funds for failing to enforce gender-discrimination
laws.  Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell  Acceptance of gay and lesbians in the military and the U.S.
“don’t ask, don’t tell” policy still sparks controversy. A
Pentagon study released Nov. 30 found that ending the U.S.
military’s ban on letting gay and lesbian individuals serve
openly would present a “low” risk to overall troop
effectiveness. The ban was repealed by the U.S. House earlier
this year. President  Barack Obama  has called on the Senate to
repeal it as well.  Himmelstein and co-author  Hannah Bruckner , a sociology
professor at Yale, analyzed data from the National Longitudinal
Study of Adolescent Health, a  nationally representative sample 
of 20,745 teenagers in grades 7 through 12 in the U.S. in 1994-
1995 and a follow-up, of 15,197 young adults, in 2001-2002.  People who work with adolescents need to be aware of the
challenges that face gay teenagers, Himmelstein said.  “Institutions need to design policies for treating all
youth fairly and equally,” she said.  In a separate report, San Francisco State University
researchers found that an accepting family significantly lowered
the risk of suicide attempts, substance abuse and depression in
gay teenagers, according to a study published in the  Journal of
Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Nursing.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 