-- GE Boosts U.S. Health-Care Imaging Sales Force by 10%
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-06T21:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ge-healthcare-boosts-u-s-imaging-sales-force-on-new-products.html
General Electric Co.  is boosting its
U.S. health-care imaging sales force by about 10 percent as the
pace of new product introductions picks up,  Omar Ishrak , the
executive who oversees that slice of the division, said.  “We think the market in the U.S. holds some promise, so we
want to cover more academic sites with direct GE salespeople,”
Ishrak said in an interview following the  RSNA  meeting, an
annual conference targeting U.S. radiologists, in Chicago.  GE Healthcare , the world’s biggest maker of medical imaging
equipment including X-ray machines and MRI, CT, ultrasound and
PET scanners, is adding about 80 people to its U.S. sales force.
The U.S. accounted for about half of the Chalfont St. Giles,
England-based division’s total sales last year, including
Ishrak’s unit, called GE Healthcare Systems.  About 80 new products will be introduced in 2010 and 2011
in Ishrak’s business, according to a November  presentation  to
investors, with about 400 new products in development worldwide.
Offerings include a wireless digital X-ray machine, a CT scanner
that cuts radiation doses 40 percent to 50 percent and more
patient-friendly MRI machines.  GE Healthcare Chief Executive Officer  John Dineen  told
analysts last month that the passage of health-care legislation
in the U.S. eliminated uncertainty and is leading some customers
to contemplate purchases again.  “Our sense is so far in first half, we’ve gained
considerable share certainly globally and certainly in the U.S.,
some businesses more than others,” Ishrak said.  New-Product Correlation  “The correlation between new products and gained share is
pretty direct,” Ishrak said.  GE Healthcare Systems accounted for a total of $11.1
billion of $16 billion in revenue in 2009. Ishrak told analysts
in November he sees a compound annual growth rate of about 7
percent by 2015 on top of a 6 percent revenue rise in the first
three quarters of this year, driven by emerging markets and a
rebounding U.S.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, had $157 billion in
revenue last year. Dineen last month raised his long-term annual
sales-growth outlook 5 percent to 10 percent, with operating
profit up 10 percent, citing a boost in research and development
spending as helping results.  GE fell 8 cents to $16.70 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have increased 10 percent
this year.  Munich-based Siemens AG and Amsterdam-based Royal Philips
Electronics NV are GE’s biggest competitors in medical imaging.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  