-- European Power Jumps on Cold Weather, Nordic at Two-Year High
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2010-12-06T17:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/german-2011-power-price-extends-gains-to-trade-at-3-month-high.html
European power prices jumped as
Arctic weather gripped much of the region and fuel prices
climbed as oil traded near a 25-month high.  Nordic electricity for next quarter extended a more than
two-year high after two nuclear reactors failed to return to the
grid as planned. The benchmark contract gained as much as 5.95
euros, or 8.9 percent, to 73.15 euros ($97.16) a megawatt-hour
today on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s commodity exchange in Oslo. It
earlier rose to 73.80 euros, the highest level since September
2008. German next-year prices traded at a three-month high.  European power has gained as the cold weather that began
last month continues to boost demand across northwest Europe and
the deficit of water for hydro generation in Scandinavia
increases. Fuel prices, which boost the cost of production, are
surging to meet the increased winter consumption and oil rose on
speculation the U.S. may extend stimulus measures, bolstering
demand in the world’s largest consumer of crude.  “It’s still really cold and we have a huge deficit in the
hydro balance” in the Nordic region, said Jonas Almquist,
managing director at Bergen Energi AB, a broker for European
industrial consumers. “Continental prices are also rising
because of the weather and that means even higher import
prices” to meet demand, he said today by phone from Stockholm.  Norway relies on hydropower, the cheapest form of
electricity, for almost all its needs and Sweden meets about
half its usage from running water through turbines. The
electricity that can be generated under current rainfall and
snowmelt scenarios is about 40 to 45 terawatt-hours less than
normal for the time of year, Almquist said. That’s more than
Denmark’s annual power demand of 34 terawatt-hours.  Swedish Lows  Northern Sweden was as much as 7 degrees Celsius (13
Fahrenheit) colder than average last month, the largest
deviation from normal temperatures in the northern hemisphere,
according to the Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological
Institute. The temperatures will fall further this week, the
Norrkoeping-based organization said today on its website.  E.ON AG, Germany’s biggest utility, said today the region’s
biggest reactor will be halted for up to two weeks after the
1,400-megawatt Oskarhshamn-3 facility failed to return after
yearly maintenance. Vattenfall AB’s Ringhals-1 also remains
offline and will start tomorrow.  In Germany, baseload power for 2011 gained 1.2 percent to
51.25 euros a megawatt-hour, according to broker data compiled
by Bloomberg, its highest level since Sept. 6. Baseload is
delivered around the clock.  German Strikes  RWE AG, the country’s second-biggest utility, delayed the
start of its 1,227 megawatt Biblis-B reactor until tomorrow at
the latest instead of today, according to a company website
tracking starts and stops.  Power station workers at RWE’s plants in Germany may stage
strikes before Christmas, possibly as early as the week
beginning Dec. 13, the Ver.di labor union said.  RWE workers will stage surprise protests at as-yet-
unidentified RWE power plants as well as grid facilities and
administrative offices, said Guenter Isemeyer, a spokesman for
the Ver.di services union in the western state of North Rhine-
Westphalia. A union commission rejected RWE’s pay offer last
week.  Hard coal for next-year delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp extended a two-year high after gaining 0.5 percent to
$112.25 a metric ton. The fuel in 2009 accounted for 18 percent
of Germany’s power generation. The country also gets electricity
from lignite, or brown coal, nuclear plants and wind and solar
power.  Crude oil for January delivery earlier rose as much as 0.6
percent to $89.76 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. That’s the highest intraday price since
Oct. 9, 2008. It was later at $88.86 a barrel.  Bloomberg tracks power prices from brokers including GFI
Group Inc., ICAP Plc, Spectron Group Ltd. and Tradition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lars Paulsson  in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  