-- British Gilts Gain After Euro Divisions on Bailout Boost Safety Demand
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-12-06T16:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/gilts-gain-as-euro-divisions-on-bailout-boost-safety-demand.html
British government bonds rose amid
speculation divisions among European officials over steps needed
to solve the sovereign-debt crisis will boost demand for U.K.
assets as a haven.  The gains pushed the 10-year yield down for the first time
since Nov. 30 as investors anticipated the Bank of England will
keep its main interest rate at a record low this week. Gilts
also rose with Treasuries after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may boost purchases of
securities, making fixed-income assets more attractive. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rebuffed pleas from Belgium and central
bankers to boost the emergency fund to save countries such as
Portugal and Spain from falling prey to speculation.  “The alternatives to gilts don’t look compelling at all,”
said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London. The euro-area’s debt crisis “will
stop people allocating away from gilts, and that in part is
supporting the U.K. market.”  The 10-year U.K. bond  yield  declined two basis points to
3.40 percent at 4:43 p.m. in London, after increasing 20 basis
points in the previous three trading days. The 4.75 percent
security maturing March 2020 gained 0.16 or 1.6 pounds per
1,000-pound ($1,569) face amount, to 110.67. The two-year gilt
yield dropped two basis points to 1 percent.  The pound lost 0.7 percent to $1.5674 and was 0.4 percent
stronger against the euro at 84.67 pence.  Brussels Meeting  European policy makers are meeting in Brussels today amid
concern their rescue fund may not be large enough to stop
contagion spreading from Greece and Ireland to countries such as
Spain. While French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Merkel last
month rejected expanding the fund, European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on Dec. 3 indicated governments
should consider such a move. The political discord pushed down
bonds in Spain and Portugal today.  U.K. government securities outperformed their counterparts
from the 16 nations that share the euro amid concern that the
region’s debt crisis will spread to bigger economies. Gilts have
made 0.4 percent since the end of June, compared with a 0.5
percent decline by euro-area government securities, according to
indexes developed by Bank of America Corp’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Ten-year gilts today yielded 55 basis points more than
similar maturity German bunds, the European benchmark government
paper, down from 68 basis points two weeks ago. The spread has
narrowed from 103 basis points on May 7.  Default Swaps  Italy and Spain led an increase in the cost of insuring
bonds sold by Europe’s peripheral nations, according to CMA
prices for credit-default swaps. The Spanish 10-year yield was
15 basis points higher at 5.23 percent, while the yield on
similar-maturity Italian bonds increased eight basis points to
4.52 percent. Portugal’s 10-year yield rose one basis point to
6.09 percent.  Gilts have also been supported by data signaling the
economic recovery may stall, making it less likely the Bank of
England will raise rates even as inflation stays above its
target.  A report tomorrow will probably show industrial production
growth slowed in October to 0.3 percent from 0.4 percent the
previous month, according to the median prediction of 26
economists polled by Bloomberg. Manufacturing and construction
growth unexpectedly fell in November, reports showed last week.  ‘Deterioration’  “We continue to suggest that outright gains in gilts from
here are likely to follow a deterioration of the economic
outlook in 2011,” analysts led by  Charles Diebel , head of
market strategy at Lloyds TSB Corporate Bank in London, wrote in
a client note today.  The U.K. government may cut gilt sales by almost 4 percent
in the next fiscal year, according to Barclays Capital, the
investment banking unit of Britain’s third-biggest lender.  The government may sell 159 billion pounds of bonds in the
year through March 2012, down from a projected 165.2 billion
pounds in the current fiscal year,  Moyeen Islam , a fixed-income
strategist in London, wrote in an investor note dated Dec. 3.
Inflation-linked bonds may account for about 20 percent of
issuances, he wrote.  The government is scheduled to 2 billion pounds of bonds
maturing in 2049 tomorrow. The securities were little changed
today, leaving the yield at 4.33 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  