-- Google Starts Electronic-Book Selling Service With Almost 4,000 Publishers
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-12-06T15:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/google-starts-electronic-book-selling-service-with-almost-4-000-publishers.html
Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, is starting an electronic book-
selling service today with almost 4,000 publishers, in a
challenge to  Amazon.com Inc.  and Apple Inc.  The service, called Google eBooks, features about 3 million
titles for free and hundreds of thousands for purchase, the
company said today in a post on its website. Publishers include
Random House Group Ltd. and HarperCollins Publishers.  “They’re going to have access to many, many more books than
anyone else,” said  James McQuivey , an analyst with Forrester
Research Inc. in Cambridge, Massachusetts. “This is the time to
be doing it” because the market is growing so quickly, he said.  Google, looking to improve its search service while
expanding beyond traditional online advertising, is adding a
 revenue  source that’s built from its multiyear effort to scan
the world’s books. The number of electronic-reading devices sold
in the U.S. should jump to 29.4 million in 2015 from 3.7 million
by the end of last year, according to  Forrester .  “This is a rapidly growing market, and there’s obviously
plenty of room in this market for a number of competitors,”
Scott Dougall, director of product management for Google Books,
said in an interview. “We’re taking this seriously.”  The eBooks service can be accessed on computers with modern
browsers, smartphones and tablets from multiple operating
systems including Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS.  E-Reader Access  The service will work on some e-readers as well, including
Barnes & Noble Inc.’s Nook. It isn’t accessible on Amazon’s
Kindle, Google spokeswoman  Jeannie Hornung  said.  Google also will let independent booksellers set up digital
stores, helping them compete with Amazon and  Barnes & Noble .
Members of the  American Booksellers Association  are able to
participate in the program.  While revenue sharing varies, the publisher receives the
majority of the sale through a purchase on Google. With
independent booksellers, publishers will typically get the
largest portion of the sale, though not necessarily the
majority, Hornung said in an interview.  Google’s rivals already are benefitting from growing
interest in digital books. The Kindle, which has more than
757,000 books titles, should generate $5.32 billion in revenue
in 2012, up from an estimated $2.81 billion for 2010, according
to  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co.  Apple, which launched its electronic book service earlier
this year, had 35 million books downloaded through Sept. 1, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  