-- Groupon Prankster Mason Not Joking in Spurning Google
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-06T21:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/groupon-prankster-mason-not-joking-in-spurning-google-s-6-billion-offer.html
Andrew Mason , founder of daily deal
site Groupon Inc., is a serial prankster, dedicating office
space to a fictitious character, hiring a performance artist to
walk around the headquarters in a tutu and dreaming up a holiday
called  Grouponicus  whose celebrants are barred from owning dogs.  There was no joking, though, when he spurned a takeover
offer worth $6 billion from Google Inc.  Mason, Groupon’s chief executive officer, fretted that the
sale would sap employee morale and alienate business clients,
said two people with knowledge of the matter. The people asked
not to be identified because the talks, which spanned Chicago
and the San Francisco Bay area and involved Google CEO  Eric Schmidt , were private.  Independence gives Mason, 30, more time to keep building
one of the world’s fastest-growing companies, which topped $500
million in annual sales more quickly than Web pioneers including
Google and  Amazon.com Inc.  did. Yet Groupon, whose strategy has
spawned dozens of copycats, also is left without the financial
backing and global distribution it would have gotten from
ownership by the world’s largest Web-search provider.  “You can set up your own daily deal website in an hour,”
said  Ira Weiss , a  professor  at the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business. “They happen to have a lead on it, but if I
were them I would have sold for that price.”  It wasn’t high enough for Mason, a college music major who
quit his job at a Chicago recording studio and later dropped out
of a master’s program in public policy to start websites.  Zuckerberg’s Lead  Mason, who previously fielded an advance from Yahoo! Inc.,
follows Facebook Inc. CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  in betting his company
will fare better with venture backing than as part of a bigger
owner.  “Before anybody says, ‘You have to be crazy to turn down
this $6 billion offer,’ you have to consider who the people
making the decision are,” said  Matt Moog , a Chicago-based
 entrepreneur  who took coupon startup CoolSavings public in 2000
and later sold it to private investors. “Andrew is a very smart
guy. He clearly has a vision for where this is going; he’s not
in it for this scale-and-flip kind of thing.”  Mason and  Aaron Zamost , a spokesman for Google, didn’t
respond to requests for comment. Julie Mossler, a Groupon
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  At $6 billion, Groupon would have been the most expensive
purchase for Mountain View, California-based Google. The
company’s shares rose $5.36 to $578.36 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped 6.7
percent this year.  Local Commerce ‘Vision’  Going it alone worked out for Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook, which is worth more than $40 billion, according to
private share trading site  SharesPost Inc. , less than five years
after spurning a $1 billion bid from Yahoo.  Founded in 2008, Groupon has amassed 35 million registered
users and a staff of 3,000 people, most of them in sales. The
Chicago-based company delivers deal-of-the-day coupons in more
than 300 markets.  “He has a unique and profound vision about local
commerce,” said  Yuri Milner , founder of Digital Sky
Technologies, a Groupon investor. “He was instrumental in
identifying a pretty unique model of allowing small businesses
to access customers.”  Groupon has grown largely because of the unconventional
efforts of Mason, who says that if the staff enjoys its work of
soliciting deals and marketing them to consumers, then users
will relish buying them, according to Moog.  ‘Funny, Wry’  “He’s a very funny, wry guy who doesn’t take himself too
seriously and he’s been able to infuse that into the brand,”
said Moog, who now runs online customer reviews forum  Viewpoints
Network . The witty descriptions of spa packages and beer
tastings that accompany offers help get users to pay, Moog said.  Mason followed a different path from the many Web-startup
CEOs who hone computer programming skills at schools like
Harvard,  Stanford  and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
before scouring Silicon Valley for investors and staff.  Mason worked early on at  Electrical Audio , a musty, two-
story recording studio in the  Roscoe Village  neighborhood
northwest of downtown Chicago. After earning a music degree from
 Northwestern University , the pianist and  Billy Joel  fanatic
began helping at the studio on weekends, setting up equipment
and fetching coffee for performers, says  Greg Norman , an
engineer at the studio and a friend of Mason’s.  Groupon, which takes half of sales from discount offers
merchants make on its site, discussed a sale to Google as early
as November, people familiar with the matter have said. The
discussions included Schmidt and Google founders  Sergey Brin  and
 Larry Page , as well as  David Lawee , who handles mergers and
acquisitions, one of the people said.  IPO Gains  Groupon will make a decision next year on whether and how
soon to proceed with an initial public offering, one person
said. Investor appetite for technology public offerings is
heating up, said  Lise Buyer , founder of IPO consulting firm
 Class V Group  in Portola Valley, California.  “It’s a very healthy IPO market right now for companies
that have proven business models, and Groupon clearly fits in
that category,” Buyer said. Of the 55 technology sector
companies that have gone public this year, 40 are trading at
above their IPO price, according to  research  released last week
by Pacific Crest Equity Capital Markets Group.  Martin Tobias , CEO of rival  Tippr.com , based in Seattle,
said Groupon should have sold to Google.  “They are going to hope the honeymoon continues,” he
said. “I’ve seen these things cool off quite quickly.”  LivingSocial, the No. 2 player in daily deals, announced a
$175 million investment from Amazon last week. Other copycats
include New York-based BuyWithMe.com.  Lefkofsky’s Backing  As he moved away from music toward startups, Mason split
time between building  Policy Tree , a site for organizing
political discussion, and pursuing a master’s degree at the
 University of Chicago’s Harris School of Public Policy .  One of about 125 students accepted from an applicant pool
of about 800, he stood out to teachers and administrators for
having a clear plan to put his education to use.  “A lot of what students are facing in their first quarter
is pretty theoretical material,” said Ellen Cohen, dean of
students at Harris. “It’s rare for somebody to convert it all
into something that is technology-based and actionable.”  Mason took a leave of absence when he got $1 million in
funding from  Eric Lefkofsky , an investor in startups, for a new
company called The Point, a precursor to Groupon that helps
wannabe activists raise funds and build petition lists by
recruiting friends on the Web.  The Point  inspired Mason to try a
new site based around the idea of collective buying.  ‘Nopuorg’  Based in a six-floor warehouse in Chicago’s  River North 
neighborhood, Groupon has rapidly added workers, many of them
Midwesterners in their 20s. Staff writers, some of them
recruited from the local improvisational comedy scene, churn out
witty descriptions of deals at a rapid clip, often pulling
previously used jokes from an online wiki.  Mason likely signed an agreement that bars him from
discussing aspects of the Google approach. Still, even before
talks ended, someone posing as “Mason Andrews” on a site
called  Nopuorg  -- Groupon spelled backward -- poked fun at the
notion of a takeover.  Mason sent a link to the site from his Twitter  feed .  “Andrews” blogged about suitors his company spurned.
AskJeeves was turned down because “the search giant demanded
too many concessions”; Mason Andrews rebuffed Sony Corp.
because he “could never sell Nopuorg to a foreign company.”  Andrews concludes, saying, “Nopuorg has not…is not…and
WILL NEVER sell out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph  Galante in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 