-- Groupon Aims to Emulate Facebook, Not Yahoo, After Walking Away From Deal
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/groupon-aims-to-emulate-facebook-not-yahoo-after-walking-away-from-deal.html
Groupon Inc., which rejected a  Google
Inc.  takeover last week, is betting it can keep increasing its
valuation after walking away from a deep-pocketed suitor,
something Facebook Inc. pulled off and Yahoo! Inc. failed to do.  Groupon, the Chicago-based provider of online coupons,
spurned an offer of as much as $6 billion that included
performance incentives, a person familiar with the matter said
last week. The startup will decide next year whether to go the
route of an initial public offering instead, the person said.  Internet executives have had mixed results in refusing
billion-dollar takeover offers. Yahoo co-founder  Jerry Yang  was
head of the Web-portal company when  Microsoft Corp.  tried to buy
it for $47.5 billion in 2008. After rejecting the deal,  Yahoo 
saw its valuation cut in half and Yang was replaced as CEO. At
Facebook, founder  Mark Zuckerberg  turned down a $1 billion offer
from Yahoo in 2006. Less than five years later, the social-
networking service is valued at more than 40 times that.  “It is very common for all executives -- entrepreneurs or
executives of public companies, to drink their own Kool-Aid and
believe their own hype,” said  Lou Kerner , a social-media
analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in New York. “When
everything is going up and to the right, it’s hard to have
appreciation for the risks that are apparent in any business.”  Strategic Differences  Groupon Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason , who started
the company in 2008, had concerns about the strategic direction
it would take under new management and what could happen to his
employees if he sold to  Google , according to a person familiar
with the matter, who declined to be identified because the
discussions were private.  Groupon has attracted 35 million users in more than 300
global markets by offering discounts of as much as 90 percent on
everything from massages to ski tickets. The company makes money
by keeping part of the revenue raised by the coupons. Groupon’s
sales may top $500 million this year, two people familiar with
the matter have said.  When Facebook declined Yahoo’s offer, Zuckerberg’s site had
fewer than 12 million users. It now boasts more than 500
million. The Palo Alto, California-based company is worth more
than $43 billion, according to  SharesPost Inc. , which tracks
privately held businesses.  Yahoo, by contrast, has gone in the other direction. Even
under a turnaround effort by  Carol Bartz , the Sunnyvale,
California-based company has struggled to revive growth and keep
users from defecting to Google and social-networking sites. Its
market value is now $21.3 billion.  Apple and Sun  Apple Inc., the world’s most valuable technology company,
had its own near-miss takeover. The company held merger talks
with Sun Microsystems Inc. in the 1990s, before CEO  Steve Jobs 
returned to Apple and revamped its product line.  Twitter Inc., the microblogging site that lets users send
messages of 140 characters, was in talks to be acquired by
Google in 2009, the technology blog TechCrunch reported at the
time. Twitter had recently raised funding valuing it at $250
million. The company is now considering a new investment round
that would put its worth at more than $3 billion, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  Other technology startups have opted not to sell in the
past year, turning instead to outside investors. Small-business
review site  Yelp Inc.  declined a $500 million offer from Google
and took an investment of $100 million from private-equity firm
Elevation Partners LP.  Foursquare Offer  Foursquare Labs Inc.  turned down a $100 million bid from
Yahoo, according to the All Things Digital blog. Instead, it
raised $20 million in June from investors led by Andreessen
Horowitz LLC.  In contrast, MySpace and Bebo, two of Facebook’s rivals in
the social-networking market, both sold out to larger companies
-- earning big paydays before their value declined.  News Corp.  bought MySpace as part of its $580 million
acquisition of Intermix in 2005. It later had to write down the
value of the investment amid an exodus of users to Facebook.  AOL
Inc.  bought Bebo for $850 million in 2008, and then sold it for
less than $10 million this year.  “Life is all about timing and it’s hard to pick the
perfect point to sell,” Kerner said. “Sometimes it’s better to
sell too early than too late.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  