-- IBM Plans Debt 4 Months After Record-Low-Coupon Issue
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-06T19:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ibm-plans-benchmark-offering-of-debt-due-2016-as-soon-as-today.html
International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s biggest computer-services provider, plans to
sell $1 billion of debt due January 2016 as soon as today,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  IBM is marketing the notes four months after selling $1.5
billion of debt due 2013 at the lowest interest rate on record
at the time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and two
weeks after Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the senior
unsecured rating of IBM’s debt one level to Aa3 from A1, citing
a growing emphasis on higher-margin software and services.  The company plans to spend about $20 billion on
acquisitions by 2015 as it aims to almost double operating
earnings per share. Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  is
investing in analytics software and services that help predict
trends, as well as cloud computing, which helps customers save
money by letting them store and access data via the Internet,
rather than from their own servers.  The Moody’s upgrade is “a good reason to expect relatively
tight spreads on the new offering,” said  Guy LeBas , chief
fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia. “In terms of spread, we could actually see
it being priced a little tighter than in August.”  Issue Details  The offering may yield 55 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, said the person familiar with the offering,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. That
implies a yield of about 2.10 percent, based on today’s Treasury
bond prices. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Absolute yields on investment-grade debt have declined
seven basis points to 3.989 percent since Aug. 2, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master Index,
after earlier touching 3.53 percent on Nov. 4, the lowest yield
since the index began in October 1986.  “Total costs could be similar to what we would’ve seen in
August with a five-year,” said LeBas in a telephone interview.  IBM’s 1 percent debt maturing August 2013 traded at 99.778
cents on Dec. 3 to yield 1.085 percent, or 30.4 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The notes were sold at a spread of 30 basis points.
The company, which has completed 16 acquisitions this year,
ended the third quarter with more than $11 billion in cash and
short-term investments, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Sapna Maheshwari  in New York contributed to this story.
Editor:  Mitchell Martin   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  