-- IBM Sells $1 Billion of Debt Amid Acquisition Spree
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-06T20:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ibm-sells-1-billion-of-debt-as-ceo-palmisano-plans-investment-in-services.html
International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s biggest computer-services provider, sold $1
billion of debt due January 2016, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  IBM issued the notes four months after selling $1.5 billion
of debt due 2013 at the lowest interest rate on record at the
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors
Service upgraded the senior unsecured rating of IBM’s debt one
level to Aa3 from A1 last month, citing a growing emphasis on
higher-margin software and services.  “The transition from a server-production-based company to
a service-based company has been valuable towards their credit
improvement,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and
economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “And
the rating upgrade certainly helped them price a little tighter
than they would have otherwise.”  The company plans to spend about $20 billion on
acquisitions by 2015 as it aims to almost double operating
earnings per share. Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  is
investing in analytics software and services that help predict
trends, as well as cloud computing, which helps customers save
money by letting them store and access data via the Internet
rather than from their own servers.  Issue Details  The 2 percent notes pay 55 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show, and yield 2.07
percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Absolute yields on investment-grade debt have declined
seven basis points to 3.989 percent since IBM’s previous debt
sale on Aug. 2, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Corporate Master Index. Yields fell as low as 3.53 percent
on Nov. 4, the lowest yield since the index began in October
1986.  “The offering is very tight even for a high investment-
grade offering and shows the strength of demand within the
credit markets right now,” LeBas said in a telephone interview.
“There’s a lot of high-quality cash chasing limited investment
opportunities right now.”  IBM’s 1 percent debt maturing August 2013 traded at 99.778
cents on Dec. 3 to yield 1.085 percent, or 30.4 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The notes were sold at a spread of 30 basis points.  The company, which has completed 16 acquisitions this year,
ended the third quarter with more than $11 billion in cash and
short-term investments, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Sapna Maheshwari  in New York contributed to this story.
Editors:  Mitchell Martin ,  Pierre Paulden   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  