-- IBM Adds Analytics to Data Center Services to Win Contracts
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-06T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ibm-adds-analytics-to-data-center-services-to-win-contracts-boost-sales.html
International Business Machines
Corp.,  the world’s biggest computer-service provider, is adding
analytics to its information-technology services to attract more
customers and spur sales in its largest division.  The company will use analytics to predict clients’ long-
term costs of running different computer systems, Steve Sams,
IBM’s head of data center services, said in an interview last
week. Sams will make the announcement today at the Gartner Data
Center Conference in Las Vegas.  Signings for services, which make up almost  60 percent  of
the company’s total revenue, have slipped for three straight
 quarters  as companies put off spending on larger projects. The
analytics will help IBM win contracts by demonstrating cost
savings of its technology and help current customers to
determine where to invest in data centers, Sams said.  “Their budgets clearly are not going up -- if anything,
they’re flat or going down,” Sams said of customers. “They’re
finding it increasingly challenging to keep up with changes.”  The new analytics show clients how much it would cost to
invest in various technologies -- consolidating data centers or
upgrading servers, for example -- and how that would impact
long-term costs, such as power consumption, space requirements
and future upgrades, Sams said.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, has invested more than $14
billion in analytics  acquisitions , including last year’s $1.2
billion purchase of SPSS Inc., as it bets the ability to predict
trends will help clients save money and boost sales. Analytics
software and services will add about $16 billion to IBM’s
revenue by 2015, the company said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 