-- Icahn Says Lions Gate Needs Changes Before MGM Deal
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-07T00:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/icahn-says-lions-gate-must-be-cleaned-up-before-merger-with-bankrupt-mgm.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn , an investor
in two Hollywood studios, said  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp .
must be “cleaned up” before any merger with bankrupt  Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Inc .  MGM creditors “don’t want to do a deal with Lions Gate
management,” citing steps the executives have taken “to
entrench themselves,” Icahn said today in an interview.  Icahn, who owns Lions Gate stock and MGM debt, is making a
hostile $7.50-a-share takeover bid for Lions Gate, distributor
of the “Saw” horror movies and Tyler Perry comedies. Icahn and
Lions Gate management have said they favor a merger of the two
studios. They differ over who should run the combined company.  “The merger of those companies makes a lot of sense,”
Icahn said. “I don’t think a deal can get done until this
company is cleaned up.”  Peter Wilkes , a spokesman for Lions Gate, said the company
had no comment.  In court documents filed on Dec. 3, Lions Gate reiterated
allegations that Icahn was “secretly plotting” to profit from
a merger, while telling investors the deal would be a
“debacle.” The studio called on Icahn to correct his
statements, compensate investors and pay damages for interfering
with the company’s plans, according to the documents filed in
U.S. District Court in New York.  Separately, Lions Gate asked a judge to force Icahn to
disclose the extent and value of his MGM debt holding and his
trading history. The bonds will become equity under a
streamlined bankruptcy plan for the Los Angeles-based studio,
which filed for Chapter 11 last month.  Debt Exchange  Icahn disclosed in a Nov. 2 court filing that he owns $596
million in MGM debt, bought from November 2008 to October 2010.  Icahn is trying to nullify a July equity-for-debt exchange
at Lions Gate that increased the stock held by company director
 Mark Rachesky  by about 16 million shares to almost 29 percent.
Icahn owns about 33 percent.  After the swap, Lions Gate Vice Chairman  Michael Burns 
called Icahn to say the move put the activist investor in a
“stranglehold,” Icahn said. Burns also said  Gordon Crawford , a
senior vice president at Capital Research & Management Co.,
supported Lions Gate executives, according to Icahn. Capital
Research owns a 9.2 percent stake.  Chuck Freadhoff , a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Capital
Research, said the company had no comment. Crawford has said he
supports Lions Gate management.  Lions Gate has lost $77 million on bad investments,
including the acquisition of the TV Guide cable channel, Icahn
said in the interview.  ‘Wasteful Overhead’  “You have to clean up this company, get rid of wasteful
overhead,” Icahn said.  Icahn has proposed five nominees to the board of Vancouver-
based Lions Gate, including former MGM executive  Chris McGurk .
The studio, run from Santa Monica, California, holds its
shareholder meeting on Dec. 14.  Lions Gate fell 11 cents to $7.25 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock has gained 25
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in Los angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 