-- Tiger Woods's Winless Run Continues With Playoff Loss to Graeme McDowell
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-12-06T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/tiger-woods-s-winless-run-continues-after-mcdowell-wins-chevron-playoff.html
Tiger Woods ’s winless streak
will stretch into 2011 after he blew a four-shot final-round
lead for the first time as a professional golfer and lost the
Chevron World Challenge in a playoff.  Graeme McDowell  upstaged tournament host Woods by making a
birdie putt of more than 20 feet at the 18th hole to tie and
then again in the playoff to claim the $1.2 million top prize at
Sherwood Country Club in Thousand Oaks, California.  McDowell’s win caps a season in which he won the U.S. Open
and clinched Europe’s Ryder Cup victory. For Woods, the playoff
loss ends a winless year in which he lost his No. 1 ranking and
was divorced and dumped by sponsors including  AT&T Inc . and
 Accenture Plc  after admitting to multiple extramarital affairs.  “Those are probably two of the greatest putts I’ve made,”
McDowell said during a news conference. “To play the weekend
alongside Tiger, it’s a pretty special feeling to go out there
four back and do the job.”  Woods had never previously lost after entering the final
day of a tournament with a lead of at least three shots. He
hasn’t won since the Australian Masters 13 months ago and last
claimed a title in the U.S. at the BMW Championship in September
2009. Woods said he’s encouraged heading into the off-season.  “I’ve played well in stretches and now the stretches are
lasting longer,” Woods said. “Whether it’s the beginning or
end I don’t know, but I’m just really excited about this off-
season. I haven’t been that way in a while.”  Denied Fifth Win  Woods was denied a fifth win at the tournament, an
unofficial event hosted by his charitable foundation that
featured a field of 18 players selected from the top 50 in the
world rankings.  Woods shot a 1-over-par 73 yesterday -- following rounds of
65, 66 and 68 -- to slip into a tie with McDowell at 16-under.
Woods bogeyed two of his first three holes in the final round
and then lost his lead with a double-bogey at the par-5 13th
hole. McDowell made birdie on the hole for a three-shot swing,
then had bogeys on the 14th and 17th holes.  On the 444-yard closing hole, Woods yelled and pumped his
fists as his approach shot stopped within three feet of the
flag. While McDowell pulled his second shot about 25 feet left
of the hole, he drained the putt to force a playoff.  Playing the 18th again as the first extra hole, McDowell
sunk a birdie putt from almost the same distance. When Woods’s
birdie attempt from about 15 feet slipped past the cup, he
smiled before removing his hat and congratulating McDowell.  The only times Woods entered the final round of a PGA Tour
event and lost were to Y.E. Yang at the 2009 PGA Championship
and to Ed Fiori as a rookie at the 1996 Quad City Classic.  ‘Proud’  “I’m proud of today even though I lost, because I putted
awful starting out,” Woods said. “I missed three short putts,
which I don’t do. Then I lost my swing in the middle part of the
round, and pieced it back together again piece by piece. I was
proud of that.”  Woods, whose record 281-week stay atop the world rankings
ended last month when England’s  Lee Westwood  replaced him as No.
1, said he’ll continue to work on his swing with coach Sean
Foley and isn’t sure when he’ll play next.  “I’ll probably play more tournaments (in 2011) than I did
this year,” Woods said, eliciting laughter at his news
conference. “When, I don’t know.”  Woods played in 12 PGA Tour events this year and didn’t
make his season debut until the Masters Tournament in April. He
took almost five months off after revelations of marital
infidelity, which led to his divorce in August.  Woods and  Elin Nordegren  share custody of their two
children and Woods said last week that family obligations will
probably help determine his 2011 playing schedule. McDowell said
he expects the wins to come for Woods, who has won 14 major
titles and ranks third all-time with 71 PGA Tour wins.  “He used to appear invincible,” McDowell said. “But
there’s something a bit special about his golf game, and I fully
expect that mystique to return as the golf clubs start doing the
talking again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  