-- Illinois's Pension Funding May Weaken Further Despite Bonds, Moody's Says
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-12-06T17:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/illinois-pension-funding-may-weaken-even-with-bond-sale-moody-s-says.html
Illinois, which has the worst-funded
pension system among U.S. states, may see it deteriorate more
even if it sells bonds to close the gap, Moody’s Investors
Service said.  Moody’s issued its report today after the state last week
sold  $1.5 billion of bonds backed by payments it receives from
a 1998 settlement with tobacco companies. The proceeds will go
to pay $1.18 billion of bills for fiscal 2010, which ended June
30, Moody’s said.  Lawmakers recessed until January without approving Governor
Pat Quinn’s plan to sell $3.7 billion of bonds to fund this
year’s contribution to state pension plans. About $1.7 billion
of a $5.3 billion backlog of bills for fiscal 2011 is owed to
pensions, Moody’s said. Contributions are below the amount
needed to cover unfunded liabilities, Moody’s said.  “The successful execution of this sale is credit
positive, even though deficit financings typically are
negative,” Moody’s said in the report by analyst Ted Hampton.  “While issuing bonds for operating costs underscores
Illinois’s financial weakness,” Moody’s said, selling the
pension bonds “would at least limit deterioration in the funded
status of the state’s pensions.”  Lawmakers may approve the pension borrowing during
sessions scheduled for Jan. 1 to Jan. 12, Moody’s said.  Illinois in 2009 had 50.6 percent of the assets needed to
meet its pension obligations to retired state workers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The other worst-funded states
were Oklahoma at 56.1 percent, Kentucky at 58.2 percent, New
Hampshire at 58.5 percent and Louisiana at 60 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  