-- U.S. Investment-Fraud Crackdown Nets More Than 300 Criminal Defendants
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-12-06T18:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/investment-fraud-arrests-of-500-to-be-announced-today-under-u-s-crackdown.html
A crackdown on investment frauds
including Ponzi schemes and stock market manipulation resulted
in U.S. enforcement action against 343 criminal defendants and
189 civil defendants since August, the Justice Department said.  The criminal cases alone involved more than $8.3 billion in
estimated losses and more than 120,000 victims nationwide,
Attorney General  Eric Holder  said at a news conference in
Washington today.  “All of these victims can tell a tragic and cautionary
story of being misled and exploited -- often by someone they
trusted,” Holder said. “Many of the scam artists we’ve
identified were preying on their own neighbors -- and on the
most vulnerable members of their communities.”  The crackdown was organized by the Obama administration’s
multiagency  Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force , created a
year ago after the U.S. recession led to an increase in economic
crimes. The law enforcement operation is the first of its kind
to target a wide range of schemes that target investors,
according to the Justice Department.  Cases include a man who pleaded guilty in Texas for his
role in an oil and gas investment Ponzi scheme defrauding 7,700
investors of more than $485 million. In a case in Florida, a
defendant was convicted for an investment scam that targeted the
Haitian community.  Fraud Schemes Increasing  As more people turn to third parties to manage their money,
the frequency of the investment schemes rises, said  Robert Khuzami , director of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
enforcement division, at the news conference.  The criminal cases resulted in 64 arrests, according to the
Justice Department.  The Justice Department enforcement numbers also include
indictments, convictions and sentencings. In some cases the same
defendants faced civil and criminal enforcement actions,
according to the Justice Department.  In a Ponzi scheme, money from the newest investors is used
to fund the returns that have been promised to previous
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  