-- Iraq Oil Exports to Increase With New Offshore Facilities in Persian Gulf
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-12-06T14:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/iraq-oil-exports-to-increase-with-new-offshore-facilities-in-persian-gulf.html
Iraq’s oil exports will increase next
year when two new offshore mooring facilities for tankers are
completed and the country’s Kurdish region resumes shipments of
crude, Oil Minister  Hussain Shahristani  said.  Shahristani also told reporters in Baghdad today that a
$12.5 billion agreement between Iraq,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and
 Mitsubishi Corp.  for the capture of flared-off natural gas will
not be ready this week.  Lawyers representing the companies and the government will
meet tomorrow to discuss the final draft of the agreement, which
still requires approval from Iraq’s Council of Ministers, he
said.  While Iraq generates most of its revenue from oil sales,
the government is seeking to produce gas as fuel for power
plants and for export. The country awarded licenses in October
in its first auction of gas concessions since the U.S.-led
invasion that ousted  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.  Iraq has the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves, excluding
oil in its semi-autonomous northern Kurdish territory, and its
gas reserves rank fifth in size in the Middle East, according to
data from BP Plc.  The Kurdistan Regional Government told the central
government that it was ready to export 150,000 barrels of oil a
day in 2011 through a pipeline to Turkey, Shahristani said.
Kurdistan’s oil exports will be handled by the  State Oil
Marketing Organization .  Repaying Expenses  Iraq’s central government may reimburse some of the
expenses of companies that have signed contracts with Kurdish
authorities, with ownership of those assets transferring over to
the government in Baghdad, he said.  “The companies can present invoices for costs on equipment
or drilled wells in Iraq, and     if they are reasonable, like the
ones signed by the Oil Ministry with other companies, the costs
will be paid and the ownership will be transferred to Iraq,”
Shahristani said.  Oil supplies from the Kurdish region of northern Iraq
halted a year ago after it failed to agree with the central
government about how to pay operators including  DNO
International ASA  and Addax Petroleum Corp.  “Iraq’s oil production is rising steadily, but our export
facilities are still not up to the required capacity to absorb
production levels,” he said. “There are four offshore moorings
under construction in southern Iraq, and when two of them start
working next year, crude exports will rise.”  Doubling Capacity  Iraq plans to start work in mid-December on offshore oil
facilities in the south, where export capacity is due to more
than double by mid-2012, the head of the state-owned  South Oil
Co.  said on Nov. 26. Export capacity will increase to 4.5
million barrels a day by mid-2012 from the current 1.8 million
barrels a day, Director General Dhia Jaafar al-Musawi said.  The country plans to build two offshore “megapipelines”
and three single-buoy moorings where tankers can load crude in
the Persian Gulf. Each mooring will add some 900,000 barrels a
day in offshore loading capacity. Half of the surveying and the
clearing away of unexploded munitions required for this
expansion has been done, al-Musawi said.  Iraq exported 58.7 million barrels, or about 1.89 million
barrels a day, in October, the State Oil Marketing Organization
said. The exports generated the highest revenue this year with
$4.526 billion.  Pipeline to Syria  Iraq and Syria have completed technical talks about a
planned pipeline for transporting Iraqi oil to Mediterranean
ports, AlWatan daily reported, citing an official speaking with
the Kurdistan Independent News Agency. The results of the talks
were positive, and Iraqi officials will report on the
discussions within three days, the Damascus-based newspaper
reported, citing comments by an adviser to the Iraqi government,
Salam Al-Quraishi, talking to AKNEWS, the Kurdish news agency.  The 225-kilometer (140-mile) pipeline would transport Iraqi
crude across Syria to the Mediterranean Sea and have an export
capacity of about 1.7 million barrels of oil a day, he said.  A pipeline with a capacity of 600,000 barrels a day already
links Iraq’s northern oil fields in Kirkuk to the Mediterranean
port of Ceyhan, Turkey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  