-- Israeli Forest Fire Is Almost Extinguished as Death Toll Increases to 42
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-12-06T09:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/israeli-forest-fire-almost-out-with-one-blaze-left-death-toll-rises-to-42.html
The Israeli forest fire that took 42
lives and forced some 17,000 people to flee their homes is
almost extinguished, with only one small blaze left to put out,
police said.  Firemen remain on standby in the country’s north, police
spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said by phone today. He confirmed that
a senior police officer died after suffering critical injuries
as she tried to rescue passengers from a burning bus on Dec. 2,
bringing the death toll from the fire to 42.  The blaze destroyed more than 10,000 acres (4,050 hectares)
of forest and has been described by officials as the worst in
the country’s history. It forced Israel to call on allies to
send firefighting support, receiving more than 30 firefighting
aircraft from countries including the U.S., Greece, Turkey and
Russia. The aircraft began departing last night.  The daily  Ma’ariv  yesterday estimated fire damage at 985
million shekels ($272 million), without saying how it did the
calculation. The government doesn’t yet have an estimate, Shlomi
Sheffer, a Finance Ministry spokesman, said by phone.  The  Welfare Ministry  has allotted about 500 million shekels
to municipalities affected by the fire, said Pnina Ben Ami, a
spokeswoman. The Finance Ministry set aside several million
shekels to help local governments, minister  Yuval Steinitz’s 
office said in an e-mailed statement today.  Most damage to private property is insured and the
insurance companies are covered by reinsurance policies, the
Finance Ministry said on Dec. 3. Most of the damage to public
property is also insured, it said.  ‘Fiasco’  “There hasn’t been such a fiasco since the establishment
of the state,” Haim Klein, a former police superintendent, said
on Army Radio. “We don’t need an inquiry. We need to launch a
criminal investigation for criminal negligence.”  Interior Minister  Eli Yishai , who is responsible for the
fire department, said on Army Radio: “I don’t remember any
other minister fighting as much as I have for a budget
increase.”  Two people under the age of 18 were arrested yesterday on
suspicion of starting the fire, Rosenfeld said, adding that the
blaze appeared to be caused by negligence and not arson.  The fire began in the Carmel hills south of Haifa, a city
with a population of 266,000, and exceptionally dry conditions
helped it spread rapidly. About 12,500 acres of forest have been
destroyed, Efi Stenzler, chairman of the Jewish National Fund,
which plants trees in Israel, told Channel 2 television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at   lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 