-- Ivory Coast Rival Cabinet May Welcome Gbagbo Allies
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-06T17:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ivory-coast-opposition-offers-gbagbo-s-ministers-talks-on-power-sharing.html
The government of the  United Nations-
backed  winner of Ivory Coast’s Nov. 28 election said it’s
willing to include allies of  Laurent Gbagbo , who defied the
Electoral Commission and claimed victory.  “There will be no witch hunts,”  Guillaume Soro , who
resigned as Gbagbo’s prime minister last week and joined the
rival Cabinet of  Alassane Ouattara  as premier and defense
minister, told Europe1 radio today. “If Laurent Gbagbo agrees
to peacefully transfer power, ministers of his party will be
welcome.”  Gbagbo, 65, the incumbent, was sworn in as president on
Dec. 4 after the Constitutional Council rejected the Electoral
Commission’s vote count, alleging irregularities in some
northern states. Hours later, Ouattara, 68, said he had taken
the oath of office, citing the 54.1 percent of the vote the
commission says he won. The European Union and the U.S. have
also backed Ouattara.  “We are in the logic of confiscation of power,” said
Soro, the former commander of rebel forces in the north. “The
alternation of power must be allowed.”  Curfew Extended  The election was meant to unite the world’s top cocoa
grower, which has been divided into a rebel-held north and
government-controlled south since a 2002 uprising. The dispute
over the results produced an increase in violence that has left
several dead, with Ouattara supporters taking to the streets in
protest. A curfew that was instituted before the vote was
extended for another week, Radiodiffusion Television Ivoirienne
reported today.  Cocoa for March delivery surged 4.5 percent to $3,068 as of
11:56 a.m. in New York today. Cargill Inc. said it is
“experiencing some challenges both in terms of delivery of beans
and logistics on the ground,” Stephen Fairbairn, Cobham,
England-based head of communications said in a phone interview
today.  “A president was elected and it’s Alassane Ouattara,”
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told a press conference in New
Delhi, India, today. “I have called Gbagbo once on the
telephone. I told him that it was up to him to choose what place
he wants to have in history.”  Economic growth in Ivory Coast has averaged 1.1 percent in
the eight years since the conflict started as the cocoa-
dependent country missed out on the wave of foreign investment
in Africa from such nations as China. Gbagbo’s supporters hold
Ouattara, 68, responsible for the revolt, a charge he denies.  Army Support  The leaders of the armed forces in the former French colony
have backed Gbagbo.  “The international community does not choose for the
Ivorians,” Pierre Kipre, the country’s ambassador to France,
said in an interview with Europe1. “Let the Ivorians make their
own decision. It is essential that the Ivorian army provide
security.”  Gbagbo has held onto key support within the country from
National Assembly lawmakers and leaders of the armed forces,
said  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah , chief analyst with DaMina Advisors
in New York.  “He still maintains the levers of power in Abidjan and has
the xenophobic and nationalistic youth militias ready to unleash
mayhem,” he said in an e-mailed note today.  Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s largest gold mining
company, suspended operations at its Bonikro mine in Ivory Coast
over the weekend because of political unrest. Randgold Resources
said its Tongon mine in the country is operating normally.  AU Mediation  Former South African President  Thabo Mbeki  went to the
Ivory Coast yesterday to mediate an agreement between the two
sides. He was appointed by the African Union after he led
previous mediation efforts during the uprising. He will leave
today and give a report to the Addis Ababa-based AU, his
spokesman Mukoni Ratshitanga said today.  “Mbeki will try and get both sides to the negotiating
table, most likely to form some sort of broad-based inclusive
government,” said Rolake Akinola, an independent Africa analyst.
“Ouattara’s side, and indeed Gbagbo’s side will likely adopt a
wait-and-see approach to the mediation efforts, but only for a
short while, before seeking to up the ante through threats of a
return to war or violent protests,” she said in an e-mailed from
London today.  Clashes between the rival camps have claimed the lives of
18 people in Abidjan alone over the past three days,  Amadou Coulibaly , a spokesman for Ouattara’s party, said late
yesterday. Sporadic gunfire could be heard in the city
yesterday.  Looting, Deaths  Six people died and four were seriously wounded in the
central cocoa-producing town of Issia on Dec. 3, after pro-
Gbagbo youths attacked shops owned by Ouattara supporters and
looted a cocoa-bean warehouse, according to an opposition
official who did not want to be identified for fear of
reprisals.  Local officials at the Red Cross declined to comment on the
reports of violence. Gendarmerie spokesman Ange Nouko didn’t
answer calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  The country’s borders, which were sealed off on Dec. 2,
will reopen today, army spokesman Hilaire Gohourou said in a
statement read on state television.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 