-- J-E-T-S Coach Rex Ryan’s Four Words Top F Bombs: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-12-06T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/jets-coach-rex-ryan-s-four-words-top-f-bombs-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
New York Jets fans, under the
direction of cheer conductor  Fireman Ed , like to focus their
game-day attention on four letters.  “J-E-T-S.” Over and over and over. “J-E-T-S, Jets, Jets,
Jets” reverberates inside the stadium, especially when things
are going well for Coach  Rex Ryan ’s guys in green.  Ryan would prefer that his players stay focused on four
words, which we’ll get to in a moment, not on four letters. And,
no, none of them are of the four-letter variety, even though
Ryan has demonstrated an affinity for F bombs, a few of which
might be tossed from the stands tonight when the Jets visit the
rival New England Patriots with first place in the AFC East at
stake.  Speaking of winning, Duke basketball’s  Mike Krzyzewski , one
of the most respected and successful coaches in team sports,
likes to use the same four words as Ryan. He considers them the
most important words in all of sports.  Worth noting is that these four words were the last thing
Coach K, as Krzyzewski is known, uttered to  Christian Laettner 
and  Grant Hill  before they perfectly executed one of the most
improbable and thrilling plays in college basketball history.  “I believe in you,” Coach K told them. Hence, they
believed that a ball could be thrown the length of the court,
corralled and converted all in 2.1 seconds. Here were two of the
most talented and  accomplished  players in college basketball
that season and Krzyzewski still felt the need to issue that
reminder. Hill once told me that, at that moment, it mattered to
hear those words.  Message Delivered  It’s the same message Ryan has delivered since he took over
as Jets head coach last year. He believes. In himself. And his
players, who, in turn, believe in their coach and themselves.  “Belief,” says  Tony Dungy , who coached the Indianapolis
Colts to a  Super Bowl  win, “is so much a part of this game.”  Any game.  Dungy, a devout Christian, earlier this season criticized
Ryan, saying he wouldn’t hire a coach with a penchant for
punctuating his remarks with foul language. Even so, even Dungy
says Ryan’s yes-we-will credo has rubbed off on the players.  “The best thing he has done has made those guys
confident,” Dungy said. “They’re a group that strongly
believes they’re going to win the Super Bowl.”  Belief.  If any professional football team needed a dose of
confidence it was the Jets, who, more often than not, found a
way to lose.  Well, it seems Murphy’s Law has been replaced by Rex’s
Rule.  Gotta Believe  Ask 36-year-old  Jason Taylor , who decided that he’d like to
return for a 15th National Football League season. On one
condition, that is -- that he play for Ryan.  I believe in you. Sounds simple. And yet, it’s so often
overlooked.  Give credit to Ryan for knowing that even professional
athletes need a reminder of just how good they are or how good
they can be. Even the pros, the best at what they do, aren’t
immune to self-doubt.  Professional athletes work their bodies. Ryan works their
brains. It’s just as important as Xs and Os and blitz schemes.  One might think that Ryan, with nothing of consequence on
his resume, might demonstrate a bit of reverence for the likes
of New England’s  Bill Belichick , the only coach in NFL history
to win three Super Bowls in a four-year span.  Going Rogue  Forget reverence. Ryan chose rogue, instead, saying
repeatedly that his job is to kick Belichick’s you know what.
Ryan is 2-1 against New England as coach of the Jets, who beat
the Patriots, 28-14, in the second game of the season.  Talk to veteran running back  LaDainian Tomlinson , in his
first season with the Jets after nine years carrying the ball
for the San Diego Chargers.  Tomlinson says that Ryan tirelessly and endlessly preaches
Super Bowl to his players. Not a day goes by that Ryan isn’t
reminding his players that he believes they’re the best. Not a
single day.  “So hard not to believe him,” Tomlinson said.  Belief.  Players are so used to uptight coaches with all their
rules. Like, say, Belichick, who wasn’t pleased earlier this
season when his quarterback,  Tom Brady , said he hated the Jets.  Brady earlier this week was asked by reporters if he still
felt that way about the Jets. “I promised Coach Belichick I
wouldn’t say anything derogatory,” Brady said. “So I have no
comment.”  Ryan, by contrast, will comment on anything at anytime.
He’s made grand predictions, donned a wig and elevated boasting
to an art form. The coach in him demands fundamentals, yes. But
he mandates, fun, too.  “It’s the NFL turned on its head,” said NBC analyst and
former wide receiver  Cris Collinsworth .  What better proof of an upside-down NFL than the Jets in
the Super Bowl? Could it happen?  You better believe it. Thanks to their coach, the Jets do.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  