-- Jets-Patriots to Challenge Favre's Return as Cable's Most-Watched Program
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/jets-patriots-to-challenge-favre-s-return-as-cable-s-most-watched-program.html
The “Monday Night Football” game
between the New York Jets and New England Patriots will
challenge  Brett Favre ’s return to Green Bay as the most-watched
program in U.S. cable television history.  Tonight’s game at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough,
Massachusetts, is the fourth time in 40 years that two National
Football League teams with 9-2 records or better will meet in
the nationally televised Monday night game.  With franchises from two of the U.S.’s biggest media
markets playing for first place in the division and the NFL’s
best record, television analysts say the audience might exceed
the 21.8 million viewers who watched in October 2009 to see
Favre face his former Packers teammates as Minnesota’s
quarterback.  “This rivalry is kind of like the Yankees and Red Sox for
football now,”  Brad Adgate , senior vice president and director
of research at New York-based advertising company  Horizon Media
Inc ., said in a telephone interview. “The best thing that could
happen is if it’s a really nasty night in the northeast and it’s
a close game.  The NFL’s “Monday Night Football” series moved to cable
television in 2006, shifting to ESPN from ABC, both of which are
owned by  Walt Disney Co ., the world’s biggest media company.  Disney shares are up about 16 percent in 2010, and fourth-
quarter profit of 50 cents a share excluding restructuring and
impairment costs beat analysts’ estimates.  Patriots Prediction  Patriots owner  Robert Kraft , a member of the NFL’s
broadcast committee, told reporters Nov. 29 in Boston that he’d
be surprised if the game on ESPN isn’t among the top-rated
programs in cable TV history. Adgate said the Jets-Patriots
clash should top the year’s Monday night high of 17.9 million
viewers for the Oct. 25 game between the New York Giants and
Dallas Cowboys.  “This will certainly surpass that and can do 20 million,”
Adgate said from his New York office. “Will it become the most-
watched cable program ever? It’s definitely got a shot.” The
last time teams with better records played in a Monday night
game was Dec. 3, 1990, when the San Francisco 49ers beat the New
York Giants 7-3 in a matchup of 10-1 clubs.  In this season’s first game between the American Football
Conference Eastern Division rivals, the Jets beat the Patriots
28-14 at home during Week 2 on Sept. 19. At stake this time is
an advantage in the race for the division title, which may yield
a first-round bye in the playoffs.  “The only way it would be better is if it was the last
game of the year,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan , 47, said during a news
conference, referring to the Super Bowl. “This is huge.”  Seventeenth Meeting  According to the NFL, it’s the 17th time since the merger
in 1970 that two teams with records of 9-2 or better --according
to winning percentage -- have played. Ten of the first 16
matchups featured the eventual Super Bowl champion.  The Jets are 5-0 away from home this season, and have won
eight straight regular-season road games. New England
quarterback  Tom Brady  has led the team to 25 consecutive
regular-season home victories dating back to 2006. The last time
Brady lost at Gillette Stadium during the regular season was on
Nov. 12, 2006 -- against the Jets.  Brady, when asked whether he watched the Jets on HBO’s
“Hard Knocks” training-camp reality program, said, “I hate
the Jets.” He also said he never watched it.  “It’s probably the most intense rivalry we have because of
the history,” he said. “There’s been a lot of back and forth
between the teams. I think our fans sort of like the intensity
and the bashing.”  One-Day Coach  Patriots coach  Bill Belichick , 58, was the Jets coach in
2000 for one day. He was promoted from assistant head coach to
succeed Bill Parcells, then abruptly quit with a note on a piece
of loose-leaf paper: “I resign as HC of NYJ.” He then was
hired to coach the Patriots.  In the 2007 “Spygate” scandal, Belichick was fined
$500,000 and the team $250,000 for the videotaping of Jets’
defensive coaches signals during a game early in the season.
Jets fans began calling him “Belicheat.”  New York is the nation’s No. 1 media market, according to
Nielsen Co., while Boston ranks seventh.  Even so, Monday night’s game might not have the national
storyline to compete with Favre’s return to Green Bay as a
visiting player after spending 16 years with the Packers,
according to  Frank Hawkins , a founding partner of Scalar Media
Partners, LLC, a New York-based consulting group.  “The Patriots over the past 10 years have been a good
story, but I don’t know that they draw the depth in non-New
England markets that some others do,” Hawkins, the NFL’s former
senior vice president of business affairs, said in a telephone
interview.  Match for Giants  Hawkins said the ratings for the game may be comparable to
the Giants’ 41-35 Monday night win over Dallas in which Cowboys
quarterback  Tony Romo  broke his collarbone. ESPN may also
benefit from not having this week’s game compete with ABC’s
“Dancing With the Stars” contest, which ended Nov. 23.  “The stage is set,” Patriots receiver  Deion Branch  said
during a conference call with reporters. “Two teams coming in
undefeated --one on the road and one at home. It’s Monday night
football. And I think the rivalry speaks for itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  