-- Johnson & Johnson Warned on Levaquin Risk, Lawyer Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2010-12-06T17:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/johnson-johnson-properly-warned-on-antibiotic-levaquin-lawyer-says.html
Johnson & Johnson  didn’t hide the
risk of tendon damage linked to its antibiotic Levaquin and
properly warned doctors, a lawyer for the drugmaker told jurors
at the end of a trial in Minnesota.  “The information was not concealed,”  John Dames , a J&J
attorney, said today in his closing argument in federal court in
Minneapolis. “We provide warnings that give doctors the means
to care adequately for their patients.”  John Schedin, 82, sued in 2008, claiming he ruptured the
Achilles tendons in both feet after taking the drug. Schedin
claims J&J and its Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit
failed to warn doctors and patients of Levaquin’s association
with tendon damage.  Schedin’s case is the first trial on more than 2,600 claims
in U.S. courts alleging that Levaquin caused tendon damage in
patients taking the drug and J&J failed to adequately disclose
the risk. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2008 required
an upgraded warning on tendon damage posed by Levaquin and
similar drugs.  The plaintiffs claim the warning should have been enhanced
earlier and remains inadequate. They also claim J&J and Ortho-
McNeil-Janssen boosted sales by downplaying risks.  “They obfuscated and manipulated the truth for profit,”
 Mikal Watts , Schedin’s lawyer, said in his closing argument
today. “It was a one-drug franchise that was crucial to the
health of this company.”  Schedin claims Ortho-McNeil violated Minnesota’s consumer
fraud act by concealing or misrepresenting information. The jury
of eight men and four women will first consider liability and
his claim for unspecified actual damages. Schedin is also
seeking punitive damages.  “There is no proof that Levaquin caused Mr. Schedin’s
tendon rupture,” Dames said today. “There is no proof that
Levaquin has more risk of tendon rupture” than similar drugs,
he said.  Warning Enhanced  The FDA in 2008 required J&J and makers of other drugs in
the class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones to include a
“black box,” or enhanced warning on the risk of tendon
ruptures. The risk was higher in patients older than 60, those
taking steroids, and recipients of kidney, heart or lung
transplants, the FDA said.  “When the black box eventually happened, they studied it
and estimated it was going to cost them $700 million a year,”
Watts said today. “They didn’t want to part with $700 million a
year.”  Schedin was prescribed Levaquin and a steroid for an upper
respiratory infection in 2005, according to his complaint.  “Prior to his Levaquin-induced bilateral Achilles tendon
rupture, he was vigorous and active for his age,” his lawyers
said in a Nov. 14 filing. “He has never fully recovered and is
now severely restricted in his activities.”  His doctor would have prescribed another antibiotic had he
known “about the risks associated with Levaquin, especially
when taken together with steroids,” Schedin said in court
papers.  “Levaquin is a life-saving drug,” defense attorney Dames
said today. “That opinion was shared by all of the experts who
testified in this case.”  The lawsuit is Schedin v. Johnson & Johnson, 08-cv-05743,
combined for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Beth Hawkins  in Minneapolis, Minnesota, at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 