-- Judges in Embryonic Stem-Cell Appeal Question Government Studies' Legality
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-06T17:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/judges-in-embryonic-stem-cell-appeal-question-government-studies-legality.html
U.S. funding of human embryonic stem
cell studies violates the law and must be stopped, a lawyer for
two scientists told a federal appeals court whose judges
questioned the legality of the research.  The scientists’ attorney,  Thomas Hungar , sought to persuade
the three-judge panel to halt the flow of federal funds for
research where human embryos are injured or destroyed. A lower
court judge, who ruled the research violated the 1996 Dickey-
Wicker Amendment limiting stem-cell research, had put an
immediate, temporary bar on funding while resolving the case.
The U.S. appealed that ruling.  “There’s no question they are trying to, and are,
incentivizing the destruction of embryos in violation of the
amendment,” said Hungar.  A lawyer for the Justice Department, Beth Brinkmann, said
the spending is legal because stem cell lines used in the
research were created outside the government.  Without the ability to support research on embryonic stem
cell lines, the government said several years of progress on
finding cures for diseases and disorders will be lost and
scientists will look to other countries such as Singapore and
China to continue their work.  U.S. District Judge  Royce Lamberth  in Washington on Aug. 23
ordered the U.S. Health and Human Services Department and the
National Institutes of Health to stop funding embryonic stem
cell research.  Research Grants  In fiscal year 2010, NIH spent about $200 million to fund
more than 200 human embryo research grants, the Justice
Department and the institutes’ director,  Francis Collins , said
in court papers. Embryonic stem cells can grow into any of the
200 types of cells in the human body. Scientists say these cells
have the potential to be used to repair those damaged by injury
or disease.  The appeals court in September put Lamberth’s injunction
against funding on hold until it reviewed his decision.  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 10-5287, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 