-- Kan Says Difficult to Form Japan Coalition With Liberal Democratic Party
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-12-06T10:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/kan-says-difficult-to-form-japan-coalition-with-liberal-democratic-party.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said it
would be “difficult” for his  Democratic Party of Japan  to form
a coalition government with the main opposition Liberal
Democratic Party without public support.  Kan, speaking at a press conference in Tokyo marking the
close of this year’s parliament session, said he was reaching
out to former coalition partner  Social Democratic Party  to help
pass legislation. While the DPJ ousted the LDP from half a
century of almost unbroken government control in August 2009 it
lost control of the upper house of parliament in July.  Teaming up with the Liberal Democrats “would be difficult
unless the public comes to feel it’s necessary and acceptable,”
Kan said, adding that he’s not “absolutely opposed” to the idea.  His six months in office have been marked by struggles to
cope with deflation and a strong yen while trying to resolve
diplomatic rows with China and Russia. The administration’s
handling of the disputes has helped send his popularity
plummeting by two-thirds. Kan today ruled out a Cabinet
reshuffle to re-energize his government.  Kan needs the support of some opposition groups to
implement next year’s budget, to be compiled this month, at a
time of rising antagonism to his administration.  Censure Motion  The upper house last month passed a non-binding censure
motion against Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  for his
handling of the collision of a Chinese fishing boat with two
Japanese Coast Guard vessels, which soured relations between
Asia’s two biggest economies. Opposition lawmakers accused
Sengoku of arranging for the release of the fishing boat captain
after his 17-day detention in an attempt to placate China.  Kan earlier today met with SDP leader  Mizuho Fukushima  to
discuss cooperation on the budget. While the party supported
legislation to fund Kan’s 5.1 trillion yen ($61.5 billion)
stimulus plan, Fukushima today said her party opposes a DPJ
proposal to relax the country’s ban on exporting military
weapons.  Kan at today’s press conference reiterated his resolve to
maintain the cap of new government bond issuance next fiscal
year at no more than this year’s record level of 44 trillion yen.  Kan’s approval ratings dropped to 25 percent from 64
percent in June, according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll published
today. More than 80 percent of respondents said his government
isn’t managing the economy appropriately. The paper surveyed
1,053 voters between Dec. 5-7 and didn’t provide a margin of
error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  