-- Kellogg Names Bryant to Succeed Retiring Mackay as Cereal Maker's Chief
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   C h r i s   S t a i t i
-- 2010-12-06T15:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/kellogg-names-bryant-chief-executive-to-succeed-mackay-who-retires-ay-55.html
Kellogg Co. , the largest U.S. maker
of breakfast cereals, named  John A. Bryant  president and chief
executive officer after  David Mackay  announced his retirement.  Bryant will assume his new roles on Jan. 2, the day after
Mackay, 55, retires from the company, Kellogg said today in a
statement. Bryant, chief operating officer of Battle Creek,
Michigan-based Kellogg, joined the company in 1998. He has led
the North America and international divisions and served as
chief financial officer.  Kellogg is facing slumping demand for cereal after a June
recall and heightened competition. It plans to introduce new
products, including Crunchy Nut cereal and Special K with Oats
and Honey, to boost demand amid rising costs for commodities
such as wheat and sugar as well as weak consumer spending.  “Making the transition on Jan. 1 is rather abrupt, and it
goes back to the miserable year that Kellogg has delivered for
shareholders,”  David Kolpak , who helps oversee $42 billion at
Cleveland-based Victory Capital Management, said in a telephone
interview. “I respect the board’s urgency to address this
issue.” His firm’s holdings include Kellogg stock.  Kellogg, maker of Pop-Tarts and Frosted Flakes cereal, cut
its 2010 earnings forecast in October for the second time this
year. Third-quarter profit dropped 6.4 percent to $338 million
on declining sales, Kellogg said Nov. 2. The cereal maker today
reaffirmed its forecasts for 2010 and 2011.  “This past summer, I became eligible to retire and made a
commitment to spend more time with my family,” Mackay said in
the statement. He was president and CEO for the past four years
and will stay with the company through March 31, Kellogg said.  ‘Cost Inflation’  Kellogg  rose 1 cent to $49.51 at 10:48 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock had declined 7
percent this year before today.  Kris Charles , a spokeswoman, declined to say whether the
Kellogg board looked at candidates outside the company to
succeed Mackay.  Bryant, 45, faces challenges including surging costs for
raw ingredients, which has led rivals such as  General Mills Inc. 
to raise prices on some products.  “While cost inflation is looming, Kellogg is pushing
prices up and reducing its promotional spending particularly in
cereal, cookies, and crackers,”  Christopher Growe , an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a note to clients today. The
St. Louis-based analyst recommends buying the shares.  Eric Serotta  of Wells Fargo Securities said in a note that
“weak consumer spending” could limit Kellogg’s ability to
increase sales in 2011, even as it introduces new products. The
New York-based analyst rates the shares “market perform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .
 Chris Staiti  in Boston at 
 cstaiti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  