-- KKR, Morgan Stanley to Bid on New Jersey Parking Lots
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-06T22:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/kkr-morgan-stanley-cintra-are-among-bidders-for-new-jersey-parking-lease.html
New Jersey Transit Corp., operator of
the third-largest U.S. public bus and rail system, selected
seven teams, including ones led by  KKR & Co ., Morgan Stanley and
Macquarie Capital, to bid for rights to lease the agency’s
parking lots.  The seven teams were chosen from 10 that applied, said
 Penny Bassett Hackett , a New Jersey Transit spokeswoman. Others
named include Cintra Concesiones de Infraestructures de
Transporte SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Carlyle Infrastructure
Partners. Parking facilities include those in Princeton
Junction, Hamilton and a 3,718-space garage at the Metropark
rail station in Woodbridge.  The teams will bid in March on how much they would pay New
Jersey Transit for the right to operate and retain revenue from
81 parking lots and structures for 30 to 50 years.  James Weinstein , New Jersey Transit’s executive director, plans to
discuss the bidding at the agency’s regular board meeting in
Newark Dec. 9, Bassett Hackett said.  Indianapolis, Pittsburgh and Los Angeles are also
considering parking leases to raise money for budgets starved by
a decline in general-fund revenue that was the largest since
1986 in the year that ended in June, according to the  National
League of Cities .  “It’s critical that we pursue innovative ways to improve
parking for customers while addressing the growing cost of
operating parking facilities,” Weinstein said in an e-mailed
statement.  Confirming Interest  Paula Chirhart , a spokeswoman in New York for Sydney-based
 Macquarie Group Ltd. , confirmed her company’s involvement and
declined to comment further.  Michelle Ong , a Carlyle spokeswoman
in Washington, declined comment.  Kristi Huller  of KKR in New
York didn’t have an immediate comment when reached today by
telephone.  Erica Platt  of Morgan Stanley declined to comment.  Justin Perras  of JPMorgan and  Patrick Rhode  of Cintra, a unit of
Madrid-based  Ferrovial SA , didn’t immediately respond to
messages seeking comment.  A team comprised of Morgan Stanley, Allianz Capital
Partners and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority paid Chicago
$1.15 billion in 2008 for a 75-year parking-meter lease. The
partners may earn a profit of $9.6 billion before interest,
taxes and depreciation over the life of the contract, documents
filed for a July sale of notes show. So-called Ebidta is a
measure used by analysts and investors to evaluate
infrastructure leases, according to the documents. Other costs
may affect the eventual profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 