-- N.J. Turnpike Sells Bonds as Rates Approach Eight-Month High: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-06T17:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/n-j-turnpike-sells-build-americas-as-rates-near-8-month-high-muni-credit.html
The  New Jersey Turnpike Authority ,
which gives about $26 million a year to the state’s transport
budget, is selling $1.5 billion in Build America Bonds, the
week’s largest offering, as increased sales of the taxable debt
pushed yields to the highest in almost eight months.  States and local governments are set to sell about $12.6
billion in debt this week, including $4.2 billion in Build
Americas, both the highest in  three weeks , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The program, scheduled to expire Dec. 31,
provides a 35 percent federal interest-rate subsidy to issuers.  With supply surging, average yields on the bonds  climbed to
6.26 percent  on Dec. 3, the highest since April 8, according to
the Wells Fargo Build America Bond index. Even amid the glut,
the size of the deal and the reliability of the revenue stream
may entice investors, said  Mike Pietronico , chief executive
officer of Miller Tabak Asset Management in New York.  “To get north to south in New Jersey you almost have to
take the Turnpike by car,” said Pietronico, who oversees $345
million in municipal assets. “It’s a solid credit and will see
some decent demand.”  The authority, which runs the 122-mile (196-kilometer) New
Jersey Turnpike and 173-mile Garden State Parkway, is rated A3
by Moody’s Investors Service, its fourth-lowest investment
grade, A by Fitch Ratings, fifth-lowest, and A+ by Standard &
Poor’s, sixth-lowest.  Moody’s assigned a negative outlook in its rating report,
its first by a ratings company since Fitch lowered its outlook
from stable in 2004.  Program Extension  A one-year extension to the U.S. Build America Bond program
was included in a Senate bill to continue the tax cuts for
middle-income Americans, enacted during President  George W. Bush’s  first term. The bill was quashed in procedural votes over
the weekend.  U.S. Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus,  a
Montana Democrat,  included the provision  along with dozens of
other tax breaks set to end. A continuation of the bond program
hadn’t been contained in previous bills to prolong the income-
tax cuts, the dominant issue facing Congress before the current
session concludes.  The Build America program was created under President
 Barack Obama ’s economic-stimulus program. More than $173
billion of the taxable securities have been sold, Bloomberg data
show. The subsidy would have been scaled back to 32 percent
under the Senate bill.  “The BAB’s program is set to expire on Dec. 31, and the
authority wants to avail itself of the 35 percent BAB’s
subsidy,” Tom Feeney, a spokesman for New Jersey’s Turnpike
agency, said in an e-mail.  Previous Sales  The agency’s sale equals the second-biggest offering of
Build Americas this year. The Bay Area Toll Authority and the
Texas Transportation Commission sold $1.5 billion in June and
July, respectively.  California  sold $3.3 billion last month.  The turnpike authority’s previous Build America sale was an
almost $1.4 billion offering in April 2009. Bonds due in January
2040 were priced to yield 7.41 percent, or 370 basis points
above U.S. Treasuries maturing in May 2038. The securities
traded Dec. 2 at an average yield of 6.22 percent, a so-called
spread of about 185 basis points above the federal debt. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  “They come down on the side of being able to benefit due
to their size,” Miller Tabak’s Pietronico said. Even if
Congress doesn’t extend the Build America program, the turnpike
issue “might have some scarcity factor and retain its value,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  