-- NBA Reaches Agreement to Buy Hornets From Majorty Owner Shinn, AP Reports
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-12-06T05:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/nba-reaches-agreement-to-buy-hornets-from-majorty-owner-shinn-ap-reports.html
The National Basketball Association
has reached an agreement to purchase the New Orleans Hornets
from  George Shinn  and oversee a sale to a more permanent owner,
the Associated Press reported.  Sports attorney  Jac Sperling  will be the NBA’s
administrator for the Hornets, who would be the first team owned
by the league, AP said, citing an unidentified person familiar
with the decision. Sperling is vice chairman of the National
Hockey League’s Minnesota Wild.  NBA spokesman Tim Frank said in an e-mail that the league
has no comment on the report.  Talks between Shinn and Louisiana native Gary Chouest, who
owns 35 percent of the Hornets, have been stalled for months, AP
said. It’s unclear whether Chouest, whose business supplies
vessels for the oil industry in the Gulf of Mexico, will retain
his stake in the Hornets when the NBA takes over, the report
said. Sperling would oversee the sale of the Hornets and it’s
not known if Chouest remains interested in assuming a majority
stake, AP said.  The Hornets have been based in New Orleans since team
founder Shinn moved them from Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2002.
They have a 13-7 record after last night’s 109-84 loss in San
Antonio. Through 10 home games, the Hornets are averaging 13,860
fans, the fourth-worst attendance in the NBA.  The Hornets’ lease at New Orleans Arena runs through 2014,
though the team could break it if average home attendance drops
under 14,735 over a two-year period, AP said.  Shinn, 69, had prostate cancer surgery last year and wants
to sell the Hornets to focus on other endeavors, including
charitable efforts to fight cancer, AP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 