-- NBA to Purchase New Orleans Hornets After Chouest Decides Against Buying
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-12-06T22:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/nba-to-purchase-new-orleans-hornets-after-minority-owner-chouest-backs-out.html
The National Basketball Association
said it would buy the New Orleans Hornets after owner  George Shinn  cited financial troubles and unsuccessful negotiations
with minority owner Gary Chouest.  Shinn, 49, and the league reached an agreement that allows
the NBA to run the team until a new owner can be found,
Commissioner  David Stern  said today in a press release.  The transaction would make the Hornets the NBA’s first
league-owned team. It’s subject to a vote by the NBA Board of
Governors, which will most likely occur next week, the release
said.  “I wanted to ensure that the team remained in New Orleans,
if that was possible, and recognized that the league could
provide the necessary funding while a new owner was sought in
New Orleans and negotiations with the city and the state could
continue,” Shinn said in the release.  Chouest, who owns 35 percent of the Hornets, originally
planned to buy the team. Those negotiations have stalled for
months, the Associated Press reported. It is unclear whether
Chouest, whose business supplies vessels for the oil industry in
the Gulf of Mexico, remains interested the assuming a majority
state, AP said.  “New Orleans owes a debt of gratitude to George for
bringing NBA basketball back to the city,” Chouest said in the
release. “I have greatly enjoyed the experience with the
Hornets and, of course, will continue to support the team.”  Charlotte Birth  Shinn founded the Hornets in Charlotte, North Carolina, in
1988 and moved them to New Orleans in 2002. The Hornets opened
the 2010 season 8-0 and are currently 13-7, four games behind
the San Antonio Spurs in the Western Conference’s Southwest
Division. Through 10 home games, the Hornets are averaging
13,860 fans, the fourth-worst attendance in the NBA.  Jac Sperling , founder of Grit Rock Ventures LLC, an
investment company based on the sports and entertainment
businesses, will be the team’s chairman and governor. Sperling
is also the vice chairman of Minnesota Sports and Entertainment,
the parent company of the National Hockey League’s
Minnesota Wild.  The Hornets’ lease at New Orleans Arena runs through 2014,
though the team could break it if average home attendance drops
under 14,735 over a two-year period. Shinn had prostate cancer
surgery last year and wants to sell the Hornets to focus on
other endeavors, including charitable efforts to fight cancer,
AP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 