-- NCAA Considers Tightening Focus of College Football Recruiting Enforcement
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-12-06T18:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ncaa-considers-tightening-focus-of-college-football-recruiting-enforcement.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  may create a group to focus on college football
recruiting infractions, especially the funneling of money to
elite players, the agency’s enforcement chief said.  Such a group, which might take more than four months to put
together, would resemble the one created two years ago to
address concerns with men’s basketball recruiting, according to
Julie Roe Lach, the NCAA’s vice president of enforcement.  Five days after the Indianapolis-based NCAA cleared Auburn
University quarterback  Cam Newton  of wrongdoing in an alleged
pay-for-play demand organized by his father, Lach said a close
look was needed at how star players are recruited, while
refusing to discuss specific cases.  “We need to do some groundwork, grassroots effort to just
make sure we understand what’s going on in the football
recruiting environment,” Lach said in an interview in New York.  Lach, 35, said money going to top players and the rise in
seven-on-seven football tournaments funded by apparel companies
and other sponsors, which could be a breeding ground for
potential recruiting infractions, are areas of special interest.  “How widespread is it and is this becoming a situation
where recruiting violations are going to be occurring?” Lash
said. “That’s an example of something we need to figure out.”  The NCAA ruled on Dec. 1 that  Newton  was eligible to play
in the Southeastern Conference championship game after he was
found to have no knowledge of a situation involving his father
and the owner of a scouting service in which they demanded money
to determine where the quarterback would play.  Revised Rules  Lach said some recruiting regulations may need revision,
declining to specifically comment on the Newton case or any
other individual infraction.  “When you look at some of our agent rules and recruiting
rules, they were written at a time that didn’t contemplate all
these third-party interests that are involved in the recruiting
process,” she said. “Do we need to look at a penalty structure
that has liability on a student athlete, even if that student
athlete is not the direct actor?”  She compared the issue to changes in NCAA rules that now
hold head coaches responsible for creating an “atmosphere of
compliance” throughout a program’s staff, in essence holding
coaches responsible for their associates’ behavior.  Auburn beat the University of South Carolina 56-17 two days
ago for the conference championship and will play the University
of Oregon for the Bowl Championship Series national title on
Jan. 10. Newton, a leading contender for the Heisman Trophy as
college football’s top player, passed for four touchdowns and
ran for another two.  The six-member basketball focus group is part of an
enforcement division that has a staff of 46, including 23 major-
infraction investigators.  Basketball Database  The basketball group has created a database to show the
relationships among specific people, programs and athletes,
using sources ranging from coaches to social-media websites.  “We’ve seen some success not just in the generation of
leads and potential cases, but a better understanding of what’s
going on in the men’s basketball recruiting world,” said Lach,
who was named to the position in October after  David Price 
announced that he would retire this month.  The plan for a similar football group would complement NCAA
President  Mark Emmert ’s Dec. 2 statement about Newton’s
eligibility.  “I’m committed to further clarifying and strengthening our
recruiting and amateurism rules so they promote appropriate
behavior by students, parents, coaches and third parties,”
 Emmert said  on the NCAA’s website. “We will work aggressively
with our members to amend our bylaws so that this type of
behavior is not a part of intercollegiate athletics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 