-- New York City Budget Deficit Next Year May Widen by $2 Billion, Page Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-06T20:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/new-york-city-budget-gap-may-widen-by-2-billion-next-year-official-says.html
New York City’s projected budget
deficit for fiscal 2012 may widen by $2 billion, to $4.5
billion, because cuts in state aid may be greater than forecast,
Budget Director  Mark Page  said.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s proposal last month to cut the
city workforce by 10,000 as part of plan to save $1.6 billion
during the next 18 months may not be enough to close the gap,
Page told the City Council’s Finance Committee today.  “The reality that we’re facing is that the future could be
considerably worse,” Page told the council members. “This is
something we are solemnly worried about.”  The most populous U.S. city has a $65 billion budget
projected for fiscal 2012, which begins July 1. Bloomberg last
month cited increased pension costs and loss of $850 million in
federal school aid in proposing to reduce the city’s 300,000-
worker payroll, including more than 6,000 firings. About 4,000
cuts will be accomplished by attrition.  Governor-elect  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat who takes office
Jan. 1, has until Feb. 1 to propose his first budget. Last
month, state Budget Director  Robert Megna  said the New York
state deficit for fiscal 2012, which starts April 1, may reach
$9.3 billion.  The state gap may increase to between $10 billion to $12
billion in the event revenue and spending projections prove too
optimistic, Page said today.  Not ‘Comfortable’  Even if the state finds $3 billion to save, $7 billion
would still have to be cut from aid to municipalities, Page
said. Because New York City historically has received about one-
third of local aid, the loss would be about $2 billion, he said.
The city’s projected 5 percent revenue increase wouldn’t be
enough to make up that gap.  “Maybe things will go better; maybe they’ll go worse,”
Page said. “It’s not a comfortable outlook for us looking
forward over the next 19 months.”  The council members summoned Page to the hearing to voice
opposition to cuts to programs serving seniors, homeless, abused
and neglected youth and night-time firehouse staffing.  “These should not be the targeted areas,” said Council
Speaker  Christine Quinn , a Manhattan Democrat.  Although the council lacks authority to amend Bloomberg’s
executive orders, it must approve next year’s budget.  Bloomberg underscored the administration’s concern at a
City Hall news conference later in the day. While agreeing with
Quinn’s assessment that budget changes would have to be made,
the direction would be less spending, not more, he said.  “These cuts don’t go to address more than a third of what
we think the problem is,” he said. “We’re going to be going in
the other direction. You can always find ways to try to mitigate
the pain. The problem is you have to go where the monies are,”
schools, public safety and sanitation.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  