-- Nigerian Militant Leader Henry Okah Says People in Oil Delta Will Fight
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-12-06T14:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/nigerian-rebel-leader-okah-from-prison-cell-vows-fight-in-oil-rich-delta.html
Henry Okah , an alleged Nigerian
militant leader who’s facing terrorism charges in South Africa,
said the insurgency in the Niger River delta won’t end until the
government allows the region to control its oil wealth.  “I’m encouraging the people of the Niger delta to fight
for their land,” Okah said yesterday in an interview after he
called Bloomberg from prison in Johannesburg. “There are
thousands of people who are willing to fight and they’ll
continue to fight.”  Okah, 45, was arrested in Johannesburg after two car bombs
exploded in the Nigerian capital, Abuja, on Oct. 1, near a venue
where President  Goodluck Jonathan  was celebrating the West
African nation’s 50 years of independence. The blasts were
claimed by the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta,
the main armed group in the oil-producing region that the
government says Okah is leading.  Attacks in the delta by armed groups including MEND cut
more than 28 percent of the country’s oil output between 2006
and 2009. MEND wants the region to have exclusive control of its
resources, while paying tax to the central government.  While denying he is the leader of MEND, Okah said his
influence with fighters in the delta who “call me master”
extends to other armed groups.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
largest source of U.S. oil imports. Hague-based  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  Chevron Corp. 
of San Ramon, California,  Total SA  and  Eni SpA  run joint
ventures with the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
that pump more than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Military Raids  The Nigerian military has stepped up raids against militant
camps in the past month in response to a renewed surge in
attacks by the rebels. The increased violence followed a period
of relative calm when thousands of fighters disarmed under an
amnesty plan initiated in August last year by former President
 Umaru Yar’Adua . Jonathan succeeded Yar’Adua after he died on May
5.  Troops raided a militant camp south of the oil-industry hub
of Port Harcourt last month, freeing foreign hostages, including
an American, two French nationals, two Indonesians and a
Canadian, seized by MEND fighters. Camps operated by another
militant group, the Niger Delta Liberation Force, or NDLF, have
come under air and ground attack since last week.  “The military is only carrying out punitive actions
against communities,” Okah said. “The Nigerian army should be
prepared to fight forever unless the real issues in the delta
are addressed.”  Pipeline Ruptured  Fighters of the NDLF ruptured a pipeline belonging to the
state-owned oil company last night, the group said in an e-
mailed statement today. MEND, which claimed responsibility for
recent attacks, said in an e-mail last week it was planning new
assaults on the oil industry.  While both Okah and Jonathan are ethnic Ijaws, the dominant
ethnic group in the region, Okah said the Nigerian president
lacks the vision to manage the grievances of different parts of
Africa’s most populous nation.  “Okah is talking nonsense, all he’s looking for is an
avenue to sell his weapons,” presidential spokesman Ima Niboro
said today in a telephone interview from Abuja. “Even as vice
president, the president was the one driving the amnesty process
under Yar’Adua.”  Okah, who is resident in South Africa, was arrested in
Angola in 2007 on suspicion of gun-running. He was later
deported to Nigeria, where he was put on trial on 62 charges,
including capital offenses of treason and terrorism. He was
freed in July last year under the amnesty program and returned
to South Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 