-- Nigeria Depletes Currency Reserves Fueled by Crude Exports to Defend Naira
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-07T09:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/nigeria-s-disappearing-currency-reserves-add-risk-to-planned-eurobond-sale.html
Nigeria is depleting its foreign
currency reserves to defend the naira and running down oil
savings before elections next year, damping investor confidence
as the government prepares its first global bond sale.  Reserves fell by almost $10 billion to $33.1 billion in the
year through Nov. 29, according to data compiled by the Central
Bank of Nigeria in Abuja. The reserves include the government’s
Excess Crude Account.  Fitch Ratings cut its outlook Oct. 22 for the sovereign
debt rating on Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, even as
crude prices held above $80 a barrel. With the threat of
violence before April’s election increasing, investors may move
to take more money out of the country, straining the central
bank’s policy of keeping the naira pegged close to 150 to the
dollar. As the money drains away, the West African nation pushes
ahead with a $500 million bond sale for this month.  “They aren’t saving for infrastructure, they aren’t saving
for a rainy day,” said  Veronica Kalema , Sub-Saharan Africa
analyst at London-based Fitch. “That’s no way to manage an oil
economy.”  Concern that violence will disrupt next year’s election has
been boosting foreign currency demand at biweekly central bank
auctions since September, Kalema said.  It also sent the yield on Nigeria’s 91-day Treasury bills
to 7.9 percent on Nov. 26 from a record low of 1.04 percent on
March 11, according to central bank data. Ghana’s 8.5 percent
fixed-rate Eurobond, due October 2017, yielded 6.06 percent as
of 9:32 a.m. in Accra, down from 7.53 percent on March 1.  Bomb Killings  Two bomb blasts killed 12 people in Abuja on Oct. 1 as
Nigeria celebrated 50 years of independence from the U.K. Rebels
from the oil-producing Niger delta claimed responsibility. They
also have stepped up assaults on oil installations, including
those owned by  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  Afren Plc .  Alleged militant leader  Henry Okah  said in a telephone
interview from jail yesterday that the insurgency won’t end
until the government allows the region to control its oil
wealth.  The central bank of Africa’s most populous nation has been
hemorrhaging reserves even as crude output rose 15 percent to
2.15 million barrels a day in October from a year ago, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil accounts for 95 percent of
Nigeria’s foreign currency earnings.  The flight of capital contrasts with such other emerging
markets as South Africa and Brazil, which have seen inflows soar
as near-zero interest rates in Europe, the U.S. and Japan fuel
demand for high-yielding assets. Brazil’s real has strengthened
38 percent against the dollar since the start of last year,
while South Africa’s rand has climbed 36 percent.  ‘Curious’  “It is curious that with a wave of liquidity flooding into
emerging markets, Nigeria stands apart,”  Razia Khan , head of
Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc, said in an
interview in Johannesburg. “With oil prices stable and oil
output back to its best levels since 2006, it is a concern that
foreign exchange reserves have not risen.”  Demand  for dollars climbed to a high of $741.4 million at
the Sept. 27 central bank auction, compared with an average of
$248.9 million in the first eight months, the bank’s data show.
The naira weakened to as low as 155.675 per dollar on the day,
compared with the central bank’s target of 150. It traded as low
as 151.55 today.  “The trend in reserves is worrying,”  Samir Gadio , an
emerging-markets economist at  Standard Bank Group Ltd. , said in
a phone interview from Lagos. “When you have a heavily managed
currency, and your reserves are dropping like this, at some
stage the market will start to panic.”  Excess Crude  Nigeria’s reserves also are being depleted as the
government runs down its Excess Crude Account, financed from
savings set aside for times when international oil prices fall
below the benchmark in the budget. That isn’t the case now. Oil
was trading as high as $89.57 a barrel in London today, compared
with $60 forecast in the budget.  About $5.5 billion was withdrawn from the fund this year
for investment in power plants, and another $1 billion was used
as seed capital for a new sovereign wealth fund, Okwudili
Ojukwu-Enendu, a spokesman for Finance Minister  Olusegun Aganga ,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. He declined to say
how much remained. Aganga told Bloomberg on Sept. 3 that the
account held between $500 million and $800 million.  On Oct. 25, Aganga said Fitch’s lowering of the outlook on
Nigeria’s BB- credit rating to “negative” from “stable” was
“unduly punitive” as the creation of the sovereign wealth fund
would bolster government finances. The bill is currently
awaiting approval from lawmakers.  Less Debt  Another factor boosting confidence is Nigeria’s relatively
small public debt: about 15 percent of gross domestic product,
according to the International Monetary Fund. That compares with
127 percent in Greece and 68 percent in the U.K. Investors are
unlikely to shun the international bond sale, Kalema said.  Nigeria appointed  Citigroup Inc.  and  Deutsche Bank AG  as
bookrunners for its Eurobond sale, Ojukwu-Enendu said on Nov. 3.
Barclays Capital and FBN Capital Ltd., a unit of First Bank of
Nigeria Plc, were named as advisers in October. Nigeria expects
to conclude the sale by mid-December,  Abraham Nwankwo , director-
general of the Debt Management Office, said Nov. 2.  Violence surrounding next year’s election is the biggest
threat to a bond sale by a country with a history of military
intervention and ethnic conflict.  President  Goodluck Jonathan , a Christian from the south, is
running for re-election, angering Muslims from the north who
regard it as their turn to hold the presidency in a country
divided almost evenly on religious lines.  “Nigeria’s political backdrop, more contentious in the
run-up to 2011 than is usually the case, may be feeding
nervousness about the continued stability of the naira,” said
Khan. Building reserves “is key to the restoration of
confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 