-- Nigerian Militant Okah Says No Military Solution in Oil-Rich Delta
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-12-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/nigerian-militant-leader-okah-says-no-military-solution-in-oil-rich-delta.html
Nigeria militant leader  Henry Okah ,
who’s currently on trial in South Africa on terrorism charges,
said there’s no military solution to the rebellion under way in
the oil-rich Niger River delta.  “There are thousands of people who are willing to fight and
they’ll continue to fight,” Okah said in an interview on Dec. 5
after he called Bloomberg from prison in Johannesburg. “If I can
have access to weapons, I’ll give thousands of weapons to people
in the delta to defend their lives and their land.”  Okah, 45, was arrested in Johannesburg after two car bombs
exploded in the Nigerian capital, Abuja, on Oct. 1, as President
 Goodluck Jonathan  was celebrating the West African nation’s 50th
independence anniversary. The blasts were claimed by the
Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, the main armed
group in the oil-producing region that the government says Okah
is leading.  Attacks in the delta by armed groups including MEND cut
more than 28 percent of the country’s oil output between 2006
and 2009. MEND wants the region to have exclusive control of its
resources, while paying tax to the central government.  While he denied being the leader of MEND, Okah said he has
influence among various armed groups, who, he said, “call me
master.”  Oil Producer  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
largest source of U.S. oil imports. Hague-based  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  Chevron Corp. 
of San Ramon, California,  Total SA  and  Eni SpA  run joint
ventures with the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
that pump more than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Angolan authorities arrested Okah, a resident in South
Africa, in 2007 on suspicion of arms trafficking. He was later
deported to Nigeria, where he was put on trial on 62 charges,
including capital offenses of treason and terrorism.  Okah was freed under an amnesty plan initiated in August
last year by former President  Umaru Yar’Adua  and returned to
South Africa. Jonathan succeeded Yar’Adua after he died on May
5.  Even if rebel commanders surrender under the terms of the
amnesty, others will take their place, Okah said.  “It’s like gang warfare: When you leave your turf, other
people take over,” he said.  The Nigerian military has stepped up raids against militant
camps in the past month in response to a renewed surge in
attacks by the rebels. The increased violence followed a period
of relative calm when thousands of fighters disarmed under the
amnesty.  Hostage Taking  Troops raided a militant camp south of the oil-industry hub
of Port Harcourt last month, freeing foreign hostages, including
an American, two French nationals, two Indonesians and a
Canadian, seized by MEND fighters. Camps operated by another
militant group, the Niger Delta Liberation Force, or NDLF, have
come under air and ground attack since last week.  “The military should have a better way of dealing with the
individuals they’re seeking,” Nnimmo Bassey, the executive
director of  Environmental Rights Action , a Nigerian non-
governmental organization, and chairman of  Friends of the Earth .
“Entire communities are being targeted and punished. When an
individual is wanted, a whole community shouldn’t be punished.”  Military spokesman Colonel Timothy Antigha denied civilians
were being targeted, saying in a Dec. 2 phone interview that “a
civilian has no business in a camp where there are machine guns,
anti-aircraft weapons and dynamite.”  Pipeline Sabotage  Fighters of the NDLF ruptured a pipeline belonging to the
state-owned oil company on Dec. 5, the group said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. MEND, which claimed responsibility for
recent attacks, said in an e-mail last week it was planning new
assaults on the oil industry.  While both Okah and Jonathan are ethnic Ijaws, the dominant
ethnic group in the region, Okah said the Nigerian president
lacks the vision to manage the grievances of different parts of
Africa’s most populous nation.  “The Niger delta is just one part of the country;
everybody in Nigeria has grievances,” he said. “Can Jonathan
manage all these grievances? The answer is no.”  Presidential spokesman Ima Niboro dismissed Okah’s comments
yesterday in a telephone interview from Abuja.  “Okah is talking nonsense, all he’s looking for is an
avenue to sell his weapons,” he said. “Even as vice president,
the president was the one driving the amnesty process under
Yar’Adua.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 