-- Novartis's Tasigna Medicine Beats Existing Gleevec Drug in Leukemia Study
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-12-06T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/novartis-s-tasigna-medicine-beats-existing-gleevec-drug-in-leukemia-study.html
Novartis AG, whose best-selling
cancer medicine Gleevec loses patent protection as early as
2015, said the drug’s successor Tasigna worked better to treat
newly diagnosed leukemia after two years.  Tasigna cut the amount of a tell-tale protein in the blood
in three times as many patients with  leukemia , the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.
The findings, an update of an ongoing clinical trial, will be
presented at the  American Society of Hematology  meeting in
Orlando, Florida, later today.  Tasigna treats chronic myeloid leukemia, a slow-progressing
cancer that causes bone marrow to produce too many white blood
cells because of a genetic flaw. Novartis, which funded the
study, has said it hopes to replace Gleevec with Tasigna.  “We are encouraged by the ongoing clinical development of
Tasigna as a new treatment,”  Herve Hoppenot , who heads
Novartis’ cancer unit, said in the release.  In the clinical trial, designed to follow about 900
patients for five years, almost three times more people taking
300 milligrams of Tasigna twice daily had only a trace amount of
the Bcr-Abl protein in their blood after 24 months. The other
patients took either 400 milligrams of Gleevec once a day or 400
milligrams of Tasigna twice a day.  Tasigna is approved in more than 85 countries for patients
who haven’t responded to at least one other treatment. U.S.
regulators expanded approval of the drug this year to include
newly diagnosed cases of chronic myeloid leukemia. The drug is
also approved as an initial treatment in Switzerland, and under
regulatory review in the European Union for this indication.  Gleevec, also known as Glivec, generated sales of $1
billion in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 