-- Loan Costs to Russia, Turkey Slashed as Emerging Markets Outpace Eurozone
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2010-12-06T13:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/loan-costs-to-russia-turkey-slashed-as-emerging-markets-outpace-eurozone.html
Banks vying to invest in the best-
performing markets in Europe are slashing costs to borrowers in
Russia and Turkey, where growth is outpacing Eurozone economies.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS, the Turkish lender part-owned
by General Electric Co. arranged a $1 billion loan Nov. 30 with
the lowest all-in pricing for a Turkish lender of 120 basis
points this year, Bloomberg data show. OAO MDM Bank, Russia’s
second biggest non-state lender, is seeking to cut the interest
margin on a new loan to 220 basis points more than benchmark
rates, compared with a margin of 400 basis points last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks are favoring companies in Russia and Turkey, whose
economies have been quicker to recover from the financial crisis
than their Western European peers and have so far remained
insulated from the Eurozone’s sovereign debt woes. Turkey’s
economy is forecast to grow 7.8 percent this year, the
International Monetary Fund said Oct. 6. Russia’s economy is set
to grow 3.8 percent, Economy Minister Elvira Nabiullina said
last week, compared with expected growth of about 1 percent in
the Eurozone.  “Russia and Turkey are not feeling the effects of the
financial crisis as much as the Eurozone peripherals and people
see them as a relative safe haven,” said  David Pepper , head of
Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa loan
syndications at WestLB AG in London. “There’s more demand for
top-tier Russian and Turkish deals than there is supply.”  Margins Drop  The volume of syndicated loans to Russian borrowers rose 88
percent to $32.5 billion this year, Bloomberg data show.
Interest margins for Russian deals dropped to 309 basis points
on average from 387 last year.  Turkish loans grew more than fivefold to $21.2 billion as
interest margins dropped to 149 basis points over benchmark
rates this year from 313 in 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Garanti’s deal was increased from $700 million after
lenders pledged more than double the amount it sought. Its
borrowing costs still exceed those for top-tier issuers in
Western Europe, which have been set as low as 12.5 basis points
above benchmark rates this year for undrawn debt.  “We’re seeing much more interest in the emerging market
space where banks are now a lot more comfortable with the
underlying risk and there is a lot more value to be had relative
to transactions in Western Europe,” said  Mark Waters , head of
energy & commodities, asset and project finance in BNP Paribas
SA’s European loan syndications team in London.  Eurozone Malaise  The MSCI Emerging Europe, Middle East and Africa Index rose
16.2 percent this year, compared with a 6.6 percent increase of
Europe’s Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index.  Russia and Turkey have remained distanced from the
sovereign debt problems afflicting some of the more developed
European countries with ballooning budget deficits and debt
woes. Ireland last month became the second euro country to
receive a bailout from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund, getting 85 billion euros ($113 billion) of
emergency aid just seven months after the Greece got 750 billion
euros of emergency international aid.  “The loan market is very, very attractive for borrowers,”
 Oleg Mukhamedshin , deputy chief executive officer at United
Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, said in an
interview last week. “The market expects improvement in the
Russian sovereign rating so debt market conditions for Russian
companies may be even better next year.”  Ratings Upgrades  Russia’s Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said July 2 he
expects the country’s credit rating to be upgraded. Fitch
Ratings changed its outlook on its BBB rating to “positive”
from “stable” on Sept. 8. Turkey, currently rated Ba3 by
Moody’s Investors Service, BB+ by Fitch and BB by Standard &
Poor’s, is also likely to get an upgrade should the government
put in place “countercyclical” fiscal policy, S&P said in
August.  “Emerging markets are very much back on the agenda,” said
John Starling, a director in HSBC Holdings Plc’s loan syndicate
in London. “There has been a reassessment of those markets
relative to the risks that you’re running in some of the
Eurozone peripheral markets. Banks know that they really need to
be working with clients in these markets but in a more focused
and cautious way.”  The cost of protecting Russian debt from default rose 1.4
basis points to 150 at 11:30 a.m. in London, according to data
provider CMA, while credit-default swaps on Turkish government
bonds increased 1.8 basis points to 132.8. Swaps on Irish debt
are priced at 555.3 basis points, while contracts on Greek bonds
cost 914.5 basis points.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
improving perceptions of credit quality. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 