-- Obama-Linked Advocacy Group Urges Taxing Wealthy to Ease Budget Deficit
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-06T22:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/obama-linked-advocacy-group-urges-taxing-wealthy-to-ease-budget-deficit.html
An advocacy group with ties to the
Obama administration proposed a short-term deficit reduction
 plan  that would impose higher taxes on the wealthy, oil
companies and other employers.  The plan by the Washington-based  Center for American
Progress  aims to balance the budget, excluding interest payments
on the debt, by 2015. It doesn’t address the issue of what to do
in subsequent years, when Medicare and Social Security costs are
projected to soar.  Michael Ettlinger , who co-wrote the plan, called for modest
steps to put the government’s books in order, rather than a
“pie in the sky” approach to fix the entire budget.  “Let’s come up with something that’s achievable in the
near term,” said Ettlinger, the center’s vice president for
economic policy. “People ought to be focusing on something that
shows we’re serious, that’s real and meaningful but more readily
achievable than solving all of our budget problems forever.”  Last week, President  Barack Obama ’s 18-member debt
commission failed to produce the 14 votes needed to approve a $4
trillion budget-cutting plan that would balance the government’s
books by 2035. Ettlinger said his group’s plan was designed to
establish “where we think the president, roughly, should be and
progressives ought to be” in reducing the deficit.  The plan calls for a 2 percent surtax on taxpayers earning
more than $1 million, a $5-per-barrel fee on imported oil, and
removal of the cap on income subject to employers’ share of
Social Security payroll taxes. It would also eliminate $35
billion in tax breaks for companies, slow the rate at which
federal benefits such as Social Security grow with inflation and
cut farm subsidies by one-quarter.  The Center for American Progress was founded in 2003 by
 John Podesta , former White House chief of staff in the Clinton
administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 