-- Clinton Says China Has Special Role in Reining In North Korean Provocation
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/obama-calls-hu-to-urge-china-assist-in-restraining-north-korea.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said China plays a “special role” in urging North
Korea to refrain from “provocative and belligerent” actions as
the top U.S. military chief heads to the region to reinforce
backing for allies.  China has “unique and strong ties with North Korea” and
“has a special role to play to shape North Korea’s behavior,”
Clinton told reporters at a news conference yesterday in
Washington with Japan’s Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  and his
South Korean counterpart,  Kim Sung Hwan .  The Obama administration’s steps to support allies Japan
and South Korea include a visit this week from a U.S. delegation
led by Admiral  Mike Mullen , the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. He will be accompanied by military officials as well as
by top deputies from the State and Defense departments.  The U.S. is closing ranks with Japan and South Korea while
pressing China, North Korea’s main ally, to become more active
in helping stave off military escalation in the Korean
peninsula. Tensions flared after North Korea’s Nov. 23 shelling
of South Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island killed four people.  Obama called Chinese President  Hu Jintao  on Dec. 5 to seek
his help in conveying to North Korea that its actions are
“unacceptable.” China has refused to back a bid by the U.S.
and Japan in the United Nations Security Council to condemn
North Korea’s latest provocations.  China, the host of the six-party talks aimed at
denuclearizing the Korean peninsula, on Nov. 28 proposed
“emergency consultations” with negotiators from North and
South Korea, Japan, Russia and the U.S. to defuse tensions.  ‘Belligerent Behavior’  “We appreciate Beijing’s initiative to propose an
emergency six-party gathering,” Clinton said yesterday.
“However, we first need an appropriate basis for the resumption
of talks. Any effort, of course, must start with North Korea
ceasing all provocative and belligerent behavior.”  Mullen heads to South Korea today and will then travel to
Tokyo to “enhance coordination on strategic deterrents,”
Clinton said. A team of senior diplomats also will travel to
Asia next week to “follow up” on today’s trilateral meetings,
she said.  Kim, the South Korean foreign minister, said that he,
Clinton and Maehara agreed that North Korea will “face severe
consequences if it engages in further provocations.”  North Korea last week said it has a uranium-enrichment
facility, containing thousands of centrifuges, that is intended
for civilian use. The country is under UN sanctions because of
previous atomic tests and concerns that it is developing nuclear
weapons.  South Korean Drills  South Korea yesterday began drills that include live firing
from ships into seas near Daecheong Island, close to a disputed
maritime border. North Korea said the exercise will result in
shells landing in its territorial waters.  The U.S. and South Korea last week conducted naval
exercises in the Yellow Sea, between the peninsula and China.  China has contributed to efforts to curb North Korean
aggression, Kim said. “However, we would like China to have a
more clear stance in giving warning to North Korea,” he said
through an interpreter. “We would like China to play a more
important role.”  North Korea yesterday warned that the South risked
“catastrophic consequences” with the exercises. The government
“is so hell-bent on the moves to escalate the confrontation and
start a war that it is recklessly behaving bereft of reason,”
the state-run Korean Central News Agency said in a commentary.  ‘Belligerent Behavior’  “We cannot rule out the possibility of more attacks and
provocations from the North, given its recent belligerent
behavior,” said  Victor Cha , who holds the Korea chair at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
“The time between North Korean provocations seems to be
shrinking significantly with each new incident.”  Obama “urged China to work with us and others to send a
clear message to North Korea that its provocations are
unacceptable,” the White House said in a statement. Hu said all
sides need to be calm to prevent the situation from getting out
of control, China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported.  North Korea doesn’t recognize the western sea border
demarcated by the UN after the Korean War and demands that it be
redrawn to include Yeonpyeong and four nearby islands.  The conflict flared when North Korea fired artillery at the
fishing community and military outpost in the first shelling of
South Korean soil since the 1950-1953 war. It said it responded
to provocation after South Korea fired into waters that both
sides claim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  