-- Crude Oil Trades Near 26-Month High on Bets Fed Stimulus Will Spur Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-06T13:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/oil-climbs-to-highest-in-26-months-on-speculation-fuel-demand-may-increase.html
Oil traded near its highest in 26
months on speculation the U.S. may extend stimulus measures,
bolstering demand in the world’s largest consumer of crude.  Crude rose as much as 0.6 percent today after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Fed may expand bond
purchases beyond the $600 billion announced last month, while in
Europe colder weather boosted demand for heating fuel. Hedge
funds increased bullish bets on oil by the most in eight weeks
on signs that the global economic recovery is gaining pace, data
from regulators showed for the week to Nov. 30.  “Oil is up for many reasons, including the Fed comments,
overall market optimism, geopolitical worries and speculative
activity,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  Crude for January delivery gained as much as 57 cents to
$89.76 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. That is the highest intraday price since Oct. 9, 2008.
The contract was at $88.96 at 1:36 p.m. local time, recouping
earlier losses that reached 63 cents. Brent crude for January
settlement gained as much as 61 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $92.03
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Crude settled at $89.19 a barrel on Dec. 3, the highest
closing price since Oct. 7, 2008. Prices are up 12 percent this
year.  Hedge funds and other large investors increased bullish
bets on oil last week as prices climbed. The funds boosted so-
called net-long positions by 18 percent in the seven days ended
Nov. 30, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report. It was the largest
increase since the week ended Oct. 5.  ‘Sentiment So Bullish’  “Ninety dollars a barrel is now like a magnet that the
bulls in the market want to break through,” said  Victor Shum , a
senior principal at energy consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in
Singapore. “These days, sentiment is so bullish that any bad
news on the economic front can’t hurt the rally in oil.”  Oil rallied after Bernanke said a return to recession
“doesn’t seem likely,” in an interview broadcast yesterday on
CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. Still, unemployment may take
five years to fall to a normal level, he said.  Crude advanced as abnormally cold weather in Europe pushed
heating oil prices to the highest in more than two years.  Gasoil, or heating oil, futures for December delivery
climbed as much as 1.8 percent to $775.50 a metric ton on
London’s ICE exchange today. It was last at $771.50.  “The cold weather in Europe has helped squeeze up
distillates demand, and that is supportive of stronger oil
prices,” Purvin & Gertz’s Shum said.  Widespread Snowfall  The earliest widespread snowfall in the U.K. since 1993 has
frozen over roads, disrupting traffic, with icy weather likely
to last until at least Dec. 8, British Weather Services said
last week.  Temperatures from the U.S. Midwest to the Northeast will be
lower than normal from Dec. 8 through Dec. 16, the U.S. National
Weather Service Climate Prediction Center said.  Oil in New York is approaching a level observed by
technical analysts as a point where the rally may stall. This
price, at $89.84 a barrel, represents the so-called 50 percent
Fibonacci retracement of the drop to $32.40 in December 2008
from a record high of $147.27 in July that year, according to
Bloomberg data.  The Fibonacci sequence of numbers was identified by Italian
mathematician Leonardo Fibonacci in the 13th century and is used
to predict points where prices may rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  