-- Crude Oil Edges Up to 26-Month High on U.S. Stimulus, Cold Snap
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-12-06T21:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/oil-little-changed-near-25-month-high-on-stronger-dollar-90-resistance.html
Oil edged up to a 26-month high on
speculation the U.S. may extend stimulus measures, bolstering
fuel demand in the world’s largest oil-consuming country, and on
cold-weather forecasts for the U.S. and Europe.  Crude extended its longest advance in four weeks after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Fed may expand
bond purchases beyond the $600 billion announced last month.
Winter weather in parts of the U.S. and Europe boosted
consumption of heating fuel.  “There’s been enough supportive economic news as of late
to support the move higher, and the cold weather is helping,”
said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc.
in New York. “The market continues to have a firm tone.”  Oil for January delivery rose 19 cents to settle at $89.38
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest level
since Oct. 7, 2008. Prices have climbed 13 percent this year.  Futures contracts starting in September 2011 were in
backwardation today, with prices for future months lower than
earlier months, a sign demand will outpace supply in the latter
part of next year.  “This backwardation, which was rarely evident in the past
few years, is likely to bring more buyers into the arena,” a
Commerzbank AG team of analysts including Frankfurt-based
Carsten Fritsch wrote in a report today.    Oil prices  will average $86 a barrel next year and $100 in
2012 as demand increases, said Katherine Spector, a commodities
strategist with  CIBC World Markets  in New York. Oil has averaged
$78.85 so far this year on the Nymex.  U.S. Economy  Another recession “doesn’t seem likely,” Bernanke said in
an interview broadcast yesterday by CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes”
program. He noted that U.S. unemployment may take five years to
fall to a normal level.  U.S. gasoline consumption, which is driven by commuter
traffic, increased 0.4 percent in the week ended Nov. 26 to 8.87
million barrels a day, the highest level in three weeks, an
Energy Department reported Dec. 1.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, gained
1.2 cents to $2.951 a gallon yesterday, AAA, the country’s
largest motor club, said on its  website .  Abnormally cold weather in  Europe  pushed heating-oil prices
to the highest level in more than two years. The earliest
widespread snowfall in the U.K. since 1993 has iced over roads,
disrupting traffic.  Demand in Germany, Europe’s biggest market for the fuel
used in heating, may rise because of freezing weather, said  Christophe Barret , a London-based oil analyst at Credit Agricole
CIB. “It’s very cold in  Germany , they’ll be using a lot of
heating oil.”  Brent Crude  Gasoil, or heating oil, futures for December delivery
climbed 0.6 percent to $776 a metric ton on London’s ICE
exchange today. Brent crude for January settlement rose 3 cents
to $91.45 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .  Temperatures  from the U.S. Midwest to the Northeast will be
lower than normal from Dec. 12 through Dec. 16, the U.S.
National Weather Service Climate Prediction Center forecast
today in its six-to-10 day outlook.  AccuWeather.com  meteorologists forecast the lowest
temperatures so far this season for much of the Northeast and
mid-Atlantic next week, along with the first snowstorm of the
season.    Hedge funds  and other large investors increased bullish
bets on oil last week as prices rose. The funds boosted so-
called net-long positions, or wagers that prices will climb, by
18 percent in the seven days ended Nov. 30, according to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of
Traders report. It was the largest gain since the week ended
Oct. 5.  Dollar Strength  Oil fell as much as 0.7 percent earlier today in  New York 
as the dollar strengthened against other major currencies and
futures failed to break technical resistance at $90 a barrel.  “Ninety dollars a barrel is now like a magnet that the
bulls in the market want to break through,” said  Victor Shum , a
senior principal at energy consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in  Singapore . “These days, sentiment is so bullish that any bad
news on the economic front can’t hurt the rally in oil.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six
others, gained 0.3 percent. The greenback increased 0.7 percent
to $1.3317 per euro, compared with $1.3414 on Dec. 3. A stronger
dollar curbs the appeal of commodities as an alternative
investment.  Dollar Strength  “The strength of the dollar is holding us back and keeping
us from breaching $90,” said  Phil Flynn , a Chicago-based
analyst and trader with investment adviser PFGBest. “There
continues to be cold weather here and in Europe, and the ongoing
concerns about  Nigeria  raise worries about supply.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 658,086
contracts as of 2:22 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 849,039
contracts Dec. 3, 22 percent above the average of the past three
months and the highest level since Nov. 17. Open interest was
1.39 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 