-- Hang Seng Index Declines Second Day, Reversing Gains as Developers Retreat
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-12-06T09:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/hong-kong-stocks-climb-led-by-developers-commodity-producers-advance.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell for a second
day, reversing gains as developers dropped on concern measures
to rein in property prices are slowing the real estate market
and China-based banks retreated.  Henderson Land Development Co., the Hong Kong builder
controlled by billionaire Lee Shau-kee, fell 1.1 percent after
its executive director said government measures to control
property prices have affected the market.  China Construction
Bank Corp. , the nation’s No. 2 lender by market value, dropped
1.8 percent on speculation China will introduce further
tightening measures.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore oil
producer, jumped 2.4 percent after commodity prices increased.  The  Hang Seng Index  dropped 0.4 percent to 23,237.69 at the
close after gaining as much as 1.3 percent. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares of Chinese companies
slid 1 percent to 12,804.77.  “People are still very cautious on Hong Kong’s local
property market,” Steven Leung, director of institutional sales
at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “For China, speculation and worries remain
about another potential interest rate hike, and equity market
won’t perform well until we see the final decision from the
government.”  Henderson Land sank 1.1 percent to HK$53.85 after Executive
Director Augustine Wong said at a forum government measures to
rein in property prices and curb speculation in Hong Kong have
had some impact on property prices.  Sino Land Co. , a developer
controlled by billionaire Robert Ng, sank 1.8 percent to
HK$16.08.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , the world’s biggest
developer, declined 1 percent to HK$129.50.  Midland holdings  Residential transactions may fall by as much as 35 percent
in 2011 from 2010,  Midland Holdings Ltd. , the city’s biggest
realtor by market value, said last week. The government on Nov.
19 increased minimum down payments on homes costing more than
HK$8 million ($1 million) and imposed additional stamp duties on
all units bought after Nov. 20 and resold within two years as
home values soared more than 50 percent since January 2009.  A measure of property stocks had the biggest drop among the
Hang Seng Index’s four industry groups, followed by banks.  Chinese banks dropped on concern the government will take
more steps to curb inflation. China Construction Bank slipped
1.8 percent to HK$6.97, while  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest lender, fell 1.3 percent to
HK$5.90. The four  biggest drags  on the Hang Seng Index were
Chinese banks.  Inflation ‘Stabilizing’  Inflation in China is likely to stabilize next year as
tepid demand abroad damps economic growth at home, allowing the
nation’s central bank to gradually withdraw monetary stimulus,
said UBS AG chief Asian economist Duncan Wooldridge in an
interview today.  Separately, the People’s Bank of China may raise rates at a
“gradual and slow” pace next year and order higher reserve
requirements for banks to counter capital inflows, Li Daokui, an
adviser to the central bank, said in an interview on Dec. 3.  “Hong Kong has to monitor the monetary policy direction in
China much more so than some of the other Asian markets,” said
Khiem Do, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian multi-asset strategy
at Baring Asset Management (Asia) Ltd., which oversees about $12
billion.  The  Hang Seng Index  has increased 6.2 percent this year, on
expectations that growth in corporate earnings will overcome
concerns about the pace of the U.S. economic recovery and
China’s steps to curb rising property prices. Shares in the
gauge trade at an average 14.6 times  estimated earnings ,
compared with about 17.2 times at the start of the year.  Crude Oil  Commodity producers led gains before being overshadowed by
banks and developers. Cnooc increased 2.4 percent to HK$18.16
and was the biggest positive contributor to the Hang Seng Index.
 Jiangxi Copper Co. , China’s No. 1 producer of the metal, jumped
2.3 percent to HK$24.65.  Crude oil for January delivery advanced 1.4 percent in New
York on Dec. 3 to $89.19 a barrel, the highest settlement since
Oct. 7, 2008, as the dollar tumbled and boosted the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment. Copper rose 0.5
percent on Dec. 3, while gold futures advanced 1.2 percent.  Thirty-two stocks fell while 13 rose on the 45-member Hang
Seng Index. Futures on the gauge lost 0.4 percent to 23,173.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 