-- Loonie Falls From Almost Three-Week High Before Bank of Canada's Meeting
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-06T22:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/loonie-falls-from-almost-three-week-high-before-bank-of-canada-s-meeting.html
Canada’s dollar dropped from almost
the highest level in more than three weeks versus its U.S.
counterpart before central-bank policy makers meet tomorrow to
determine interest rates.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, slid 0.1 percent on
Dec. 3 after the government reported that employers added fewer
jobs in November than economists forecast. Canada’s dollar was
still the second-best performer against the greenback today
among its Group-of-10 counterparts, after the yen, as sovereign-
debt speculation weakened Europe’s shared currency.  “The focus is shifting back to Europe and increased
concern about a spreading European sovereign-debt issue,”
 Matthew Strauss , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital unit, said by phone from Toronto. “The
Canadian dollar benefits every time there’s a huge move into the
U.S. dollar. Our proximity to the U.S. is clearly helping us.”  Canada’s currency weakened 0.2 percent to C$1.0057 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after earlier depreciating 0.4
percent to C$1.0083. The currency closed at C$1.0039 on Dec. 3,
when it touched C$1.0003, the strongest level since Nov. 11. It
rose 0.6 percent versus the euro today to C$1.3383. One Canadian
dollar buys 99.45 U.S. cents.  The loonie pared its loss versus the U.S. dollar as crude
oil and North American stocks fluctuated. Crude is Canada’s
biggest export.  The currency advanced 1.7 percent last week in its first
five-day gain in four weeks amid a surge in oil prices.  ‘Don’t Expect Much’  All 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect the
central bank’s governor,  Mark Carney , to refrain from increasing
borrowing costs.  “I don’t see too much happening in the loonie ahead of
tomorrow,”  Firas Askari , head currency trader in Toronto at
Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital unit, wrote via e-mail. “Even
then, don’t expect much unless his comments are an outlier.
Nobody is expecting a move.”  January futures on crude oil fell 0.4 percent to $88.83 a
barrel in New York. Earlier they increased to $89.76, the
highest level since October 2008, and fell as low as $88.56. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500  Index ended the day down 0.1 percent after
falling as much as 0.3 percent and rising 0.1 percent.  The Bank of Canada held its  target lending rate  at 1
percent in October after three successive increases of a
quarter-percentage point beginning June 1, citing a weaker
economic outlook for the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading partner.  The loonie will trade on a one-for-one basis with the
greenback through the end of the third quarter of 2011,
according to the median forecast of 28 economists and analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  Bonds Gain  Government bonds rose, pushing the benchmark 10-year’s
yield down six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.13
percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security due in June 2020
climbed 48 cents to C$103.05.  The euro remained below a “key resistance level” versus
the Canadian dollar at C$1.3680, within a “bearish channel
defined by C$1.2986 and C$1.3680,” which is guiding prices
lower, RBC’s Strauss and his colleague  Paul Borean  wrote in a
report today. Resistance refers to the upper boundary of a
trading range, where sell orders may be clustered.  “Euro-Canadian dollar will have to break above 1.3680
before we will question the bearish stance in the market,”
Strauss said in an interview.  He recommended taking a short position in euro-Canada
should the common currency strengthen beyond that level,
targeting C$1.3223 and with stops at C$1.3941, according to the
report. A short position is a bet a currency will weaken. Stops
are automatic sell orders that traders use to limit losses.  Repetition of Decline  “We may see a repetition of the decline in euro-Canada
dollar that we’ve seen over the course of this year,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at TD Securities Inc., a unit
of Canada’s second-largest bank, said by phone from Toronto.
“It’s going to be a buy-North-America, sell-North-America
trend. The Canadian dollar may lose a little bit of ground
against the U.S. dollar, but generally speaking it’s likely to
remain strong against the crosses.” Crosses are currency pairs
that don’t include the greenback.  The euro fell against most of its major counterparts as
Germany rejected calls to increase the European Union’s 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) aid fund or introduce joint bond
sales, signaling its refusal to bear extra costs to stamp out
the debt crisis.  With European finance ministers gathered in Brussels today
for a monthly meeting, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rebuffed
pleas from Belgium and central bankers to boost the emergency
fund to save countries such as Portugal and Spain from falling
prey to speculation.  The event concludes tomorrow when ministers from all 27 EU
countries give formal approval to the Irish aid package
announced Nov. 28, designed to stabilize the banking system and
push down the deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  