-- Ophir Energy Drills 3rd Natural Gas Well in Tanzania After Discoveries
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-12-06T10:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ophir-energy-drills-3rd-gas-well-in-tanzania-after-discoveries.html
Ophir Energy Plc, a U.K-based oil and
gas exploration company, started drilling a third well off the
coast of Tanzania after discovering gas at two offshore sites
since October, the state-run energy company said.  Drilling of Chaza 1 well, located in  Block 1 , will probably
be completed this month or next, Halfani R. Halfani, director of
exploration, production and technical services at the  Tanzania
Petroleum Development Corp. , said today by phone from the
commercial capital, Dar es Salaam.  The Pweza 1 and Chewa 1 exploratory wells, about 10
kilometers (6.2 miles), apart southeast of Mafia Island, showed
there is natural gas in Block 4, Halfani said. He wouldn’t
elaborate on the possible size of the finds until further
studies are done.  “We haven’t done much analysis yet on the two discoveries,
but we believe this is good news,” Halfani said. “It gives the
investors the motivation to continue their exploration
program.”  Ophir Energy and  BG Group Plc , its partner in the project,
agreed to drill the three wells in an initial work program, he
said. Tanzania Petroleum has asked them to expand the search
with a fourth well, in Block 1, Halfani said.  “The way forward is to complete the drilling program by
the end of this year or January, do additional seismic work, and
then sit down with the operator and come up with a plan,” he
said.  About 16 oil and gas exploration companies, including
 Maurel & Prom SA  of France and Australia-based  Key Petroleum
Ltd. , have signed 24 production-sharing agreements with the
Tanzanian government, Halfani said on Oct. 29.  Two gas deposits are in commercial production in Tanzania.
Songo Songo holds 1.5 trillion cubic feet of gas, while the
Mnazi Bay field near the border with Mozambique has 2 trillion
cubic feet of gas in place, according to Halfani.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 