-- Palm Oil in China May Climb to 2-Year High, Xinhu Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-06T07:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/palm-oil-in-china-may-climb-to-2-year-high-xinhu-says-technical-analysis.html
Palm oil futures listed in China, the
biggest consumer of cooking oils, may advance to the highest
level in more than two years as the market gathers bullish
momentum, according to technical analysis from Xinhu Futures Co.  The moving average convergence-divergence indicator for the
most-active Dalian palm oil contract is crossing the signal line,
indicating a “strongly bullish” trend, analyst Chen Sijian
wrote in a Chinese-language report. The contract gained 0.2
percent to 9,084 yuan ($1,366) a metric ton on Dec. 3 and
extended the advance to 9,230 yuan today.  Palm oil futures soared to 9,772 yuan on Nov. 10, the
highest level since July 2008, before plunging more than 11
percent in the nine subsequent trading sessions as the State
Council vowed to curb speculation in commodities to control
inflation. Some investors considered the commodity may have
started a period of decline, Chen said.  “Last month’s drop was merely a correction in a longer
rally, and palm oil may yet” exceed the peak last month, Chen
said. “We’re seeing a classic bull setup” barring government
intervention, he said. The benchmark global contract for palm
oil is listed on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange and the
Chinese and Malaysian markets influence each other, he said.  The chairman of Xinhu Futures, member of all three of the
country’s commodity exchanges, is  Ma Wensheng , former president
of China International Futures Co., one of the nation’s biggest
brokerages. Ma has been described as the “most influential”
person in the Chinese futures industry by the state-run
Securities Times newspaper, according to Xinhu’s website.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  -- William Bi . Editors:  Lee Miller ,  James Poole   To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Bi  in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  