-- Parnassus Beats 95% of Peers as Top Funds Are Bullish on 2011
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-12-06T21:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/parnassus-beats-95-of-funds-as-top-managers-of-2010-stay-bullish-for-2011.html
For  Jerome Dodson  at Parnassus
Investments, growing public  pessimism  about the economy in 2010
convinced him to purchase stocks. Allianz RCM Technology Fund’s
 Walter Price  ruled out a recession after executives told him
business was improving. At Columbia Management Investment
Advisers LLC,  Tom Galvin  said record cash made equities
impossible to pass up.  Unemployment close to  10 percent  and falling home sales
failed to deter the best-performing U.S. fund managers this
year, handing them average gains of 28 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. They’re bullish on 2011, boosting stakes in oil
producers, temporary-help providers and Internet companies.  “When everybody’s depressed is absolutely the best time to
buy stock,” said Dodson, who oversees $4.5 billion as president
of Parnassus in San Francisco. “Everyone was moaning and
groaning this summer. At that time, had you been able to divorce
yourself from your emotions and buy stocks, it would have been
great. You just have to buy, and that’s what we did.”  Dodson, Galvin,  Francis Claro  at Wells Capital Management
Inc.,  Dennis Lynch  at Morgan Stanley and  Whitney George  at Royce
& Associates LLC all beat 92 percent of their peers by holding
50 percent more in industrial and consumer stocks, the best-
performing groups in 2010, than are represented in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. Price, who invests mostly in technology
providers, returned 30 percent to his investors, boosted by a 52
percent rally in Apple Inc. and a 97 percent gain in business-
software supplier Salesforce.com Inc.  Standing Firm  The best money managers were buyers even as unemployment,
which held close to the highest level since 1983, sent the  S&P
500  to a 2010 low of 1,022.58 in July. Dodson, Price and Galvin
said they were betting  earnings  growth, rising cash balances and
below-average valuations would keep the bull market intact.  “This year has provided lots of re-entry opportunities,”
said George, the New York-based co-chief investment officer at
Royce and manager of the $4.2 billion  Royce Low-Priced Stock
Fund , which has returned 27 percent this year and is in the 99th
percentile of its peers for the past five years. “Valuations
are pretty good, fundamentals are pretty good. There are lots of
things going on in the market that are positive.”  The S&P 500 trades for  15.3 times  earnings, compared with
an average 16.4 since 1954, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The multiple has declined from a high of 18.8 in
March as profits increased faster than share prices.  New Normal  Mohamed El-Erian  and  Bill Gross  at Pacific Investment
Management Co. warned in 2009 that gains in equities and bonds
would be below historical averages for years to come. El-Erian,
co-chief investment officer of the Newport Beach, California,
firm that oversees the world’s biggest bond mutual fund, said in
June 2009 that investors should prepare for an environment of
slower growth and lower returns, curbed by rising government
deficits and regulation.  “We summarized this outlook by the phrase, ‘A bumpy
journey to a new normal,’” El-Erian wrote in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News last week. “We also are careful to specify more
than one scenario. Indeed, the bumpy journey to a new normal
scenario, while the most probable, has been given a 55 to 60
percent probability during the last 18 months. We have also
detailed the specific characteristics and probabilities of three
other scenarios that involve either a faster recovery or the
risk of a double dip.”  Average Return  U.S. equities have returned 6.2 percent a year since 1900
before dividends, according to inflation-adjusted data compiled
by the London Business School and Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich.  Stocks  rose last week, pushing the S&P 500 up 3 percent to
1,224.71, after American retailers reported sales that beat
analyst estimates, Chinese and European manufacturing expanded
and policy makers extended an emergency loan program in Europe.
An Institute for Supply Management report showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded for a 16th month in November. The Labor
Department said Dec. 3 that employers added 39,000 jobs in
November, less than the most pessimistic projection of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The S&P 500 lost 0.1 percent to 1,223.12 today after
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the world’s
largest economy may need more stimulus.  Dodson, whose  fund  is ranked the third-best for diversified
U.S. equities in Bloomberg data through Nov. 12, returned 28
percent this year. He bought companies from  Finisar Corp. , the
Sunnyvale, California-based maker of fiber-optic networking
equipment, to Administaff Inc., a human-resource services
provider in Kingwood, Texas, speculating they will gain as the
economy improves in 2011.  Jobless Peak  Claro of Wells said that signs unemployment had peaked were
reasons to be optimistic in 2010. The proportion of American
workers unable to find a job reached a 26-year high of 10.1
percent in October 2009 and has since fallen to 9.8 percent,
according to Labor Department data.  “If you have this high unemployment rate, are we more
likely to go to an 11 percent unemployment rate or are we more
likely to go to an 8 percent rate or 7 percent rate, given
time?” he said. “The higher you are in terms of some of these
indicators, such as the unemployment rate, the more opportunity
you could find.”  Claro bought shares of New York-based  Monster Worldwide
Inc. , the world’s largest online recruiting company, as its
shares surged 34 percent this year. The firm returned to profit
in the third quarter and will make money all next year,
according to average analyst  estimates  collected by Bloomberg.  Free Cash Flow  Lynch, head of growth investing at Morgan Stanley
Investment Management Inc., said he looked for companies with
the highest free cash flow yields, or income after capital
spending divided by share price, that had the potential to  boost
earnings  as the financial crisis abated. Internet-based
companies, such as Norwark, Connecticut-based travel agency
 Priceline.com Inc. , were among the best examples, he said.  “Our portfolio is full of strong companies that have
strong balance sheets and sustainable competitive advantages,”
said Lynch, whose $6 billion Morgan Stanley Institutional Fund
Trust Mid Cap Growth Fund has  returned  31 percent this year,
better than 96 percent of peers.  The S&P 500 is up 21 percent from its 2010 low in July
including dividends. Its total return since Dec. 31 of 12
percent also beat investment-grade corporate bonds, which
returned 9.5 percent since the start of the year. Treasuries
have  underperformed both , with a 2010 return of 6.9 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Tech Stocks  Citrix Systems Inc., a Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based
software developer that Price added to his $1.17 billion  Allianz
RCM Technology Fund , is up 67 percent year-to-date, the third-
biggest increase among technology stocks in the S&P 500. RCM
Tech rose 30 percent this year, in the 95th percentile.  “Late in the first quarter we started buying to be a more
aggressive portfolio,” Price said. “We were hearing a lot of
concern about a double dip, but actually business was pretty
good as we saw with  third-quarter reports . It was like we read
the headlines and we saw the concerns, but we also heard a lot
of our companies telling us, ‘No, business is fine.’ So we
didn’t panic out of our core holdings.”  S&P 500 companies  hold about 10.6 percent of their market
value in cash, with the third quarter marking the eighth
straight period of record corporate reserves, according to
estimates and data from  Howard Silverblatt , the senior index
analyst at S&P. Executives are posting better-than-forecast
earnings, with more than 70 percent of S&P 500 companies beating
estimates this quarter.  Beating Estimates  That’s the sixth straight period in which  more than 70
percent exceeded forecasts , the longest stretch since at least
1993, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The U.S. economy is
projected to expand 2.5 percent in 2011 and 3 percent in 2012,
according to 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We invest in high-quality, high-growth companies and they
are particularly well-positioned today -- maybe better than any
time in the past 10 years -- because they have the best  balance
sheets  in a world where cash is king,” said Stanford,
Connecticut-based Galvin, whose $3.5 billion fund beat 98
percent of peers this year. “You need to have strong balance
sheets to invest in new developments and bring to market new
products that are gaining market share even in an economy that’s
showing little lift.”  Fund Outflows  Mutual funds investing in U.S. equities have seen outflows
every week since the start of May, totaling more than $80
billion, according to data and estimates compiled by the
Washington-based Investment Company Institute. Professional
investors also were wary, as futures on the  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index  showed in September that
concern stocks would plunge had never been higher.  To Dodson at Parnassus, Royce’s George and Claro at Wells
Capital Management, negative sentiment was a contrarian signal
that provided the initiative to buy. Dips in equity prices
provided opportunities to acquire stocks at below-average
valuations and wait for bearish investors to change their minds.  “This summer, when people started to worry about a double-
dip recession, one of the areas that was most aggressively sold
was technology stocks, and so we added some semiconductors,”
George said. “We’re value investors and contrarians. When you
have a lot of negative press and people worrying about the
market, you tend to get better valuations in stocks.”  ‘Growing Fast’  George said he bought  Fairchild Semiconductor International
Inc.  as the S&P 500 was declining 16 percent between April and
July. The South Portland, Maine-based maker of chips that
convert and regulate power in electronic devices is up 81
percent since July 2 and has posted nine consecutive quarters of
better-than-projected earnings, according to Bloomberg  data .  “People focused on: Is the company doing well and growing
fast? And if the answer was, ‘Yes,’ they bought the stock,” San
Francisco-based Price said. “It wasn’t this macro theme
 overwhelming everything  like it was the last two years. That’s a
great development. If we navigate this environment and the
economy continues to improve, stocks will work their way higher
in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 