-- Obama Confronts Resistence From Democrats Over Deal to Adopt Bush Tax Cuts
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-12-07T18:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/payroll-tax-holiday-on-the-table-as-negotiators-debate-bush-rate-extension.html
President  Barack Obama  confronted
pushback from fellow Democrats today as he begins the job of
selling his agreement with congressional Republicans to
temporarily sustain all the Bush-era tax cuts.  After almost a week of negotiations between an
administration team led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
and budget director  Jack Lew , Obama announced last night he’ll
accept a deal that would extend current tax rates for high-
income taxpayers for two more years in exchange for extending
federal unemployment insurance for the long-term jobless and
cutting the payroll tax by $120 billion for one year.  Obama will take questions on the plan at a news conference
scheduled for 2:20 p.m. today in Washington. While Republicans
such as Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  welcomed the
compromise, several Democrats said they haven’t committed to
the plan and party activists mounted campaigns to kill it.  “House Democrats have not signed off on this deal,”
Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a member of the
Democratic leadership, said today on Bloomberg Television. “I
have some serious reservations.”  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said Democrats “will continue
discussions” with Obama. She criticized elements of the plan
demanded by Republicans, including extending the top tax rates
and the estate tax, while stopping short of saying she’ll urge
House Democrats to reject the deal.  ‘Middle Class Hostage’  “Republicans have held the middle class hostage for
provisions that benefit only the wealthiest 3 percent, do not
create jobs, and add tens of billions of dollars to the
deficit,” the California Democrat said in a statement.  Senate Democrats, including  Dianne Feinstein  of California
and  Frank Lautenberg  of New Jersey, also expressed concern.  “To me, it has a bad aroma, and I don’t like what I
see,” Lautenberg said. “It almost has a let ‘em eat cake
character” because “the people who don’t need it are going to
get tax relief.” Still, Lautenberg said was “not ready” to
vote against it.  Feinstein called the deal a “surprise” and said she
hasn’t decided whether to back it. She said she would have to
weigh the impact on the country of rejecting the deal and
allowing middle-class tax rates to go up.  Nation ‘in Trouble’  “To fight just for the sake of a fight isn’t something I
think we should do” because “the nation is in trouble” with
rising unemployment.” Feinstein said.  Obama said he made the compromise to break the stalemate
over taxes to ensure rates don’t rise for middle-income
Americans when the current ones, enacted in 2001 and 2003,
expire on Dec. 31. He said that while he still believes the
nation can’t afford to permanently extend the reduced top tax
rates, raising taxes for the rest of taxpayers would damage the
fragile economic recovery.  Without the deal, middle-income families would become
“collateral damage for political warfare here in Washington,”
Obama said in televised remarks yesterday. He criticized
Republicans for insisting on permanent tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans “regardless of the cost of impact on the
 deficit .”  Treasury Department aide  Gene Sperling  said most Democrats
will end up backing the package.  Democrats “are going to want to be on the side of
supporting something this strong for working-class families,”
Sperling said on Bloomberg Television. “There is no question
this package is going to make unemployment lower than what it
would have been.”  Biden Meeting  Vice President  Joe Biden  is being dispatched to the Senate
Democratic Caucus lunch this afternoon to lobby lawmakers.  In addition to preserving the status quo on Bush policies,
the proposal creates more than $300 billion in new tax cuts for
wage-earners, wealthy families and corporations.  Stocks rose and Treasuries fell after word of the
agreement, offsetting concern that Europe’s debt crisis will
spread further.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  jumped 0.6 percent to
1,230.76, reaching its highest levels since September 2008. The
 Nasdaq Composite Index  reached an almost three-year high. The
 Dollar Index  was little changed. Copper rose to a record in
London and gold slipped after touching an all-time high of
$1,430.50 an ounce.  Obama’s ‘Framework’  Obama met yesterday at the White House with Democratic
congressional leaders to outline what he called a “framework”
for compromise tax legislation.  Van Hollen characterized those discussions as “lively,”
though “not overheated.”  Van Hollen said he understood that the president
“doesn’t’ want to play Russian roulette” with the economy.
Still, he said, “a number of us think there could have been a
better result here.”  House Democrats will meet later today to air some of their
concerns, he said. One of the sticking points is the provision
that would set the top rate of the tax on estates at 35
percent, which applies after a $5 million tax allowance per
individual.  In a letter to Pelosi circulated yesterday, Representative
 Peter Welch  of Vermont and at least five other Democrats urged
her not to agree to the administration’s deal.  “We support extending tax cuts in full to 98 percent of
American taxpayers, as the president initially proposed,”
Welch wrote. “He should not back down. Nor should we.”  ‘Very Difficult’ Sell  House Democratic Caucus Chairman  John Larson  of
Connecticut said it will be “very difficult” to sell Obama’s
tax deal to House Democrats.  Jim Manley , a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, was noncommittal, saying Reid would discuss it
with Democrats.  McConnell, of Kentucky, said in a statement that he was
“cautiously optimistic” that congressional Democrats “will
have the same openness to preventing tax hikes that the
administration has already shown.”  An administration official said the president was happy
with the agreement because it would give the economy a boost.
Obama won his biggest prize: a 13-month extension of
unemployment insurance, the official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  Tax Credits  The White House also counted as a win an agreement from
Republicans to renew a refundable child-care tax credit, the
earned-income tax credit and tuition tax credits, among other
items, the official said.  The compromise amounts to a couple of hundred billion
dollars in tax cuts that no one thought possible just days ago,
the official said, adding that the deal will play better across
the country than in Washington.  Democratic-leaning groups criticized Obama for
compromising. Charles Chamberlain, the political director of
Democracy for America, a 1 million-member political action
committee founded by former Democratic National Committee
Chairman  Howard Dean , called the agreement a “failure of
leadership.”  The president ran on a platform not to extend the cuts for
the wealthiest Americans, Chamberlain said. “Just because
Americans elected Republicans to take over the House of
Representatives, they didn’t try to make it so Republicans were
the new president.”  The Office of Management and Budget said it doesn’t yet
have a cost estimate for the package, spokeswoman  Meg Reilly 
said in an e-mail.  Republican Concessions  Lawrence Mishel , president of the Economic Policy
Institute, a Washington group funded in part by labor unions,
said Obama extracted some concessions from Republicans that may
help the accord advance in Congress.  “Economically, if you were going to do a deal, I think
this is better than expected and will provide some help to the
economy, but we need a lot more help,” he said. “I think
people generally wanted to have a fight to show who was for the
rich people and who was for the rest of us. That fight now will
take place in the 2012 election.”  If Congress agrees, the deal would leave in place the 10,
15, 25, 28, 33 and 35 percent marginal tax rates created in
2001. It would also preserve for two years the 15 percent tax
rate on most capital gains and dividends, and would temporarily
index the alternative minimum tax for inflation.  In addition, the plan outlined by Obama would extend aid
for the long-term unemployed. To help spur hiring, the payroll
tax -- which funds Social Security and Medicare -- would be cut
by 2 percentage points during 2011.  Payroll Taxes  The payroll tax cut would apply to all wage-earners, an
administration official told reporters on a conference call.
That would be an $800 savings for individuals with an income of
$40,000. Those who earn salaries of more than $106,800 would
save a maximum of $2,136. The proposal would cost the
government $120 billion, another administration official said.  The payroll tax cut represents a savings of about a third
on the 6.2 percent share of the tax workers normally pay. Their
employers get no benefit under the proposal.  The  unemployment rate  rose to a seven-month high of 9.8
percent in November as payroll growth slowed to 39,000 from
172,000, according to the Labor Department.  Estate Tax  The compromise plan would set the estate tax at a top rate
of 35 percent, which applies after a $5 million tax-free
allowance per individual. That rate would be the lowest since
1931 -- not counting 2010, when the rate was zero and replaced
with a complicated capital gains tax that applies when
inherited assets are sold.  Obama also endorsed allowing a full deduction for
equipment purchases that currently must be deducted over time.
The proposal would accelerate $200 billion in tax savings for
companies in the first year and benefit 1.5 million companies
and several million individuals who run businesses, according
to White House estimates.  Total revenue lost from the so-called expensing proposal
over 10 years would be $30 billion; companies taking the
immediate deductions wouldn’t be able to write off their
expenses through depreciation in years to come.  The administration officials said some elements of the
plan still have to be negotiated with lawmakers. They include
whether to renew dozens of expired or expiring tax provisions.
Among them: The Build America Bond program, the fastest-growing
segment of the $2.8 trillion municipal debt market.  The subsidy, which expires Dec. 31, was created by Obama’s
2009 economic-stimulus plan. More than $173.5 billion of the
taxable securities have been sold, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The U.S. pays 35 percent of the interest costs on
the debt. A Senate bill would cut that rate to 32 percent.
Republicans may oppose the measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  