-- Peru to Set Up Sovereign Wealth Fund Using Record Reserves, Benavides Says
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-12-06T23:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/peru-to-set-up-sovereign-wealth-fund-using-record-reserves-benavides-says.html
Peru plans to set up a sovereign
wealth fund, taking advantage of record foreign reserves and
metal prices to finance investments in infrastructure and
education, Finance Minister  Ismael Benavides  said.  The Andean country may tap its $44 billion in foreign
currency reserves and  tax revenue  to create the fund before the
President  Alan Garcia ’s term ends in July, Benavides said in an
interview in New York today.  “We have not only reserves but extraordinary revenues from
 mineral exports ,” the 65-year-old Benavides said, without
providing details about how the fund would work. “We might come
up with something in the first quarter next year.”  The fund would be modeled after a $12.8 billion fund Chile
created in 2006 to hoard windfall profits from surging copper
prices, Benavides said. Peru is the world’s largest producer of
silver and second-largest producer of copper after Chile. Metals
accounted for 62 percent of exports in the first half of 2010.  Setting aside government savings will help direct resources
to areas in need of investment, said  Carola Sandy , an economist
at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  “It will just make the commitment of the government to
save any surpluses stronger,” Sandy said in a phone interview
from New York.  After three years of surpluses, Peru will run a second
straight annual budget deficit this year. The government plans
to increase spending next year 8 percent while reducing its
fiscal deficit to 1 percent of gross domestic product, from 1.5
percent this year.  Regional Trend  To improve its infrastructure and boost foreign trade and
tourism, South America’s sixth-biggest economy requires $37.8
billion of investment, according to a 2008 study by the Peruvian
Economics Institute, a Lima-based research group.  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  has said he plans to
create a dollar-denominated sovereign wealth fund using
royalties from oil and coal, dividends from state oil company
Ecopetrol SA and tax revenue.  Peru will use some of the funds from a record $2.5 billion
international bond sale last month for infrastructure spending,
after using $1.5 billion to pre-pay debt, Benavides said.  The Nov. 10 sale of sol and dollar-denominated bonds to 70
investors has satisfied demand for Peruvian debt and will help
ease pressure on the sol, which rose to a two-year high in
September, Benavides said.  Currency Appreciation  The government doesn’t see the need to implement capital
controls to temper gains in the sol, which will see a “very
small appreciation” next year, Benavides said.  The currency may strengthen to 2.81 per U.S. dollar this
month, and may appreciate to 2.76 next year “at the most,” he
added. The sol gained 0.1 percent to 2.8203 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time.  “The central bank has applied quite successful policies,
buying excess dollars and issuing CDs and then sterilizing them
and they have room to do some more of that,” he said.  The central bank bought almost $9 billion this year to slow
gains in the sol, swelling Peru’s foreign currency reserves from
$33 billion at the end of last year and $17.3 billion in 2006.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 5.93 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local
unit.  Growth, Trade  While the $127 billion economy is poised to grow between 8.5
percent and 9.0 percent in 2010 and “possibly 7 percent or
above” in 2011,  inflation  is under control and will end the
year at 2.2 percent, “which is quite a bit lower than the
target the central bank has set up,” Benavides said.  The central bank targets inflation of 1 percent to 3
percent.  Peru’s economy will continue to expand at an  annual rate  of
7 percent or more until 2016, Benavides said later at an event
with investors organized by the Peruvian-American Association in
New York.  The Andean country will export as much as $34 billion and
import up to $32 billion in goods in 2010, Benavides said.  “The  trade balance  is not as huge as one would think and
we have a slightly negative current account balance,” he added.
“These factors are not pressing on the sol.”  Public Service, Experience  Benavides, whose grandfather Oscar Benavides was president
of Peru in the 1930s, was appointed finance minister Sept. 14.
His predecessor,  Mercedes Araoz , will be the presidential
candidate for the ruling Apra party in April’s elections.  Benavides headed  Banco Internacional del Peru , the
country’s fourth-largest bank, for 13 years from 1994 to 2007,
after previously managing state development bank Corporacion
Financiera de Desarollo SA.  Before becoming Garcia’s fourth finance minister since
2006, Benavides was a senior adviser to Deerfield, Illinois-
based  CF Industries Holdings Inc ., the world’s second-largest
producer of nitrogen fertilizer.  Benavides worked as a cashier at Citigroup Inc. while
studying for a master’s in business administration from the
University of California at Berkeley.  His uncle,  Alberto Benavides , is president of Cia. de Minas
Buenaventura SA, Peru’s largest precious metals producer.  Sustainable Growth  Peru’s government tapped three years of fiscal surpluses to
implement a $4.8 billion economic stimulus in 2009 after a
global recession curbed demand for the Andean country’s metals,
fishmeal and natural gas.  Copper and silver prices have more than doubled since 2008,
gold has climbed 60 percent and zinc has jumped 51 percent.  Peru, like other commodity exporters in Latin America,
needs to invest in infrastructure and education to ensure
economic growth is sustainable, said  Bertrand Delgado , an
economist at Roubini Global Economics LLC in New York.  “The worst thing that can happen is that the currency
overshoots and then remains overvalued for a prolonged period of
time and productivity gains are limited,” Delgado said in a
phone interview. “You run the risk of distorting the non-
traditional export sector or value-added export sector, which
creates jobs,” and helps sustain growth, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  