-- Pfizer CEO Kindler Resigns After Stock Underperforms 97 Percent of S&P 500
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-12-06T21:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/pfizer-ceo-kindler-quits-after-drugmaker-s-stock-underperforms-97-of-s-p.html
Pfizer Inc. ’s chief executive officer
 Jeffrey Kindler  left the top post at the world’s biggest
drugmaker yesterday after the company’s stock underperformed its
rivals over the 4 1/2 years of his tenure.  Pfizer’s  price-earnings ratio  for the past year is lower
than 91 percent of pharmaceutical industry peers and below 97
percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Kindler, 55, finishes
at a low point; Pfizer’s price-earnings ratio in 2010 is 7.3,
lower than the annual average for each year he’s been in charge.  The stock has dropped 35 percent since Kindler was named
CEO just prior to a 2006 announcement that Pfizer’s most
promising compound, the torcetrapib cholesterol pill, failed to
help patients in a study. The company had spent $1 billion to
develop the drug. Pfizer bought Wyeth in 2009 for $68 billion to
add products to overcome lost sales when the Lipitor cholesterol
pill, with  $11.4 billion in sales , faces generic competition.  “Investors have not been happy about the stock price,”
said  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co.
in New York, in a telephone interview. “Could he have done
better? Yeah. He could have focused on buying more innovative,
smaller companies.”  Pfizer rose 9 cents to $16.81 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange  composite trading . The stock had dropped 9.6 percent in
the 12 months before today.  Read’s New Role  Kindler’s successor as chief,  Ian C. Read , first joined
Pfizer as an operations auditor in 1978, and has been the head
of the global biopharmaceutical operations since 2006. Read, 57,
must convince investors that the company can continue to
internally develop innovative drugs with billions in annual
sales, Funtleyder said.  Pfizer’s most promising experimental drugs include a pill
for rheumatoid arthritis called tasocitinib and a treatment
called crizotinib for a segment of patients with lung cancer.
The drugs combined will have sales of about $2.3 billion by
2016, according to two  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Pfizer  is
also partnering with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. on an experimental
blood thinner called apixaban.  Kindler’s “forte was not the pharmaceutical landscape, and
I think with  Ian Read , you get a pharmaceutical lifer,” said
 Manoj Garg , an analyst at Soleil Securities Corp.  Funtleyder and Garg said the change should be viewed
favorably by investors.  Including invested dividends, Pfizer’s  stock has declined 
20 percent since Kindler was named CEO on July 28, 2006,
compared with a return of 10 percent for the S&P 500
Pharmaceutical Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Pfizer halved its dividend after the Wyeth acquisition.  Pfizer faces generic competition over the next five years
on products with $20 billion in annual sales, or almost a third
of the company’s annual revenue. To cut costs, Kindler has fired
more than 14,000 workers, closed research labs and manufacturing
plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  