-- Pfizer's Kindler Said to Leave After Jilting Read
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-12-06T20:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/pfizer-s-kindler-said-to-leave-after-jilting-read.html
Jeffrey Kindler ’s refusal to name an
operations chief in response to a push from senior managers cost
him his job as chief executive officer of  Pfizer  Inc., according
to a person familiar with the process.  Kindler, 55, resigned yesterday hours before a special
board meeting, the person said.  Ian C. Read  was named to replace
him. Executives, including Kindler, met in September to discuss
a succession plan and decided Read would become chief operating
officer, taking over some CEO responsibilities, said the person,
who declined to be named because deliberations were private.  Kindler in recent months lost the support of executives
frustrated with his management style, the person said. At a time
when New York-based Pfizer faces complex policy decisions,
Kindler was too focused on smaller matters, and micromanaging
his executives, according to the person.  In the last year, the company has been dealing with a U.S.
health-care overhaul, lawsuits from shareholders alleging that
senior executives failed to stop illegal marketing of drugs,
and a stock that underperformed its peers. The  stock  has dropped
35 percent since Kindler, formerly Pfizer’s general counsel, was
named CEO on July 28, 2006.  “Investors have not been happy about the stock price,”
said  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co.
in New York, in a telephone interview. “Could he have done
better? Yeah. He could have focused on buying more innovative,
smaller companies.”  Shares Rise  Pfizer shares rose 24 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $16.96 at
10:19 a.m. in New York Stock exchange composite  trading .  Read, 57, a 32-year veteran of the company, has been head
of Pfizer’s global pharmaceutical operations since 2006,
controlling 85 percent of revenue. Pfizer will announce in the
next week what will become of Read’s former position, according
to the person. There may be a successor, or Read’s former
responsibilities may be divided among other executives, the
person said.  Read’s management style is well-known to Pfizer director
and former CEO  William C. Steere . Read ran operations in Latin
America and Europe while Steere headed the company from 1991 to
2000. Steere didn’t return calls for comment.
Pfizer spokesman  Ray Kerins  declined to comment on the board
deliberations.  Pfizer Comment  “Ian’s extensive knowledge of global markets, such as
Europe, Latin America and middle east, coupled with his vast
experience from overseeing our largest businesses makes him
uniquely position to lead Pfizer,” Kerins said today.
 Constance J. Horner , an independent director, cited Read’s
experience in emerging markets in announcing the change.  Read “has brought to product development a focus and
commitment to advance only medicines that have clear value to
our customers,” Horner said in the statement. “Today’s
business leaders need to understand global markets, drive change
and innovation, and move quickly to adapt to competitive
pressures. Ian’s track record throughout his career has
demonstrated these exact strengths.”  The board called the Dec. 5 special meeting sometime in the
last week or two, the person said.  Pfizer has underperformed its rivals over the 4 1/2 years
of Kindler’s tenure. Pfizer’s price-earnings ratio for the past
year is lower than 91 percent of pharmaceutical industry peers
and below 97 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Low Point  Kindler finishes at a low point. Pfizer’s 2010 price-
earnings ratio was 7.3 as of Dec. 3, the last day of trading
before Kindler stepped down, lower than the annual average for
each year he’s been in charge.  Read takes over the CEO’s job as the company prepares to
face generic competition to its top-selling cholesterol
treatment Lipitor, which had $11.4 billion in sales last year.  While the drugmaker moved to make up for the expected
losses under Kindler by paying $68 billion in 2009 to acquire
Wyeth, it also has had four setbacks this year in developing its  Kindler served as both CEO and chairman. The board will
elect a new chairman, separating the two roles, at a meeting
within two weeks, the company said in its Dec. 3 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  