-- Pfizer Paid NYC $24.7 Million Penalty for Moving Jobs
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-06T23:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/pfizer-paid-new-york-city-24-7-million-penalty-after-moving-some-workers.html
Pfizer Inc.  paid New York City a
$24.7 million penalty, twice the tax incentives the drugmaker
received for expanding its headquarters in the city, after
relocating some corporate offices and transferring hundreds of
jobs to New Jersey and Pennsylvania, city officials said.  The company had stopped receiving benefits under a deal
intended to lure companies. In November it refunded double the
amount it got in the form of abated taxes and other incentives,
said  David Lombino , spokesman for the city  Economic Development
Corp.  Pfizer’s chief executive officer,  Jeffrey Kindler ,
resigned yesterday, according to a person familiar with the
process.  Pfizer reduced headcount at its East 42nd Street
headquarters to 3,837 as of the June 30 end of its fiscal year
from a peak of more than 6,500, Lombino said. The city and
company first struck a deal in 2003, when the company employed
about 5,300 in New York. Pfizer officials requested more
incentives in 2005, he said.  “The city has recovered the value of the benefits offered
through the agreement and a penalty based on the staff reduction
resulting from Pfizer’s global reorganization,” Lombino said in
an e-mail. “Any reduction is unfortunate, but Pfizer is
maintaining its worldwide headquarters and a major presence in
New York City and it remains an important and valued part of the
local economy.”  The company moved staff to facilities in New Jersey and
Pennsylvania after its 2009 merger with Wyeth, said a Pfizer
spokeswoman,  Joan Campion .  “We’re maintaining our global headquarters in New York
City,” Campion said in a phone interview. Pfizer’s primary
care, oncology, emerging markets and established products units
will remain based in the city, she said.  The Economic Development Corp. is part of the
administration of Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 Hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 