-- Pfizer’s Kindler Said to Leave After Jilting Read
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-12-07T01:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/pfizer-ceo-kindler-said-to-be-asked-to-leave-after-failing-to-promote-read.html
Jeffrey Kindler ’s refusal to name an
operations chief in response to a push from senior managers cost
him his job as chief executive officer of  Pfizer  Inc., according
to a person familiar with the process.  Kindler, 55, quit yesterday hours before a special board
meeting, the person said.  Ian C. Read , 57, was named to replace
him. Executives, including Kindler, met in September to discuss
a succession plan and decided Read would become chief operating
officer, taking over some CEO responsibilities, said the person,
who declined to be named because the deliberations were private.
That never happened.  Kindler in recent months had lost support of executives
frustrated with his management style, the person said. At a time
when New York-based Pfizer faces complex policy decisions,
Kindler was focused on smaller matters and micromanaging his
executives, according to the person.  The company has been dealing with a U.S. health-care
overhaul, lawsuits from shareholders alleging that senior
executives failed to stop illegal marketing of drugs, and a
stock that underperformed its peers. The  shares  have dropped 35
percent since Kindler, formerly Pfizer’s general counsel, was
named CEO on July 28, 2006.  “Investors have not been happy about the stock price,”
said  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co.
in New York, in a telephone interview. “Could he have done
better? Yeah. He could have focused on buying more innovative,
smaller companies.”  Shares Rise  Pfizer shares rose 9 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$16.81 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
The stock has declined 9 percent in the past 12 months.  Read, a 32-year veteran of the company, has been head of
Pfizer’s global pharmaceutical operations since 2006,
controlling 85 percent of revenue. Read’s management style is
well-known to Pfizer director and former CEO  William C. Steere .
Read ran operations in Latin America and Europe while Steere
headed the company from 1991 to 2000.  Steere didn’t return calls for comment.
 Constance J. Horner , an independent director, cited Read’s
experience in emerging markets in the company statement
announcing the change.  Read “has brought to product development a focus and
commitment to advance only medicines that have clear value to
our customers,” Horner said in the statement. “Today’s
business leaders need to understand global markets, drive change
and innovation, and move quickly to adapt to competitive
pressures. Ian’s track record throughout his career has
demonstrated these exact strengths.’  Special Board Meeting  The board called the Dec. 5 special meeting sometime in the
last week or two, the person said. Pfizer spokesman  Ray Kerins 
declined to comment on the board deliberations. Kindler didn’t
return calls to his home.  Pfizer has underperformed its rivals over the 4 1/2 years
of Kindler’s tenure. Pfizer’s price- earnings  ratio for the past
year is lower than 91 percent of  pharmaceutical industry  peers
and below 97 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kindler finishes at a low point: Pfizer’s 2010 price-
earnings ratio was 7.3 as of Dec. 3, the last day of trading
before Kindler stepped down, lower than the annual average for
each year he’s been in charge.  During his time as CEO, Kindler faced some of the toughest
challenges of the industry, including the looming loss of
Lipitor and the failure of one of the company’s most promising
drugs, a cholesterol pill that was slated to replace Lipitor.  Torcetrapib Failure  Months after Kindler took the helm in 2006, Pfizer halted
development the cholesterol drug, called torcetrapib, after the
drug failed to benefit patients in a study. To cut costs since,
Kindler has fired more than 14,000 workers, closed research labs
and manufacturing plants.  “They’re a big company and it takes a lot to turn this
ship,” said  David Maris , a New York-based health care analyst
at CLSA, a unit of Credit Agricole SA, in an interview. “While
we think Kindler was doing a good job, investor frustration was
rising, mostly over the stock price.”  The board has publicly supported the purchase of Wyeth in
2009 for $68 billion, as well as Kindler’s cost-cutting
measures. Read takes over the CEO’s job as the company prepares
to face generic competition to its top-selling cholesterol
treatment Lipitor, which had $11.4 billion in sales last year.  While the drugmaker moved to make up for the expected
losses under Kindler by acquiring Wyeth, it also has had four
setbacks this year in developing its experimental drug pipeline.  Kindler served as CEO and chairman. The board will elect a
new chairman, separating the two roles, at a meeting within two
weeks, the company said in its Dec. 3 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  