-- Qatar to Buy $534 Million Stake in Hochtief Fighting Takeover Bid From ACA
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2010-12-06T13:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/qatar-to-buy-534-million-stake-in-hochtief-fighting-takeover-bid-from-aca.html
Hochtief AG , which has sought to
fight off a takeover bid from Spanish builder and major
shareholder ACS SA for more than two months, said Qatar Holding
LLC plans to buy a 9.1 percent stake to help deepen cooperation.  Hochtief will increase its  stock  by about 10 percent by
issuing shares at 57.114 euros each. Qatar’s investment of
almost 400 million euros ($534 million) will strengthen Hochtief
and will support growth after a canceled bond sale in September,
Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Luetkestratkoetter  said.  “I could imagine Qatar raising their stake further. It
makes it more difficult for ACS,” said  Heino Hammann , an
analyst at Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale. “This is far
from over.”  The capital increase would dilute the stake held by ACS to
about 27 percent, making its goal of moving beyond a 30 percent
stake in Hochtief more expensive. Qatar will host soccer’s 2022
World Cup, the first Arab nation to hold the world’s most-
watched sporting event, in a potential construction boom for
stadiums and related infrastructure.  Merkel Dinner  Hochtief shares rose as much as 3.87 euros, or 6.4 percent,
to 63.99 euros today, the most in seven months. The stock has
gained 18 percent so far this year, valuing Hochtief at about
4.4 billion euros. ACS gained as much as 2 percent in Madrid.  Luetkestratkoetter said Qatar had signaled interest in a
stake even before ACS disclosed its intention to buy Hochtief,
and that talks progressed over a dinner hosted by
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for Qatar Prime Minister  Hamad bin Jassem bin Jaber  al-Thani in November that he also attended.  “It’s like in a partnership,” said Luetkestratkoetter.
“You get to know each other, and eventually decide to take it
to the next level.”  Hochtief decided on the capital increase without consulting
ACS’s representatives on its supervisory board, the executive
said. ACS spokeswoman Phoebe Kebbel declined to comment.  ACS, whose full name is Actividades de Construccion y
Servicios, has approval from Germany’s financial regulator for
its 2.7 billion-euro bid for Essen, Germany-based Hochtief. ACS
is proposing eight of its own shares for every five of the
German builder’s, which opposes the offer, saying it doesn’t
give shareholders value. Investors have until Dec. 29 to decide.  ‘Backed Off’  The German government “did not chip into” the Hochtief
takeover offer and “backed off” on the issue, Economy Minister
 Rainer Bruederle  said in a statement today.  Qatar plans to more than double the number of hotel rooms,
build nine stadiums and refurbish three others and construct a
rail and metro network for the soccer tournament. In 2009,
Hochtief won a contract worth 1.3 billion euros to construct an
avenue of offices and shops in Qatar, the largest single
contract in the history of its construction unit.  “With the Cup in sight, this could accelerate what had
already been an ongoing trend,” said  Rachel Ziemba , senior
analyst at Roubini Global Economics LLC in London. “If they can
invest overseas in companies that will bring them expertise and
help them with domestic goals, that’s a big plus,” she said.  Other German companies where Qatar has invested include
carmaker Volkswagen AG. Hochtief said it will use the money from
the capital increase to finance projects such as the offshore-
wind business, and expansion in India and Canada.  Qatar plans to spend $4 billion on stadium construction and
refurbishment, with each facility cooled by a solar-powered air-
conditioning system. A new 200,000-population city called Lusail
that Hochtief is helping develop is scheduled to be built over
the next decade and will feature the stadium that hosts the
World Cup final.  “This transaction cements our relationship with one of the
key trading partners for the development of infrastructure ahead
of the World Cup in 2022,”  Ahmad Mohamed Al-Sayed , CEO of Qatar
Holding, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 