-- Quadrangle Group Plots Post-Rattner Future, New York Times's Dealbook Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-12-06T19:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/quadrangle-names-ezersky-co-head-with-huber-won-t-seek-outside-investment.html
Quadrangle Group LLC, the private-
equity firm co-founded by  Steven Rattner , announced new
leadership and said it won’t pursue an outside investment or
partnership.  Michael Huber , as president and managing principal, will
lead the firm along with co-founder  Peter Ezersky , New York-
based Quadrangle said in a letter to investors today. Co-
President  Josh Steiner  will reduce his involvement and become a
senior adviser, while managing principals  Andrew Frey  and  Ed Sippel  will leave in 2011, according to the letter.  The firm, whose founder Rattner was the subject of state
and federal investigations of corruption at New York’s state
pension fund, said it decided not to raise a third fund or sell
a stake in the business. The latest fund, named Quadrangle
Capital Partners II, has five years remaining after its
investment period ends this year.  “We did not believe any of the alternatives presented the
opportunity to create greater value for, and alignment with, our
limited partners than the strategy we are pursuing at this
time,” the firm said. “As we enter 2011, the firm may continue
to explore various strategic opportunities, including with
various potential minority investors who have already expressed
interest in the firm.”  ‘Significant Capital’  Quadrangle’s managing principals will invest “significant
capital” into the firm, the letter said. The commitment reserve
for QCP II, used to fund additional investments in companies in
the portfolio, will be $366 million at Dec. 31, and Quadrangle
will reduce that to $300 million, according to the letter.  “We’ve been keeping our heads down and focusing on what
matters most to our investors, which is performance,” Steiner
said in an interview today.  The firm’s Quadrangle Capital Partners I fund was up 39
percent and QCP II increased 18 percent in the first nine months
of this year, according to the letter. The two funds have
returned $632 million, or 35 percent of invested capital, to
investors since Dec. 31, 2008.  “In terms of our next fund, there is no timetable,” Huber
said in an interview. “When the time is right, we’ll make our
next move.”  Quadrangle also hired  Steven Felsher  as a senior adviser
and Thomas Kohut as a principal. Felsher, who will serve on the
firm’s investment committee, joined from marketing services
company Grey Global Worldwide Group Inc. Kohut, who worked at
Ernst & Young, will focus on portfolio management, the letter
said.  Two-Year Ban  Rattner, who left Quadrangle in February 2009, agreed on
Nov. 18 to pay $6.2 million and accept a two-year ban from
associating with broker-dealers or investment advisers to
resolve a Securities and Exchange Commission probe of kickbacks
in connection with the New York state pension fund.  Rattner, 58, accused Quadrangle of trying to shift
responsibility to him after settling investigations. Quadrangle
settled with Cuomo and the SEC in April. Rattner filed a
petition last month in New York State Supreme Court to obtain
documents and testimony for an undisclosed arbitration
proceeding he brought Sept. 2 against Quadrangle.  Quadrangle said in the letter that it tried to reach a
settlement with Rattner before his arbitration claim.  “We believe his claims are groundless and will defend
ourselves vigorously,” Quadrangle said in the letter.  Cuomo sued Rattner separately on Nov. 18, seeking at least
$26 million and an immediate lifetime ban from the securities
industry in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  