-- Traders Flip-Flop Means No Meirelles Farewell Rate Increase: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-12-06T19:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/traders-flip-flop-means-no-meirelles-farewell-rate-increase-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian traders are scrapping bets
that central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  will raise
interest rates this week in the final meeting of his eight-year
tenure, futures contracts show.  Meirelles’s decision Dec. 3 to increase bank reserve
requirements squelched speculation he’d raise the benchmark rate
from 10.75 percent to bring  inflation  down from a 20-month high
of 5.5 percent. Rate-futures yields due in January sank 15 basis
points on Dec. 3 to 10.69 percent, showing traders expect no
change in rates at the Dec. 8 policy meeting. On Dec. 2, they
were betting on an increase of at least 25 basis points.  The rule change, which will remove about 61 billion reais
($36 billion) from the economy, buys time for Meirelles’s
appointed successor,  Alexandre Tombini , to assess President-
elect  Dilma Rousseff ’s fiscal plans before deciding on rate
increases next year, said  Luis Fernando Lopes , a partner who
helps manage 1.1 billion reais at Patria Investimentos.  “A December rate hike is very, very unlikely,” Lopes said
in an interview from Sao Paulo. “They still want this very
important piece of information which is missing, namely what is
fiscal policy in Brazil over the next years going to be.”  Annual inflation has accelerated above Brazil’s 4.5 percent
target, fueled by credit growth, higher food prices and a 27
percent increase in  government spending  in the first nine months
of the year. Investors on Nov. 26 started to bet the central
bank would raise rates in December as inflation quickened.  Spending Outlook  The government plans to cut funding for its state
development bank by 50 percent next year and freeze new spending
initiatives to help the central bank contain inflation, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview Nov. 30. Rousseff
has pledged to cut net public debt while saying she’ll boost
payouts to the poor and may raise the minimum wage more than
planned.  A spending cut equivalent to 1 percent of gross domestic
product would slow inflation by 0.32 percentage point, according
to the median estimate of economists in a central bank survey
published Nov. 8.  Meirelles raised bank reserve requirements on time deposits
on Dec. 3 to 20 percent from 15 percent and the requirement for
non-interest bearing accounts to 12 percent from 8 percent to
slow consumer lending. The reserve measures are designed to curb
liquidity in the financial markets and prevent credit
“bubbles,” Meirelles told reporters in Brasilia on Dec. 3.
 Lending  is expanding at a 20 percent annual pace.  Starting to Act  “This measure is more effective than a rate hike because
it focuses on the credit side that has been quite strong,” said
 Marcelo Saddi Castro , who oversees 18 billion reais as chief
investment officer at SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo.
“The central bank has started to act -- that’s good news.”  While traders are ruling out a December rate increase, they
are boosting wagers for higher borrowing costs in January, a
view both Patria’s Lopes and SulAmerica’s Castro share.  The contracts maturing in February suggest traders expect
the central bank will raise the rate to 11.25 percent next month
after Tombini takes over. His nomination to lead the central
bank is subject to approval in the Senate.  At 12.05 percent, the yields of contracts due in January
2012 suggest the so-called Selic rate will end the next year at
about 12.75 percent. The central bank has held the rate steady
since July after boosting it this year by 200 basis points, or 2
percentage points, to cool an economy that is growing at the
fastest pace in more than two decades.  January Increase  The increase in reserve requirements is a sign that the
central bank is ready to raise interest rates in January and
policy makers will prepare the market participants for it at the
Dec. 7-8 meeting, according to  Itau Unibanco Holding SA , Latin
America’s biggest bank by market value, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  “The policy signal is clear-cut: The tightening cycle has
started,”  Fabio Akira Hashizume , an economist at JPMorgan in
Sao Paulo, wrote in a report to clients. JPMorgan pushed forward
its forecast for a rate increase to January from April.  All but three of 35 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
forecast the central bank will keep the rate steady at 10.75
percent at the end of the two-day meeting on Dec. 8.  Jose Marcio Camargo , an economist with Opus Gestao de Recursos Ltd., and
 Zeina Latif , a senior economist with RBS Securities Inc.,
forecast a half-percentage-point increase and  Andre Perfeito ,
chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, predicted a rise of a
quarter point.  Policy makers need to raise interest rates this week
because the central bank is at risk of losing control of
inflation expectations, said Camargo, one of the only two
economists surveyed by Bloomberg who correctly predicted the
central bank’s policy decision for each of the meetings since
March.  ‘No Benefits’  “If the central bank is really convinced that they will
have to increase interest rates in the near future, it is better
to start it now than in January or February,” Camargo said.
“There is no reason to wait -- only costs and no benefits.”  Putting off the increase will force the bank to raise
borrowing costs by as much as 250 basis points next year to tame
inflation, compared with just 150 basis points if they were to
begin acting this month, according to Camargo.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps increased 3 basis
points Dec. 3 to 106, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Meirelles said today that Brazil’s credit rating is lower
than it should be and is likely to be upgraded.  Credit Rating  “Looking at some European countries, Brazil’s rating seems
a bit low,” Meirelles said in a speech in Sao Paulo. “But it’s
only a question of time before this changes.”  An upgrade in the country’s credit rating depends on how
the Rousseff government withdraws stimulus measures implemented
during the global financial crisis, said  Regina Nunes , the
representative for Standard & Poor’s in the country.  The real strengthened 0.6 percent to 1.6775 per dollar at
2:02 p.m. New York time.  Brazil may take additional measures to stem gains in the
real, after it imposed taxes on foreign fixed-income investors
in October, Mantega said in Rio de Janeiro today, without giving
more details.  Rousseff appointed former Finance Minister  Antonio Palocci 
to be her Cabinet chief on Dec. 3. Palocci, while serving under
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva from 2003 to 2006, crafted
policies that reduced the budget deficit, helping cut the
inflation rate from 17.2 percent.  “The government could spring a very positive surprise and
announce important fiscal measures,”  Octavio de Barros , chief
economist at  Banco Bradesco SA , wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions. “There might not even be a hike in the Selic rate in
January. The central bank and the government will speak the same
language and there will be greater coordination of the monetary
and fiscal policies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  