-- Rand Snaps 4-Day Advance as Dollar Gains, Gold Slips From One Month High
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-12-06T14:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/rand-gains-for-fifth-day-as-u-s-s-bernanke-says-further-stimulus-possible.html
South Africa’s rand weakened for the
first times in five days, reversing earlier gains, as the price
of gold retreated and investors speculated importers were
purchasing dollars at cheaper levels.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy drifted between
gains and losses before trading 0.7 percent weaker at 6.9216 per
dollar by 4:22 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of
6.8760. Earlier the currency strengthened as much as 0.5
percent, the strongest since Nov. 10, before slipping as much as
1 percent to 6.9421.  Gold, which typically moves inversely to the U.S. currency,
retreated from a one-month high of $1,418.80 an ounce as the
dollar strengthened on comments by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that the U.S. is unlikely to return to recession.  “We’re just seeing a short-term pullback in the rand
because of the rebound in the dollar and the fact that the gold
price is coming off its recent highs,”  Ian Cruickshanks , head
of research at Nedbank Treasury in Johannesburg, said by
telephone. “There’s also a lot of dollar buying by importers
after the rand’s recent good run.”  South Africa’s currency rallied earlier today as prospects
for further liquidity injections by policy makers in the U.S.
and Euro zone boosted prospects of inflows into emerging
markets. The rand has surged 37 percent since the start of last
year as near-zero interest rates in developed nations encouraged
investors to borrow cheaply and invest in higher-yield markets
like South Africa, where the  benchmark rate  is 5.5 percent.  ‘Attractive Destination’  Interest rates in South Africa compare with deposit returns
of 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the U.S.  “The yield differential still makes South Africa an
attractive destination,” said Cruickshanks. “Rates in the
developed world are going to stay lower for longer and over time
that will benefit alternative asset classes like the rand.”  Fed Chairman Bernanke said yesterday that the Fed may
expand bond purchases beyond the $600 billion announced last
month to spur growth, according to an interview broadcast by CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  also said at the weekend that the European Union’s 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout fund could be increased.  “Policy makers from U.S., euro-zone, Japan and U.K. are
likely to keep monetary policy accommodative for longer as they
look to support economic growth,”  Quinten Bertenshaw , a
Johannesburg-based currency analyst at Tradition Analytics,
wrote in a client note today. “All this liquidity creation will
keep the demand for yield intact. This stands to benefit South
Africa and further inflows into equities and bonds are likely to
be seen in the months ahead, which bodes well for the rand.”  Government bonds fell in South Africa, reversing earlier
gains, with the benchmark 13.5 percent security due September
2015 dropping 6 cents to 124.37 rand. The yield on the bond
increased 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.35
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  