-- Tariff Increase by Fernandez to Buoy Airport Bond Sale: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-12-06T22:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/rare-tariff-increase-to-buoy-airport-bond-sale-argentina-credit.html
Aeropuertos Argentina 2000’s success
in winning price increases from the government may allow the
country’s biggest airport operator to pay a lower interest rate
on its $300 million bond sale than similarly rated Latin
American companies.  The company, whose B rating from Standard & Poor’s is five
levels below investment grade, will pay a rate of 8 percent to
9.5 percent on its first international bonds, said  Jim Harper ,
director of corporate research at BCP Securities in Greenwich,
Connecticut. Latin American corporate bonds rated B yield an
average of 10.63 percent, according to Credit Suisse Group AG
indexes.  Aeropuertos Argentina, based in Buenos Aires, got
permission for a 61 percent increase in passenger fees last year
that account for almost 50 percent of its revenue, according to
Standard & Poor’s. The rise is part of two contract changes the
company has won from President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s
government since 2007. Most Argentine utilities have failed to
convince authorities to ease price caps implemented during the
economic crisis in 2002.  “This is one of the few contracts that have been
renegotiated after 2002,”  Luciano Gremone , an analyst at S&P in
Buenos Aires, said in a telephone interview. “Today, eight
years later, many contracts of utility companies have never been
renegotiated.”  The offering would be bigger than overseas debt sales by
Arcor SAIC, Latin America’s biggest candy maker, and power
distributor  Empresa Distribuidora y Comercializadora Norte SA  in
the past two months. Arcor, based in Arroyito, Cordoba province,
sold $200 million of seven-year bonds on Nov. 4. Edenor, as the
utility company is known, raised $140 million of debt due in
2022 on Oct. 15.  ‘Bigger’  “This would be bigger than some of the other things we’ve
seen out of Argentina, so we might look at it because it’s a
little bit bigger and potentially more liquid,”  Jack Deino , who
oversees about $1.6 billion of emerging-market debt at Invesco
Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “A large
deterrent to us buying Argentine corporates has been deal
sizes.”  Argentine companies are taking advantage of a decline in
costs after the government restructured $12.2 billion of
defaulted bonds in June and the central bank forecast the
economy will grow 9 percent. The yield on Argentine government
dollar bonds, the benchmark for companies, sank 257 basis
points, or 2.57 percentage points, since June to 8.96 percent,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  The company is “taking advantage of a good moment in the
market as far as liquidity, rates and appetite for emerging
markets,” S&P’s Gremone said. “Rates are low in all of Latin
America.”  Infrastructure  Aeropuertos Argentina plans to sell 10-year bonds to fund
improvements at its Ezeiza and Aeroparque airports, which
account for 94 percent of revenue, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  Aeropuertos Argentina will pay a minimum of 10 percent to
10.5 percent as investors seek compensation for the risk of
declines in air travel, said  Ruth Mazzoni , a corporate bond
analyst at Standard Bank in New York. Arcor paid 7.25 percent.  “It’ll depend on the composition of the cash flows,”
Mazzoni said in a telephone interview. “No one had to model an
interruption in people eating cookies or candies in Arcor. You
don’t have to do that.”  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 10 basis points at
5:02 p.m. in New York to 517, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 7 basis points to
640, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.31 cent to 13.80 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso increased 0.1 percent to 3.9740 per dollar, from
3.9774 on Dec. 3.  Aeropuertos Argentina boosted the rate it charges
passengers on international flights to $29 from $18 last year,
according to S&P. Two years earlier, the government said that
the fee would be paid in dollars instead of pesos, making the
company less vulnerable to currency fluctuations. The peso has
dropped 23 percent against the dollar since 2007.  ‘Currency Risk’  “They have less currency risk, which is good,” said BCP’s
Harper. “If the peso were to devalue, they have an easier
ability to pass that on than Edenor does or others. It’s not
like a local electricity company or local toll road company,
which doesn’t have any relationship with the dollar.”  Florencia Perez, a spokeswoman for Aeropuertos Argentina in
Buenos Aires, said company executives declined to comment. The
Transportation Ministry didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the tariff increase.  Former President  Nestor Kirchner , Fernandez’s husband and
predecessor, kept utility rates frozen when he took office in
2003. They were capped the previous year to restrain inflation
after then-President  Eduardo Duhalde  devalued the peso. In 2008,
Fernandez allowed electricity companies to raise rates as much
as 30 percent for the country’s biggest users.  Price caps have spurred international utilities including
 GDF Suez SA  of Paris, operator of Europe’s largest-natural gas
network, and  France Telecom , the country’s biggest phone
company, to scale back in Argentina or leave the country.  “The fact that they negotiated these two tariff agreements
says that the company gets answers from the government,”
Veronica Amendola, an analyst at Moody’s in Buenos Aires, said
in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  