-- Pfizer Names 32-Year Veteran Read CEO as Top-Selling Lipitor Faces Rivals
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2010-12-06T15:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/read-named-pfizer-chief-executive-replacing-kindler-who-is-retiring.html
Pfizer Inc. , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, named  Ian C. Read  chief executive officer as the
company prepares to face generic competition to its top-selling
cholesterol treatment Lipitor.  Read, 57, the head of Pfizer’s global biopharmaceutical
operations since 2006, replaces  Jeffrey B. Kindler , 55, who
retired saying he needed to “recharge my batteries” after a
“period extremely demanding on me personally,” according to a
statement yesterday from the New York-based company. Kindler’s 
retirement is effective immediately, said Ray Kerins, a 
spokesman for Pfizer, in a telephone interview.  Kindler was named CEO on July 28, 2006. Since then, the
 shares  have fallen 35 percent before today in New York  trading .
Pfizer will lose patent protection in the U.S. next year for
Lipitor, which had $11.4 billion in sales last year. While the
drugmaker moved to make up for the expected losses by paying $68
billion in 2009 to acquire Wyeth, it also has had four setbacks
this year in developing its research pipeline.  “This seems sudden,” said  Les Funtleyder , a Miller Tabak
& Co. portfolio manager in New York, in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It hasn’t been an easy ride for” for Kindler, he
said. “The stock has underperformed. Pharma in general and
Pfizer in particular have had a tough couple of years.”  The board will elect a new chairman to replace Kindler at a
meeting within two weeks, the statement said. Pfizer shares rose
24 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $16.96 at 10:19 a.m. in New York
Stock exchange composite trading.  ‘Likely Pushed’  “The departure is sudden but I doubt there was one event
per se that caused Kindler’s” retirement, said  Tim Anderson , an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in San Francisco, in an
e-mail. It is “highly likely he was pushed.”  Pfizer’s Kerins  said Kindler “wasn’t pushed out,” and
declined to comment further on the timing of the changeover.  Last month, Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. halted a
trial of their experimental blood thinner, apixaban, after an
increase in bleeding outweighed benefits for patients who
recently suffered a heart attack or severe chest pain. The
treatment was being tested to prevent heart complications in
patients with a condition known as acute coronary syndrome.  In March, the company said its experimental Alzheimer’s
drug Dimebon, which analysts said could have generated $5
billion in annual sales, failed to help patients in a late-stage
test. That same month, Sutent, approved for kidney and stomach
cancers, failed in two studies to shrink breast tumors, and the
experimental drug figitumumab didn’t help lung cancer patients.  Shareholder Lawsuits  Pfizer also said yesterday it was creating a $75 million
fund and new compliance panel to settle shareholders’ lawsuits
that charge top company officials failed to stop illegal
marketing of drugs. Pfizer last year paid $2.3 billion to settle
U.S. claims it marketed treatments for unapproved purposes.  “It is in the best interests of the company and our
shareholders to reach an agreement that allows us to put this
matter behind us on favorable terms,” Pfizer’s  Kerins  said in
an e-mail. The agreement was unrelated to Kindler’s departure,
Kerins said.  Months after Kindler took the helm in 2006, Pfizer halted
development of its most promising drug in testing, the
cholesterol drug torcetrapib, which was intended to help Pfizer
offset the loss of sales from  Lipitor . To cut costs since,
Kindler has fired more than 14,000 workers, closed research labs
and manufacturing plants.  The acquisition of Wyeth  added  the Enbrel arthritis
treatment and Prevnar pneumonia vaccine to Pfizer’s product
line. The shares, though, fell as much as 19 percent in the six
months following the deal.  Price-Earnings Ratio  Pfizer’s  price-earnings ratio  for the past year is lower
than 91 percent of pharmaceutical industry peers and below 97
percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Kindler finishes at a
low point; Pfizer’s price-earnings ratio in 2010 is 7.3, lower
than the annual average for each year he’s been in charge.  Pfizer raised Kindler’s annual salary to $1.8 million in
April, from $1.6 million, “to reflect the increased complexity
of the organization,” the company said in a filing in March.
His incentive target award increased to $2.71 million, and the
grant value of a long-term incentive award rose to $12 million.  The company estimated that Kindler would receive a total of
$15.5 million in case of termination of his employment “without
cause.” Termination from a change in control of the company, or
his death or disability, would have resulted in a higher payout.  China, Brazil  Read has been at Pfizer since 1978, and has run Pfizer’s
businesses in Latin America, Europe and Africa.  His naming as CEO “is not really a surprise, but what is
surprising is the timing,” Miller Tabak’s Funtleyder said.  David Maris , a New York-based health care analyst at CLSA,
a unit of Credit Agricole SA, said he expects Pfizer’s shares to
reach $25 over the next 12 months. He expects more acquisitions,
particularly in emerging markets, he said.  “They know they’re behind in China, and want to do more,”
Maris said in a telephone interview. “They know they want to do
more in Brazil. China, Brazil and Latin America will be the
highest priorities. Now, when they need to drill down and buy
individual companies, they will have someone who is much more
operationally focused, who can ask the right questions, someone
who has been in the drug industry.”  Constance J. Horner , the board’s lead independent director,
cited Read’s experience in emerging markets in announcing the
change.  Read “has brought to product development a focus and
commitment to advance only medicines that have clear value to
our customers,” Horner said in the statement. “Today’s
business leaders need to understand global markets, drive change
and innovation, and move quickly to adapt to competitive
pressures. Ian’s track record throughout his career has
demonstrated these exact strengths.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .
 Shannon Pettypiece  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  