-- Treasuries Rise as Bernanke Says Central Bank May Increase Debt Purchases
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-06T22:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/treasury-two-year-notes-advance-as-employers-add-fewer-jobs-than-forecast.html
Treasuries rose, pushing two-year
note yields to the lowest level in three weeks, on speculation
the Federal Reserve may boost its program of bond buying to
support the economic recovery.  Benchmark 10-year notes gained for the first time in four
days after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the
central bank may increase purchases of government debt beyond
the $600 billion announced last month and that  unemployment  may
take five years to fall to a “more normal” level of 5 to 6
percent. The central bank bought $2.044 billion of Treasuries
maturing from August 2028 to November 2040 today.  “Bernanke’s comments showed the Fed is on a course of not
deterring at all from purchases and possibly extending them,
which has allowed the market to catch a bid,” said  Paul Horrmann , a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker. “The Fed buybacks supported the
move higher.”  The 10-year note yield fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 2.93 percent at 5:07 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 increased 21/32, or
$6.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 97 12/32.  The two-year note  yield  decreased five basis points today
to 0.43 percent after touching 0.42 percent, the lowest level
since Nov. 10. The yield on the 10-year note climbed on Dec. 3
to 3.04 percent, the highest level since July 28.  Bernanke’s View  The purchase of more government bonds than planned is
“certainly possible,” Bernanke said in an interview broadcast
yesterday on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. “It depends on
the efficacy of the program” and the outlook for inflation and
the economy, Bernanke said.  U.S. employers added 39,000 workers in November, Labor
Department figures showed Dec. 3. That was less than the most
pessimistic forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The jobless rate rose to 9.8 percent from 9.6 percent.  “At the rate we’re going, it could be four, five years
before we are back to a more normal unemployment rate” of about
5 percent to 6 percent, Bernanke said.  Bernanke said a return to a recession “doesn’t seem
likely” because sectors of the economy such as housing can’t
become much more depressed. A long period of high unemployment
may still damage confidence and is “the primary source of risk
that we might have another slowdown in the economy,” he said.  ‘Taken Comfort’  “The market has taken comfort from Bernanke’s comments
that he would extend Treasury purchases if he has to,” said
 Donald Ellenberger , who oversees about $6 billion as co-head of
government and mortgage-backed securities at Federated Investors
Inc. in Pittsburgh. “We’ve had a hard time getting through the
3 percent level on the 10-year note and will need better
economic data to do so.”  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said in a Charlotte,
North Carolina, speech today that the purchases of Treasuries
risk spurring inflation in a few years and may make it harder
for the Fed to withdraw the stimulus eventually.  A further gain in Treasuries may be tempered before the
government sells $66 billion of notes and bonds this week. The
U.S. will auction $32 billion of three-year securities tomorrow,
$21 billion of 10-year debt on the following day and $13 billion
of 30-year bonds on Dec. 9.  Yields on 10-year bunds are poised to rise above
comparable-maturity U.S. Treasuries for the first time since
June 2009 on concern Germany will assume a greater burden to
support the European Monetary Union.  Spread With Germany  The difference narrowed to as little as 7 basis points on
Nov. 29, from 90 basis points in April, as the 85 billion euro
($113 billion) aid package for Ireland failed to stem concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will broaden. The spread was 11 basis
points today.  Yields on Treasuries will increase during the second half
of 2011 as better U.S. economic data and renewed focus on the
budget deficit will overcome uncertainty emanating out of
Europe, according to Barclays Plc.  The 10-year note yield will reach 3.5 percent by the end of
2011, higher than the firm’s previous forecast of 3.2 percent, a
Dec. 3 research report from Barclays said.  “The economy is doing a little better than people
expected, and the short-term policy boost of the extension of
tax cuts and unemployment benefits come at the expense of the
deficit situation, both of which point to rates headed higher,”
said  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at
Barclays in New York.  The yield on the 10-year note will end 2011 at 3.23
percent, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of banks and securities companies, with the most recent
estimates given the heaviest weightings.  Treasuries have handed investors a 6.9 percent return this
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. German
debt has gained 6.4 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  