-- China's Latest American IPOs Slump as Offerings Increase to Annual Record
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-12-06T18:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/recent-chinese-ipos-in-u-s-slump-even-as-offerings-climb-to-annual-record.html
At a time when China’s government is
trying to keep the economy from overheating, a record number of
its companies are selling stock in U.S. initial public
offerings.  Youku.com Inc. , the online video provider whose name means
“excellent and cool,”  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. , the
country’s largest online book retailer, and three other mainland
companies plan to raise a total of $703 million this week,
according to filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The sales would bring the number of Chinese IPOs in
New York to 39 this year, surpassing the 37 in 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While four of the ten best performing U.S. IPOs of 2010
have come from China, shares of the last four mainland companies
that completed sales fell after the government raised interest
rates and bank reserve requirements and said it may impose price
controls. Youku.com and  China Dangdang  are offering stock at as
much as five times the median valuation of their U.S.-traded
rivals, data compiled by IPOdesktop.com and Bloomberg show.  “The market wants emerging market stocks,” said  Timothy Cunningham , a money manager at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based
Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees about $70
billion. “If they had come a month ago, these would have been
incredibly hot, up a huge amount. They’re going to get a little
more investor scrutiny.”  Youku.com, Tudou  Youku.com  will offer 15.4 million American depositary
receipts at $9 to $11 each today, the  filing  said. The midpoint
values the Beijing-based company at 15 times projected annual
sales, compared to the median of 3 times estimated 2011 revenue
for 12 U.S.-traded Internet-content providers, data compiled by
Marina del Rey, California-based IPOdesktop.com and Bloomberg
show.  It  hasn’t posted a profit in the last three years.  China’s online-video market more than doubled to 621
million yuan ($93 million) last quarter, according to Beijing-
based research company Analysys International.  Youku.com  had the
largest share at 23 percent, followed by 19 percent for
Shanghai-based  Tudou Holdings Ltd. , which filed for a $120
million U.S. IPO last month.  Tudou  means potato in Chinese and
refers to a couch potato, Chief Executive Officer Gary Wang said
in an interview in September.  ‘Without Question’  Google Inc.’s  YouTube, the world’s most popular video-
sharing site, is inaccessible in China. The country had 420
million Internet users as of June, according to data from the
government-sponsored China Internet Network Information Center.
The U.S. population in 2010 ranged from 305.7 million to 312.7
million,  Census Bureau  data show.  “With China and the Internet, you have two areas that are
getting a lot of interest,” said  Scott Billeadeau , who helps
oversee $18 billion at Fifth Third Asset Management in
Minneapolis. “Without question you’ll have pretty good
response” from investors, he said.  China Dangdang  is offering 17 million ADRs at $13 to $15
each today after increasing the price range from $11 to $13, an
SEC filing showed.  The original midpoint valued the Beijing-based operator of
 dangdang.com  at 48 times annual earnings, based on third-quarter
results, data compiled by IPOdesktop.com show. That’s 64 percent
higher than the median of 29.3 for 11 U.S.-traded Internet
retailers. Bloomberg data show. Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc. ,
the biggest online merchant, trades at 38.8 times profit.  ChinaCache, SinoTech  The four Chinese Internet companies that completed U.S.
IPOs this year surged an average of 57 percent in their first
day of trading, the data show.  ChinaCache International Holdings
Ltd. , a Beijing-based provider of content for business websites,
posted the biggest first-day rally on U.S. exchanges in three
years, jumping 95 percent on Oct. 1.  SinoTech Energy Ltd.  which provides equipment to boost oil
field production, posted the steepest drop among Chinese IPOs
since the People’s Bank of China raised lending and deposit
rates in October for the first time since 2007. The Beijing-
based company slid 19 percent Nov. 3, the largest first-day fall
for a U.S. offering this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The PBOC increased banks’ reserve requirements five times
in 2010, while the government said on Nov. 17 it may impose
price controls to combat the fastest  inflation  in two years.
China’s economy will grow 9 percent next year, three times as
fast as the U.S., according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘The Driver’  Bona Film Group Ltd.  of Beijing, China’s largest privately
owned movie distributor, will offer 11.7 million ADRs at $7 to
$9 each tomorrow, according to SEC filings.  Sky-mobi Ltd. , which
provides applications for mobile devices from Hangzhou, China,
is selling 7.25 million ADRs at $8 to $10 the next day.  Lentuo
International Inc. , the largest privately-owned automobile
retailer in Beijing, also plans to sell 7.5 million ADRs at
$11.50 to $13.50 on Dec. 9, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Chinese companies are really going to be the driver of
the IPO market,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees $1
billion at YCMNet Advisors in Walnut Creek, California.
“Investors are buying the thematic trend of emerging markets,
and they’re overlooking fundamentals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 