-- Rogoff Says Europe`s `Denial' Won't Avert Greek, Irish Bond Restructurings
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-06T14:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/rogoff-says-europe-s-denial-won-t-avert-greek-irish-bond-restructurings.html
Europe’s debt crisis will probably
result in bond restructurings in Greece, Ireland and Portugal
even as policy makers say they have the weapons to avert
default, Harvard University Professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said.  “They can’t just be in a state of denial,” Rogoff said in
a Bloomberg Television interview today. “They’ve tried to
guarantee everything, to say, ‘Well, Germany is behind it and
the IMF is behind it, it’s inconceivable for a euro-zone country
to restructure.’”  “We’ll be very lucky to avoid restructuring” in countries
such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal, he said.  European finance chiefs hold a monthly meeting in Brussels
today amid disagreements on whether the region’s 750 billion-
euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund needs to be increased to stop the
debt crisis from spreading after Ireland agreed to tap the aid
package last month.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  have rejected the idea, and Rogoff said that
Merkel has been “talking sense.”  The chancellor has been saying, “We have to look ahead to
the end game -- there’s going to be a debt restructuring, how
are we going to deal with it?” Rogoff said. “But nobody else
wants to talk about it.”  ‘Pathetic’ Stress Tests  The former chief economist at the International Monetary
Fund also said the bank stress tests carried out in Europe in
July were “really scary” and “pathetic.”  “We were told everybody is fine, there is nothing to worry
about,” said Rogoff, whose 2009 book “This Time Is
Different,” co-written with  Carmen M. Reinhart , charts the
history of financial crises in 66 countries. “Now their
credibility is less than ever.”  “I hope that the story of 2011 is we start to see a bit
more healing in the global economy,” Rogoff said. “Europe’s a
story of 2011, 2012, 2013. We will be seeing this sovereign debt
game unfolding for a long time, but hopefully within the context
of a more stable recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sara Eisen  in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
 Fergal O’Brien  in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  