-- Rosneft, Gazprom May Bid for Poland’s Lotos Refiner
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-12-06T14:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/rosneft-gazprom-neft-may-bid-for-poland-s-lotos-oil-refiner.html
Russian companies such as  OAO
Gazprom ’s oil arm and  OAO Rosneft  are interested in
acquiring Grupa Lotos SA, Poland’s second-biggest refiner, and
may team up to make a competitive bid, said Energy Minister
Sergei Shmatko.  Russian oil producers may also bid separately or form
ventures with foreign companies, Shmatko told reporters in
Warsaw today, saying it’s too early to give details.  “It’s politically very important to signal that our
companies are ready to come, and at least to hear from Poland
that there won’t be any discrimination in decision-making,”
Shmatko said. “It makes logistic sense,” he said earlier in an
interview.  Russian oil producers are seeking refining assets in Europe
and Asia to boost the value of their crude supplies. Rosneft in
October agreed to buy Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s 50 percent
stake in a German refining venture, following OAO Lukoil, which
bought almost half of ERG SpA’s Sicilian refinery in 2008, and
OAO Surgutneftegaz, which acquired a stake in Mol Nyrt. Surgut
has been barred from exercising its ownership rights in Mol as
the Hungarian company termed the deal a hostile takeover
attempt.  The Polish government is selling a majority stake in Grupa
Lotos, which operates a refinery in Gdansk, as part of a $19
billion asset-sale plan. Poland’s Treasury Ministry wants
potential buyers to place preliminary bids by Feb. 4, it said in
a newspaper announcement in October.  Looking at Lotos  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , who is leading a Russian
delegation for political and economic talks in Warsaw today,
said “several” Russian companies are looking at Lotos.  State-controlled Rosneft is a major supplier to the
refiner, and  OAO Gazprom Neft  has expressed interest in bidding,
Shmatko said. Gazprom Neft Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Anatoly Cherner said on Nov. 3 that the Polish market is
“interesting,” although a final decision on bidding hadn’t
been made.  Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman at Rosneft, declined by phone
to comment on the company’s plans regarding Lotos, as did
Gazprom Neft’s press service in an e-mailed response to
questions today.  TNK-BP, the country’s third-largest oil producer after
Rosneft and OAO Lukoil, is also considering a bid, Rp.pl said on
Nov. 3, without saying where it got the information. TNK-BP
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Maxim Barsky is listed among
delegates visiting Poland with Medvedev.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net 
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net 
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  