-- Rupee Rally Falters as Crude Oil Advances to Two-Year High: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2010-12-07T09:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/rupee-rally-threatened-as-crude-oil-climbs-to-two-year-high-india-credit.html
A surge in crude-oil prices to the
highest level in two years is prompting Barclays Plc and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc to predict India’s widening current-
account  deficit  will threaten the rupee’s rally.  Oil for January delivery rose to $89.76 a barrel yesterday
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, a level not seen since
October 2008. Crude oil imports by Asia’s second fastest-growing
major economy surged 41 percent in the first 10 months of this
year to $82.1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Whenever oil prices go up, the risk of the current-
account deficit widening increases quite significantly,”  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays, said in an
interview on Dec. 3. “We expect the rupee to continue
underperforming as the shortfall is pretty much the main point
and oil prices are definitely a risk.”  The rupee tumbled 8 percent in the third quarter of 2008
after crude-oil prices rose to a record $147.27 a barrel on July
11 of that year. The currency is little changed this quarter,
underperforming the 3.8 percent gain in Taiwan’s dollar, the 1.2
percent advance in Thailand’s baht and the 0.7 percent
appreciation in China’s yuan. Barclays predicts the rupee, which
rose 0.4 percent yesterday to 44.94 per dollar, will drop 4.6
percent in the coming three months.  Official data show the gap in India’s current account
widened to a record $13.7 billion in the three months ended
June. The government plans to cap the shortfall at 3.5 percent
of gross domestic product in the current financial year,
compared with 2.9 percent last year, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said at a conference on Oct. 26.  IMF Trade View  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the deficit will
be 3.1 percent of GDP in 2010, wider than Brazil’s 2.6 percent
and compared with surpluses in Russia and China.  India, the world’s fourth-largest consumer of oil, imported
about 70 percent of its crude last year, according to the  U.S.
Energy Department . Of the 10 forecasts updated on Bloomberg
since Nov. 1, six estimate that crude oil traded on Nymex will
cost $90 a barrel or more by the end of 2011. Prices will
increase to $120 a barrel before the end of 2012 as consumption
grows in emerging economies, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
report on Dec. 3.  “Oil prices are something to worry about,”  Sanjay Mathur ,
the Singapore-based chief Asia emerging-markets economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland, said in an interview yesterday. “And
the current account obviously matters now as it is not at a
level where it can be wished away.” The gap is “perilously
close” to widening to 4 percent of GDP, he said.  Yields Climb  The yield on India’s bonds increased this quarter as
official data show the nation imported $8.4 billion worth of oil
in October, the most since May. The rate on the 7.8 percent
notes maturing in May 2020 has climbed 36 basis points, headed
for the worst quarter this year, to 8.21 percent. A basis point
is 0.01 percent.  India’s three-year bond yield rose four basis points this
month to 7.40 percent, while the rate on similar-maturity notes
in Brazil were little changed at 12.41 percent. The yield on
comparable Chinese notes fell four basis points to 3.08 percent
and that in Russia slid 16 basis points to 6.95 percent. The
 difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a decade and
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was 523 basis points. The
measure has averaged 317 basis points during the past decade.  India’s bonds have returned 3.8 percent this year, the
fourth-worst performance among 10 local-currency debt markets
tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc, as average inflation in the first
10 months was almost twice the central bank’s targeted rate of
5.5 percent. By contrast, investors in Indonesia’s debt assets
earned 22 percent, the most in the region, according to Europe’s
largest bank.  State Bank Debt  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, has increased 56 basis points this year to 173.4,
according to the data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should the bank fail to adhere to its debt
agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  “Oil prices are a very important variable in a number of
different respects for the Indian economy, none of which are
favorable,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , Singapore-based head of
India and Southeast Asia economics at Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in an interview on Dec. 3. “With high prices comes a
deteriorating trade  position  and also some negative implications
for  inflation  and growth.”  He forecasts the benchmark wholesale-price  index  will
average 8.5 percent this fiscal year.  Indian Shares  The rupee has appreciated 4 percent this year as overseas
investors poured a record $29.1 billion into Indian shares to
benefit from the nation’s economic growth, according to data
published by the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  Shipping Corp. of India Ltd., the country’s biggest sea
carrier, drew 55.2 billion rupees ($1.2 billion) of bids in a
share sale that closed on Dec. 3. A sale by MOIL Ltd., India’s
largest producer of manganese ore, closed on Dec. 1, with bids
for 56 times the 33.6 million shares offered, according to the
National Stock Exchange.  “We expect the rupee to soften at some point next year,
because of the impact of oil prices,”  Sebastien Barbe , Paris-
based head of emerging-market research at Credit Agricole SA,
said in an interview yesterday. “But we are bullish on the
rupee in the short term as global liquidity may remain
supportive of inflows.”  Barbe forecasts the rupee will depreciate to 45.50 per
dollar by the end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 V. Ramakrishnan  in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  