-- Google, Samsung Introduce Nexus Phone With New Version of Android Software
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2010-12-06T21:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/samsung-and-google-deliver-phone-powered-by-android-2-3.html
Google Inc.  and  Samsung Electronics
Co.  today unveiled the Nexus S, the first smartphone to use a
new version of the Android operating system, providing fresh
competition to  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone.  The new Android, called Gingerbread, is faster and easier
to use, and includes copy-and-paste features, Google said on  its
blog . The Nexus S also comes equipped with front- and rear-
facing cameras, potentially allowing for videoconferencing, and
near-field communication, a technology that lets people use
their phones as mobile wallets and pay for goods wirelessly.  Google, looking to expand beyond its flagship Internet-
search business, is pushing deeper into phone software and
mobile advertising. The Nexus S follows the Nexus One, a phone
manufactured by HTC Corp. that Google introduced earlier this
year. That device didn’t sell well, hurt by consumer confusion
over who would provide customer support, Google or HTC, said
 Will Stofega , an analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.  “Hopefully there’s a support structure in place, because
last time people didn’t know who to call,” Stofega said. “It’s
up to them to demonstrate that they have learned from the
past.”  The Nexus S will be available online and at  Best Buy Co. 
retail locations in the U.S., starting after Dec. 16. It costs
$199 with a contract, and $529 without one. T-Mobile USA Inc.
will provide the service. In the U.K., the phone will be sold at
Carphone Warehouse Group Plc and Best Buy after Dec. 20.  Nexus One  The Nexus One, which was unveiled in January, was sold
directly to consumers by  Google  through its online store. Google
later shuttered the store after it failed to meet expectations.
This time around, Samsung will provide customer support for the
Nexus S.  “We co-developed this product with Samsung -- ensuring
tight integration of hardware and software to highlight the
latest advancements of the Android platform,”  Andy Rubin , vice
president of engineering, said in the blog post. “Nexus S
delivers what we call a ‘pure Google’ experience: unlocked,
unfiltered access to the best Google mobile services and the
latest and greatest Android releases and updates.”  Google’s Android, now available in more than 100 different
models, is activated on more than 200,000 phones a day. The
software competes with the iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s
BlackBerry in the smartphone market.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose $5.36 to
$578.36 on the Nasdaq Stock Market at 4 p.m. New York time. The
 shares  have fallen 6.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  