-- Sanders Asks Bernanke for More Information on Bailouts After Data Release
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-12-06T21:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/sanders-asks-bernanke-for-more-information-on-bailouts-after-data-release.html
U.S. Senator  Bernard Sanders  asked
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  for more information
about emergency lending programs after the central bank last
week released data on 21,000 transactions.  “Much of the information that you provided on your website
raises bigger questions than it answers, and some of the
information mandated by the law appears to be missing,”
Sanders, the Vermont independent who wrote the provision in the
Dodd-Frank Act requiring the Fed disclosures, said in a letter
to Bernanke dated today.  Sanders asked for copies of correspondence between some
board members of regional Fed Banks and Bernanke or any regional
Fed bank president. The request covers Fed board members who
also served on the boards of firms that received aid or were
employed by those firms.  “It is an obvious conflict of interest when CEOs of banks
and large corporations who serve on the Fed’s board of directors
receive cheap loans from the Fed,” Sanders said in his letter.  Sanders also asked for data on the individual securities
pledged as collateral for Fed loans, saying he was
“disappointed that the Fed chose not to disclose all of the
specific details.”  Asset, Type  The Fed on Dec. 1 released data on $3.3 trillion in
emergency aid given out during the financial crisis. For three
of the Fed’s six emergency facilities, the central bank released
information on groups of collateral it accepted by asset type
and rating, without specifying individual securities. Among them
was the Primary Dealer Credit Facility, created in March 2008 to
provide loans to brokers as Bear Stearns Cos. collapsed.  “We have received the letter and plan to respond to it,”
 David Skidmore , a spokesman for the Fed in Washington, said in
an e-mail.  Sanders also asked Bernanke for more information about the
central bank’s lending to foreign banks after Fed data showed
Zurich-based UBS AG and London-based Barclays Plc ranked among
the top users of its emergency programs.  “There are startling examples of massive levels of
financial assistance to foreign governments and banks under
these programs,” Sanders said in the letter. “At a time when
hundreds of thousands of Americans have had their jobs shipped
to Mexico, why did the Federal Reserve extend over $9.6 billion
to the Central Bank of Mexico?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  