-- Sanofi Said Unwilling to Meet Both Genzyme Demands
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-12-07T21:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/sanofi-said-unwilling-to-lift-genzyme-bid-and-make-payment-for-cancer-drug.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  is unwilling to
meet demands by  Genzyme Corp.  to both raise its $18.5 billion
offer and make a later payment based on sales goals for the drug
Campath, said three people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The board of Sanofi, France’s biggest pharmaceutical
company, would be open to one of the concessions, but not both,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
deliberations are confidential. While executives of the
companies aren’t in talks, their advisers have been in contact,
the people said.  Sanofi must decide this week whether to extend its hostile
tender offer at $69 a share, raise the bid, or walk away if it
doesn’t win support from enough Genzyme shareholders. The offer
for the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company expires at
midnight on Dec. 10.  “We think Sanofi will extend the offer with no bump” in
price,  Lionel Melka , co-manager of Bernheim, Dreyfus & Co.’s
Diva Synergy Fund, an event-driven fund focused on acquisition
targets that owns Genzyme shares, said in a Dec. 2 interview.
“They really believe that no white knight will emerge.”  Genzyme told shareholders in October to reject the bid,
saying the price didn’t include potential revenue from Campath
and two other new medicines expected to win approval by 2013.
Campath is approved for blood cancer, and Genzyme says it also
works against multiple sclerosis. The company is in the final
stages of testing the drug against MS and expects data from
those trials next year.  Campath Revenue  Genzyme wants a clause known as a contingent value right
under which stockholders would receive more money from Paris-
based Sanofi if sales goals are reached, the people said.  Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for Sanofi, declined to
comment, as did Genzyme spokesman  Bo Piela .  Campath produced revenue of less than $150 million last
year, according to Genzyme. The company predicts  sales  of about
$3 billion by 2017, while Sanofi cites  analysts’ estimates  for
peak sales from multiple sclerosis of $700 million.  Sanofi took its offer for Genzyme directly to shareholders
on Oct. 4, after Genzyme Chief Executive Officer  Henri Termeer 
spurned the bid as too low and refused to negotiate. The offer
ignores expected revenue growth after the company fixed
manufacturing flaws that caused drug shortages, Termeer said.  Genzyme  shares  have traded at more than $69 since the offer
was made public Aug. 29, suggesting Termeer has shareholders who
support his refusal to negotiate with Sanofi at that price.  Sanofi Chief Financial Officer  Jerome Contamine  said as
recently as Dec. 1 that the $69-a-share bid is a “very good
price.” He declined to comment on whether Sanofi will extend
the offer.  Genzyme fell 45 cents to $70.26 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares have gained 30
percent since July 22, the last day of trading before Sanofi’s
interest was first reported. Sanofi rose 72 cents, or 1.5
percent, to 48.55 euros at the close of Paris trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  