-- France, India in $9.3 Billion Accord for Areva to Build Nuclear Reactors
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-12-06T10:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/sarkozy-pushes-for-areva-reactor-accord-to-help-meet-india-s-power-needs.html
France and India signed an agreement
that will allow  Areva SA  to build two nuclear reactors for $9.3
billion to help meet soaring energy demands in Asia’s second-
fastest growing major economy.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters at a joint
press conference with Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in
New Delhi that there was “no limit” to the countries’ nuclear
cooperation, and that today’s pact, the first between the two
nations, would eventually be expanded to six reactors. “We
propose a total partnership for the civil nuclear” sector, he
said.  Today’s agreement is Areva’s biggest for so-called
Evolutionary Pressurized Reactors since the 2007 sale of two
units to China. The company lost a contract in 2009 to supply
four of the reactors to the United Arab Emirates, a deal
eventually won by a South Korean consortium.  Sarkozy, who is in India with a group of 50 business
leaders including  Dassault Aviation SA ’s  Charles Edelstenne  and
MBDA’s  Antoine Bouvier , also targeted defense contracts,
including the refurbishment of Indian jet fighters and missile
sales. Singh said he would support France’s agenda for its
chairmanship of the Group of 20 nations.  “We did not come to visit a big client like we were big
suppliers,” Sarkozy said today. “We came to visit a partner.”  Areva, the  world’s biggest nuclear-power builder , will work
with Indian companies to prepare for the construction of the two
reactors from “early 2011,” Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  told reporters. She said the contract, which will
also include the supply of uranium fuel, will be worth about 7
billion euros.  ‘Things Moving’  Areva’s civil nuclear energy project at the Jaitapur site
south of Mumbai passed a key hurdle when India’s  Environment
Ministry  gave its approval on Nov. 28. India plans to add 60,000
megawatts of nuclear power capacity in the next 14 years, a
third of the current total output, to address power shortages.  “The signing of this agreement is good in that we’ve been
able to get things moving for the nuclear business in India,”
said A.V. Kameswara Rao, executive director at
PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt., which advises nuclear companies.  “Nuclear will be a big part of India’s energy future
considering rising prices and protectionism uncertainties around
oil and coal. This deal is an encouraging sign,” Rao said by
phone from Hyderabad in southern India.  India won access to atomic fuels and technology in September
2008 after the 45-member Nuclear Suppliers Group lifted a three-
decade ban on exports to the country on a proposal made by
former President  George W. Bush  after the two countries signed a
civilian nuclear accord.  U.S. Companies  U.S. companies have so far refrained from signing contracts
for a share of $175 billion of nuclear power projects planned in
India after it enacted a bill in August that makes suppliers
such as General Electric Co., whose equipment generates about
one-third of the world’s power, potentially liable in the event
of a nuclear accident.  Russian companies won orders for as many as 16 nuclear
reactors from India during Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s visit
to the country in March.  The “early works” agreement signed today precedes the
final contract by six months, a French official who cannot be
named according to government rules, told reporters in New Delhi
late yesterday. When the cooperation phase is completed, the six
Franco-Indian reactors will supply 10,000 megawatts of capacity.  Jet Fighters  France was India’s fifth-biggest trading partner in 2009.
 Trade  between the two countries in the first nine months of this
year was 5.3 billion euros ($7.1 billion), down from 7.1 billion
euros in 2008, according to the French government.  While no major defense deals were signed today, MBDA and
 Dassault Aviation SA  will complete shortly an agreement to
upgrade 51  Mirage-2000  jet fighters built by Dassault for
India’s Air Force 30 years ago.  The agreement, that will include new avionics and radars,
will be worth 1.5 billion euros, a French presidential official
told reporters after the leaders’ briefing.  Thales SA  will add
new missiles to the refurbished jets for an estimated 700
million euros, the official added.  Sarkozy’s visit was also designed to push forward his G-20
agenda to overhaul the global monetary system and regulate
commodities markets. On his first stop in Bangalore he called on
India to play a greater role in the grouping and pledged to
support its bid for a permanent seat at the United Nations
Security Council.  “India is a strategic political partner,” Sarkozy said.
“France considers that no global issue will be possible to
address without India’s participation at the highest level,” he
said. Sarkozy and Singh said they would make a joint proposal to
increase the regulation of agricultural commodities markets.  Sarkozy’s visit follows those of British Prime Minister
 David Cameron  and U.S. President  Barack Obama  as countries as
India takes on a larger role on the world stage and moves to
generate more power and modernize its military  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in New Delhi 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 