-- HSBC Sued for $9 Billion by Madoff Trustee Over Claims Lender Aided Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   A l e x   L a n g e
-- 2010-12-06T18:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/hsbc-holdings-sued-by-madoff-trustee-for-9-billion-for-alleged-misconduct.html
HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest
lender, was sued for $9 billion over claims it aided  Bernard Madoff ’s fraud through a network of feeder funds in Europe, the
Caribbean and Central America.  Irving H. Picard , trustee for the liquidation of Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC, sued HSBC and a dozen feeder
funds in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, Picard said in a
statement. The claim is the latest by Picard, who faces a Dec.
11 deadline for suits claiming money from parties alleged to
have profited from Madoff’s fraud.  The suit alleges the bank was aware of concerns that
Madoff’s investment business was fraudulent and didn’t take
steps to protect investors, according to the statement.  “Had HSBC and the defendants reacted appropriately to such
warnings and other obvious badges of fraud outlined in the
complaint, the Madoff Ponzi scheme would have collapsed years,
billions of dollars and countless victims sooner,” Picard said
in the statement.  HSBC said in a statement that Picard’s allegations are
“unfounded” and that it will defend itself against them in
court.  JPMorgan, UBS  Picard filed a $7.2 billion claim against investor  Jeffry Picower  in May 2009. Picower died later that year. Last week,
Picard sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  for $6.4 billion over claims
the bank aided and abetted Madoff’s fraud.  On Nov. 23, Picard sued  UBS AG  for at least $2 billion,
claiming the Swiss wealth-management firm also helped Madoff in
his fraud. UBS and JPMorgan Chase said they bear no
responsibility for Madoff’s crimes.  Picard has filed other claims seeking the return of $15.5
billion paid to Madoff friends and family, feeder funds and some
investors. In addition, he’s sued hundreds of so-called “net-
winner” investors -- those who withdrew more money from their
Madoff accounts than they invested.  Picard, who has recovered $1.5 billion for Madoff
creditors, has said that any money received in judgments or
settlements in the suits will be returned to creditors on a pro
rata basis.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  