-- Schwarzenegger Seeks $7.4 Billion in Additional California Budget Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 2010-12-06T22:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/schwarzenegger-proposes-7-billion-of-spending-cuts-in-special-session.html
California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , who leaves office next month, proposed slashing
state spending by an additional $7.4 billion to help ease a $25
billion deficit projected for the next 18 months.  His  plan  would cut $886 million from the fiscal year ending
June 30 and another $6.5 billion next year, including money for
child-welfare programs and prisons, he said today at a press
conference in Sacramento. He also would raise $937 million from
various fees, including one charged to homeowner insurance
policies for fire protection.  The governor, who called a special budget session of the
Legislature, also would divert vehicle-weight fees to pay debt
service on transportation bonds to free money currently being
spent on the debt and would sell advertising on state-owned
highway signs.  “If there is one thing we have learned over these past few
years, it is that the longer we wait to tackle the problem, the
larger and more difficult it is to solve,” Schwarzenegger said.  California, the eighth-largest economy in the world, is
facing a  projected  $25.4 billion budget gap over the next year-
and-a-half after the global recession dropped tax collections
 12.7 percent  since 2007. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, will
leave office Jan. 3 when Governor-elect  Jerry Brown , a Democrat
who previously held the job from 1975 to 1983, is sworn in.  Fiscal Emergency  The latest cuts are in addition to the $7.5 billion
lawmakers slashed two months ago, and more than $30 billion cut
in 2008 and 2009.  Schwarzenegger’s declaration of a fiscal emergency today
means lawmakers must take up legislation to deal with it within
45 days. If they fail to meet that deadline, they are barred
from doing other legislative work or adjourning until they
address the emergency. The Legislature can amend the proposal or
pass one of its own.  Democratic leaders in both chambers have already said they
prefer to delay taking up Schwarzenegger’s proposals and instead
wait for Brown to take office. The Assembly, which convened
today for a new two-year session, isn’t scheduled to meet again
until after Brown takes office.  ‘More Painful’  “Now, many people have questioned my decision to call this
special session given that it’s my last month in office,”
Schwarzenegger said during his weekly radio address yesterday.
“Some of the legislators have said they would prefer to wait
until the next governor. But every day of inaction, the problem
grows bigger and the cuts become more painful.”  Standard & Poor’s rates California general-obligation debt
A-, its fourth-lowest investment grade and lowest of any state.
Moody’s Investors Service gives it an A1, one step higher. Fitch
Ratings also ranks it A-.  Schwarzenegger and lawmakers Oct. 8 ended an impasse over
how to eliminate a $19 billion deficit to complete the state’s
budget a record 100 days into the fiscal year. Amid stalemates
in 2009 over comparable gaps, the state had to issue IOUs to pay
bills until a spending agreement was reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  