-- Scotiabank to Acquire Uruguay’s Nuevo Banco Comercial, Pronto
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-12-06T22:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/scotiabank-agrees-to-buy-nuevo-banco-commercial-and-pronto-in-uruguay.html
Bank of Nova Scotia , Canada’s third-
largest bank, agreed to buy Nuevo Banco Comercial and consumer-
finance company Pronto! to become the first Canadian bank with a
branch network in Uruguay.  Nuevo Banco has 49 outlets in Uruguay and about C$1.2
billion ($1.19 billion) in deposits, Toronto-based Scotiabank
said today in a statement. The price for the 100 percent stake
wasn’t disclosed.  Scotiabank Chief Executive Officer  Richard Waugh  has spent
about $2 billion on acquisitions since 2007 at the international
banking unit, which accounted for about a third of profit in the
year ended Oct. 31. The lender has operations in about 50
countries, including Peru, Chile and Mexico.  The purchases are “consistent with its international
acquisitions strategy of building out its Latam banking network
through small, accretive acquisitions,” Morgan Stanley analyst
 Cheryl Pate  said today in a note.  Nuevo Banco Comercial has an 11 percent share of Uruguay’s
loans and deposits market, ranking fourth among private banks.
The purchase will add to Scotiabank’s earnings in the first
year, the lender said.  “It provides a natural extension of our operations that we
have in Latin America,” said  Dieter Jentsch , Scotiabank’s
executive vice president of Latin America. “Uruguay continues
to impress us with its political stability and its economic
fortunes.”  Consumer Finance  Competitors in the market include Spanish lenders Banco
Santander SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, and London-
based HSBC Holdings Plc, Jentsch said today in a telephone
interview. Nuevo Banco offers consumer finance lending,
providing small loans to clients who don’t have a banking
history.  Scotiabank will use the purchases to expand credit-card
accounts, commercial lending and infrastructure financing,
Jentsch said.  Scotiabank is buying the Uruguayan lender from a group led
by Boston-based private equity firm Advent International Corp.
Advent  bought  Nuevo Banco in 2006 for $167 million, the company
said on its website.  Pronto! has 37 branches and 200,000 clients in the South
American country of 3.4 million people, Bank of Nova Scotia
said. The two organizations have about 700 employees, Jentsch
said.  Bank of Nova Scotia rose 49 cents to a record high C$56.12
in 4:21 p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 