-- Seattle Genetics' Experimental Drug Shrinks Hodgkin's Tumors, Study Shows
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-06T21:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/seattle-genetics-novel-2-in-1-drug-shrinks-hodgkin-s-lymphoma.html
Seattle Genetics Inc.  and  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.’s  experimental drug wiped out tumors in one-
third of patients with hard-to-treat Hodgkin’s lymphoma and
reduced the cancer by half in another 40 percent, a study found.  Overall, 94 percent of 102 patients had their tumors shrink
by at least a quarter, an “unheard-of” level of improvement in
people who had failed other treatments, said study leader  Robert
Chen , an assistant professor at  City of Hope , a nonprofit cancer
center in Duarte, California. He presented  the study  today at
the American Society of Hematology  meeting  in Orlando, Florida.  Results for the drug, SGN-35, drew mixed responses from
analysts about the therapy’s potential for hard-to-treat
Hodgkin’s lymphoma and pushed shares down as much as 6.6
percent. While the data should support approval, the drug may
have a “limited market opportunity,”  George Farmer , an analyst
with Canaccord Genuity in New York, said today in a note to
investors.  “We believe shares are overvalued,” Farmer wrote. The 34
percent complete response rate fell short of what was hoped for
by some investors, he said.  Seattle Genetics fell 64 cents, or 4 percent, to $15.23 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading .  ‘Widely Adopted’  “Some investors are concerned that the size of the market
for SGN-35 is small,” said  Jason Kantor , an analyst with RBC
Capital Markets in San Francisco, in an e-mail. “I believe that
a targeted agent with this level of efficacy and tolerability
will be widely adopted in Hodgkin’s lymphoma and anaplastic
large cell lymphoma, and there are other market opportunities.”  Seattle Genetics may have annual worldwide revenue from
SGN-35 of $425 million in 2015, Kantor said.  The treatment uses an antibody to target and bind with a
protein on the surface of lymphoma cells, then blasts them with
a cancer-killing chemical. This keeps the drug out of the
bloodstream and away from healthy tissue, avoiding the side
effects of standard chemotherapy, Chen said.  The drug’s effectiveness “met our expectations,” said
 Bret Holley , an analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., in an analyst
note released today. The low rate of side effects “likely
exceeded expectations,” Holley wrote.  Earlier ‘Hint’  “We had a hint this was going to be an effective agent
from an earlier trial but we had no idea it was going to be this
good,” said Chen, who also works as a consultant for Seattle
Genetics. “Patients tolerated this drug very well.”  About 8,500 people in the U.S. are diagnosed every year
with Hodgkin’s lymphoma and 1,300 of them die, according to the
 National Cancer Institute . The disease attacks the lymphatic
system, part of the body’s disease-fighting mechanism, and can
lead to enlargement of the spleen, the lymph nodes and other
tissues. It also causes night sweats, fever, weight loss and
fatigue in about 40 percent of patients, Chen said.  Patients tend to develop lymphoma either as young adults in
their 20s or 30s or when they’re in their 60s. While the disease
can be cured in about 70 percent of patients, Chen said, his
study tested the drug in people who relapsed or didn’t respond
to treatment.  The patients were mostly young, with a median age of 31,
and had advanced cases of the disease, Chen said. All had been
treated with chemotherapy and stem cell transplants drawn from
their own blood.  New Option  “When patients have failed multiple lines of treatment, as
these patients had, it’s usually a very difficult discussion,”
Chen said. “It’s tough for the patients and for us because
there’s no standard therapy. The only options are palliative
care or clinical trials.”  Seattle Genetics plans to apply to the Food and Drug
Administration for approval of the medicine in the first half of
2011, said chief executive officer  Clay Siegall . SGN-35 would be
the company’s first marketed product.  The combination drug works like a guided missile, using an
antibody to spot a protein called  CD-30  found only on the
surface of lymphoma cells. When it finds them, it delivers the
anticancer agent, which disrupts cell division to destroy the
cancer.  In the study, patients were given SGN-35 by infusion every
three weeks for up to 16 cycles. Each infusion takes about a
half an hour and can be administered by a nurse, Chen said.  Some patients responded almost immediately, he said.
Several “had really enlarged lymph nodes and you could see them
shrink in a week,” he said.  Side Effects  Patients maintained the reduction of their tumors for a
median of 29 weeks, according to independent reviewers, Chen
said. The most common serious side effects were a lowering of
white blood cells in 20 percent of patients, low blood platelet
counts and nerve pain in 8 percent and anemia in 6 percent,
Seattle Genetics said in a statement.  Seattle Genetics has exclusive North American marketing
rights and Osaka, Japan-based Takeda can sell the drug
everywhere else, the companies said in December 2009 when they
announced the partnership. The companies share development costs
equally, except in Japan, where Takeda is solely responsible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 