-- SEC Considers Insiders to Head Audit-Industry Watchdog
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-12-06T16:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/sec-considers-former-insiders-to-head-audit-industry-watchdog.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is evaluating two former agency officials to fill the
year-old vacancy at the top of the board that oversees auditors
of public companies.  James R. Doty , who served as SEC general counsel from 1990
to 1992, and  John J. Huber , who headed the agency’s corporation
finance division in the 1980s, are the leading candidates to
head the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board , said three
people familiar with the matter who declined to be identified
because the process isn’t public.  “We are now in the final steps of the selection process,”
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said today at an American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants conference in Washington. She
didn’t identify candidates for the position.  The PCAOB, a privately funded nonprofit corporation created
by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2002, has operated without a full
board since  Mark W. Olson  stepped down as chairman in 2009.
Board member  Daniel L. Goelzer  has served as interim chairman
and two others have served past the end of their terms while the
panel withstood a legal challenge of its right to exist and
questions about its effectiveness as a regulator.  “If you have somebody in there who is sort of an acting
chair as opposed to a permanent chair, that person doesn’t feel
as if they necessarily are fully charged with the responsibility
of taking the leadership role,” said Olson, who called the
search for his replacement critical to the PCAOB’s future.  PCAOB spokeswoman  Colleen Brennan  said her office can’t
discuss candidates.  Advising Companies  Huber, 62, has been advising companies on accounting issues
as a law partner at Latham & Watkins LLP in Washington. Doty,
70, represents clients on SEC matters and counsels company
directors on Sarbanes-Oxley rules as a partner at Baker Botts
LLC. Neither responded to telephone calls seeking comment.  Schapiro told lawmakers at a congressional hearing in July
that appointing a new PCAOB chairman in coming months was among
her “highest priorities” and that she also was planning to
appoint two new board members. A month earlier, the U.S. Supreme
Court had upheld the PCAOB’s constitutionality in a 5-4 decision
that expanded the SEC’s authority to hire and fire its members.  Board members  Charles D. Niemeier , whose term expired more
than two years ago, and  Bill Gradison , whose appointment ended
in October, are permitted to stay until they are replaced.
Goelzer’s term ends next year.  “I understand that the appointment of the three new board
members is a priority for the commission,” Goelzer said in an
e-mail. “I am looking forward to having a full complement of
board members to address the challenging issues we face.”  Provide Input  The SEC would be wise to fill the top post first, putting
the new chairman in position to provide input on candidates for
the other seats, said Olson, who is now co-chairman at Treliant
Risk Advisors LLC, a Washington-based consulting firm.  “I’m sure that opportunity is not lost on the
commission,” he said.  The PCAOB sets auditing standards for firms that certify
the books of companies with U.S.-registered securities and is
responsible for ensuring auditors comply with its rules. The
board also has an enforcement division that can issue subpoenas
and bring disciplinary actions against auditors.  High Pay  Because Congress stipulated in creating the PCAOB that its
salaries must be competitive with the private sector, pay for
the panel’s five members far exceeds the norm for government
service in Washington. The chairman earns $672,676, more than
four times what Schapiro gets as SEC chairman. Board members get
$546,891, exceeding President  Barack Obama ’s $400,000 salary.  The relatively high pay has been accompanied by complaints
that the PCAOB is an ineffective and unaccountable regulator
that has brought only 31 disciplinary actions since it was
formed eight years ago.  Lynn E. Turner,  a former SEC chief accountant who is a
member of PCAOB advisory boards, said the panel has shown recent
improvement that could be bolstered by new blood at the top.  “The PCAOB progress in recent months on significant issues
of interest to investors has been good but is dependent on being
able to successfully complete those projects under a new
board,” Turner said.  According to a  process  outlined on the SEC website, the SEC
chairman leads the search, taking nominations from the
commissioners. A commission vote will then appoint the
candidate.  The board currently counts 2,399 public accounting firms
under its registration and has planned for a staff of 717 by the
end of 2011. Its budget for that fiscal year, passed by the
board on Nov. 23, will be $204.4 million if approved by the SEC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Hamilton  in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 