-- Shariah Banks Get Profit Boost With Money-Market Products: Islamic Finance
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-12-06T12:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/shariah-banks-get-profit-boost-with-money-market-products-islamic-finance.html
Islamic banks will be offered a range
of new  money-market  instruments in coming months, allowing
lenders to earn larger returns from excess cash stored at
central banks or locked into longer-dated securities.  The  International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp. , which
is being set up in Kuala Lumpur by 11 central banks, will sell
its first short-term bills in dollars early next year, Malaysian
central bank Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said Oct. 28.  Prime Rate
Capital Management LLP  plans to start a $250 million Islamic
cash fund in January, Chief Executive Officer  Christopher Oulton 
said in a Nov. 23 interview. The U.A.E.’s central bank auctioned
its first Shariah-compliant certificates of deposits on Nov. 10.  Demand for services complying with Shariah law is
increasing about 15 percent annually and assets under management
may almost triple to $2.8 trillion by 2015, according to the
Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services Board, a standards
body for the industry. Money-market products will allow banks to
invest idle cash more profitably, Paris-based  Anouar Hassoune ,
an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in an e-mailed
response to questions on Dec. 1.  “Liquidity is basically managed by accumulating central
bank and interbank placements, as well as some government bonds,
the latter still being relatively scarce,” he said. “Banks are
penalized by crystallizing a significant amount of funds in cash
forms.”  U.K. Options  Shariah-compliant short-term investment products will fill
a hole in the industry, according to London-based  Prime Rate
Capital , which oversees $3.8 billion of assets.  “There is a dearth of products and none of them are
overnight,” Oulton said. “The alternatives include just
leaving it and getting no return at all.” Islamic banks will be
able to place their deposits with the fund, which will then buy
and sell commodities in so-called Murabahah transactions, he
said.  A Murabahah contract is a sale and deferred-payment accord
based on an asset, usually a commodity such as oil, sugar or
metals, in which the cost and profit margin are pre-agreed.  “Even though there are providers out there, this
particular segment needs some institutional deepening,” said
 Ahmad Alanani , the Dubai-based director of fixed-income sales at
investment bank Exotix Ltd.  Certificates of Deposits  Global sales of sukuk, which pay returns based on asset
flows to comply with the religion’s ban on interest, fell 31
percent this year to $13.8 billion, Bloomberg data show.
Issuance reached a record $31 billion in 2007.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 11.3 percent this year,
the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows. Debt in
emerging markets gained 13.8 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed two
basis points to 347 on Dec. 3 and has narrowed 26 basis points
since Sept. 30, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index
showed.  Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in June 2015
rose, driving the yield seven basis points lower to 2.86 percent
today, according to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s
government sukuk rather than Malaysia’s dropped three basis
points to 380, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money Markets  The U.A.E. central bank offered Islamic certificates of
deposits of one week up to one year, the monetary authority said
in an e-mailed statement Nov. 14. Bahrain, the only country in
the Persian Gulf to sell Islamic debt due in six months or less,
plans to issue additional securities, central bank Governor
 Rasheed al-Maraj  said in an Oct. 27 interview in Marrakesh,
Morocco.  The  International Islamic Financial Market , founded by the
central banks of Bahrain, Indonesia and Malaysia, plans to
create Shariah-compliant repurchase agreements to help Islamic
banks manage funds and boost trading, Chief Executive Officer
 Ijlal Ahmed Alvi  said in August.  The first global Shariah-compliant money-market securities
will be sold by  International Islamic Liquidity Management  on a
regular basis, Malaysia’s  Zeti  said in an interview in
Washington on Oct. 10.  “Instead of having a series of different counterparts for
the placement of excess liquidity and borrowing short-term from
a number of correspondents, the idea is to have a one-stop shop
for liquidity placements and short-term borrowing,” said
Moody’s Hassoune.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shanthy Nambiar at 
 snambiar1@bloomberg.net  