-- Shark Experts Fly to Egypt Following Death of German Tourist in Red Sea
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2010-12-06T15:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/shark-experts-fly-to-egypt-following-death-of-german-tourist-in-red-sea.html
Egyptian authorities called in an
international team of marine biologists after a shark killed a
German tourist yesterday in the Red Sea resort of Sharm El-
Sheikh, the  Tourism Ministry  said.  The killing was the fourth shark attack in the resort
within a week and the only fatality. Authorities closed beaches
for a second time and banned tourists from swimming and
snorkeling.  “We are concerned,” Tourism Ministry spokeswoman Omayma
El-Husseini said by telephone in Cairo. “Any incident that
threatens the safety of tourists is a cause for concern and the
proof is that beaches have been closed.”  Eighty percent of tourists who visit Egypt spend time on
the eastern coastline seeking sun, sand and diving, El-Husseini
said. Tourism accounts for 13 percent of jobs in the country. In
2011, Egypt aims to attract more than 16 million tourists,
generating more than $14 billion in revenue, Minister  Zoheir Garranah  said in an interview in October.  Egypt invited four international shark experts to “assess
and advise on the best course of action” after the attacks,
Egypt’s  Chamber of Diving and Water Sports , a body set up by the
Tourism Ministry, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Shark Experts  The biologists traveling to Egypt include  George H. Burgess , director of the Florida Program for Shark Research and
curator at the Florida Museum of Natural History; Marie Levine,
head of the Shark Research Institute in Princeton, New Jersey;
and Ralph Collier of the Shark Research Committee of Chatsworth,
California, the diving chamber said. A fourth, Erich Ritter, a
shark behavioral expert, is advising from his research centre in
the U.S.  A Swedish research vessel is “surveying the topography of
the ocean around Sharm El Sheikh in order to supply data to
shark experts to assist their work,” the organization said.  The 70-year-old German woman was mauled by a shark while
she was swimming yesterday north of Namaa Bay. The killing comes
after a shark attacked and seriously injured two snorkelers on
Nov. 30 off Sharm El-Sheikh. A third swimmer was attacked the
following day.  The  Hurghada Environmental Protection and Conservation
Association , a non-governmental organization, said pictures of a
oceanic whitetip shark and a mako shark that authorities killed
after the first attacks did not match photographs of a larger
whitetip taken by the snorkelers before they were attacked. “It
is clear that they don’t show the same individual,” it said in
a statement posted on its website Dec. 3, a day before
authorities reopened beaches in the area.  ‘Atypical’ Behaviour  A study of oceanic whitetips in the Egyptian part of the
Red Sea showed that only 11 sharks approaching the size of the
whitetip believed responsible for the attack on the snorkelers
last week had been “documented” during the past six years, the
environmental group said by e-mail. Whitetips are pelagic sharks
that typically stay in deeper water, according to the Shark
Research Institute.  “These observations support the idea that the string of
attacks is the result of a single individual behaving in a
highly atypical way,” it said.  Most areas in Sharm El Sheikh will be open for experienced
divers with at least 50 logged dives, the diving chamber said in
its statement.  The government doesn’t expect the ban on swimming and
snorkeling to last more than three days, South Sinai Govenor
Abdel-Fadeel Shousha said today in a live interview with the
Qatar-based Al Jazeera television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 