-- Turner Prize Won By Singing Artist Philipsz as Students Shout
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-12-07T00:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/singer-susan-philipsz-wins-turner-prize-students-protest-at-tate-ceremony.html
The  Turner Prize , Britain’s top
visual-arts award, last night went to the sound artist  Susan Philipsz , who plays recordings of her singing voice at bus
stations and bridge underpaths.  The prize-giving event at London’s  Tate Britain  was
overtaken by about 50 students protesting government cuts in
education spending. Though they were walled off behind
partitions, their shouts -- that Tate “would be empty without
art schools” and that education “should be free for all, not a
product for purchase” -- virtually drowned out the live,
televised proceedings.  Philipsz, the winning artist-balladeer, backed the
protesters in comments to reporters. “My heart goes out to
them,” said the 45-year-old redhead, who was dressed in a black
pinstripe skirt and polka-dot blouse.  Speaking of her work, Philipsz said while sound was her
“primary tool,” she didn’t think of herself as a sound artist.
“I’ve studied fine art and only ever exhibited within a visual-
arts context,” she said, explaining that her sculpture studies
naturally led her to the vocal work. Philipsz described her
singing voice as “fine, but not in any way special.”  Earlier, as students belted out their slogans, Tate
Director  Nicholas Serota  said on live television that he shared
their concerns. “Arts should continue to be accessible to
all,” he said. He later told reporters, “It seems as though
it’s a moment for sound.”  “We work in a public institution and we work in a public
arena,” said Serota, sporting a thin red tie. “That means that
everyone who wishes to should have a voice.”  Aural Sculptures  Born in Glasgow and now based in Berlin, Philipsz fills
public spaces with the sound of her a cappella voice, singing
folk or pop songs. Like aural sculptures, they take over the
places they are in, and alter the experience of being there.  For “Filter” (1998), Philipsz delivered tunes by
Radiohead,  Marianne Faithfull , Nirvana and the Velvet
Underground that wafted through a busy bus station’s sound
system.  Earlier this year, in “Lowlands,” she produced mournful
recordings of three different versions of the 16th-century
Scottish lament “Lowlands Away,” about a sailor who drowns at
sea, and whose ghost returns to his lover’s side. The tapes were
played below the three bridges over the river Clyde in Glasgow.  In the Tate Britain exhibition put on by this year’s Turner
Prize nominees, her unspectacular version of “Lowlands” echoed
out of three chunky speakers placed on low shelves in different
corners of a room.  Prize Money  The Turner Prize is given every year to “a British artist
under 50 for an outstanding exhibition or other presentation of
their work in the 12 months preceding.” The prize money is
25,000 pounds ($39,000) for the winner and 5,000 pounds each for
the other three.  Tate organizes the award, and the director of Tate Britain
heads the jury. The award this year was presented by fashion
designer  Miuccia Prada .  Created in 1984 to acknowledge the U.K.’s up-and-coming
contemporary artists, the Turner Prize often puzzles the public
and press with its choice of winners. In 2001, it went to  Martin Creed , whose body of work included a gallery light switch that
went on and off at five-second intervals.  Hirst, Wallinger  Last year’s winner was  Richard Wright , a British artist
known for creating wall paintings that he destroys after
exhibition. Other winners include  Damien Hirst ,  Grayson Perry ,
and  Mark Wallinger , who in 2007 won the prize for his recreation
of a real-life Iraq war protest by Brian Haw in London’s
Parliament Square.  This year’s winner irked the prize’s longstanding critics,
the Stuckists -- a group of figurative painters who blame Tate
for focusing too much on conceptual art. The group staged a
protest outside the Turner Prize party, as it does each year,
and objected to a song-based work winning a visual-arts award.  “It’s not art -- it’s music,” said Stuckist spokeswoman
Jasmine Maddock in e-mailed comments. “They don’t give the
Mercury Music Prize to a painter. They shouldn’t give the Turner
Prize to a singer.”  Philipsz’s competitors this year were: Angela de la Cruz,
who reduces painting to crumpled pieces of canvas and chopped-up
stretchers; Dexter Dalwood, who splices together found images to
depict celebrities’ living quarters; and the Otolith Group,
which examines the value of documentary by creating or
reconfiguring footage.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 