-- Ski Champion Lindsey Vonn Follows Sharapova, Federer Trail in Money Search
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-07T00:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ski-champion-lyndsey-vonn-follows-sharapova-federer-trail-in-money-search.html
Lindsey Vonn  has turned into the
 Maria Sharapova  of skiing without matching the earning power of
the world’s highest-paid female athlete.  Almost a year after winning the  Olympic downhill  at the
Vancouver Winter Games, Vonn has become a household name in the
U.S. She played a small role on NBC’s “ Law & Order ”
television show, went to the White House correspondents’ dinner
and posed as a  Sharon Stone  lookalike. Her annual endorsement
income with companies such as Red Bull GmbH, Rolex Group,
 Procter & Gamble Co.  and  Under Armour Inc.  doubled to about $6
million, according to analysts at Baker Street Advertising in
San Francisco.  That’s a bunny hill compared with the $24.5 million that
Sharapova takes home each year in prize money and deals with
 Nike Inc.,   Tiffany & Co.  and Groupe  Danone SA ’s  Evian  water
brand. Both Vonn and Sharapova, a three-time major tennis
champion from Russia, are represented by  IMG .  It’s “highly unlikely that Vonn will ever match
Sharapova’s earning power,”  Bob Dorfman , creative director of
Baker Street Advertising, said in an interview. “It’s not a
personality issue, it’s a matter of their particular sport.
Tennis pros are more visible, more accessible and more
fashionable, and their equipment --- from shoes to clothes to
accessories --- lends itself to more endorsement
opportunities.”  Vonn, who last weekend won her first event of the season
in the  Super G  race in Lake Louise in Canada, also suffers from
the low visibility of her sport during non-Olympic years.
During an interview at the start of the season in  Soelden,
Austria , the 26-year-old expressed frustration at the marketing
of skiing, saying it doesn’t have enough events in North
America, and doesn’t promote its athletes as well as tennis.  Gold Medals  Dorfman estimated Vonn’s 2010 earnings may have doubled
from $3 million before Vancouver because she offers advertisers
“the complete package: gold-medal winning athletic performance,
charismatic personality, great looks and figure, and role-model
behavior off the slopes.”  The St. Paul, Minnesota native is “one of the few
Olympians whose marketability extends beyond the Games,” he
said.  Sharapova, 23, has been able to stay on top of the money-
making list even while sidelined for nine months with a
shoulder injury and not winning majors. Sponsors including
mobile phone maker Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications Ltd. say
the Russian, who became a celebrity when she won the 2004
Wimbledon title aged 17, transcends her sport. Although
Sharapova hasn’t advanced beyond the quarterfinals of a major
since her comeback to the WTA Tour in May last year, she
extended a deal with Nike at the start of this season by eight
years for $70 million.  This Season  Following her victory in Lake Louise, Vonn moved into
second place in the overall  World Cup standings , behind  Maria Riesch . The German, Vonn’s best friend, had won both downhill
races in Alberta ahead of the American.  Vonn, who is trying to win a fourth consecutive overall
World Cup title this season, has been reaping the commercial
benefits of winning her first Olympic gold medal as well as a
Super-G bronze in Vancouver in February.  She has signed post-Olympics deals with  Oakley eyewear ,
 Briko helmets ,  Spyder  downhill suits,  Sport Tube  ski
transportation ski equipment,  Leki  ski poles and the  Got Milk? 
dairy campaign, Mark Ervin, the racer’s Los Angeles-based agent,
said in an e-mail.  Other Offers  Vonn said she has turned down “quite a few offers” and
is selective in signing new endorsements.  “It has to make sense,” said the American, who married
former American ski racer  Thomas Vonn  in 2007 and lives in Vail,
Colorado and Austria.  Vonn, whose family relocated to Vail from Minnesota when
she was a teenager to access better training facilities, gave
interviews in fluent German while in Soelden. Austrian fans
mobbed the Olympic champion for pictures and autographs after
she finished 18th in the giant slalom on the Rettenbach glacier.  After Vancouver, Vonn was just as well known to U.S.
consumers as golfer  Phil Mickelson  and Academy Award winners
 Helen Hunt  and  Kevin Kline , according to the Los Angeles-based
 Davie Brown Index , which is used by advertisers to gauge the
ability of celebrities to influence consumers.  She holds a U.S. record 34 World Cup victories, yet still
lags behind female tennis and golf players at the bank.  Tennis Earnings  Led by Sharapova, tennis players including sisters  Serena 
($20.2 million in annual earnings) and  Venus Williams  ($15.4
million) made up half the top 10 list of the world’s highest-
earning female athletes, published by  Forbes  in August. Three
golfers, including the retired  Annika Sorenstam  ($8 million),
were also included.  “While the Olympic platform is massive, being out of the
spotlight puts Olympians at a disadvantage,” said Matt Delzell
a senior director at The Marketing Arm, which compiles the
 Davie Brown Index . “In the U.S., athletes in mainstream sports
like golf, baseball, basketball, and football are visible for
much of the year. That’s not the case with Olympians.”  Vonn said skiing must utilize the U.S. market more to
retain consumer attention. The  World Cup circuit  has just four
stops in North America, two each in the U.S. and Canada, with
the last ending on Dec. 5 in Lake Louise, Alberta, and Beaver
Creek, Colorado. Austria alone has seven stops, spread from Oct.
23 to Feb. 6, while Italy has six stops between Dec. 17 and
March 6.  ‘Big Market’  “It’s such a big market,” she said. “If we had one or
two more races, we could really expand that, and it would make
ski racing so much more popular.”  In the run-up to a race weekend in Aspen, Colorado at the
end of November, Vonn appeared on the cover of  ESPN The
Magazine ’s movie issue posing as  Stone ’s character in the film
“Basic Instinct.”  “This is exactly the sort of thing Vonn needs to do to
stay top of mind between Olympics,” Dorfman said. “It’s
attention-getting, sexy, slightly controversial but not off-
putting, and excellent tabloid show material.”  Skiing can learn a lot from the way tennis is marketed all
year by the men’s  ATP World Tour  and women’s  WTA Tour , Vonn
said.  “Their fans can relate to the stars because they can
follow them throughout the season,” she said. “We should have
similar marketing in skiing.”  Vonn has been picking up some tips from 16-time Grand Slam
tennis champion  Roger Federer , who according to Forbes earns
$43 million a year from prize money and deals with companies
led by razor-blade maker Gillette Co. and Nike. The two first
met at the 2009  French Open , which Federer won. Vonn, who
regularly plays tennis during the off-season, attended his
press conference afterwards and they have met a few times since.  “I definitely can learn a lot from him,” Vonn said.
“Just the way he’s able to handle himself. For someone to be
that successful and to have their feet on the ground is really
rare.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in Soelden, Austria, through the London
sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  