-- SL Green Buys Gramercy Capital Investments in New York for $390.8 Million
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-12-06T21:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/sl-green-buys-gramercy-capital-investments-in-new-york-for-390-8-million.html
SL Green Realty Corp. , Manhattan’s
largest office landlord, agreed to buy  Gramercy Capital Corp. 
real estate investments for $390.8 million, including the right
to a 100 percent leasehold on New York’s Lipstick Building.  The agreement includes the assumption of $265.6 million in
debt for interests in land beneath the Lipstick Building at 885
Third Ave., as well as 2 Herald Square and 292 Madison Ave., SL
Green said in a statement today. The company, based in New York,
expects the deal to be completed within 90 days.  “These transactions conclude an important consolidation in
our ownership of land and improvements representing 1.2 million
square feet of prime Midtown properties, all with long-term
operating leases to third parties,”  Andrew Mathias , president
of SL Green, said in a statement.  SL Green, founded by developer  Stephen L. Green  in 1980,
has been active this year as a buyer and seller of real estate
and an investor in distressed property debt. It has also been
raising rents at its Midtown office towers in anticipation of
rising demand for space in the biggest U.S. office market.  The transactions with Gramercy Capital simplifies the
ownership of the land under the buildings, said  Joshua Stein ,
principal of New York law firm Joshua Stein PLLC and the author
of “Stein on New York Commercial Mortgage Transactions.”  Collecting Payments  “The main reason for them to consolidate their position is
so they don’t have to deal with a joint venture partner and to
just continue to collect the coupon for the next few decades,”
Stein said.  Gramercy Capital  shares  jumped 26 percent to $2.84 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
gain in two months. SL Green added 1.7 percent to $67.03.  Gramercy was previously a financing unit of SL Green and
was run by the real estate investment trust’s executives.
Gramercy last year acquired its management company, which had
been a unit of SL Green, and hired its own  executives , including
Chief Executive Officer  Roger Cozzi . SL Green remains its
largest  investor .  The deals announced today “produce a substantial increase
in our corporate liquidity, and further deleverage Gramercy’s
balance sheet,” Cozzi said in the statement. They will add
about $89.9 million to Gramercy’s cash flow, he said.  Lipstick Building  The transaction for the Lipstick Building, nicknamed for
its elliptical shape and red granite exterior, gives SL Green
the entire stake in the joint venture that owns the fee and
leasehold interests in the property. The company and Gramercy
Capital bought a 79 percent interest in the ground beneath the
office tower in 2007, and leased the land back for 70 years.  The owner of the Lipstick Building, Metropolitan 885 Third
Avenue Leasehold LLC, filed for bankruptcy reorganization last
month. The filing followed a lawsuit in June by Royal Bank of
Canada, which sued to force a sale of the 34-story tower because
the landlord had defaulted on a $210 million loan.  SL Green also acquired $38.7 million in mezzanine debt on
601 West 26th St., known as the Starrett-Lehigh Building, the
company said today. The purchase adds to an existing investment
in the property.  Mezzanine loans are a form of higher-interest debt that’s
subordinate to a first mortgage. They’re backed by an equity
stake in the company owning a property, typically enabling the
landlord to leverage more of the asset’s value than a primary
lender would allow.  SL Green has  bought  properties including 125 Park Ave. and
600 Lexington Ave. in Manhattan this year. It agreed in October
to provide financing to developer  Joseph Moinian  to complete 3
Columbus Circle, a 26-story tower at 1775 Broadway.  The company is considering the partial or total sale of six
properties, according to a presentation at an investor
conference today. The sales may include 220 East 42nd St., the
former home of the New York Daily News, as well as 100 Church
St. and 711 3rd Ave. in Manhattan, SL Green said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  