-- Sony Says Chief Howard Stringer Has No Plans to Step Down From His Role
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2010-12-06T12:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/sony-s-stringer-approached-to-succeed-lyons-bbc-chairman-telegraph-says.html
Sony Corp.  Chief Executive Officer
 Howard Stringer  has no plans to step down from his post after
the U.K.’s Daily Telegraph newspaper said he’d been approached
to succeed  Michael Lyons  as chairman of the BBC Trust.  “We can assure you that there is no plan for Sir Howard
Stringer to step down from his current position at Sony,”
 George Boyd , a spokesman at the Tokyo-based electronics maker
said in an e-mailed statement.  Sony, the maker of Bravia televisions, is preparing to look
for a new president who could eventually succeed Stringer,
people familiar with the matter said last month. Installing a
president would give Stringer, who turns 69 in February, a
deputy to lighten his work and travel load and offer the
designee a chance to prove their mettle as Sony sets its long-
term plans, the people said then.  The new chair of the  BBC Trust  will be appointed for a
four-year term and receive an annual salary of 110,000 pounds
($174,000), according to an ad for the position. Interviews with
shortlisted candidates will take place on Jan. 27 and Jan. 28,
and the candidate will appear before a parliamentary committee,
it said. The appointment is made by the  Queen  in Privy Council
on advice of the Prime Minister.  A spokeswoman for the BBC Trust declined to comment, saying
the decision would be made by the U.K.’s Department of Culture,
Media and Sport. A spokeswoman from that department declined to
comment on the hiring.  Stringer, who holds master’s and bachelor’s degrees in
history from Oxford University, joined Sony in 1997 after a
career spanning two decades at U.S. television company CBS. The
Welsh-born U.S. citizen became chairman and CEO in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 