-- Southern Sudan Referendum Body Hasn't Sought Delay, Deputy Chairman Says
-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 2010-12-06T11:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/southern-sudan-referendum-body-hasn-t-sought-delay-deputy-chairman-says.html
The commission organizing  Southern
Sudan ’s referendum on independence plans for the vote to take
place on schedule next month and hasn’t sought a postponement,
the deputy head of the body said.  Chan Reec Madut , the deputy chairman of the Southern Sudan
Referendum Commission, was responding to reports that the head
of the commission,  Mohamed Ibrahim Khalil , planned to send a
letter to President  Umar al-Bashir  and to the president of the
semi-autonomous south,  Salva Kiir , requesting a delay.  “We are still working toward a Jan. 9 start date for the
referendum,” Madut said in an interview in Juba, the regional
capital. “To the best of my knowledge, there was no letter sent
by the commission asking for a delay.”  Southern Sudanese officials have rejected any delays in the
referendum, which is the climax of a 2005  peace accord  that
ended a two-decade civil war between the nation’s Muslim north
and the oil-producing south, where Christianity and traditional
beliefs dominate.  “There has been no convincing reason given for a delay,”
Southern Sudanese Minister of Information Barnaba Marial
Benjamin said today by phone. “The official position here and in
Khartoum is that the vote is still on time.”  Southern Sudan accounts for as much as 80 percent of
Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy .  Also scheduled for Jan. 9 is a vote on whether the disputed
border region of Abyei will join the north or south. The  Sudan
People’s Liberation Movement , which governs the south, and al-
Bashir’s National Congress Party in Khartoum have failed to
agree over who has the right to vote on Abyei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 