-- South Korea Envoy Says World Needs Clean Growth Agenda That Cuts Emissions
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-12-06T09:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/south-korea-envoy-says-world-needs-clean-growth-agenda-that-cuts-emissions.html
The world needs a new way to expand
economies that moves it away from fossil fuels and allows
nations to grow while protecting the environment, former South
Korean Prime Minister  Han Seung-Soo  said.  Developing countries need to be given access to
technologies such as wind and solar power, energy efficiency
measures that divert them from the development path taken by
industrialized nations, Han said in an interview at United
Nations climate-change talks in Cancun, Mexico.  “The root of the problem is we depend heavily on fossil
fuels,” said Han, who heads the Seoul-based  Global Green Growth
Institute , an organization founded in May to promote low-carbon
growth in poorer nations. This is the “development paradigm of
the past,” he said.  UN envoys at the Cancun talks are trying to devise an
agreement that incorporates a mechanism to transfer expensive
low-carbon technology such as wind turbines, solar panels and
electric cars to developing nations as well as financial aid to
help poorer nations reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.  “Developing countries all want to grow fast but growing
fast means you have to emit more carbon dioxide,” Han said. To
change that “means making these green technologies cheaper,”
he said. “If you rely on the private sector it will never go
down because they want to make a profit so the public sector has
to get involved in developing these technologies.”  Han’s institute, funded with about $10 million a year by
the Korean government, this year started its first three
projects in developing countries. They will devise a low-carbon
growth plan including forest protection in East Kalimantan,
Indonesia, advise the Ethiopian government on low-carbon growth
and carry out an analysis of the Brazilian steel, timber,
electricity and cattle ranching industries to see how they can
be made more efficient. The Cancun talks are due to end Dec. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in Cancun, Mexico at  amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 