-- Mbeki Government's AIDS Approach an `Act of Genocide,' Cosatu's Vavi Says
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2010-12-06T12:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/south-africa-s-new-age-newspaper-issues-first-edition-denies-anc-links.html
South Africa’s approach to the AIDS
epidemic under former President  Thabo Mbeki  was akin to
genocide, the general secretary of the  Congress of South African
Trade Unions  said.  “At least 350,000 people died in just 10 years while the
government was dilly-dallying and sending confused messages,”
 Zwelinzima Vavi  said in an interview with Johannesburg’s Sunday
Independent newspaper, according to a transcript published
yesterday. “It was an act of genocide.”  Mbeki’s administration resisted the provision of anti-
retroviral drugs, saying they were expensive and potentially
toxic. His health minister,  Manto Tshabalala-Msimang , urged
those with AIDS to eat garlic, beetroot and olive oil and backed
the use of traditional medicines to combat the disease.  While Mbeki refused to take a public test for the human
immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, that causes AIDS, President
 Jacob Zuma  has taken one to heighten awareness of the disease.
Mbeki questioned the link between HIV and AIDS. The country has
5.7 million people infected with the virus, more than any other
nation.  Cosatu, the country’s biggest labor union federation,
supported Zuma in his successful bid to take over as head of the
ruling  African National Congress  from Mbeki in 2007 and as
national president in 2009.  South Africa is now stepping up an anti-AIDS campaign and
the number of people receiving AIDS drugs at public hospitals
has more than doubled to about 1 million since 2008.  “Today we have the biggest HIV/AIDS program in the
world,” Vavi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Antony Sguazzin  in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Matthew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 