-- Sprint to Spend Up to $5 Billion to Upgrade Network
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-12-06T21:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/sprint-nextel-to-spend-up-to-5-billion-to-upgrade-its-wireless-network.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. , the third-
largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, will spend as much as $5
billion to upgrade its network in the next three to five years.  Sprint said today in a statement it has negotiated
contracts with Alcatel-Lucent SA,  Ericsson AB  and  Samsung
Electronics Co.  for the project, which will combine the
carrier’s disparate bands of spectrum onto a single type of base
station.  Sprint has separate equipment for its 800 megahertz and 1.9
gigahertz bands, and for the 2.5 gigahertz band it uses through
its relationship with  Clearwire Corp.  for fourth-generation
service. The upgrades will allow the carrier to use all three
technologies and others on a single band.  The improvements open the possibility for Sprint to
incorporate a competing fourth-generation technology, known as
Long-Term Evolution, that both  AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon Wireless 
will use. Sprint was the first to offer 4G service in the U.S.  “We can add different frequency spectrums or add different
technologies to take full advantage of the spectrum we currently
have, the spectrum that Clearwire operates and anything else
that we may get over the next 10 years,” Bob Azzi, senior vice
president of Sprint’s Network group, said in an interview.  The Overland Park, Kansas-based carrier said it expects to
save at least $10 billion in seven years because of decreases in
energy costs, roaming expenses and the number of cell sites,
among other items.  Phasing Out iDEN  In 2013, Sprint will phase out the Integrated Digital
Enhanced Network, or iDEN, it uses for push-to-talk service on
its  Nextel  brand. Sprint will start offering in 2011 push-to-
talk on its Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, network.  “The company is right in seeking to phase out its iDEN
customer base and transition these customers to CDMA, freeing up
that spectrum for possible 4G deployments,” said  Tim Horan , an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. “This will be a very
lengthy process, so the benefits will not be seen for a while.”  Alcatel-Lucent will work on Sprint’s network in the Boston
to Washington corridor, as well as Los Angeles. Atlanta, Dallas
and Miami are among the markets for Ericsson, while Samsung’s
include Chicago, Denver and Seattle.  Verizon Wireless, which is co-owned by Verizon
Communications Inc. and Vodafone Group Plc, yesterday activated
its LTE service in about 40 U.S. markets and AT&T has said it
will begin offering the service by mid-2011.  Separately,  David Einhorn , president of hedge-fund operator
Greenlight Capital Inc., told CNBC in an interview that he had
taken a long position in Sprint because of its potential for a
turnaround.  Sprint gained 25 cents, or 6.4 percent, to $4.17 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , its biggest
one day jump since July 26. The shares have added 14 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  