-- Steinhoff Says Participating in PPR Disposal of Furniture Chain Conforama
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-06T15:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/steinhoff-says-participating-in-ppr-disposal-of-furniture-chain-conforama.html
Steinhoff International Holdings
Ltd. , Africa’s largest furniture maker, said it’s among bidders
for PPR SA’s Conforama chain to expand in Europe.  Conforama, which has been valued by Sanford C. Bernstein
analysts at about 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion), is “exactly
up our alley,” Chief Executive Officer  Markus Jooste  said in an
interview at Steinhoff’s Johannesburg headquarters today after
the company’s annual general meeting. “I’d love to have it.”  Conforama is France’s second-largest furniture retailer
behind Ikea and also has stores in Switzerland, Luxembourg,
Spain, Portugal, Italy and Croatia.  PPR , the owner of brands
including Puma and Gucci, is seeking to  dispose  of retail units
including the Fnac music and video stores and mail-order company
Redcats to focus on its luxury and lifestyle businesses.  Buying Conforama would be “a quantum leap” for
Steinhoff’s discount retailing business,  Syd Vianello , a retail
analyst with Nedcor Securities, said in an interview.  Steinhoff has been “invited to participate” in the
Conforama sale process, Jooste said. He and other Steinhoff
management went to France over the weekend and attended
Conforama presentations on the business and were given an
“information memorandum,” he said.  PPR  has started talks with Steinhoff and other investors
about a sale, Charlotte Judet, a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed response to questions. She declined to comment further.  PPR  dropped  70 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 125.15 euros at
4:20 p.m. in Paris trading. Steinhoff  shares  were down 0.4
percent at 21.90 rand at the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg,
giving the company a market value of 33.6 billion rand ($4.9
billion).  Timeline  “It will make them one of the biggest in all the
geographies in Europe,” said Vianello, who has a “hold”
recommendation on the stock. “They are already the leader in
Germany, the only country they won’t be in is Italy.”  Steinhoff won’t offer “an unrealistic price” and losing
the bid wouldn’t be “the end of the world,” he said.  Steinhoff operates more than 50 factories in countries such
as Poland, the Netherlands, Australia and South Africa. It has
more than 1,100 retail outlets, more than half of which are in
the U.K. and include stores such as Bensons for Beds and
Harveys. In continental Europe, the company sells the Hukla,
Esprit, Sit & More and designwerk brands.  Jooste declined to comment on a timeline for a possible
purchase of Conforama or give more details of the discussions.
It’s too early to discuss how an acquisition would be funded, he
said, adding that Steinhoff has cash resources.  Conforama ’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization increased 32 percent to 83 million
euros in the first six months of 2010 as sales rose 6.2 percent,
PPR said in July. The unit will be “significantly” more
profitable this year than 2009, Conforama CEO  Thierry Guibert 
said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  