-- Sumitomo Trust Buys DBS Asset for $105 Million to Tap Asia's Millionaires
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-12-06T09:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/sumitomo-trust-buys-dbs-asset-for-105-million-to-tap-asia-s-millionaires.html
Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. ’s Nikko
Asset Management Co. unit agreed to buy DBS Asset Management
from DBS Group Holdings Ltd. for S$137 million ($105 million) to
tap business from the expanding ranks of wealthy Asians.  Under the accord, DBS will also take a 7.25 percent stake
in Nikko Asset and the combined firm’s managed assets will total
more than $150 billion, the companies said in a joint statement
filed to the Singapore stock exchange today.  Japanese  banks  are increasing investment in financial firms
outside the country to counter slowing  lending demand  at home.
The deal would help Sumitomo Trust increase asset management for
Asians outside of Japan as the region’s wealth expansion
outpaces the rest of the world.  “Asian riches are attracting Japanese lenders for future
business growth,”  Nana Otsuki , a Tokyo-based analyst at UBS AG,
said before today’s announcement. “It’s a fee business, which
Japanese lenders tend to prefer as it doesn’t require
substantial risk taking.”  The number of millionaires in the Asia-Pacific region
reached 3 million in 2009, matching those in Europe for the
first time, according to a June report by Capgemini and Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. Asian millionaires’ assets
rose 31 percent to $9.7 trillion, the study showed.  Wealth in the region, excluding Japan, is likely to climb
at almost double the global pace through 2014, the Boston
Consulting Group said in June.  ‘Major Step’  “By expanding its distribution network and investment
platform in Asia, especially in Singapore and Hong Kong, Nikko
Asset has taken a major step toward becoming the region’s
leading investment manager,”  Hitoshi Tsunekage , Sumitomo
Trust’s president and chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  Nikko Asset CEO  Tim McCarthy  said assets under management
could increase to $200 billion within two to three years
“depending on decent market conditions,” and exceed $250
billion in five to seven years. The company plans to increase
staff including analysts and trainers, he said at a press
conference in Singapore today.  “If you look at this region and Singapore being the hub,
it’s not at all unreasonable to expect growth here over the next
five years of as much as $10 billion,” McCarthy said. He added
Japan was a “massive source of dollars for investment” as was
China, while Australia and New Zealand were also growth markets.  ‘Same Shop’  No jobs will be cut following the deal, said  Piyush Gupta ,
chief executive officer of  DBS Group , Southeast Asia’s biggest
lender and the parent company of DBS Bank Ltd., which owns the
asset management firm. The transaction wasn’t motivated by cost-
cutting, he said at the same press briefing.  “When you start adding more scale, you can take more
portfolios and pump them through the same shop,” he said. That
would deliver “advantages” such as lower per unit costs rather
than a “reduction in expenses per say.”  The combined assets under management that DBS will inject
into Nikko Asset totaled $7 billion as of September, according
to the statement. The transaction excludes Changsheng Fund
Management, which is 33 percent owned by DBS Asset and will be
directly held by DBS Group. The bank said its relationship with
the Chinese firm is an important step in executing the bank’s
strategy in China.  Sumitomo Trust’s shares rose 0.2 percent to 459 yen at the
close in Tokyo. DBS climbed 0.3 percent to S$14.08 at the
Singapore close, the highest since Nov. 11.  Sumitomo Trust’s deal followed Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.’s November purchase of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s project-finance assets, and Mizuho Financial Group Inc.’s
$500 million accord for a stake in BlackRock, the world’s
biggest money manager.  Sumitomo Trust is set to merge with Chuo Mitsui Trust
Holdings Inc. in a transaction that would make it Japan’s fifth-
biggest lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 Jkoh38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 