-- Swiss Stocks Decline, Led by UBS, Credit Suisse; Lonza Advances
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-12-06T16:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/swiss-stocks-drop-led-by-ubs-and-credit-suisse-lonza-advances.html
Swiss stocks dropped after U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
may expand its bond-buying program and concern lingered that
more European nations will struggle to finance themselves.  UBS AG, Switzerland’s largest bank, led the retreat,
falling 1.6 percent, after saying Chief Financial Officer  John Cryan  will leave next year. Lonza Group AG and Syngenta AG
limited losses in the  Swiss Market Index  after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. recommended European chemicals companies.  The  SMI  of the biggest and most actively traded companies
fell 0.5 percent to 6,412.22 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich.
The SMI posted a second straight weekly loss last week, falling
0.7 percent, after the bailout of Ireland failed to reassure
investors that Europe will contain its sovereign-debt crisis.
The broader  Swiss Performance Index  slid 0.3 percent today.  “Equities do look cheap but the bearish argument is: are
all the world problems going to supercede the bullish
argument?”  Simon Denham , chief financial officer at London
Capital Group Holdings Plc, said. “In the current environment,
I can see no reason why people would invest in equities.”  U.S. policy makers may expand bond purchases beyond the
$600 billion announced last month to spur growth, Fed Chairman
Bernanke said in an interview broadcast yesterday by CBS Corp.’s
“60 Minutes” program.  “We’re not very far from the level where the economy is
not self-sustaining,” Bernanke said. “It’s very close to the
border. It takes about 2.5 percent growth just to keep
unemployment stable and that’s about what we’re getting.”  UBS, Credit Suisse Fall  UBS dropped 1.6 percent to 15.46 Swiss francs.  Tom Naratil 
will replace Cryan while  Sergio Ermotti  will join from UniCredit
SpA on April 1 to run Europe, the Middle East and Africa, the
bank said at the end of last week after markets closed.  Naratil, the CFO and chief risk officer of UBS’s wealth-
management Americas unit, will replace Cryan, on June 1. Cryan,
CFO since September 2008, will “pursue other interests outside
of UBS,” the Zurich-based bank said.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s second-largest bank,
fell 1.8 percent to 38.02 francs.  Lonza, the world’s biggest maker of drug ingredients,
jumped 2.9 percent to 81.10 francs. Syngenta, Europe’s biggest
maker of chemicals, climbed 1.5 percent to 283 francs.  Goldman Sachs raised its price forecast for Lonza shares to
95 francs from 83 francs previously, and its prediction for
Syngenta to 410 francs from 325 francs, as the U.S. bank
upgraded its stance on European chemicals stocks to “neutral”
from “cautious.”  “We expect returns in the European chemicals sector to
improve further, to record levels, as a result of structural
factors including portfolio change, restructuring and revised
strategic approaches,” Goldman Sachs analysts wrote.  Winterthur Technologie AG  surged 6.9 percent to 62 francs.
3M Co., the maker of Scotch tape and optical films used to
brighten TV screens, agreed to buy Winterthur Technologie for
$448 million to expand in abrasive and grinding tools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 