-- U.K. Takes Medicine, Greece Turns Doctor Away: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-12-06T02:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/u-k-takes-medicine-greece-turns-doctor-away-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
The best medicine can taste awful.  The governments of the U.K., Ireland and Greece have
embarked upon ambitious, sometimes painful efforts to restore
their economies to sustainable growth paths. Of the three, the
U.K. and Ireland took their medicine, following the lessons of
past efforts to pull national economies away from spiraling
debt.  Greece  decided the taste was just too awful, and its
irresponsibility threatens every euro-zone country.  The history of the modern welfare state is replete with
examples of fiscal calamities. In good times, politicians expand  government spending  as far as soaring revenues will let them. In
bad times, when the bubble bursts, countries find themselves in
a ditch.  Numerous fixes have been tried over the years, and
economists have created a cottage industry studying them. What
has emerged is a consensus about what works, a consensus that is
about as strong as any in the macroeconomics literature.  The antidote to fiscal crisis is fiscal consolidation, a
dramatic change in spending and  tax policy  that reduces the
indebtedness of a nation. Such consolidations have relied on
varying degrees of tax increases and spending reductions. Some
have successfully reduced debt, some haven’t. The data tell a
clear story: What works is cutting government spending.  A series of influential papers by Harvard University
economist Alberto Alesina and various co-authors found decisive
evidence that successful consolidations rely almost exclusively
on spending reductions, while unsuccessful consolidations seek
to close 50 percent or more of the gap with tax increases.  Cutting Is Key  A recent  study  by the  International Monetary Fund  supports
the principle that cuts, particularly to entitlement programs,
are key.  Of the budget consolidations examined by the IMF, those
that met the goal Alesina laid out in his latest paper -- a 4.5
percentage-point reduction in the ratio of debt to potential
gross domestic product -- did so with spending cuts that were
about twice as big as tax increases. Cuts to pension and health
entitlements had the most beneficial effect on economic growth.  Tax increases fail to achieve sustained debt reduction for
two likely reasons.  First, they increase the risk that an economy will
experience a double-dip recession. Second, they illustrate that
the offending government is unwilling to take a tough stand
against soaring entitlements. A welfare state that can’t shrink
in a recession will possibly never shrink, which means that
today’s high taxes provide an ominous foreshadow of even higher
rates to come.  Credible Assurance  Spending reductions succeed because they provide a credible
assurance that the debt Leviathan will not swallow the entire
economy, increasing optimism and encouraging current investment.
They also suggest lower future tax rates, which increases the
perceived wealth of consumers, driving up current consumption.
And they provide central banks leeway for expansionary monetary
policy that tax hikes, which can increase measured inflation, do
not.  So back to the crisis at hand.  To their credit, the U.K. and Ireland have pegged the
spending-cut share of their overhaul almost precisely at 66
percent, matching the average share I calculated for successful
consolidations in the IMF study. Greece, on the other hand,
seeks to close its budget gap with more tax increases than
spending cuts.  Greece’s efforts are almost sure to fail.  The U.K. gave itself a strong chance of success by
prioritizing spending cuts over tax hikes. My one caution is
that the emphasis on reductions is a good deal smaller than
Alesina’s findings support.  Ireland’s Challenge  Ireland’s outlook is more complicated. While the Irish
clearly relied on history’s lessons, this doesn’t guarantee
success.  In the IMF study there were six countries with successful
consolidations. (The top three were  Sweden  in 1996,  Finland  in
1996-1998 and  Belgium  in 1993.) None of those was a country
that, like Ireland today, shares a common currency with a large
number of other nations. This may be a crucial distinction.  The IMF’s analysis suggests that accommodative monetary
policy,  currency devaluation  and surging exports play major
roles in helping a nation adjust to tighter fiscal policy and
sustain the economic growth that drives budget gains. In all
three of those areas, membership in the European Union ties
Ireland’s hands.  Team Euro  Moreover, since Greece and Ireland both use the euro, their
individual assaults on debt might best be thought of as a united
effort. If we combine the Greek and Irish plans into one, it
falls far short of the spending-cut targets supported by the IMF
data and is light years away from those of Alesina and his
colleagues.  As the U.S. plans its next moves in the face of a massive
deficit, it should ignore Ireland and Greece and pay close
attention to the U.K., with its independent currency and its
well-thought-out fiscal plan.  If the U.K. can’t revive its flagging economy, the lesson
won’t be that consolidation doesn’t work. It will be that
targets based on the IMF data understated the importance of
spending cuts -- and that highly indebted nations do so at their
own peril.    Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the  American Enterprise Institute , is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  