-- U.K. Manufacturers Predict Price Increases in 2011, EEF Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/u-k-factory-price-expectations-gauge-reaches-the-highest-level-since-2008.html
The proportion of U.K. engineering
manufacturers predicting price increases in the next quarter
reached the highest level in more than two years, the
Engineering Employers Federation said.  The number of companies saying they plan to raise domestic
prices exceeded those expecting declines by 16 percentage
points, the EEF and accountancy firm BDO Stoy Hayward LLP said
in a quarterly survey released today in London. That’s the
highest level since the third quarter of 2008 and compares with
a reading of 5 points in September.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will
probably keep its stimulus plan at 200 billion pounds ($314
billion) this week as officials stay divided on whether the
economy faces a greater risk from slowing growth or  consumer
prices . Governor  Mervyn King  has said that policy makers stand
ready to change policy in either direction.  “It does raise questions about whether there is the degree
of spare capacity that some of the MPC members think there is
which will eventually bring inflation down” to the 2 percent
target, EEF Chief Economist  Lee Hopley  told journalists at a
Dec. 3 briefing, referring to the gain in price expectations.
“This could suggest it’s less likely we’re moving back as fast
towards target after 2011 than the bank thinks.”  A gauge of export-price expectations for the first quarter
also climbed to 12 from 5 in the EEF’s last survey in September.
The survey focused on companies making items from metals to
mechanical equipment, cars and electronics.  Commodity Prices  “What we’ve seen in the past couple of quarters is price
increases in metals and sectors like chemicals and rubber and
plastics, which is obviously commodity-price driven. That’s now
spreading more widely,” Hopley said. “That is something we
could well see pick up through 2011.”  In a broader sample of manufacturers, the proportion saying
sales will rise in the three months through March exceeded those
reporting declines by 12 percentage points, compared with 33
points in the last survey, the EEF said in the report. The group
surveyed 519 companies from Nov. 3 to Nov. 24.  The Bank of England will have to increase its asset-
purchase plan by the middle of 2011 because of the risks of a
“setback” to economic growth, the British Chambers of Commerce
said in forecasts released yesterday. The bank will hold its
next meeting on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  