-- U.K. Gas, Coal Markets' Screen Trading Rises This Year, FSA Survey Shows
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2010-12-06T18:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/u-k-gas-coal-markets-see-rise-in-electronic-trading-fsa-says.html
Four out of six European energy
markets saw an increase in electronic trading this year, and all
experienced increase volume except emissions, according to a
survey of energy brokers by the  Financial Services Authority .  The U.K. gas and power, European electricity and the coal
markets had a rise in so-called screen trading, the FSA said
today in an e-mailed report, while the emissions market was
unchanged. Non-exchange trading of U.K. gas occurs 64 percent by
screens and 36 percent by voice broking, it showed.  There is “a relatively even split between screen and voice
trades,” for four of the six markets, the report said. “For
the U.K. gas and European power markets there is a slightly
stronger preference for screen trading, although voice-brokered
deals still remain significant in these markets.”  The European gas market saw a decline in screen trading,
though the report also showed that that market had the biggest
increase in overall trading volumes over the 12-month period
ended July.  European gas trading volumes advanced 52 percent to 168,010
million therms, while U.K. gas gained 33 percent to 438,122
million therms. A therm is 100,000 British thermal units.  Trading Volumes Rise  European power trading volumes climbed 19 percent to 4,884
terawatt hours. The volume data is based on submissions from
energy brokers and covers over-the-counter trading from August
2009 through July 2010, not exchange-based buying and selling of
energy contracts.  The volume of OTC carbon emissions trading shrank 1 percent
to 2.94 billion metric tons, which “may, in part, be due to the
success of exchange-traded emissions contracts,” the report
said.  The following table shows the percentage of over-the-
counter trades that took place electronically, and via brokers,
for the six markets surveyed by the FSA. The top line of each
table is for trades from Aug. 1, 2009, to July 31, 2010, and the
second line shows year-earlier figures in parenthesis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nidaa Bakhsh  in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net 
 Lars Paulsson  in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  