-- U.S. Senate May Pass Legislation on China Currency Value, 30 Senators Say
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-06T21:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/u-s-senate-may-pass-legislation-on-china-currency-value-30-senators-say.html
The U.S. Senate may join the House
and pass a measure meant to push China to raise the value of its
currency, 30 lawmakers said in a letter today to China’s Vice
Premier  Wang Qishan .  The senators said they want China to allow “its currency
to appreciate meaningfully” before President  Hu Jintao  visits
Washington next month. The bipartisan group of lawmakers also
urged Wang to deal with U.S. concerns about trade in green-
energy goods, beef, protection of copyrighted items and
government procurement at a meeting in Washington this month.  “It is time for China to make progress on these issues so
our two countries can continue to build a strong, mature
economic relationship,” Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said today in a statement.  China amassed a $201 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S.
for the first nine months of this year, more than the U.S.
deficit with the next seven-largest trading partners combined,
according to Commerce Department data.  Lawmakers such as Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, have said a weak Chinese yuan is one reason for the
trade gap, and have pressed China to curb its purchase of
dollars and let its currency rise. The House passed legislation
in September letting U.S. companies petition for duties on
Chinese imports to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan.  “The U.S. House of Representatives recently passed
legislation intended to address persistent currency
undervaluation by U.S. trading partners, and the U.S. Senate may
follow suit,” the bipartisan group of 30 lawmakers wrote.
“These practices continue to raise serious concerns among
members of Congress.”  Wang is scheduled to meet Dec. 14 and 15 with Commerce
Secretary  Gary Locke  and U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  at
an annual summit on commercial irritants between the nations.
Currency issues aren’t part of that discussion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  