-- U.S. Stocks Fall as Bernanke Says More Federal Reserve Easing Is Possible
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-06T21:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/u-s-stock-index-futures-slide-human-genome-slumps-citigroup-declines.html
U.S. stocks fell, snapping a three-
day rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the world’s largest
economy may need more stimulus.  Bank of America Corp.  slid 1.9 percent after Nomura
Holdings Inc. said the lender is at risk of a credit downgrade
in 2011.  Celgene Corp.  slumped 8.2 percent, the biggest drop in
the S&P 500, after ISI Group Inc. said the company’s Revlimid
treatment was associated with higher incidence of secondary
cancers.  Cisco Systems Inc.  rose 1.9 percent after Oppenheimer &
Co. lifted its rating.  Sprint Nextel Corp.  jumped 6.4 percent
after detailing plans to upgrade its wireless network.  The  S&P 500  dropped 0.1 percent to 1,223.12 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The benchmark measure of U.S. equities rose 3.7
percent in the prior three days. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average fell 19.90 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,362.19.  “There’s a lot to worry about,” said  Bruce McCain , who
oversees $25 billion as chief investment strategist at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland. “What’s going to
lead us higher from here especially in light of high U.S.
unemployment and problems brewing in Europe? There’s a lot of
skepticism. Although we’re getting fairly good economic and
corporate reports, investors are still not sure on whether to
take a more aggressive or defensive stance.”  Last Week  U.S. stocks rose last week, sending benchmark indexes to
their biggest gains in a month, amid improved economic data and
efforts by the European Central Bank to stem the region’s debt
crisis. The benchmark U.S. equity index has rallied 20 percent
from its 2010 low in July as corporate profits improved and the
Fed expanded its asset-purchase program to suppress interest
rates and stoke the economic recovery.  Bernanke said the economy is barely expanding at a
sustainable pace and it’s possible the Fed may expand bond
purchases beyond the $600 billion announced last month to spur
growth. He defended the Fed’s efforts to prop up a recovery so
weak that only 39,000 jobs were created in November, missing the
median economist estimate by 74 percent. The unemployment rate
last month rose to 9.8 percent, the highest level since April,
the Labor Department said on Dec. 3, three days after the
Bernanke interview was taped.  “We’re not very far from the level where the economy is
not self-sustaining,” Bernanke said in an interview broadcast
yesterday by CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. “It’s very
close to the border. It takes about 2.5 percent growth just to
keep unemployment stable and that’s about what we’re getting.”  ‘Hangover’  The S&P 500 fell as much as 0.4 percent on Dec. 3 after the
jobs report before rebounding as commodities prices gained.  “That’s what everyone is continuing to grapple with --
where we expect a continued sustained recovery, it’s still at
stall speed and you’re not getting the recovery that you want,”
said  E. William Stone , who oversees about $105 billion as chief
investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia.
“There’s also a hangover from the payrolls report. The numbers
were bad and you still have to wait for more evidence that
things are getting better.”  European officials voiced divisions over the steps needed
to stop the debt crisis as Germany opposes increasing the 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout fund and the introduction of
joint European bonds. Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders 
told reporters on Dec. 4 that the fund might be expanded if
ministers decide to introduce a larger permanent facility when
the current temporary one expires. Luxembourg and Italy today
called for the creation of joint European bonds. Both proposals
were today rejected by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Possible Downgrades  Bank of America  declined 1.9 percent to $11.64. The lender
along with Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. are most at risk of
being downgraded by credit-ratings companies in early 2011,
Nomura said. The firm cited the pace of recovery, the threat
that banks will have to buy back mortgages from investors,
Europe’s government debt crisis, shrinking balance sheets and
regulatory reform.  Celgene  slid 8.2 percent to $55.64.  Cisco rose 1.9 percent to $19.43. The largest maker of
computer networking equipment was raised to “outperform” from
“market perform” by Oppenheimer, which said the stock already
reflects concern about the company’s market-share losses.  Sprint rose 6.4 percent to $4.17. The third-largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier will spend as much as $5 billion to upgrade
its network over the next three to five years. Also,  David Einhorn , president of hedge-fund operator Greenlight Capital,
told CNBC he has purchased shares of Sprint, which he says is
“in a good spot” for a turnaround.  Rare-Earth Metals  Molycorp Inc. , owner of the world’s largest non-Chinese
deposit of rare-earth metals, soared 18 percent to $32.86.
Nikkei English News reported Sumitomo Corp. may buy a stake in
the U.S. company. Sumitomo, Japan’s third-largest trading
company, may agree to buy a stake in Molycorp this week, Nikkei
said, without saying where it obtained the information.  Jim Allen , Molycorp’s chief financial officer, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment. No one was immediately
available for comment when Bloomberg News called Sumitomo’s
headquarters in Tokyo outside of normal business hours.  Energy shares had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 10
industries, rising 0.3 percent, as oil climbed to a 26-month
high and natural gas rallied. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. advanced
1.8 percent to $70.25, while Occidental Petroleum Corp. added
1.4 percent to $93.05.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  