-- Tuberculosis May Use Bone Stem Cells to Evade Immune System, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-06T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/tuberculosis-may-use-bone-stem-cells-to-evade-immune-system.html
Tuberculosis  bacteria may use stem
cells normally found in the bone marrow to hide in the lungs,
researchers said as they pinpointed a possible new target for
treatments to fight the infectious disease.  TB recruits  mesenchymal stem cells  to the lungs, where they
help suppress the immune system that fights disease, the
scientists said in a study released today by the  Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences . The stem cells produce nitric
oxide, a chemical that reduces the type of white blood cells
called T-cells, the researchers wrote.  About one third of the world’s people are infected with the
bacteria that can cause TB, according to the World Health
Organization, based in Geneva, said on its  website . The disease
is difficult to treat, especially with the emergence of drug-
resistant strains. The study suggests that the mesenchymal stem
cells are potentially a target for new treatments for TB, a
malady that the scientists said kills 1.7 million people last
year.  The findings “reveal a key role of mesenchymal stem
cells” in TB’s ability to evade the immune system, and
“identify these cells as unique targets for therapeutic
intervention in tuberculosis,” wrote the researchers, led by
 Gobardhan Das , a New Delhi-based scientist for the International
Centre for Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology, an organization
with headquarters in Trieste, Italy.  Mesenchymal stem cells can generate bone, cartilage, fat
and connective tissue, according to the website of the U.S.
National Institutes of Health, based in Bethesda, Maryland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 