-- UBS Grabs Biggest Share of Australia M&A Since 2004 by Advising ASX, AMP
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-12-06T22:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/ubs-grabs-biggest-share-of-australia-m-a-since-2004-with-asx.html
UBS AG  is taking the biggest share of
Australian mergers advisory since 2004 after working on four of
this year’s five largest transactions involving local companies,
as deal making rebounds from a slump.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, has been involved in deals
accounting for 42 percent of the $124 billion of mergers
involving Australian companies this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company overtook New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s local affiliate and  Macquarie Group
Ltd.  to gain the top spot in Australian M&A advisory.  UBS’s bankers in Australia outperformed their colleagues in
North America, where the firm ranks eighth in M&A, Bloomberg
data show. While Bank of America Corp., based in Charlotte,
North Carolina, and New York-based Citigroup Inc. added staff to
local investment-banking units this year, UBS kept the size of
its team steady at about 160, the largest among foreign banks.  “They haven’t needed to hire because they’ve lost very few
people,” said  Jon Michel , founder of Sydney-based financial
recruitment company Jon Michel Executive Search. “It’s been a
steady ship this year.”  Managing directors at Zurich-based UBS’s investment bank in
Australia have been with the company for an average of 12 years,
said  Guy Fowler , 42, joint head of the unit with  Matthew Grounds ,
in a Dec. 2 interview. That’s longer than the industry average,
according to Michel.  This year will likely be the biggest for Australian M&A
since 2007, helped by almost $50 billion of deals in the fourth
quarter alone, according to Bloomberg data. The $52 billion of
Australian transactions UBS worked on is the most in at least a
decade, the data show.  Mining, Property Deals  UBS is advising ASX Ltd., which on Oct. 25 agreed to sell
itself to Singapore Exchange Ltd. for A$8.4 billion ($8.1
billion). The bank is also working with  AMP Ltd. , the Australian
asset manager that last month agreed with Axa SA to buy wealth
manager Axa Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd. for A$13.3 billion.  Fowler, who has worked for UBS for 18 years, attributed his
unit’s position to “long-term relationships.” UBS has advised
AMP and ASX for at least a decade, according to Fowler. “When
people want advice from someone, they typically work with people
they’ve worked with before,” he said.  More acquisitions are likely next year in mining and real
estate, and private-equity firms will also buy and sell more
assets, according to UBS.  “There’s generally greater confidence,” said  Anthony Sweetman , 37, UBS’s head of corporate advisory in Australia.
“But there’s uncertainty about what’s going on globally, so it
will continue to be solid but not spectacular.”  ‘Still Cautious’  Appetite for acquisitions among corporate boards has yet to
return to where it was before the global financial crisis,
according to Sweetman. The value of deals involving Australian
companies slumped to $63 billion in 2009, the lowest in six
years.  “There’s more competition than there has been for assets,
but there’s very limited examples of strategic parties bidding
against each other, even in mining and resources, where there
has been strong levels of activity,” he said. “That suggests
buyers are still cautious.”  The euro zone’s sovereign debt crisis, which has stretched
to a bailout for Ireland, has threatened to engulf Spain. In
Australia, the economy expanded in the third quarter at half the
pace economists forecast.  UBS, Australia’s biggest arranger of local share sales
since 2006, is poised to retain that position after last month
underwriting the sale of A$3.3 billion of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. 
shares by Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  