-- Moody's Cuts Hungary Credit Rating Two Steps on `Temporary' Deficit Cuts
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-12-06T16:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/hungary-debt-rating-lowered-by-moody-s-on-measures-to-narrow-the-deficit.html
Hungary’s sovereign credit rating was
cut two levels by  Moody’s Investors Service  on concern that the
government’s policy of plugging  budget holes  with “temporary
measures” won’t be sustainable.  Moody’s downgraded Hungary to Baa3, its lowest investment
grade, the company said today in a statement from Frankfurt. The
outlook is negative, meaning Moody’s is more likely to reduce
the rating to junk than it is to raise it or keep it unchanged.
The decision brings Moody’s in line with Standard & Poor’s.
Fitch Ratings ranks Hungary one step higher at BBB.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is bringing private pension
funds under state control and imposing special taxes on banking,
energy, telecommunications and retailing to cut the budget gap
to the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product next year. Hungary is the EU’s most-indebted eastern
member, with debt estimated at 79 percent of GDP this year.  “Today’s downgrade is primarily driven by the Hungarian
government’s gradual but significant loss of financial strength,
as the government’s strategy largely relies on temporary
measures rather than sustainable fiscal consolidation
policies,”  Dietmar Hornung , Moody’s lead analyst for Hungary,
said in the statement. “As a consequence, the country’s
structural budget deficit is set to deteriorate.”  Most Vulnerable  The forint slid 1.3 percent to 280.27 per euro at 5:38 p.m.
in Budapest, the second-biggest drop among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on the benchmark
five-year government bond rose 7 basis points to 8.04 percent.
The BUX Index of stocks fell 0.7 percent.  Hungary been given a “clear warning” that it needs to
“correct policy and address concerns over the sustainability of
public finances,”  Tim Ash , head of emerging-market research at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, said today in an e-
mailed note. “There is now a clear risk that, at some time over
the next year, Hungary loses its investment grade status.”  With 3 trillion forint ($14.2 billion) in private pension
fund assets, Hungary is following the example of Argentina,
which in 2001 confiscated about $3.2 billion of pension savings
before the country stopped servicing its debt. The government in
Buenos Aires nationalized the $24 billion industry two years ago
to compensate for falling tax revenue after a 2005 debt
restructuring.  Moody’s put Hungary’s rating on review for a downgrade in
July after economic-policy talks between the government and the
 International Monetary Fund  failed. Hungary was the first EU
member to obtain an IMF-led bailout in 2008. Orban ended IMF
cooperation saying he needed “freedom” to conduct economic
policy.  Protecting Popularity  Orban, elected in April on a pledge to end five years of
austerity after the worst recession in 18 years, plans to use
the retirement fund assets to pay current government pensions
and reduce debt as he seeks to cut the budget deficit. He
backtracked on a campaign pledge to “defend” private pension
funds with the plan to liquidate them.  The Cabinet is also using the special industry levies to
plug budget holes and fund a reduction in the personal income
tax. The government plans to announce spending cuts of as much
as 800 billion forint at the end of February, Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on Nov. 23 without providing details.  “The government is relying only on short-term measures and
doing everything to avoid losing popularity,” said  Daniel Bebesy , who oversees $1.5 billion at Budapest Investment
Management. “We don’t see any signs of structural changes, only
the patching of budget holes by spending the private pension
fund savings.”  2011 Budget  The downgrade came after the government unveiled a 2011
budget that forecasts 3 percent economic  growth  and 3.5 percent
 inflation . The  shortfall  is estimated at 2.94 percent of GDP,
down from 3.8 percent this year.  “Moody’s downgrade didn’t surprise us, but we were sorry
to hear it,” Matolcsy told MTI news service in an interview.
“We feel it necessary to announce a structural reform package
in the spring which we hope Moody’s will take into account at
its next evaluation.”  Moody’s “didn’t take into account” the government’s plan
to cut the deficit or that the Cabinet targets a reduction in
the debt level in 2011, Matolcsy said, according to MTI.  The government’s measures are sufficient to meet short-term
budget targets while failing to address the “structural
deficit” that may lead to a shortfall of 6 percent of GDP by
2014, Standard & Poor’s said Nov. 3.  The budget plan is “bold but risky,” overestimating
economic growth,  Christoph Rosenberg , head of a visiting IMF
delegation, said Oct. 25 in Budapest. The Washington-based
lender estimates the economy will grow 2.5 percent next year.  “We will be looking very closely at the consolidation
measures the government has promised to announce next year and
they will obviously feed into the larger picture,” Hornung said
in a phone interview. “Thee measures themselves won’t
necessarily trigger a rating action on our part, but they will
be a key element of our assessment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  