-- Turkey Selling Final Three Electricity Grids, Including Istanbul, Antalya
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2010-12-06T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/turkey-to-auction-final-three-power-grids-including-istanbul.html
Turkey will today sell the last three
power grids in a series of auctions that have already drawn more
than $10 billion in bids from local and foreign investors.  The state asset sales agency will offer the network on the
 Asian side of Istanbul , the country’s biggest city, the grid
near the southern tourism hub of Antalya, and the supplier of
power to the Mediterranean port region around Adana at the sale
in Ankara.  Turkey is selling power grids and generators to attract
private investment into an industry where demand is set to rise
at 6 percent annually, according to estimates published Nov. 9
by Deloitte LLP. The country needs as much as $150 billion in
energy investment by 2023, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said
Nov. 24.  The  asset sales agency  sold 15 grids in auctions this year
and last, drawing a total of $10.8 billion in offers. Some of
those sales are yet to be completed and payment is likely next
year, when the government aims for 13.7 billion liras ($9.3
billion) in revenue from selling assets, according to the
medium-term economic program.  The agency received a total of 39 bids for today’s sales,
it said last week. Bidders registered for the Istanbul grid sale
include Enerjisa Enerji Uretim AS, the joint venture between
 Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS  and Austria’s Verbund, and Mmeka
Makina Ithalat Paz. & Tic. AS, which placed the $2.99 billion
winning bid for the other half of Istanbul’s network on Aug. 9.  Istanbul Anadolu Yakasi Elektrik Dagitim AS, also known as
Ayedas, serves about 2 million commercial and household
subscribers in the eastern half of Istanbul, according to 2008
data published on the agency’s website. About 9 percent of the
grid’s energy is stolen, according to the website.  Akdeniz Elektrik Dagitim AS has 1.5 million subscribers
around Antalya, with a theft rate of nine percent.  Toroslar Elektrik Dagitim AS, which provides power to 2.6
million subscribers in and around Adana, also has a theft rate
of about nine percent.  The Istanbul grid drew 11 bidders, Akdeniz 15 and Toros 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ali Berat Meric  in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 