-- Turkish Airlines Stock Falls as Government Seeks Adviser on 49.1% Holding
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-12-06T11:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/turkey-to-pick-adviser-on-future-of-government-holding-in-turkish-airlines.html
Turk Hava Yollari AO , Turkey’s
largest airline, fell to a 10 1/2-week low in Istanbul trading
after the state’s asset-sale agency said it’s seeking an adviser
on the government’s 49.1 percent stake in the carrier.  Turkish Airlines, as the company is also known,  fell  as
much as 26 kurus, or 4.8 percent, to 5.14 liras, the lowest
intraday price since Sept. 23, and was down 3.3 percent as of
the market’s midday break at 12:30 p.m. The adviser will
determine strategy for the sale of an unspecified amount of the
state’s holding in  the carrier , the asset-sale agency said in a
stock-exchange  filing  on Dec. 3.  Turkey, whose economy grew at the fastest pace after
China’s in the Group of 20 major markets, aims to earn as much
as 9.5 billion liras ($6.4 billion) from disposals of government
holdings in 2011, Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in
parliament on Nov. 26. About 50.9 percent of Istanbul-based
Turkish Airlines is freely traded, while the corporate charter
on the carrier’s  web site  says foreign entities can’t hold more
than 40 percent of the company’s capital.  “A further share sale through a public offering is the
most likely outcome,”  Gorkem Goker,  an analyst at the Istanbul-
based Ak Invest, said in a telephone interview. A 25 percent-
stake sale is “feasible and likely,” said Goker, who has a
“market outperform” recommendation on the stock.  Elections’ Role  “Prior to the elections that will be held in June 2011,
the current government would probably not want to be the target
of opposition parties’ speculations about the price of a block
sale,” Goker said. “A public offering would overcome such
criticisms. At the same time, the ‘golden share’ that gives
government a say in board decisions makes the airline less
attractive for strategic investors.”  Goker estimated about 68 percent of the traded shares are
held by “foreign custodians,” which includes stakes acquired
by Turkish investors through brokerages elsewhere.  Turkish Airlines held its initial public offering in 1990
and the government has reduced its holding further with share
 sales  in 2004 and 2006. Goker said he expects a discount of 5
percent “at most” to the price, based on the average closing
price of the 10 days before any offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 