-- Venus Williams Shops as Stars Join Art Basel Miami’s Collectors
-- B y   L i n d s a y   P o l l o c k
-- 2010-12-06T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/venus-williams-shops-as-stars-join-billionaires-in-art-basel-miami-crowds.html
Tennis star  Venus Williams  came to
shop, New York Yankees third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  came to
dinner. They joined the 46,000 others that packed into the five-
day  Art Basel Miami Beach , dispelling any doubts that the market
for contemporary art has left the recession behind.  “The fair was amazingly successful compared with last
year,’’ said Donald Rubell, 70, hotelier and collector, seated
in the courtyard of a 45,000-square-foot former  Drug Enforcement
Administration  warehouse that now houses the Rubell Family
Collection of contemporary art.  As collectors who buy regardless of whether the market is
strong or weak, the Rubells did their part for the fair, which
ended yesterday. He and his wife Mera, whose picks are tracked
by collectors, bought works across Miami. At the main event in
the  Miami Beach Convention Center  they acquired sculptures by
New Zealand-born Simon Denny. Up the beach at the cheaper  NADA
fair  devoted to up-and-comers, they snapped up works by Analia
Saban, Kaari Upson and Michael DeLucia.  “We are among those unfortunate people who buy when we
shouldn’t,’’ said Rubell on Saturday, looking remarkably plucky
for a man who had welcomed more than 12,000 guests in 2 ½ days
to view the family’s collection. “We’re addicted. We can’t help
it,’’ he said after spending two hours on the tennis court and
an hour in the gym.  The passion of collectors is one reason for the buoyant
sales reports around the ninth edition of the annual fair.
Belgian dealer and first-time Miami Basel exhibitor  Rodolphe
Janssen  suggested another as he stood in the all-white VIP
lounge, where a pre-made tomato and mozzarella salad cost $18.  “Wealthy people have a lot of cash,’’ said Janssen. “And
cash is so boring. It’s better to buy a painting.’’  Venus Williams  Hedge fund manager  Steve Cohen , tennis player Williams and
Debra Black, wife of  Apollo Global Management LLC  Chief
Executive Officer  Leon Black , were among this year’s visitors.  The annual pageant attracts around 40,000 people, bringing
tourist dollars and cultural luster to a town famously long on
beaches and nightlife and short on artistic discourse. As an
emblem of Miami’s cultural aspirations, the  Miami Art Museum 
broke ground during the fair on a new $220 million Herzog & de
Meuron building, slated to open in 2013.  When  MCH Group , the Swiss event-marketing company that owns
the Art Basel fairs, launched the first Miami edition in 2002,
the show had 165 exhibitors. It now has about 250, losing any
sense of intimacy, but providing a thorough sweep of
contemporary and modern art trends for those intrepid enough to
wade through it all.  “It’s an encyclopedic experience,’’ said curator  Hans Ulrich Obrist , dashing through the fair.  Warhol Mercedes  Dealers at both ends of the price spectrum reported healthy
selling.  Acquavella Galleries  sold a Warhol painting with
repeating images of a Mercedes-Benz, tagged at $6 million.
Montreal dealer Robert Landau brought modern art stalwarts,
including  Henri Matisse  and  Amedeo Modigliani , to try to lure
the visiting billionaires.  “You have to show a quarter of a billion dollars worth of
art to get their attention,’’ he said.  Landau sold 11 works out of 100 he displayed in his stand
by Saturday afternoon, but nothing “big ticket,’’ he said. All
the sales were under $1 million, including works by  Jean Dubuffet ,  Paul Klee  and  Henry Moore .  Dealers selling works for less than $150,000 also found
plenty of action.  “It was by far the most successful Miami Art Basel we’ve
ever had,’’ said Los Angeles dealer  David Kordansky . “We sold
everything.’’ Kordansky’s offerings were priced at $8,000 to
$120,000, including a $60,000 sculpture by Aaron Curry and a
$120,000 sculpture by Richard Jackson.  Plastic Figures  Other swift sellers included Berlin gallery
Neugerriemschneider, which sold nine plastic Pawel Althamer
sculptures of flayed figures during Wednesday’s opening hours,
priced at 65,000 euros ($86,990) apiece. Even Donald Rubell
arrived too late to snag one.  Painter Lynette Yiadom-Boakye was another hot ticket, with
an acclaimed solo show currently on at the  Studio Museum of
Harlem . Her moody painting of a young man on a rock titled “The
Counter’’ went soon after the fair began.  “There is so much demand for her work I could have sold it
three times,’’ said Tamsen Greene, a director at New York’s Jack
Shainman gallery. Her prices hover around $19,000 to $25,000.  Besides the sprawling main event, and about 15 fringe fairs,
art lovers still had time for evening revelry. Dealer Edward
Tyler Nahem hosted Boston collector Meryl Rose and others for a
multicourse feast at Casa Tua. Real-estate developer  Aby Rosen 
hosted a glitzy dinner attended by Rodriguez, investor Nicholas
Berggruen and Russian art impresario  Dasha Zhukova , according to
a press release.  Club Madonna  Among the more risqué soirees, artist  Ryan McGinness 
debuted paintings of women, priced $75,000 each, at Club Madonna,
a local strip club with a tag line “simply sinful.’’  Still, the party scene was toned down from years past.  “I’m so happy the party boom is finally over,’’ said
Zurich dealer  Bob van Orsouw . “It went in the wrong direction.
By the second day, everyone seemed so exhausted. Now everyone
comes not just for the party, but for the art fair.’’  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Lindsay Pollock  in New York at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 