-- Wal-Mart Gets Top U.S. Court Review in Sex-Bias Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-12-06T21:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/wal-mart-gets-high-court-review-in-million-worker-bias-case.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court , heeding calls
from companies to consider curbing class actions, agreed to
decide whether  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  must face a gender-bias suit
on behalf of potentially 1 million of its workers.  The justices today said they will review a federal appeals
court decision that approved a single suit to cover women who
worked at the retailer’s 4,400 Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club stores
since 2001. Wal-Mart, facing billions of dollars in potential
liability, contends the lower court made it too easy for workers
with different job histories to band together in a single case.  A decision throwing out the suit, the largest-ever U.S.
employment class action, might affect several pending cases. A
suit on behalf of more than 700 women against  Costco Wholesale
Corp.  is on hold until the Supreme Court resolves the Wal-Mart
case. Tobacco companies including  Altria Group Inc.  say the Wal-
Mart case may affect their challenge to a Louisiana court order
requiring them to spend more than $270 million on a smoking
cessation program.  The lower court ruling “would dramatically broaden the
circumstances where classes can be certified in all types of
cases against all types of companies,” Wal-Mart’s lawyer,
 Theodore Boutrous , said in an interview.  Wal-Mart faults the lower courts for allowing a type of
class action generally used when plaintiffs are seeking an
injunction, rather than damages.  No Damage Estimate  Wal-Mart hasn’t set funds aside to pay any damages in the
case, according to a regulatory filing released in September,
and said it can’t estimate what the amount would be. The
company, the world’s largest retailer and the largest U.S.
private employer, had $15 billion in profit and more than $400
billion in sales over the past 12 months.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company fell 13 cents to
$54.49 at 4 p.m. in trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  Wal-Mart is accused in the nine-year-old suit of paying
women less than men for the same jobs and giving female workers
fewer promotions. Six women are seeking to serve as class
representatives, including Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart greeter in
Pittsburg, California.  Too Much Discretion  The women say that at the time the suit was filed Wal-
Mart’s corporate policies gave local managers too much
discretion over hiring and pay decisions. The result was a “tap
on the shoulder” system that let managers steer opportunities
toward their male colleagues, said  Joseph Sellers , who
represents the women.  “There’s a large body of social science research that
shows, when left to their own devices, people tend to pick
people like themselves,” Sellers said in an interview.  Wal-Mart says that any problems were isolated ones and that
the claims of women around the country would be too varied to
proceed fairly as part of a single case. The workers in the
class come from 41 regions and 400 districts and carry 170
different job classifications, the company said in its appeal.  Wal-Mart says the case would be so unwieldy it would
violate the procedural rules that govern civil cases in federal
court and the Constitution. The company argues that it should
have a chance to defend against the allegations on a case-by-
case basis.  1.5 Million Workers  A federal trial judge certified a class of as many as 1.5
million past and current employees, saying that “rough justice
is better than the alternative of having no remedy at all for
any class member.”  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,
on a 6-5 vote, upheld that ruling as to women who were working
when the lawsuit was filed. The appeals court said the trial
judge might be able to create an additional class for former
employees.  Writing for the 9th Circuit majority, Judge  Michael Daly Hawkins  said that a class action was better than “clogging the
federal courts” with individual suits. “Mere size does not
render a case unmanageable,” Hawkins said.  In dissent, Judge  Sandra Ikuta  said, “Never before has
such a low bar been set for certifying such a gargantuan
class.”  Nineteen companies, including  Bank of America Corp.  and
 Microsoft Corp. , urged the justices to take up the Wal-Mart
appeal. They said the lower court opinion makes it too easy for
workers challenging employment practices to secure class-action
status and then extract large settlements.  Corporate Policies  One of the companies,  DuPont Co. , said it weighed in “to
reinforce the important role that corporate policies and
guidelines play in creating a workplace that embraces diversity
at all levels.” DuPont’s chief executive officer,  Ellen Kullman , is the first woman to hold that role in the company’s
208-year history.  Wal-Mart said in a statement it was pleased the Supreme
Court granted review. “The current confusion in class-action
law is harmful for everyone - employers, employees, businesses
of all types and sizes and the civil justice system,” the
company said.  Sellers said the plaintiffs welcomed review. “We are
confident that the decision to certify the class was sound,” he
said in a statement.  The justices will hear arguments early next year, most
likely in March or April, and probably rule by July. The case
“likely will be the most important business case this term,”
said  Carter Phillips , a Washington lawyer who filed a brief
backing Wal-Mart on behalf of DRI, a defense-attorney group.  ‘Might Be Huge’  “If the court were to affirm, it would be an enormous
decision,” Phillips said. “If it reverses, then it might be
huge or it might be relatively limited.”  One issue in the case is a technical one involving the
rules that govern lawsuits in federal court. The trial judge
certified the class action under Rule 23(b)(2) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure. Classes certified under that provision
are mandatory, meaning potential plaintiffs can’t opt out of the
case or file their own suit.  Wal-Mart says workers should have had to meet the stricter
standards that normally apply to class actions seeking damages.  The justices also suggested they would consider broader
issues, telling the two sides to discuss the prerequisites for
any type of class action. Those include the requirements that
the class members’ claims raise common questions and that the
representative plaintiffs can adequately protect the interests
of the other class members.  The case is Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, 10-277.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 