-- X5 to Buy Kopeyka for $1.1 Billion, Beating Wal-Mart
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-06T16:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/x5-agrees-to-buy-rival-russian-supermarket-chain-kopeyka-for-1-6-billion.html
X5 Retail Group NV , Russia’s largest
retailer, agreed to acquire discounter  Kopeyka  for 35 billion
rubles ($1.1 billion) in cash to reinforce its market
leadership, beating off interest from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.   X5, controlled by billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s Alfa Group,
will also assume net debt of no more than 16.5 billion rubles,
bringing the total transaction value to 51.5 billion rubles, the
Moscow-based company said today in a statement.  The purchase of closely held Kopeyka will add about 700
stores in Russia, where rising commodity prices and consumer
spending are fueling an economic recovery. Wal-Mart’s attempts
to enter the country by acquisition have been frustrated by
disagreements on price, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company
said in June. The world’s largest retailer said today it was
unable to reach an agreement to acquire Moscow-based Kopeyka.  “We expect Wal-Mart to enter the Russian market within
two-to-three years, and we think that they will seriously
consider M&A opportunities,”  Mikhail Terentiev , a London-based
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a phone interview.
Kopeyka will strengthen X5’s leadership of the market, he said.  Wal-Mart has pursued several acquisition opportunities in
Russia, international chief  Doug McMillon  said in June.
Spokesman  Kevin Gardner  said today that the company will
continue “to look at our options” in the country after failing
to reach “mutually agreeable commercial terms” to acquire
Kopeyka.  X5 Shares Jump  X5  shares  rose $2.80, or 6.8 percent, to $44 at the 4:30
p.m. close of trading in London, where the stock has its main
listing.  The transaction price values Kopeyka at 12.1 times
estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to  Maria Kolbina , an analyst at  VTB
Capital  in Moscow. The compares with 14.9 times for X5 and 10.8
times for competitor OAO Dixy Group, Kolbina wrote in a note.  Russia has attracted foreign investment as its economic
growth is forecast to accelerate to 4.3 percent next year from
4 percent in 2010, according to the International Monetary Fund.
PepsiCo Inc. last week agreed to buy control of Wimm-Bill-Dann
Dairy & Juice Co. for $3.8 billion to become the country’s
biggest food-and-beverage company.  Adding Kopeyka’s 317 discount stores in Moscow and
surrounding areas to its own 422 outlets will give X5 a market
share of about 13 percent in the capital city, leaving
“significant” room for growth, X5 said. The Kopeyka stores
will be converted to X5’s Pyaterochka brand over two years.  Acquisition Funding  “Kopeyka should perfectly complement X5’s Pyaterochka
portfolio, further strengthening the company’s lead in the
discounter segment,”  Mikhail Krasnoperov , an analyst at Troika
Dialog in Moscow, said in an e-mailed research note.  X5 said it has identified “substantial scope” to improve
efficiency at Kopeyka through larger-scale merchandise
purchasing and reduced administration costs.  The purchase from billionaire  Nikolai Tsvetkov , who also
controls UralSib Financial Corp., will be partly financed with a
five-year 30 billion-ruble loan from  OAO Sberbank , X5 said. The
rest will be funded from existing credit facilities.  After the transaction, net debt will be “slightly” more
than 3 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, which is “well within the company’s balance sheet
target ratios and credit facilities covenants,” X5 said.  Russian regulators have approved the deal, which should be
completed by the end of this month, X5 said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 