-- Your Underwater Mortgage Needs a Blow-Up Raft: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-12-06T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/your-underwater-mortgage-needs-a-blow-up-raft-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
There is housing, and then there’s
the rest of the U.S. economy.  How can such a small sector of the $13.3 trillion economy
exert such a strong downward pull on the whole thing?  Real
residential investment , as it’s formally known in the gross
domestic product report, accounted for 2.4 percent of GDP in the
third quarter. At its frothiest, in 2005, that  share  stood at
6.2 percent, a three-decade high.  The answers can be grouped into two categories: tangible
and intangible.  The tangible constraints are simple: too many  homes on the
market , including foreclosed properties and short sales by
banks, and too few potential buyers who can move or trade up.
Unfortunately the housing inventory can’t be moved to
accommodate job openings.  The intangibles include the loss of wealth from the housing
bust. With  home prices  down about 30 percent nationwide from
their peak, households feel poorer and spend less.  The  Fed  is trying offset this poverty effect with a second
round of quantitative easing designed to improve financial
conditions and lift  stock prices , among other things. When asset
prices rise, people feel wealthier, even though their gains are
unrealized, and they spend more.  That’s what happened when home prices were scaling the
heights in 2005, posting  gains  of 15 percent annually. And we
all know how well that worked out -- at least for a while.  Poverty Effect  To date the wealth effect in stocks hasn’t been large
enough to offset the potent poverty effect in real estate.
Owners’ equity in  household real estate , or the value of assets
minus liabilities, fell from a peak of $13.1 trillion in 2005 to
a low of $5.9 trillion in the first quarter of 2009, according
to the Fed’s Flow of Funds report. That’s a whopping 55 percent
decline in four years. By the second quarter of 2010, owners’
equity had climbed back to $7 trillion.  Even with the 87 percent rebound in the  Wilshire 5000  Total
Market Index from the March 2009 lows,  household net worth  is
still below its 2007 peak.  Housing, which along with manufacturing has traditionally
led the economy out of recession, won’t be pulling its weight
this time -- even with historically low mortgage rates. And
there isn’t anything the government can do except let prices
fall so the market can clear, something it’s been unwilling to
do.  Residential real estate has  subtracted from GDP  in 17 of
the last 19 quarters. Recently the contribution has been less
negative than it was in 2006, 2007 and 2008. Still, just when
you think  housing  has hit bottom, it underperforms even low
expectations.  Looking Up  The rest of the U.S. economy is actually starting to look
better. By all accounts, the Christmas shopping season is off to
a strong start. Consumers are spending, which is either good for
retailers or bad for consumers who have too much debt and too
few  jobs . Friday’s employment report for November, with its
 statistically insignificant  increase of 50,000 private sector
jobs, failed to validate the improving trend in weekly  jobless
claims  and the first sign of job creation from  small businesses 
in more than 2 1/2 years.  Recent manufacturing surveys have been upbeat as well.
 Corporate profits  set a record in the third quarter. And the
Fed’s pump-priming is starting to spill over to broad money
growth.  A number of commentators have suggested the Fed’s real
target in creating higher inflation (or is it higher inflation
expectations? I get confused.) is house prices. Almost one-
quarter of all single-family homeowners  owed more  on their
mortgage than their home was worth in the third quarter,
according to Zillow.com, a real-estate information service.  Price of Success  Higher inflation would help underwater homeowners in two
ways. By raising home prices, it would increase owners’ equity.
At the same time, inflation would ease the mortgage burden
because borrowers are paying interest and principal in dollars
that are worth less.  It’s true that the Fed can create  money  out of nowhere.
What it can’t do is direct how those dollars are allocated: to
stocks, to junk bonds or to consumer goods and services. While
memories are short, they’re acute enough to remember the wealth
destruction from the collapsed housing bubble. A burst bubble is
hard to re-inflate.  House prices would benefit from generalized inflation.  “I know of no case where a central bank that wished to
boost inflation and/or nominal GDP was unable to do so,” writes
Scott Sumner, professor of economics at Bentley University in
Waltham, Massachusetts, on his  blog , themoneyillusion.com.  Phew. For a minute I was worried. The antidote to the
poverty effect won’t be applied to just homeowners. We’ll all
get to share the wealth!  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  