-- Hyundai Group Faces Third Request for Details on Financing for Builder Bid
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-12-06T10:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/hyundai-group-faces-third-request-for-details-on-financing-for-builder-bid.html
Hyundai Group may receive a third
request for more details on how it will pay for a controlling
stake in South Korea’s largest builder after failing to allay
concerns about funding plans.  The group’s second submission was “insufficient,”  Korea
Exchange Bank , one of the shareholders selling 35 percent of
 Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. , said in an e-mailed
statement today. The sellers will likely give Hyundai Group at
least five more days to provide further details, the bank said.  The deal has stumbled as the sellers seek assurances that
Hyundai Group hasn’t borrowed money for the acquisition against
shares of Hyundai Engineering or group companies. Hyundai Group
offered about 5.5 trillion won ($4.8 billion) for the
controlling stake, two people familiar with the matter said last
month. That’s more than double the market price.  “This deal will probably take a long time to sort out,”
said  Kang Seung Min , an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co.
in Seoul. “There are too many uncertainties about Hyundai
Group’s funding plan.”  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. , Hyundai Group’s biggest unit,
climbed 1.5 percent to 45,050 won in Seoul trading, helped by
speculation the deal may fall apart, paring borrowing
requirements for the shipping line.  Hyundai Engineering  climbed 1.4 percent to 66,300 won. The
company has a market value of $6.5 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. Hyundai Motor Group made a rival offer for the
construction company, extending a decade-long family rift.  The shareholders will likely impose the new five-day
deadline if Hyundai Group doesn’t submit additional information
by tomorrow morning, Korea Exchange Bank said.  The sellers last week requested more details about a 1.2
trillion won loan from Paris-based Natixis SA, after calling a
first response “insufficient.” Hyundai Group gave the
shareholders documents about the loan on Dec. 3. It didn’t
include a copy of the loan agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  