-- Changsha Zoomlion Seeks as Much as $2.1 Billion in Hong Kong Initial Offer
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2010-12-06T11:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-06/zoomlion-seeks-as-much-as-2-1-billion-in-share-sales-update1-.html
Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science & Technology Development Co.  is seeking as much as $2.1
billion in a Hong Kong stock sale as Chinese growth spurs demand
for construction equipment.  The world’s largest supplier of concrete-making machinery
is offering 870 million shares at HK$13.98 to HK$18.98 apiece,
according to terms for the transaction. Zoomlion, which is
already listed in Shenzhen, China, will have a market value of
$12.7 billion if the sale is priced at the top of the range,
according to the terms.  Zoomlion, which also makes cranes, roadmaking equipment and
fire trucks, plans to raise funds as China boosts spending on
building highways, factories and railways. The sale values the
company at as much as 15.6 times next year’s expected earnings,
compared with about 15 times for Hong Kong-listed wheel loader
maker Lonking Holdings Ltd.  “There’s still some investor interest in industrial IPOs
such as Zoomlion because China’s economy is still growing,”
said  Ronald Wan , managing director of China Merchants Securities
Co. “One potential risk is rising inflation in China, which
could increase raw material costs.”  Zoomlion, based in Changsha, central China, plans to price
the shares on Dec. 17 and to start trading on Dec. 23. The sale
includes an overallotment option of 130.4 million shares. China
International Capital Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and  Morgan Stanley  are managing the offering.  Shares Jump  The crane-maker fell 0.5 percent to 14.16 yuan in Shenzhen
trading today. The stock has gained 36 percent this year,
compared with an 8.3 percent decline for the Shenzhen Stock
Exchange Constituent A-share Index. The China-listed stock
trades at about 20 times next year’s estimated earnings.  China’s spending on urban fixed assets jumped 24 percent
through October.  Zoomlion , which generated more than 90 percent
of its sales in the country last year, expects annual profit to
jump at least 76 percent in 2010, it said on Dec. 1.  The company has factories in Shanghai, Hunan, Shaanxi and
Guangdong. It also has operations in Europe following the 2008
acquisition of Cia Italiana Forme Acciaio SpA.  Companies have raised a record $45.2 billion, excluding
overallotment shares, through Hong Kong IPOs this year,
according to Bloomberg data. AIA Group had the largest sale,
raising $17.8 billion in October.  Waning Demand  Demand for new shares has waned in Hong Kong, while the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has declined 6 percent from its Nov. 8
high for this year, because of concerns that China’s attempts to
tackle inflation may damp growth.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in October, the fastest
pace in two years. China plans to adopt a “prudent” monetary
policy next year, state-run Xinhua News Agency said on Dec. 3
after a meeting of the ruling Communist Party’s politburo.  Sateri Holdings Ltd., the Chinese cellulose maker with
operations in Brazil, priced its IPO shares at the bottom of the
range, two people familiar with the transaction said on Dec. 4.
It raised HK$3.33 billion ($429 million).  A day earlier, China ZhengTong Auto Services Holdings Ltd.,
the second biggest  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  dealer in China,
priced its IPO in the middle of the range, raising HK$3.65
billion, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s largest shipbuilder outside state control, has fallen 9
percent from its Hong Kong share sale price since raising HK$14
billion last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 