-- NBC Loses Ratings Battle Airing Reruns, Few New Shows
-- Michael Janofsky
-- 2007-04-18T20:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-18/nbc-loses-ratings-battle-airing-reruns-few-new-shows-update2-.html

          
          
             NBC attracted one of its smallest
average prime-time audiences on record last week after the
network aired reruns in many time slots.  
 NBC, a division of  General Electric Co. (GE) , drew an average of
6.8 million viewers, winning none of the 44 half-hour time slots
that give each network a weekly rating, as measured by  Nielsen
Media Research .  CBS Corp. (CBS)  won 27 of the slots, Fox 9 and ABC 8.  
 The showing comes just a month before the start of
meetings, called upfronts, where broadcast networks and
advertisers start negotiations for the fall season. In general,
programs that draw the largest audiences command the highest
prices for a 30-second commercial.  
 ``The past couple of weeks are not indicative of our season
as a whole,'' said Tom Bierbaum, director of research for New
York-based NBC, referring to the absence of original telecasts
last week of NBC's highest-rated shows, including ``Heroes,''
``Law and Order,'' and ``Law and Order: SVU.'' ``It was not our
first string so the results are misleading.''  
 NBC's viewership ranked among the lowest for the network
since Nielsen began using its current system 20 years ago, said
Nielsen spokesman Gary Holmes. CBS led with 11.3 million viewers,
followed by Fox with 10.3 million and ABC at 9.3 million.  
 For the season, NBC occupies the same place it had the past
two years in total viewership, fourth, with an average 30-minute
audience of 9.2 million, compared with 12.7 million for CBS,
10.2 million for Fox, owned by New York-based  News Corp. (NWS) , and
9.8 million for ABC, a division of Burbank, California-based
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   
 Key Demographic  
 Shares of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric
fell 7 cents to $35.13 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. They have declined 5.6 percent this year.  
 Within the 18-to-49 age group that advertising rates are
based on, NBC and ABC are averaging about 9 million viewers, CBS
about 10 million and Fox, largely on the strength of ``American
Idol'' and ``24,'' about 11 million. In one bright spot for NBC,
its audience in the age group is only three percent smaller than
a year earlier, compared with a 15 percent falloff for ABC.  
 NBC's highest-rated show last week was ``Deal or No Deal''
on Monday night, which attracted an average of 11 million
viewers, making it the 23rd highest-rated show of the week.  
 The week's most-watched show, as it has been since the
season began in January, was `` American Idol ,'' with an average
26.8 million viewers on Tuesday night and 28.6 million on
Wednesday.  
 On Thursday night, once the domain of NBC during its ``Must
See TV'' years in the 1990s, CBS won every time slot, with 17
million viewers on average, nearly 10 million more than NBC.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Janofsky in  Los Angeles  at 
 mjanofsky@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        