-- PICC Stock Falls as Market Share Slips, Growth Trails
-- Bei Hu
-- 2007-04-18T10:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-18/picc-stock-falls-as-market-share-slips-growth-trails-update3-.html

          
          
             Shares of  PICC Property & Casualty
Co. (2328) ,  China 's largest non-life insurer, fell 8.7 percent after
the company reported declining market share and premiums that
grew at about one-third the overall market rate.  
 PICC closed at HK$4.83, down 46 cents, in Hong Kong after
the insurer collected 8.2 percent more premiums last year, while
the nation's non-life insurance market grew 23 percent. PICC's
share of the market slid to 45.1 percent in 2006 from 51.5
percent, according to its earnings statement.  
 As premium growth slows and competition rises, China's
insurers are relying on profits from investing in China's
booming stock market to drive earnings.  Net income  at Beijing-
based PICC more than doubled last year to 2.1 billion yuan ($272
million), as total investment income, including  capital gains ,
more than tripled to 4 billion yuan.  
 ``Market competition is very keen,'' said Dorris Chen
Huanming, a Shanghai-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA. ``PICC had
to pay significantly more in commissions to help policy sales.''  
 Bigger claim payouts and rising expenses pushed up PICC's
so-called combined ratio, a measure of costs against premium
income, to 98.9 percent last year, up from 97.2 percent. A ratio
below 100 percent generally indicates profitability.  
 The Beijing-based insurer, 9.9 percent owned by  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , didn't declare a final dividend. Its
results were based on international accounting standards.  
 `Extraordinary' Growth  
 PICC will re-enter the life insurance market to diversify
revenue sources, after underwriting profit fell 60 percent to
604 million  yuan , the company said. PICC sold less commercial
property coverage, while auto policy sales rose after China
introduced compulsory third-party liability insurance, it said.  
 PICC will seek ``extraordinary'' growth in life insurance
operations, Chairman Wu Yan said today at a Hong Kong press
briefing. PICC said yesterday it agreed to pay 841 million yuan
($109 million) to buy a 29 percent stake in PICC Life Insurance
Co. PICC Holding Co., the parent of both insurers, owns 51
percent of the life company.  
 ``We are hoping by the end of this year, PICC Life will
have set up a branch network throughout China, enabling it to
cross-sell insurance policies,'' said Wu, who was until February
president of  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the nation's largest life
insurer.  
 PICC was China's only nationwide insurer in the 35 years to
1991, before spinning off its life insurance operations in 1999
to a company that became China Life, according to its 2003 share
sale prospectus.  
 Stock Gains  
 PICC's earnings last year were bolstered by China's booming
stock market, as the nation's  CSI 300 stock index  surged 121
percent. Stocks accounted for 13 percent of PICC's investment
assets last year.  
 Other insurers have benefited from moving more investment
assets from lower-yielding  bank deposits  to equities and bonds.  
 China Life Insurance Co. said yesterday  profit  more than
doubled to 20 billion yuan last year, spurred by total
investment income that nearly tripled to 46.6 billion yuan.
Investment assets swelled 39 percent to 686.8 billion yuan.  
 Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318) , China's second-largest
insurer, last week reported full-year profit almost doubled to
7.84 billion yuan as investment income jumped.  
 The boost from investments has helped the nation's insurers
counter slowing policy sales. China Life's premium growth slowed
to 13 percent in the first two months of this year, from 38
percent a year earlier.  
 Sales of non-life insurance have expanded an average 17
percent a year in China during the past five years as growing
ownership of cars and houses raised demand, according to a March
26 report by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bedard in Hong Kong at 
 rbedard1@bloomberg.net  or
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wu Yan, chairman of PICC Property and Casualty Company Ltd. speaks during a news conference announcing the company's 2006 annual results at the Shangri-La Hotel in Hong Kong, on April 18th, 2007. Photographer: Daniel J. Groshong/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
