-- Italian Business Confidence Falls for First Time in 18 Months on Outlook
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-09-29T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-27/italy-business-confidence-rises-to-17-month-high-as-weak-euro-aids-exports.html
Italian  business confidence 
declined for the first time in 18 months in September amid
concern that an  export -led recovery may lose momentum.  The  Isae  institute’s manufacturing-sentiment index declined
to 98.4 from a revised 99.3 in August, the first drop since
March 2009, the Rome-based research center said in a statement
today. Economists had expected a reading of 100.1, according to
the  median  of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  “The current outlook for production” and domestic demand
“has worsened,” Isae said. “While price expectations have
stabilized, the outlook for the country’s economic recovery has
again deteriorated.”  Italy’s economy  expanded  0.5 percent in the second quarter
as exports were sustained by the euro’s 9 percent drop against
the dollar in the period, while  consumer spending  was flat. The
$2.2 trillion economy, the  euro region ’s third biggest, will be
the only one of the Group of Seven industrial nations to
contract in the third quarter, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development forecast in a Sept. 9 report.  With the euro advancing more than 11 percent in the third
quarter, the region’s goods and services may become  more
difficult  to sell abroad. European exports dropped for the first
time in three months in July, when Italian industrial  production 
rose less than economists  forecast .  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly advanced in September from
a 15-month low as households grew optimistic about the outlook
for the labor market, statistics institute Istat said yesterday.
Italy’s  unemployment rate  fell in July for a third month to 8.4
percent, Istat reported on Aug. 31.  Isae polled 4,000 companies between Sept. 1 and Sept. 17.
Isae originally reported business confidence at 100.5 in August,
which was the highest since April 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  