-- Inflation expectations key to policy: Fed
-- By  Mark Felsenthal  and Tamawa Kadoya
-- Fri Mar 9, 2007 7:03pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/10/businesspro-usa-economy-fed-dc-idUSN0947626120070310

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Federal Reserve officials stressed 
on Friday the importance of keeping close watch on inflation 
expectations as a way to keep inflation in check and keep track 
of trends in the economy. 


  Understanding expectations of all kinds are vital to 
successful conduct of monetary policy, Fed Vice Chairman Donald 
Kohn said at a conference on monetary policy, organized by the 
University of Chicago and Brandeis University.  Kohn's comments came in response to a paper suggesting 
central bankers place too great an emphasis on what rates of 
inflation markets, businesses and households plan for. 
Expectations are not always a good sign of inflation trends, 
the paper's authors said.  But Kohn disagreed. "Inflation expectations are critical: 
increases in expectations of inflation elevate the cost of 
returning to price stability," he said.  "And un-anchored expectations make it very difficult to 
understand where the economy is and where it is going," he 
added.  Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker, a policy-maker who 
has advocated higher interest rates, said at the same 
conference that he believes inflation expectations may not be 
anchored enough to promote price stability.  Noting that market participants place some probability on 
core inflation remaining near current levels of 2.25 percent 
rather than moderating to 1.5 percent, Lacker said: "In that 
sense, one might question whether inflation expectations are 
anchored closely enough to the price stability shore."  Lacker, who dissented in the central bank's recent 
decisions to hold interest rates steady at 5.25 percent -- 
preferring a quarter-percentage point rate rise -- is no longer 
a voting member of the Fed's policy-setting committee.  Even so, the Fed as a whole clearly lays great store in 
keeping inflation expectations contained, and has cited 
continued stability of inflation expectations as a reason why 
it expects higher-than-desirable levels of core inflation to 
come down.  The Fed next meets March 20-21, and most observers expect 
the U.S. central bank to hold rates steady at least one more 
time to put lingering concerns about inflation to rest.  Hiring in the United States in January was roughly in line 
with modest expectations, government data released on Friday 
showed, easing some worries that had been building after stock 
market declines last week that the economy was weaker than 
previously believed.  Separately, a Reuters poll on Friday indicated that Wall 
Street expects the U.S. Federal Reserve to keep benchmark 
short-term interest rates on hold for some time but leans 
strongly toward the bank's next move being a rate cut.  Some of the worries about softness in the economy stem from 
concerns that defaults among mortgages made to borrowers with 
blemished credit might cause wider turbulence among lenders. 
Fed Governor Susan Bies said in Charlotte, N.C. on Friday that 
the U.S. central bank is well aware of troubles in the subprime 
market and has been monitoring the sector for the last several 
months.  Meanwhile, discussing the impact of global market 
integration on Fed policy at the same conference as Kohn and 
Lacker, Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank President Gary Stern 
said the effects on long-term interest rates from Fed 
short-term rate hikes could be offset by financial inflows from 
abroad.  In addition, Fed Governor Randall Kroszner told the 
gathering that deregulation and financial globalization have 
led to competition among currencies and contributed to keeping 
long-term interest rates down.