-- Sirius to charge less than $26/month post merger
-- By  Rachelle Younglai
-- Wed Mar 7, 2007 10:14pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/08/industry-xm-sirius-congress-dc-idUSN0727765020070308

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. on 
Wednesday tried to clear up confusion over the cost of its 
service after buying rival XM Satellite Radio Inc. by telling 
lawmakers that it would be less than $25.90, the price of two 
services combined. 


  "If our merger is approved, we will offer consumers a much 
more attractive choice -- the best of each service on one radio 
at a price well below the cost of the two services today," 
Sirius Chief Executive Mel Karmazin told a House 
telecommunications subcommittee hearing.  Karmazin did not say specifically what the new price would 
be, except that there will be a "significant discount." XM and 
Sirius each charge subscribers $12.95 monthly.  When asked if the discount would be around $10 or $2, 
Karmazin said it "looks closer to 10 than to two."  Last week, Karmazin told a House Judiciary antitrust 
committee hearing that Sirius was ready to make concessions in 
order to get the deal approved, such as capping prices.  During the hearing on Wednesday, Karmazin tried to clarify 
what the price of the combined services would be over what the 
price of the separate services would be after the merger.  "There was some confusion on what we said about pricing," 
he said, pointing out that an XM or Sirius subscriber paying 
the $12.95 fee per month would not pay more for the same 
service after the merger.  "There is an opportunity to pay less" than $12.95, Karmazin 
said. "If you like the idea of having some content from Sirius 
and some content from XM, where today you have to buy (both 
services) and pay $12.95 each ... we will make an offering for 
less than the combined cost."  Sirius offers channels that include shock jock Howard Stern 
and Nascar auto racing while XM has programing like Major 
League Baseball and talk show host Oprah Winfrey.  The proposed deal needs to be approved by the Justice 
Department's antitrust office as well as the Federal 
Communications Commission, which issued the satellite radio 
licenses in 1997 on the condition that the two companies would 
never merge.  The FCC has said it would consider waiving that rule if 
asked. The deal does not need approval from lawmakers, but they 
could pressure the regulators.  Consumer groups have criticized the proposed deal, saying 
it could mean higher prices and obsolete equipment for some 
subscribers.  However, the companies say the merger will not hurt 
consumers because satellite radio faces competition from other 
forms of audio like traditional AM/FM radio and personal audio 
players -- an assertion the Consumers Union derides.  "While AM/FM radio, iPods and other music recording and 
listening devices can offer similar prepackaged music or local 
signals similar to what satellite radio offers, none of them 
can offer immediate national programing, including live 
professional sports games from across the country to listeners 
across the nation," Consumers Union Vice President Gene 
Kimmelman said.