-- Marvell tops Wall St targets, shares leap 17 pct
-- By Amanda Beck
-- Thu May 29, 2008 9:46pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/05/30/businesspro-marvell-dc-idUSN2937824720080530

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Microchip design company Marvell 
Technology Group Ltd ( MRVL.O ) on Thursday posted a 
better-than-expected quarterly profit thanks to cost cuts and 
strong sales of wireless products, and its shares jumped 17 
percent. 

  The company, whose chips are in Apple Inc's ( AAPL.O ) iPhone 
and Research in Motion Ltd's RIM.TO BlackBerry, also reported 
forecast strong profit margins and expected them to hold up in 
the current quarter.  "This is almost like the old Marvell -- really a truly 
outstanding, superstar company," said American Technology 
Research senior analyst Shaw Wu, adding that the acquisition of 
cell phone chip unit XScale was finally paying off.  "They ran into some indigestion with this acquisition, but 
now it seems like they're getting back on the right track," Wu 
said.  First-quarter net income rose to $69.9 million, or 11 cents 
per share, compared with a net loss of $52.8 million, or 9 
cents per share, a year ago. Revenue rose 27 percent to $804.1 
million and topped the company's guidance of $785 million.  Marvell's earnings of 24 cents per share, excluding some 
charges, appeared to beat the average analyst estimate of 13 
cents, but it was not immediately clear that these figures were 
comparable, according to Reuters Estimates.  Adjusted gross margin expanded 3.1 percentage points from a 
year ago to 52.0 percent. Wall Street had expected 49 percent, 
Wu said.  Wu attributed the profit margin increase partly to new 
efficiencies at XScale, which Marvell purchased from Intel Corp 
( INTC.O ) in 2006. Production moved from Intel plants to those 
of Marvell partners in January.  The company forecast adjusted gross margin to remain at 51 
percent to 52 percent in the current second quarter but has not 
changed its long-term model of 50 percent, Chairman and Chief 
Executive Sehat Sutardja said during a conference call.  The company expects second-quarter revenue to range from 
$830 million to $840 million, a rise of 26 percent to 28 
percent over last year, Sutardja said.
  COST CUTS  Sutardja attributed the company's first-quarter net profit 
and increased revenue to reduced costs and better-than-expected 
sales of wireless devices.  "We surpassed our revenue targets, despite an uncertain 
economic environment and continuing pricing pressures in our 
core markets. Cost cutting initiatives implemented in prior 
periods also paid off," Sutardja said in a statement.  The company will also announce next week its entry into the 
flash memory market.  "I view this as the biggest opportunity," Sutardja said. 
"We want to put our foot in the door ... and have early 
traction in that market."  Also on Thursday, Marvell named Clyde Hosein as chief 
financial officer, effective June 23. Hosein was formerly chief 
financial officer of Integrated Device Technologies. Interim 
Chief Financial Officer George de Urioste, in the role since 
January, will then serve as acting chief operating officer.  The current acting chief operating officer, Pantas 
Sutardja, will focus his attention on his role as chief 
technology officer.  Shares of Marvell closed at $14.08 on Nasdaq but rose to 
$16.50 in extended trade. They had not closed at that price 
since late November.  (Editing by Phil Berlowitz)