-- Obama Needs China to Help Him Run Great Green Race: Eric Pooley
-- Eric Pooley
-- 2009-11-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-18/obama-needs-china-to-help-him-run-great-green-race-eric-pooley.html

          
          
             It was a happy accident that  Barack Obama  found himself in Beijing on the day the U.S. Senate kicked
climate change legislation into the spring. Obama needs Chinese
President  Hu Jintao’s  help to break the U.S. stalemate over
global warming. And until Washington acts, there’s scant chance
for a binding international agreement to reduce greenhouse
gases.  
 Obama is reluctant to commit the U.S. to emission targets
at the  United Nations climate talks  in Copenhagen next month
because he doesn’t want to get ahead of Congress. (The Clinton
administration got too far in front with the  Kyoto Protocol , and
the Senate never ratified it.) Obama hasn’t been able to get a
climate bill through the Senate in part because Americans
believe, with some justification, that more manufacturing jobs
will move to China if the U.S. caps greenhouse gas emissions and
China doesn’t.  
 China won’t commit to binding reductions, and as a
developing country, it isn’t required to by the UN climate
change process. Yet it wants the U.S. to slash greenhouse gas
emissions by 40 percent in 10 years, an unrealistic demand. The
Chinese argue that since the U.S. had a 100-year head start on
getting rich by sending carbon into the skies, it’s only fair
for America to begin reducing first. Obama agrees with that, but
may not be able to convince the Senate to get started unless Hu
gives him something more to work with.  
 Next Stop, Copenhagen  
 In Beijing, Hu and Obama signaled that help might be
coming. Their  joint declaration  suggested that the U.S. would
put a number on the table in Copenhagen if China offered a real
proposal of its own. “An agreed outcome at Copenhagen,” it
said, should include “emission reduction targets of developed
countries and nationally appropriate mitigation actions of
developing countries.”  
 This doesn’t mean China will agree to binding cuts in
Copenhagen. It won’t. But if it takes the first step down that
path -- by pledging to make reductions and to measure, verify
and report the results -- it would go a long way toward calming
American concerns. The U.S. will only go first if it knows that
China is following it down the same road.  
 There will still be those who say China just wants to steal
rust-belt jobs. But America faces a much bigger threat: it is
losing the clean energy race to Green China.  
 America Dawdles  
 The People’s Republic is spending $9 billion monthly on
clean-energy projects and is on its way to becoming the No. 1
producer of wind turbines and solar photovoltaic panels. It is
building a new generation of nuclear power plants and ambitious
carbon capture and storage projects -- technology the world
needs in order to keep burning coal -- while America dawdles.  
 Meanwhile, a planned $1.5 billion wind farm in Texas would
use 240 Chinese-made wind turbines, creating 300 jobs in
America, most of them temporary, and 2,000 in China, according
to U.S. Renewable Energy Group, the private-equity firm involved
in the project. That’s not what Obama meant by stimulating green
jobs.  
 China can move so rapidly on large-scale energy projects
because autocracy has its advantages. It is a command-and-
control regime. There is no Chinese character for  NIMBY .  
 In the U.S., government can’t build new industries by
decree. That’s why America needs a carbon market. The best way
for it to compete with China in the Great Energy Race is by
putting a mandatory, shrinking cap on emissions. Pricing carbon
will unleash billions of investment dollars that are now sitting
on the sidelines. When that happens, the American marketplace
will give Chinese technocrats a run for their money.  
 Wasting Time  
 America has a stark choice: It can keep wasting time on
misguided arguments from climate skeptics and wild claims about
the cost of cap and trade while China pulls further ahead. Or it
can pass climate legislation and get to work.  
 Hu and Obama both know that the U.S. is never going to
overtake China as the top wind or solar producer, because the
U.S. can’t match China’s cost advantages. Yet both nations stand
to benefit from the Great Energy Race. The U.S. and China will
both produce turbines and photovoltaic cells, though China will
produce more of them. (In 2005 the U.S. imported 70 percent of
the parts needed to build wind turbines, but now it imports only
50 percent.)  
 Both countries will be making next-gen batteries and
electric cars and LED lighting. Both will have armies of workers
weatherizing houses and installing smart meters. Both will have
concentrated-solar farms in their deserts, wind farms on their
plains and a high-voltage grid to carry power to cities. This
race will benefit both countries, but to jump-start it, Obama
needs Hu’s help.  
 ( Eric Pooley , a former managing editor of Fortune magazine
who is writing a book about the politics of global warming, is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Eric Pooley at  epooley2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Barack Obama with Hu Jintao  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama, left, shakes hands with Hu Jintao, China's president, after issuing a joint press statement in Beijing, Nov. 17, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama, left, shakes hands with Hu Jintao, China's president, after issuing a joint press statement in Beijing, Nov. 17, 2009. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
