-- Aviva Backs Aldersgate Proposal for U.K. Emissions Reporting
-- Catherine Airlie
-- 2010-01-08T15:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-08/aviva-backs-aldersgate-proposal-for-u-k-emissions-reporting.html

          
          
             U.K. companies including  Aviva Plc (AV/) 
and more than 50 members of parliament are backing a national
plan to require reporting of greenhouse-gas emissions,
Aldersgate Group said.  
  Aldersgate  sent a letter to Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson  calling for large companies to disclose their
emissions, according to a statement today from the group of U.K.
businesses, non-profit organizations and think tanks.  
 “We believe that climate change represents a profound
market failure,” said Steve Waygood, head of sustainability
research at the London-based insurer Aviva, in the statement.
“There is a clear need for much tougher policy measures on the
international stage, as well as at the national level.”  
 Britain, the second-biggest emitter in the European Union,
has a target to cut greenhouse gases at least 34 percent by
2020, compared with 1990 levels. The government published
guidance on voluntary reporting of greenhouse-gas emissions,
pollutants blamed for climate change.  
 Greg Barker, the Conservative party’s spokesman on  climate
change , and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg signed their
support for the proposal alongside media companies BSkyB and
Reed Elsevier NV, power-transmission operator  National Grid Plc (NG/) ,
 United Utilities Group Plc (UU/)  and waste disposal company BIFFA Ltd.  
 Mandatory reporting would help companies identify where
emissions could be cut and create a level playing field,
allowing investors and consumers to make more meaningful
comparisons and drive further emissions reductions, Aldersgate
said. Around only half of all FTSE 350 companies voluntarily
disclose their carbon emissions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        