-- Air Security in U.S. Improved Year After Bombing Attempt, Napolitano Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-12-26T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/air-security-improved-year-after-bomb-attempt-napolitano-says.html
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary
 Janet Napolitano  marked the one-year anniversary of a foiled
airplane bombing by touting improved security and warning of new
threats.  “The overall message is everything is objectively better
than it was a year ago, particularly in the aviation
environment,” Napolitano said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”
“But we’re also looking at addressing other areas.”  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab , a Nigerian, tried to blow up a
Detroit-bound Northwest Airlines plane on Christmas 2009,
prosecutors say. Today, new screening machines and pat-downs
allow airport security officers to detect plastic explosives
that conventional metal detectors cannot. New intelligence-
gathering efforts allow the U.S. to vet international passengers
before they get to the boarding gate, Napolitano said.  Napolitano said other transportation modes are also being
looked at. Suicide bombers killed 52 people on three London
subway trains and a bus in 2005. New York City installed 586
cameras last month in Times Square, Grand Central Terminal and
Pennsylvania Station.  In addition, the department has given more attention to
shopping malls, hotels and other “so-called soft targets,” she
said.  Another target could be U.S. computer systems,  Michael McConnell , former national intelligence director, said on CNN.  “From a remote location, anywhere in the world, at the
speed of light, which is milliseconds, someone could mount an
attack into the United States to turn off the lights or to
disrupt the money supply or disrupt transportation,” he said.  Recruiting  The Internet is also being used to recruit terrorists,
McConnell said. Pressure on al-Qaeda’s leadership has forced the
group to look for other ways to launch an attack, including
using the Web to attract individuals, some of them Americans.  While an individual might be spurred to act, such an attack
won’t be as bloody or damaging as a large-scale al-Qaeda
assault, though one may be harder to stop, former Central
Intelligence Agency director  Michael Hayden  said.  “There’s always going to be a vulnerable young man or
woman out there who is angry or has an ax to grind about
something that will join up,” Hayden said.  A nationalized U.S. citizen, Faisal Shahzad, failed in an
attempt to detonate a car bomb in Times Square in May. He
admitted traveling to a terrorist training camp in Pakistan.  Another powerful terrorist recruitment tool remains
Guantanamo Bay prison, White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs 
said on CNN. Gibbs said President  Barack Obama ’s ability to
close the prison, as he promised during his campaign, depends on
congressional Republicans’ willingness to listen to those who
have said al-Qaeda uses the facility as a “recruiting tool” to
lure “young people to do harm, to try to blow up airplanes, to
blow up themselves and kill others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 