-- Berbatov Scores Two as Manchester Utd. Keeps Two-Point Premier League Lead
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-12-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/manchester-united-defeats-sunderland-2-0-leading-english-premier-league.html
Dimitar Berbatov  scored both goals
as Manchester United beat Sunderland 2-0 yesterday to maintain a
two-point lead in English soccer’s Premier League. Manchester
City is now in second spot after a 3-1 win at Newcastle.  United moves to 37 points, City has 35, with Arsenal on 32
and defending champion Chelsea a further point back. Arsenal
hosts Chelsea today.  “We have come into good form,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told reporters. “In the last few weeks we have played
some very good stuff. We are getting that consistency,
particularly in our defending.”  United, the only remaining unbeaten team in the league, has
now won four straight matches and dropped only two points at
home this season.  At the other end of the standings, Wolverhampton Wanderers
sits in last place following a 2-1 defeat at home to Wigan
Athletic. West Ham won 3-1 at Fulham, its first away league
victory since the opening day of last season, to climb to 19th.  Elsewhere, fifth-place Tottenham won 2-1 at Aston Villa,
Bolton beat West Bromwich Albion 2-0, and Stoke City won 2-0 at
Blackburn.  The matches between Everton and Birmingham City, and
Blackpool and Liverpool were postponed.  Berbatov put United ahead in the fifth minute at Old
Trafford, heading past goalkeeper  Craig Gordon  from a  Wayne Rooney  cross.  The Bulgarian then added his 13th goal of the season 12
minutes after halftime.  Tevez Double  Carlos Tevez , who on Dec. 20 told his Manchester City team
that he doesn’t want to leave, a week after requesting a
transfer, got two goals to help it move into second.  Gareth Barry  had got the opener after only two minutes at St. James’
Park, while  Andy Carroll  scored for Newcastle.  Rafael van der Vaart  got a goal in each half as 10-man
Tottenham won at Villa.  Jermain Defoe  was red-carded after 27
minutes for the visitors. Marc Albrighton got Villa’s goal with
eight minutes remaining.  Matt Taylor and  Johan Elmander  were Bolton’s scorers at the
Reebok Stadium against West Brom.  At Craven Cottage, West Ham rallied to climb off the bottom
of the standings with two goals from  Carlton Cole , and Frederic
Piquionne also scoring.  Aaron Hughes  had headed the hosts into
an 11th-minute lead.  Wigan moved out of the three-team relegation positions and
up to 16th, with strikes from Hugo Rodallega and Tom Cleverley
at Wolves. Fulham drops a spot to 18th, ahead of West Ham on
goal difference, with Wolves a point behind.  Goals from  Robert Huth  and Marc Wilson gave Stoke a win at
Blackburn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  