-- Green Bay Packers Beat NY Giants 45-17; Jets Lose, Claim NFL Playoff Spot
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-27T05:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/chicago-bears-defeat-ny-jets-38-34-jets-make-playoffs-with-jaguars-loss.html
The New York Giants need help
to make the National Football League playoffs after
committing six turnovers and giving up 515 yards of offense
in a 45-17 loss to the Green Bay Packers.  Aaron Rodgers  returned from a concussion to pass for a
season-high 404 yards and four touchdowns yesterday at
Lambeau Field in Green Bay, Wisconsin, as the Packers
seized control of their playoff fate.  “It’s a great feeling, especially to get a win in
this do-or-die situation,” Packers linebacker  Clay Matthews  told reporters. “We knew what was at stake.”  Green Bay would make the playoffs with a win this
coming weekend against the Chicago Bears, who improved to
11-4 with a 38-34 win over the New York Jets. Even with the
loss, the Jets were among four NFL teams to gain playoff
berths yesterday, along with the Baltimore Ravens, Kansas
City Chiefs and Philadelphia Eagles.  The defending Super Bowl-champion New Orleans Saints
could secure a playoff spot with a win tonight in Atlanta.
The Falcons (12-2), who are undefeated at home this season,
would clinch the National Football Conference South title
and home-field advantage throughout the playoffs with a
win.  The Giants could have made the playoffs with a win
yesterday in Green Bay. Instead, their loss gave the NFC
East title and a playoff berth to the Eagles and left the
Giants tied with the Packers and Tampa Bay Buccaneers in
the race for the NFC’s final wild-card playoff spot at 9-6.  “We came out and we played like we didn’t have
anything to play for,” Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck 
said.  Giants’ Season Finale  New York now needs to win its season finale against
Washington and either have the Packers lose to Chicago or
the Saints lose to the Falcons and Tampa Bay Buccaneers.  The Jets (10-5) gained one of the American Football
Conference’s two wild-card berths minutes after their loss
at Chicago’s Soldier Field when the Jacksonville Jaguars
lost to Washington 20-17 in overtime.  “It ain’t the way I wanted it, but we’ll take it,”
Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said during his postgame news
conference.  Baltimore (11-4) also claimed an AFC playoff berth
with a 20-10 win over the Cleveland Browns. Kansas City
(10-5) beat the Tennessee Titans 34-14 and then won the AFC
West title when the San Diego Chargers lost 34-20 to
Cincinnati.  The New England Patriots beat the Buffalo Bills 34-3
to capture the top seed in the AFC and the chance to play
at home throughout the playoffs.  Tom Brady  threw three
touchdown passes for the Patriots (13-2) and set an NFL
record with 319 consecutive passes without an interception,
breaking the mark of 308 that had been held by Bernie
Kosar.  The Indianapolis Colts beat the Oakland Raiders 31-26
to take a one-game lead over Jacksonville in the AFC South.
The Colts can clinch the division title and a playoff berth
with a Jan. 2 home win against Tennessee.  NFC West  The St. Louis Rams beat the San Francisco 49ers 25-17
to set up a Week 17 meeting with Seattle on Jan. 2 to
decide the NFC West winner. The Rams are 7-8 and the
Seahawks are 6-9 after yesterday’s 38-15 loss to Tampa Bay.  The Eagles’ game last night against the Minnesota
Vikings in Philadelphia was delayed until tomorrow night
because of a winter snowstorm accompanied by blizzard
conditions.  Detroit beat Miami 34-27 for its second straight road
win after an NFL-record 26-game losing streak away from
home, while Denver beat Houston 24-23 as  Tim Tebow  passed
for 308 yards with one touchdown and ran for another score.  The Arizona Cardinals defeated the Dallas Cowboys 27-
26 on Christmas Day and the Pittsburgh Steelers, who were
already in the playoffs, beat the Carolina Panthers 27-3 to
start Week 16 action on Dec. 23.  Rodgers Leads Rout  At Lambeau Field, Rodgers threw touchdown passes to
four different receivers after missing last week’s loss to
New England because of a concussion.  “This was our best offensive game of the year,”
Rodgers said. “It’s nice to be able to put together a game
like this when we needed it. Hopefully (the Bears) rest
some guys next week and let us sneak in (the playoffs).”  Giants quarterback  Eli Manning  threw three of his four
interceptions in the fourth quarter.  In Chicago,  Jay Cutler  threw three second-half
touchdown passes as the Bears overcame the Jets.  New York was held to a 34-yard field goal by  Nick Folk 
over its final three possessions. Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez , who was limited in practice last week because of a
shoulder injury, threw an interception with 51 seconds
left.  “It’s kind of weird,” Jets receiver Jerricho
Cotchery said of making the playoffs after a loss. “We’re
in, so the goal that we had, it got accomplished. Not by
our doing, but by somebody else’s doing. We’re happy to be
in the playoffs, but we realize we have some work to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  