-- China Stocks, Bonds Drop on Concern Central Bank Will Boost Rates Further
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-27T07:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/china-stocks-bonds-may-drop-little-as-rate-increase-follows-cash-squeeze.html
China’s stocks fell, erasing earlier
gains, on speculation the central bank will accelerate increases
in interest rates after boosting borrowing costs over the
weekend. Bonds dropped and yuan forwards climbed.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  declined 1.9 percent
to 2,781.40 at the close, the lowest since Oct. 8. Commodity and
consumer companies ranging from Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. to
Kweichow Moutai Co. slid more than 2 percent on concern that
monetary tightening will slow economic growth. Chinese currency
forwards rose to a five-month high on prospects the government
will allow further currency gains to contain consumer prices
that reached a 28-month high in November.  “Investors were initially relieved as this interest-rate
increase had been priced into stocks for a long time,” said  Dai Ming , a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management &
Consulting Co. “However they’re now thinking about the future;
that one increase won’t be enough to bring inflation under
control and more rate hikes will be needed. That’ll keep
depressing valuations of stocks.”  The People’s Bank of China increased key one-year lending
and deposit rates by 25 basis points on Christmas Day in its
second move since mid-October. The benchmark lending rate rose
to 5.81 percent, compared with 7.47 percent before cuts from
late 2008 to counter the global financial crisis. The deposit
rate increased to 2.75 percent, compared with the 5.1 percent
annual pace of inflation in November, the highest in 28 months.  Premier Wen Jiabao’s government aims to limit asset bubbles
in the real-estate market and prevent rising prices from leading
to social unrest after flooding the economy with cash from late
2008 to drive a recovery.  Rate Outlook  China’s monetary tightening in 2011 may be mainly in the
first half, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley said. China
may raise rates as many as three times in the first half of next
year, according to Morgan Stanley, while JPMorgan forecasts two
increases in that period.  The Shanghai Composite rose as much as 1.5 percent before
slumping in the last hour of trade. Aluminum Corp. of China and
Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co., the nation’s biggest producers of
aluminum and zinc, slid more than 2 percent. Kweichow Moutai, a
spirits maker, and GD Midea Holding Co., a manufacturer of home
appliances, dropped more than 3 percent.  The central bank raised rates for the first time since 2007
in October, and ordered lenders to set aside more money as
reserves for the third time in five weeks Dec. 10. The policy
tightening has contributed to a 15 percent decline in the
 Shanghai Composite  this year, the biggest drop among the world’s
15 largest equity markets, including a 2 percent loss last week.  Cash Crunch  Chinese new bank loans have fallen for two straight months,
to 564 billion yuan ($85 billion) at the end of November from
596 billion yuan in September, government figures show. The
 seven-day repurchase rate , which measures lending costs between
banks, has more than doubled in the past two weeks and reached a
three-year high of 5.67 percent on Dec. 23.  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards strengthened 0.4
percent to 6.4765 per dollar as of 3:34 p.m. in Hong Kong,
reflecting bets the currency will strengthen 2.4 percent in one
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts
touched 6.4740, the highest level since Nov. 23.  The yuan’s spot rate declined 0.12 percent to 6.6347 per
dollar, from 6.6270 on Dec. 24, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  The yield on the 3.67 percent note due October 2020 climbed
nine basis points to 3.90 percent, and the price of the security
dropped 0.76 per 100 yuan face amount to 98.13, according to the
China Interbank Bond Market.  Bond Prices  “Investors are worried about the times of interest rate
hikes next year after the earlier-than-expected rate increase,”
said  Yang Yongguang , a bond trader at Sealand Securities Co. in
Shenzhen. “The 10-year bond yield won’t rise much because banks
have a strong demand for bond assets at the beginning of the
year.”  The rate increase “is more a signaling tool than anything
else,”  Yu Song  and  Helen Qiao , analysts at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., wrote in a Dec. 25 report. “We still expect the
government to take a combination of measures to control
inflation, including further rate hikes and possibly slightly
faster currency appreciation, and believe the heavy lifting of
controlling inflation will still fall on quantitative
measures.”  Premier Wen said measures to curb the country’s property
market weren’t well implemented and reiterated his goal for home
prices to return to a “reasonable level” during his term that
ends in 2012. The government will also increase the supply of
affordable housing and introduce more measures to curb
speculation, he said on National Radio yesterday.  Rate Swaps  One-year interest rate swaps, the fixed rate needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, gained five basis
point to 3.20 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The swaps touched 3.22 percent, the highest since Dec. 1.  The yuan has risen 0.3 percent since Dec. 6, when 30 U.S.
senators sent a letter to Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan 
calling for the yuan to “appreciate meaningfully” before
President  Hu Jintao ’s visit to Washington next month. A stronger
yuan would help curb a  trade surplus  that exceeded $20 billion
for the fifth time in sixth months, indicating a recovery in
international trade from the global financial crisis.  -- Zhang Shidong ,  Judy Chen  and Hanny Wan. Editors:  Allen Wan ,
 Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6601 or
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net  