-- Consumer-Backed Bond Sales Dwindle as TALF Ends: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-12-27T17:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/consumer-backed-bond-sales-to-diminish-after-fed-ends-talf-credit-markets.html
Bond offerings tied to automobile
loans and leases are poised to dominate sales of asset-backed
debt for a third straight year in 2011 after issuance of all
types of the securities plunged 31 percent in 2009.  Vehicle debt bundled into securities will likely total from
$70 billion to $75 billion, up as much as 23 percent from 2010,
as auto sales rebound from a 27-year low, according to Barclays
Capital. Bond sales linked to auto and education loans, and
credit cards may reach $115 billion in 2011, Barclays said.  Total issuance fell to $92 billion this year from $134
billion as banks relied more heavily on deposits to fund credit
card lending and the Federal Reserve ended its Term Asset-Backed
Securities Loan Facility, which financed investors buying asset-
backed securities.  “The auto finance companies continue to originate good
volumes of new loans,”  Brian Wiele , a managing director at
Barclays in New York, said in a telephone interview. “They are
not banks, and securitization offers attractive funding.”  Automakers are tapping the so-called asset-backed bond
market as they anticipate car and truck sales reaching 12.8
million next year. Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co. , the
only one of the three Detroit-area automakers that didn’t take
government aid during the financial crisis, was the biggest ABS
issuer in 2010, Barclays data show, offering $9.8 billion.  Bond Spreads  More than 66 percent, or $61 billion, of this year’s asset-
backed securities sales were connected to automobile debt.  Top rated securities linked to auto loans yield 56 basis
points, or 0.56 percentage point, more than Treasuries,
according to Bank of America/Merrill Lynch data. That compares
with relative yields of 193 basis points for bonds backed by
student loans and a spread of 68 basis points for credit cards.  Spreads for auto-backed debt narrowed 25 basis points from
Dec. 31, 2009 through Dec. 24, the Bank of America index shows.
Spreads for asset-backed securities linked to student loans
shrank 3 basis points to 193, while bonds tied to credit card
payments saw their relative yields contract 24 basis points.  Elsewhere in credit markets, corporate bond sales worldwide
total $3.18 trillion this year, down from $3.877 trillion in
2009. The extra yield investors demand to own company debt
instead of Treasuries finished last week at the lowest in a
month.  American International Group Inc. , the insurer bailed out
by the U.S., garnered $4.3 billion in bank credit lines. Prices
of leveraged, or speculative-grade, loans rose for a third week,
while emerging-market debt spreads narrowed.  Credit-Default Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.24 basis points to a
mid-price of 85.88 as of 12:20 p.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd. The index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and declines as it improves.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
worldwide instead of similar-maturity government debt was
unchanged at 166 basis points, or 1.66 percentage points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. Yields averaged 4.2 percent.  Corporate bonds have lost 1.01 percent in December,
trimming this year’s gains to 6.81 percent, including reinvested
interest. That compares with 3.42 percent for the firm’s Global
Sovereign Broad Market Plus Index and 11.9 percent for the MSCI
World Index of stocks, including reinvested dividends.  AIG Credit Line  AIG’s $4.3 billion  credit, provided by more than 30 banks
and administered by JPMorgan Chase & Co., includes two $1.5
billion facilities, one for three years and the other for 364
days, AIG said today in a regulatory filing. AIG’s property-
casualty division Chartis Inc. got $1.3 billion, the insurer
said. AIG, which is seeking to replace government funds with
private capital, said Dec. 8 that it struck a deal to repay a
$20 billion Federal Reserve Bank of New York credit line and
would then turn to stock sales to repay the U.S. Treasury
Department. The firm rose $4.61, or 8.54 percent, to $8.97 at
12:27 p.m. New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100  Index  ended Dec. 23 at
92.55 cents on the dollar, up from 87.68 cents on the dollar at
the end of 2009. The index, which reached as high as 92.9 cents
in April, tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien
leveraged loans.  In emerging markets, the extra yield investors demand to own
corporate bonds rather than government debt shrank 4 basis
points to 236 basis points as of Dec. 27, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . index data. Spreads have ranged from as wide as 346
basis points in May to as narrow as 219 this month.  Fed Facility  Sales of bonds tied to consumer and small-business loans
plummeted 42 percent in 2008 as lending shriveled during the
credit crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed’s Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or
TALF, helped revive sales temporarily by lending to investors
seeking to buy asset-backed bonds. The program lasted from July
2009 through March.  While TALF bolstered the market, sales of asset-backed debt
tied to household borrowing are falling primarily due to an 85
percent drop in sales of bonds tied to credit card payments,
according to a Dec. 13 Barclays report.  Financial Accounting Standards Board rules that took effect
in January require banks to hold loans that were bundled and
sold to investors on the balance sheet, meaning they have to
maintain capital against the debt.  ‘Flush With Deposits’  Credit card companies are also enjoying cheaper funding
from deposits, said the New York-based analysts at Barclays led
by  Joe Astorina .  “A majority of issuers are banks flush with deposits,”
said Barclay’s Wiele. “Banks incentives to securitize credit
cards aren’t what they used to be.”  Prices on bonds linked to credit-cards may get a temporary
boost as supply remains muted before demand wanes, said  James Grady  of Deutsche Asset Management.  “At some point this becomes an orphan sector,” said
Grady, a managing director in New York at the firm, which
manages $240 billion. “There will be less liquidity, and it
can’t have a meaningful impact large investors’ portfolios.”  Issuance of securities tied to student borrowings fell to
$17.8 billion in 2010 from $20 billion the previous year as the
U.S. government eliminated the Federal Family Education Loan
Program. The change cut private lenders out of the market for
originating government-guaranteed loans, slashing the volume of
debt available for companies to package into bonds, according to
Barclays.  Riskier Assets  Sales will be between $12 billion and $15 billion in 2011,
Barclays analysts said in the report earlier this month.
Issuance of so-called esoteric asset-backed securities, or bonds
tied to unusual or riskier assets, are set to climb in 2011,
according to Barclays’ Wiele. Barclays and Morgan Stanley sold
$253.75 million of bonds tied to revenue from billboards
operated by Adams Outdoor Advertising LP on Dec. 3, Bloomberg
data show.  “The market has recovered to the point where people are
willing to look at these transactions and consider the risk and
reward,” he said. “As spreads have tightened on other assets,
investors have to look beyond those assets for yields.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  