-- Dodd, Obey Close an Era of Congressional Comity: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-12-26T16:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/dodd-obey-close-an-era-of-congressional-comity-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
For a combined three-quarters of a
century, David Obey and  Christopher Dodd  walked the halls of
Congress; they are both retiring this year on a high.  Obey, a 72-year-old Wisconsin representative, is chairman
of the House Appropriations Committee. He guided through the
fiscal stimulus package; though unpopular, most economic experts
say it helped avoid a much deeper recession.  Dodd, 66, is a five-term senator from Connecticut. With
House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , he
authored the financial-regulatory bill that rewrote the rules
for  Wall Street  after the crisis. He also played a major role in
the passage of the health-care overhaul.  In separate interviews, Dodd and Obey reflected on rich
experiences and contemporary concerns. Both are liberal
Democrats -- Obey more so -- who care deeply about Congress as
an institution, have a track record of working with political
opposites and lament that the legislative branch, and much of
the U.S. political system, are dysfunctional these days.  Neither disputes some of the negative views about Congress;
they partially blame the news media, particularly the lack of
coverage.  “Newspapers have been taken over by chains, and if they
cover members at all it’s as politicians, not legislators,”
says Obey, who represents a sprawling northern Wisconsin
district. As for 24-7 cable television news, “One minute they
will be talking about an important piece of legislation, then
they’ll go to a story on modeling underwear.”  Disappearing Coverage  Dodd recalls there used to be a dozen  Connecticut  reporters
who covered the delegation; today there is one. No longer, he
says, do home-state reporters show up to cover a “dull hearing
that isn’t going to be a news story, but the reporter learns
about the subject matter as I learn about it.”  The biggest difference, however, is the erosion of comity
and relationships. They both joined Congress -- Obey in 1969 in
a special election to take the seat of President Richard Nixon’s
defense secretary, Melvin Laird, and Dodd as a House member five
years later -- during the divisive  Vietnam War , with the
memories of the bitter civil-rights struggles still fresh.  Over the past two decades, Dodd says, there has been a
“stripping of the socialization, which is always what made this
place function.” He has a prodigious legislative record and
says the 2010 health-care bill marked the first time he ever
passed a measure without a Republican sponsor.  Secret Cooperation  Obey recalls working cooperatively with conservative
Republican lawmakers such as Bob Livingston of Louisiana, Mickey Edwards of  Oklahoma  and  New York ’s  Jack Kemp , as well as House
leaders of that party such as  Gerald Ford  of Michigan and  Bob
Michel  of  Illinois . Asked if there’s any Republican with whom he
has a good relationship today, he responds, “If I cited them it
would hurt them in their caucus.”  “There has been a nationalization of politics where
everybody has consultants and pollsters,” complains Obey.
“Every time you cast a vote you expect the other party’s
campaign committee to blast-fax something into your district.”  When he first came to Congress, the 41-year House veteran
says, there was about an equal divide between the legislative
and the political. “Today, it’s 90-10 political,” he says.
It’s a 24-7 racket with little time for socializing or
reflection.  Dodd remembers how he got his master’s and Ph.D. in the
Senate: through long hours in the members’ dining room, where he
sat enthralled listening to the old bulls such as  Louisiana 
Senator Russell Long or Mississippi’s  John Stennis , or the
always thoughtful Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York.  Senate Dining Room  “As a new member, you just sat there and absorbed it as
they would rib each other and sometimes have a heated debate
about a subject,” he says. “It was as good an education as you
could get about the place.”  Today, “there’s no one in that room.”  The centrality of money in politics has become insidious,
these lawmakers complain. “I spent $45,000 in my first race,”
Obey says. “Today it’s commonplace to spend three to four
million dollars on a House race. Some members spend more time
dialing for dollars than on legislation.”  Dodd concurs: “People just elected a month ago already are
holding or planning fundraising events.”  Both recall fondly some of the legislative giants they’ve
seen. They agree that Ted Kennedy was unsurpassed as an
effective senator, and Dodd says Republicans Howard Baker and
Bob Dole are among his all-stars. Obey’s mentor was the late
 Richard Bolling  of  Missouri , perhaps the most astute politician-
scholar to serve in the House.  ‘Tough and Principled’  The Badger State lawmaker has served with eight speakers
and says  Nancy Pelosi  of  California  was the most effective:
“She’s tough and principled; we would not have health care
without her determination.”  On presidents, both warm at the mention of Ford, who was in
office for less than two-and-a-half years. “In terms of healing
the country, he did a hell of a job,” Obey says, “including
the pardon of  Richard Nixon , which I opposed at the time. I was
wrong.”  The Connecticut senator, who clashed frequently with the
Reagan White House, fondly recalls the 40th president and his
remarkable optimism. Shortly after  Ronald Reagan  was devastated
in a 1984 debate, Dodd arrived early for a separate White House
meeting and was invited to see the president.  ‘Fetal Position’  “I’m thinking: He must be in a fetal position sucking his
thumb. And I’m looking at this guy, like Holy Christ, less than
12 hours ago you were just pilloried, and here you are, it’s a
new day. I can’t do anything about last night, this is today.”  Obey and Dodd believe that President  Barack Obama  has
enjoyed as auspicious a start as any of his predecessors. “As
Pat Moynihan once said,” Dodd recalls, “a president only gets
20 months from inauguration to the first midterm election to do
anything of real significance. That’s the window. Obama’s done
it.”  And where did Moynihan relate that? In the Senate Dining
Room.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 