-- DFM Sets Up Unified Fluctuation Band; Cuts Maximum Share Weight in Index
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-12-26T09:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/emaar-s-index-weighting-cut-to-20-as-dfm-starts-unified-fluctuation-band.html
Dubai Financial Market PJSC , the
only Gulf Arab stock market to sell shares to the public,
introduced unified fluctuation limits and cut the maximum
weighting of a company in the  benchmark index  to 20 percent.  Listed securities can rise as much as 15 percent daily and
fall as much as 10 percent from Jan. 2, the Dubai government-
controlled bourse said in an e-mailed statement today. Currently
this band applies only to the most active stocks, while non-
active stocks can gain or decline as much as 5 percent.  “The new rules will enhance trading activity on the
current non-active stocks” which includes some “major”
companies, the bourse’s Chief Executive Officer  Essa Kazim  said
in the statement. He refered, among others, to Emirates NBD
PJSC, the country’s biggest bank, and  Shuaa Capital PSC , the
largest investment bank, as non-active stocks.  The value of shares traded on the Dubai Financial Market
fell 54 percent in the first nine months of 2010, the bourse
said in its quarterly results in November. The exchange reported
a third-quarter loss of 2.95 million dirhams ($803,000) after
combining with Nasdaq Dubai earlier this year. It had a profit
of 71.5 million dirhams in the year-earlier period.2  The exchange’s modified rules for the DFM General Index
will also increase the representation of highly traded stocks to
81 percent, it said.  Emaar Properties PJSC , the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest developer by market value, is the only company
in the benchmark with a weighting of more than 20 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Quarterly loss  The bourse expects an upgrade by MSCI to emerging market
status after it sets up a delivery versus payment system and
opens up foreign ownership further, DFM Senior Vice President
Fahima Bastaki said Dec. 15. The FTSE Group in September became
the first to categorize the U.A.E. as an emerging market,
helping attract part of the $3 trillion of funds that track the
global index compiler’s benchmarks.  “Opening these limits will increase the risk of
unjustified drops or rises in price when a single entity is
attempting to enter or exit their position,”  Saad al-Chalabi ,
institutional trader Al Ramz Securities in Abu Dhabi, said in an
e-mail. “The market is opening up these limits to encourage
liquidity in those names when they do fluctuate abruptly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
Zahraa Alkhalisi in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  