-- Nigeria Imposes Curfew on City After 32 Die in Christmas Eve Explosions
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2010-12-26T17:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/nigeria-sends-soldiers-to-patrol-central-city-after-christmas-eve-blasts.html
The Nigerian government imposed a
10-hour curfew on the city of Jos, where Christmas Eve blasts
killed at least 32 people and wounded more than 50 in the mixed
Christian-Muslim area.  The curfew will last from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m., Brigadier-
General Hassan Umar, commander of the military Joint Task Force
based in Jos, said today in a broadcast on state-owned Plateau
Radio. The curfew aims to maintain peace in the city, he said.  The government earlier sent soldiers to patrol the streets
of the city and barred unauthorized people from carrying arms,
Gregory Yenlong, spokesman for central Plateau state, said on
Plateau Radio today.  The soldiers will deal “decisively” with lawbreakers, he
said.  Sectarian violence between Christians and Muslims in Jos,
the capital of Plateau state, has left hundreds of people dead
this year. At least 492 people were killed in an attack on a
predominantly Christian village by Muslim Fulani herders near
Jos on March 7, Civil Rights Congress, a local rights group,
said.  Nigeria will ensure that those responsible for the Dec. 24
blasts are prosecuted, President  Goodluck Jonathan  said Dec. 25.  “The government will do everything possible to unearth
those behind this unfortunate incident,” Jonathan said in a
statement e-mailed by Ima Niboro, his spokesman.  The attacks were acts of “terrorism,” Lieutenant-General
Azubuike Ihejirika, Nigeria’s chief of army staff, said
yesterday.  Attacks on two churches yesterday left six people dead in
Maiduguri, capital of Borno state in northeast Nigeria, said
Mohammed Abubakar, the commissioner of police.  The attacks were carried out by members of Boko Haram, an
Islamic sect opposed to western education, Abubakar said by
phone late yesterday.  Nigeria vies with Angola as Africa’s top oil producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 