-- Obama Wants Tax Cuts for Wealthiest Americans Ended in 2012, Jarrett Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-26T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/obama-wants-tax-cuts-for-wealthiest-americans-ended-in-2012-jarrett-says.html
Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to
President  Barack Obama , said the administration will work over
the next two years to end tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans
that were included in broader tax legislation passed this month.  Obama, in a compromise with Senate Republicans, agreed to a
two-year extension of tax reductions for family income above
$250,000 coupled with an extension of unemployment benefits.
Jarrett said the issue will come up again before the 2012
presidential elections.  “That’s something he is willing to fight for,” she said
in an interview taped for broadcast on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
today. “He is going to fight very hard when those two-year
extensions expire” to end the breaks for top earners.  Vice President  Joe Biden  said on the same program last week
that ending the tax cuts for the wealthy would be a goal in
2012.  Obama has said he didn’t like having to include the tax
cuts for families with incomes exceeding $250,000 in the final
$858 billion tax legislation and looks forward to a debate about
renewing them in two years.  “I don’t think that over the long run we can afford a
series of tax breaks for people who are doing very well and
don’t need it,” Obama said at a press conference Dec. 23.  Robert Gibbs , the White House press secretary, said Obama
made the best deal he could.  “We didn’t have the votes,” Gibbs said on CNN’s “State
of the Union.” We could have fought this for a few months. We
could have hoped that the polls didn’t blame everybody, as they
would have, for people’s taxes going up.”  Facing Re-election  The tax legislation extends through 2012 -- when Obama
faces re-election -- all reductions in tax rates on income,
capital gains and dividends that were originally enacted in 2001
and 2003. It also continues expanded unemployment insurance
benefits through 2011, cuts payroll taxes by 2 percentage points
during 2011 and lets businesses write off 100 percent of capital
investments.  The agreement prevented tax rates for all income levels
from rising on Jan. 1.  The tax package was among a number of administration
priorities passed in the final month of the Congressional
session, including a nuclear arms-reduction treaty with Russia
and an end to the policy barring gays from serving openly in the
military.  “We made enormous progress,” Jarrett said. “These are
all major accomplishments that were achieved on a bipartisan
basis with Congress and the president, both sides of the aisle,
working together.”  Jarrett said Republican gains in the November Congressional
elections -- which gave the party control of the House of
Representatives and narrowed the Democratic majority in the
Senate -- will only require bipartisanship next year.  “They now have a responsibility to lead,” she said. “We
are going to need bipartisan support to get things done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Honolulu at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 