-- Home Prices Probably Fell, Baring Weak Link in Accelerating U.S. Recovery
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-26T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/home-prices-probably-fell-baring-weak-link-in-accelerating-u-s-recovery.html
Home prices probably dropped in
October, a sign housing will remain a weak link as the U.S.
recovery accelerates into the new year, economists said before
reports this week.  Property values in 20 cities were down 0.2 percent from
October 2009, the first year-over-year decline since January,
according to the median  forecast  of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of a report from  S&P/Case-Shiller  in two
days. Other data the same day may show consumer  confidence  rose
to a seven-month high in December.  A wave of foreclosures waiting to reach the market means
home prices will remain under pressure in 2011, representing a
risk to household finances. Rising equity values and an
improving job market will probably help offset the damage,
ensuring that confidence and spending continue to climb.  “The inventory overhang is so big, with foreclosures
looming, it’ll take five years to absorb the supply,” said  Paul Ballew , chief economist at Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in
Columbus, Ohio. “The consumer is feeling better although there
is still a high level of caution and anxiety.”  Economists surveyed projected the gauge of residential
real-estate values declined 0.7 percent in October from the
prior month, when it fell 0.8 percent. The index was down 29
percent in September from its July 2006 peak.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Evidence Mounts  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market is
stuck near recession levels even as the broader economy is
recovering.  Housing permits  fell in November to the third-lowest
level on record, while starts rose for the first time in three
months, the Commerce Department reported Dec. 16.  Sales of  new  and  existing  homes last month rose less than
projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, reports from the Commerce Department and the National
Association of Realtors showed last week.  Figures on Dec. 30 may show  pending sales  of previously
owned homes rose 2 percent in November from the prior month,
according to the survey median. The National Association of
Realtors’ gauge measures contract signings, which typically lead
closings by one to two months.  The lack of demand has depressed homebuilding stocks this
year. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Homebuilding Index ,
which includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp., is up 2
percent since Dec. 31, while the broader  S&P 500  has increased
13 percent.  Stocks Rise  Rising stock prices are helping mend household finances
even as home values slide, one reason why sentiment and spending
are improving as 2010 comes to a close.  The Conference Board’s confidence index increased to 56.3
this month from 54.1 in November, according to the  median 
estimate of economists surveyed. The index averaged 96.8 during
the last economic expansion that ended in December 2007.  The International Council of Shopping Centers on Dec. 14
revised its November-December holiday-season sales forecast up
by 0.5 percentage point to a range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent.  Carnival Corp. , the world’s biggest cruise-line operator,
last week forecast fiscal 2011 earnings will rise as ticket
prices strengthen.  “Booking trends have continued to improve for both our
North American and European brands, particularly for our peak
summer season,” Chief Executive Officer Micky Arison said in a
Dec. 21 statement. The Miami-based company’s heaviest booking
period, which begins in early January, will be “strong,” he
said.  Factory Gains  Manufacturing remains a bright in the recovery. The
Institute for  Supply Management-Chicago  Inc. will report on Dec.
30 that businesses in the U.S. expanded in December for a 15th
consecutive month, according to the survey median.  Economists in the past two weeks have boosted projections
for fourth-quarter growth, reflecting the pickup in consumer
spending and passage of an $858 billion bill extending all Bush-
era tax cuts for two years. The legislation also continues
expanded unemployment insurance benefits through 2011 and cuts
payrolls taxes by 2 percentage points next year.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  