-- Hon Hai to Acquire Hitachi, Canon Venture for $1.2 Billion, Nikkei Reports
-- B y   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-12-27T05:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/hon-hai-to-buy-hitachi-canon-lcd-venture-for-1-2-billion-nikkei-reports.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.  plans
to acquire a controlling stake in Hitachi Displays Ltd. for 100
billion yen ($1.2 billion), the Nikkei newspaper reported today
without saying where it got the information.  Hon Hai is in talks with  Hitachi Ltd.  and Canon Inc., the
display-panel maker’s shareholders, to make the purchase through
two 50 billion-yen private offerings over the next two years,
the newspaper said. The deal will cut Hitachi’s stake in the
venture to 30 percent from 75.1 percent, it said.  Hitachi shares rose 0.5 percent to 410 yen, while Canon
gained 1.2 percent to 4,320 yen as of 2:35 p.m. in Tokyo. Shares
of  Hon Hai  were unchanged at NT$117 at the 1:30 p.m. close of
trade in Taipei. Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex index added 0.4
percent.  Hitachi has made no such decision, Hajime Kito, a
spokeswoman of the company, said by phone today.  Edmund Ding ,
spokesman for Taipei-based Hon Hai, didn’t answer calls to his
office and mobile phones today. A Tokyo-based spokesman for
Canon declined to comment.  Hon Hai, the flagship of the Foxconn Technology Group,
makes  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and iPad, Dell Inc. notebooks and Sony
Corp. games machines. Hon Hai affiliate  Chimei Innolux Corp. 
became Taiwan’s largest liquid-crystal display maker through a
three-way merger with its local rivals in March.  Hitachi Displays, which makes display panels at a factory
in Mobara, Eastern Japan, uses so-called in-plane switching, or
IPS, which offers wider viewing angles and clearer picture
quality than competing systems, according to its  Website .  Chimei Innolux on July 1 said it signed a deal with Hitachi
Displays to make panels on contract using the Tokyo-based
company’s IPS technology.  Foxconn Chairman  Terry Gou  in March completed a three-way
$11 billion merger through Foxconn Group’s Innolux Display Corp.
unit, the largest for the group since he founded it in 1974. The
purchase of Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp. and TPO Displays Corp.
created Miaoli, Taiwan-based Chimei Innolux which operates
factories in Taiwan and China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshinori Eki  in Tokyo at   yeki@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 