-- Sydney to Hobart Yacht Racers Face Rough Seas, Gales en Route to Tasmania
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-12-26T02:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/sydney-to-hobart-yacht-racers-face-rough-seas-gales-en-route-to-tasmania.html
Sailors in the 66th annual  Rolex
Sydney to Hobart  yacht race face rough seas, thunderstorms and
southerly winds as strong as 30 knots (35 miles per hour),
Australia’s weather office said.  “It’s discouraging for crews who think they will get to
Hobart early,” Michael Logan of the  Bureau of Meteorology  told
a televised press briefing earlier today.  Wilds Oats XI , the bookmakers’ favorite to win for the
fifth time in six starts, leads the field of 87 boats now
starting out from Sydney Harbor on the 628-nautical mile race.
Wild Oats, a 100-foot yacht owned by Australian billionaire  Bob Oatley , may be challenged by smaller boats, built to better
handle strong head winds, skipper Mark Richards said at a news
conference  “Trying to stay at full speed without breaking anything
will be the biggest challenge for us,” Richards said before the
race began.  Wild Oats finished second to Neville Crichton’s Alfa Romeo
in last year’s race. Crichton also skippered the New Zealand
boat to victory in 2002.  The Sydney to Hobart race draws sailors from around the
world, with entrants coming this year from the U.S., France,
Italy, U.K. and Russia.  In 1945, a planned sail from the Cruising Yacht Club of
Australia to Hobart turned into a race and the annual event was
formed, according to a posting on the history of the race on the
organizers’  website.   Storm Waves  The event takes competitors along Australia’s southeastern
coast and across Bass Strait, where currents between the
Southern Ocean and Tasman Sea create a channel of powerful storm
waves, to Hobart, the capital of the Australian island of
Tasmania.  The winning boat takes about two days to complete the race
and the slowest takes about a week. Alfa Romeo won last year’s
race with an elapsed time of 2:09:02:10  Competitors this year can expect blustery winds from the
south later today and tomorrow, Logan said.  “Monday winds will surge up the New South Wales coast and
by 5 p.m. there will be a strong southerly for up to 12 hours,”
he said.  Richard Grimes, navigator on 50 Terra Firma, said a strong
start is necessary to win, in a statement on the race website.  “It will be more of a wind game plan, especially early
on,” Grimes said. “The trick is not to screw up on the first
night, or you’re gone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  