-- Two Islamic Jihad Gunmen Killed by Israeli Military in Gaza Border Clash
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-12-26T10:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/two-islamic-jihad-gunmen-in-gaza-strip-killed-by-israeli-military-fire.html
Israeli troops, backed by helicopter
gunships, killed two gunmen near the border fence that separates
Israel from the Gaza Strip, a Palestinian health official said.  An army spokeswoman, speaking today on condition of
anonymity by regulation, confirmed the clash and said the
Palestinians were laying mines along the fence.  Confrontations between the Israeli army and Gaza militants
have recently escalated. At least seven Palestinians have been
killed since Dec. 19 in clashes or airstrikes and more than 29
mortar shells and rockets were fired from Gaza at Israel,
injuring at least two people. The upturn comes as Israeli-
Palestinian peace negotiations remained stalled and
reconciliation talks between the Islamic Hamas movement that
controls the Gaza Strip and the Palestinian Authority that runs
the West Bank are frozen.  “I hope that Hamas will stop the rocket fire,” Israeli
Industry, Trade and Labor Minister  Benjamin Ben-Eliezer  said on
Army Radio. “We are not interested in an escalation but we have
no choice other than to respond.”  Abu Obeida, a spokesman for the military wing of Hamas,
said at a press conference yesterday that “if Israel wants to
test our response, it will see that it will be harsh. We advise
the enemy not to commit this stupidity.”  The militants killed in the overnight clash were from the
Islamic Jihad movement, Adham Abu Selmeya, spokesman for
Hamas’s Health Ministry emergency services, said in a phone
interview today.  Gaza Control  Hamas, considered a terrorist organization by the European
Union, the U.S., and Israel, seized control of Gaza in 2007,
ending its partnership government with Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  after winning parliamentary elections a
year earlier.  Israel launched a three-week military initiative on Gaza
that ended on Jan. 18, 2009 in what it said was a bid to stop
rocket fire on its southern towns and cities. A United Nations
panel has accused both Israel and Hamas of committing war crimes
during the conflict. More than 1,100 Palestinians and 13
Israelis were killed in the fighting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  