-- Dollar Advances as China Interest-Rate Increase Sparks Demand for Safety
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-12-27T03:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-26/yen-near-3-week-high-on-growth-concern-after-china-moves-to-curb-inflation.html
The dollar and yen were near three-
week highs against the euro on concern global economic growth
may slow after China increased interest rates for the second
time since mid-October.  The U.S. currency maintained gains against most of its
major counterparts as  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and Morgan Stanley
said China’s monetary tightening in 2011 may be mainly in the
first half as officials tackle the fastest inflation in more
than two years. The dollar was also supported before data
forecast to show U.S. consumer confidence advanced.  “Reaction on China’s move has been somewhat muted, still
the dollar is being supported against the euro,” said  Kazuyuki Kato , treasury department manager in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust &
Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest bank. “Investors
are not willing to take risk, as the market is thin near year-
end.”  The dollar was at $1.3116 per euro as of 11:42 a.m. in
Tokyo from $1.3122 last week. It touched $1.3055 on Dec. 23, the
highest since Dec. 1. The yen was at 108.79 per euro from
108.77. It earlier reached 108.43 per euro, the strongest since
Dec. 1. The dollar fetched 82.94 yen from 82.88 yen.  The  People’s Bank of China  increased key one-year lending
and deposit rates by 25 basis points on Christmas Day in its
second move since mid-October. The change took effect yesterday.  China’s benchmark lending rate rose to 5.81 percent,
compared with 7.47 percent before cuts from late 2008 to counter
the global financial crisis. It will climb to 6.56 percent by
the end of next year, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists this month.  China ‘Surprise’  The deposit rate increased to 2.75 percent, compared with
the 5.1 percent annual pace of inflation in November.  The interest-rate move “came as a surprise, and I expect
China to keep cracking down on inflation,” said  Tomokazu Matsufuji , a dealer in Tokyo at SBI Liquidity Market Co., a unit
of financier SBI Holdings Inc. “This is likely to be a yen-
buying factor in the short term.”  China may raise rates as many as three times in the first
half of next year, according to Morgan Stanley, while JPMorgan
forecasts two increases in that period.  The yen typically strengthens in times of financial turmoil
as Japan’s trade surplus makes the currency attractive because
it means the nation doesn’t have to rely on overseas lenders.
The dollar benefits as the world’s main reserve currency.  China’s Stocks  The yen has gained 12 percent this year in a measure of the
currencies of 10 developed nations, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has dropped 11
percent, while the dollar is down 1.3 percent.  The dollar and yen pared earlier gains against the euro as
advances by Asian stocks countered growth concerns following
China’s interest rate increase.  China’s officials “won’t do anything to destroy economic
growth,” said  Keiji Matsumoto , a currency strategist in Tokyo
at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “Impact has been very limited
on currencies, since it happened when investors don’t want to
move a lot near year-end. They will start pricing in further
possible actions once they enter next year.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, advanced 1.4 percent.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, was little changed at 80.494, snapping a
two-day loss.  ‘Paying Attention’  The Conference Board’s U.S. consumer confidence index
increased to 56.4 this month from 54.1 in November, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before the data tomorrow.  “Investors are paying attention to the consumer confidence
data to get any hint on economic prospects, as it reflects the
trend in Christmas sales,” said  Daisaku Ueno , president of
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo, a unit of Japan’s
largest currency margin company. “A positive number will likely
push the dollar higher.”  The greenback gained 0.2 percent to $1.0026 versus the
Australian dollar. It strengthened 0.2 percent to 74.80 against
the New Zealand dollar. Markets in Australia and New Zealand are
closed for public holidays today and tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo
at   ynohara1@bloomberg.net ; Monami Yui in
Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 