-- Europe Inflation Holds Steady; Jobless at Highest in 12 Years
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-30T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-31/europe-inflation-slows-to-1-6-unemployment-holds-at-12-year-high-of-10-.html
European inflation held steady and
 unemployment  rose to the highest in more than 12 years as the
economy’s recovery loses some momentum.  Euro-area  consumer prices  rose 1.9 percent in November from
a year earlier, the European Union statistics office in
Luxembourg said in an initial estimate today. The jobless rate
increased to 10.1 percent in October, the highest since July
1998, from 10 percent in September.  European companies are reluctant to add workers as rising
energy costs threaten to curb profit margins and governments
across the region step up budget cuts. European Union Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday that
economic “slack” may contain wage growth and inflation, while
forecasting an economic slowdown in 2011.  “Inflation will probably weaken over the coming months
with unemployment set to rise further,” said  Christoph Weil , a
senior economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “There are no
pricing pressures and growth may weaken into 2011.”  About 15.95 million people in the 16-nation euro region
were unemployed in October, up 80,000 from the previous month,
today’s jobless report showed. In the 27-member EU, unemployment
held at 9.6 percent. The jobless rate fell in eight EU member
states and increased in 19 from a year earlier.  At 20.7 percent, Spain had the highest jobless rate in
October while the Netherlands had the lowest at 4.4 percent.
Separate data today from Germany’s Federal Labor Agency showed
that  unemployment  in Europe’s largest economy fell for a 17th
month in November, dropping to an 18-year low.  ‘Uneven’ Recovery  The data further underscore the gulf between Germany and
so-called peripheral nations such as Ireland and Portugal that
are struggling to reduce budget deficits. On Nov. 28, Ireland
became the second euro nation to receive external aid to help
restore confidence.  “This recovery is uneven, and many member states are going
through a difficult period of adjustment,” Rehn said yesterday.
“A determined continuation of fiscal consolidation and
frontloaded policies to enhance growth are essential to set the
sound basis for sustainable growth and jobs.”  The Brussels-based commission forecasts that euro-region
growth will weaken to 1.5 percent in 2011 from 1.7 percent this
year. Greece is the only economy projected to shrink in both
years, with Spain and Ireland seen returning to growth in 2011.  The European Central Bank, which aims to keep annual gains
in consumer prices just below 2 percent, will release its latest
inflation and economic forecasts on Dec. 2, when council members
meet for their  rate decision .  While higher unemployment is restraining demand, the euro’s
13 percent depreciation against the dollar over the past year
has added to cost pressures by making imported goods more
expensive. Crude oil prices rose 2.6 percent over the past
month, bringing the annual increase to 10 percent.  Today’s inflation report is an  initial estimate  and the
statistics office will release a breakdown on Dec. 16. In
October,  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as
energy prices, accelerated to 1.1 percent from 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  