-- Cinemark, Taiwan Semi, EMI: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2009-11-05T13:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-05/cinemark-taiwan-semi-emi-intellectual-property-update1-.html

          
          
             Cinemark Holdings Inc.  the third-
largest U.S. cinema chain, sued  Imax Corp. , seeking a court
declaration that it isn’t in violation of Imax patents for
converting theaters to giant-screen movie houses.  
 Cinemark said Imax, which sells projection and sound
systems for giant-screen theaters, sent a letter Oct. 26
claiming it is violating two Imax patents. Cinemark’s suit,
seeking a declaration that two Imax patents are invalid, was
filed Nov. 3 in U.S. District Court in Sherman, Texas.  
 “Cinemark has plans and intends to continue to convert and
update movie theater facilities to maximize the use of available
technology,” Plano, Texas-based Cinemark said in the lawsuit.  
 Imax has struck distribution deals with  Regal Entertainment
Group  and  AMC Entertainment Inc. , the two biggest U.S. cinema
chains, to refit more than 150 movie screens with new digital
Imax projection and sound systems that allow them to charge
higher admission. Cinemark Holdings Inc. is planning to overhaul
some of its own theaters with bigger screens and new technology.  
 Imax representatives visiting a Cinemark theater a few
weeks ago noticed aspects of the design that appeared to violate
Imax’s patents on theater design and geometry, Imax Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Gelfond  said in a telephone interview.
Imax lawyers sent Cinemark’s counsel an e-mail to discuss
concerns about possible patent violations, Gelfond said. Then
today he said he heard Cinemark was taking legal action.  
 “It seems highly likely that they’re violating the
patents, otherwise why would they sue to say they’re invalid?”
said Gelfond.  
 Imax, jointly based in New York and Mississauga, Ontario,
is consulting with its lawyers while it decides how to respond
to Cinemark, Gelfond said.  
 “Historically Imax enforces its intellectual property
vigorously and I wouldn’t expect this to be a different
situation,” he said.  
 In dispute are patents 7,106,411 and 7,595,860. According
to these patents, the technology they cover was developed to
compensate for the overbuilding of multiplex theaters that began
in the 1970s.  
 The patents specify that the invention makes it possible to
give theater patrons “the same manner of presentation
experience as large hall custom designed theatres, but at a
lower, more affordable cost.”  
 Cinemark is represented by  Sanford E. Warren Jr.  of
Washington’s  Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP .  
 The case is Cinemark USA Inc. v. Imax Corp., 09-CV-549,
U.S. District Court Eastern District of Texas (Sherman).  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Wins Suit Against SMIC in U.S.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the world’s largest
custom-chip maker, won a jury verdict that  Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp.  improperly used its trade
secrets and breached a $175 million settlement.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor’s U.S. unit accused its rival, China’s
 biggest chipmaker , of causing more than $1 billion in damages by
using 65 of its trade secrets and breaching a 2005 agreement,
 Jeffrey Chanin , an attorney for the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
company, said in an interview. That agreement resolved claims
that Semiconductor Manufacturing earlier infringed trade secrets
for chip-making processes, Chanin said.  
 A state court jury in Oakland, California, found Nov. 3
that Semiconductor Manufacturing improperly used most of the 65
trade secrets and violated the deal starting in February 2005,
according to a jury verdict form supplied by Chanin.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor is seeking payment for lost profits on
U.S.  sales  since about 2002 and unjust enrichment on
Semiconductor Manufacturing sales of chips that infringe on its
trade secrets, said Chanin. The jury will decide how much in
damages should be paid after hearing evidence from both sides
starting Thursday, he said.  
 Semiconductor Manufacturing , based in Shanghai, denied
wrongdoing and said Taiwan Semiconductor breached its agreement
to negotiate disputes over the settlement and sued to stifle
competition, according to court filings in Oakland.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor makes chips for mobile phones and
medical equipment, among other uses. Companies such as Nvidia
Corp. and Qualcomm Inc. order from it to avoid the expense of
building chip factories.  
 The company originally sued its Chinese rival in 2003,
claiming it stole its logic chip processes and other secrets and
incorporated them into its own manufacturing, Chanin said.  
 The two companies agreed in 2005 that Semiconductor
Manufacturing could use Taiwan Semiconductor information for
existing processes and was barred from using it for new
manufacturing, said Chanin. Semiconductor Manufacturing also
signed a six-year license with Taiwan Semiconductor.  
 The case is TSMC North America v. Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp., RG06-286111, Alameda County
Superior Court (Oakland).  
 Copyright  
 EMI Sues California Web Site Over 25-Cent Beatles Downloads  
 EMI Group Ltd.  filed a copyright-infringement lawsuit
against a California Web site called Bluebeat, claiming it is
illegally selling downloads of Beatles songs for 25 cents each.  
 “EMI has not authorized content to be sold on Bluebeat,”
said  Jeanne Meyer , a New York-based spokeswoman for EMI.
Bluebeat, based in Santa Cruz, California, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message seeking comment. The complaint was
filed in federal court in Los Angeles.  
 The Beatles have never made their songs available for sale
by download. The band and London-based EMI, owned by the private
equity firm Terra Firma Capital Partners, released digitally re-
mastered CD versions of the group’s catalog on Sept. 9.  Viacom
Inc. ’s MTV Games released the “The Beatles: Rock Band” video
game on the same day.  
 EMI and the Beatles’ Apple Corps also are planning to
release a $280 USB drive on Dec. 7 that will include the entire
Beatles catalog. Only 30,000 of the apple-shaped devices will be
sold in the U.S., according to a  joint statement  from EMI and
Apple Corps.  
 Among the lawyers representing EMI is  Russell J. Frackman 
from Los Angeles-based  Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp LLP , who is
best known for his representation of the recording industry in
file-sharing copyright cases against Napster and Grokster. Also
on the EMI team from the same firm are  David A. Steinberg  and
 Marc Ellis Mayer .  
 The case is Capitol Records, LLC v. Bluebeat Inc., 2:09-cv-
08030, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  
 Vivendi’s UMG Infringed ‘Atomic Dog,’ Appeals Court Says  
 A lower court’s findings that  Vivendi SA’s  UMG Recordings
and Universal Music Investments units infringed the copyright to
George Clinton’s “Atomic Dog” recording was affirmed yesterday
by a federal appeals court.  
 Detroit-based Bridgeport Music, owner of Clinton’s catalog,
claimed “ Atomic Dog ” was infringed by Public Announcement’s
1998 recording “ D.O.G. in Me .” The infringement claims are
related to the use of the phrase “Bow wow wow, yippie yo,
yippie yea” and the use of the word “dog” in a low tone of
voice at intervals during the song, according to court papers.  
 Bridgeport filed a copyright-infringement suit in federal
court in Nashville, Tennessee, in August 2001. A jury found the
song -- “an anthem of the funk era, one of the most famous
pieces from that whole era” -- was infringed.  
 UMG appealed, claiming the use of the song’s elements fell
under copyright law’s “fair use” exception, and that the use
of them in “D.O.G. in Me” was intended as a homage or tribute
to Clinton’s song.  
 The appeals court, in an opinion written by Circuit Judge
 Martha Craig Daughtrey , disagreed. UMG failed to present any
evidence to support its claim it acted in good faith, she said.  
 The judge also noted that “Atomic Dog” is one of the most
frequently sampled musical compositions of its era and
“Bridgeport could lose substantial licensing revenue if it were
deprived of its right to license content such as that used by
UMG.”  
 Bridgeport’s case was argued by  Richard S. Busch  of
Nashville’s  King & Ballow . Arguing on behalf of UMG was Jeffrey
D. Goldman of Los Angeles-based Mitchell, Silberberg & Knupp.  
 The case is Bridgeport Music Inc., v. UMG Recordings Inc.,
07-05596, 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Cincinnati).  
 Trademark  
 United Airlines Sues Bangladesh Carrier on Trademark  
 United Airlines Inc.,  the third-largest U.S. carrier, filed
a trademark infringement suit against Bangladesh-based  United
Airways Ltd. , claiming that its name will confuse customers of
the American company.  
 United Airways  plans to expand its air service from
Bangladesh and India to markets including the United Kingdom,
where United Airlines does business, according to the suit filed
Nov. 2 in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn, New York.  
 United Airlines of Chicago, which has more than 3,300
flights a day, said United Airways’ English-language Web site
encourages customers to book travel at an office in the Astoria
section of New York City, according to the complaint. United
Airlines told the Bangladesh carrier in 2007 to stop using its
name and found out just this year about the sales office in New
York, the complaint stated.  
 Efforts to obtain comment from United Airways in Bangladesh
after regular business hours were unsuccessful. A representative
at Jumbo Travel, reported in the lawsuit to be the sales office
for United Airways in Astoria, referred comment to a number in
the U.K. and a call wasn’t immediately returned.  
 United Airways’  international service  is presently limited
to flights between Dhaka, Bangladesh, and Calcutta, Dubai and
London, according to the line’s Web site. That airline is to
begin flights from Dhaka to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, this month.  
 The Chicago-based airline is represented by  Joshua S. Frick 
and  Philip A. Jones  from Chicago’s  Brinks Hofer Gilson & Lione .
and  Bennette Deacy Kramer  from New York’s  Schlam Stone & Dolan
LLP .  
 The case is United Airlines Inc. v. United Airways Ltd.,
09-04743, U.S. District Court, Eastern District (Brooklyn).  
 Riverdance Costumer Says Show Infringes His Designs  
 The owners of the  Riverdance  show are to appear in
Ireland’s High Court today to defend against allegations their
production is infringing costume designs created by Jan Kelly
for the Irish dance show’s original production, the Irish Post
 reported .  
 Kelly was initially paid design fees and about 60 euros
($90) in royalties per performance until 2001, the Post
reported.  
 The show has continued to use and modify his designs
without permission or payment, Kelly claims, according to the
Post.  
 John McColgan, one of Riverdance’s two co-owners, claimed
Kelly’s designs hadn’t been used since 2001, and final financial
arrangements with the designer were completed in 1999, according
to the Post.  
 Professor Dismisses Copyright-Infringement Suit Against Blog  
 Professor D. Marvin Jones  of the University of Miami School
of Law has dropped a $22 million copyright-infringement case
against the operator of a blog that published his photo without
permission.  
 The photo in question came from Jones’s faculty page on the
university’s Web site, according to court papers. He claimed he
had the copyright for the photo. He sued the publishers of the
AbovetheLaw.com blog in federal court in Miami Oct. 27 two years
after the blog  published an account  of his arrest for allegedly
soliciting a prostitute.  
 In his complaint, Jones said the blog cast him in a false
light, invaded his privacy and infringed the copyright. He asked
the court for $2 million in damages, and another $20 million to
punish the blog operators for their actions.  
 Jones, who represented himself, dismissed the case
yesterday, according to court documents. In his pleadings, he
said the police complaint against him was dismissed.  
 AbovetheLaw.com,  in a posting yesterday , said there was no
settlement and no money was paid to Jones.  
 Marc John Randazza  of the Randazza Legal Group of San Diego
represented AbovetheLaw.com.  
 The case is Jones v. Minkin, 1:09-cv-23256-MGC, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Wins Suit Against SMIC in U.S.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the world’s largest
custom-chip maker, won a jury verdict that  Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp.  improperly used its trade
secrets and breached a $175 million settlement.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor’s U.S. unit accused its rival, China’s
 biggest chipmaker , of causing more than $1 billion in damages by
using 65 of its trade secrets and breaching a 2005 agreement,
 Jeffrey Chanin , an attorney for the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
company, said in an interview. That agreement resolved claims
that Semiconductor Manufacturing earlier infringed trade secrets
for chip-making processes, Chanin said.  
 A state court jury in Oakland, California, found Nov. 3
that Semiconductor Manufacturing improperly used most of the 65
trade secrets and violated the deal starting in February 2005,
according to a jury verdict form supplied by Chanin.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor is seeking payment for lost profits on
U.S.  sales  since about 2002 and unjust enrichment on
Semiconductor Manufacturing sales of chips that infringe on its
trade secrets, said Chanin. The jury will decide how much in
damages should be paid after hearing evidence from both sides
starting Thursday, he said.  
 Semiconductor Manufacturing , based in Shanghai, denied
wrongdoing and said Taiwan Semiconductor breached its agreement
to negotiate disputes over the settlement and sued to stifle
competition, according to court filings in Oakland.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor makes chips for mobile phones and
medical equipment, among other uses. Companies such as Nvidia
Corp. and Qualcomm Inc. order from it to avoid the expense of
building chip factories.  
 The company originally sued its Chinese rival in 2003,
claiming it stole its logic chip processes and other secrets and
incorporated them into its own manufacturing, Chanin said.  
 The two companies agreed in 2005 that Semiconductor
Manufacturing could use Taiwan Semiconductor information for
existing processes and was barred from using it for new
manufacturing, said Chanin. Semiconductor Manufacturing also
signed a six-year license with Taiwan Semiconductor.  
 The case is TSMC North America v. Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp., RG06-286111, Alameda County
Superior Court (Oakland).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        