-- Women of the Workplace, Uniting
-- Sylvia Ann Hewlett
-- 2009-11-06T02:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-05/women-of-the-workplace-uniting.html

          
          
             Between waves of layoffs and evaporating job opportunities, we're in a climate that naturally breeds an every-woman-for-herself mentality.  A recent study by the Workplace Bullying Institute  found that female bullies were alive — and, more than 70 percent of the time,  kicking other women . But I've also seen companies encouraging their smart women to help their women colleagues in ways that are more than just heartening. In fact, I'm convinced they're part of a new way of networking. 

 According to research for my new book,  Top Talent: Keeping Performance Up When Business Is Down , company-supported networks or affinity groups — grassroots internal organizations that address the needs of a particular employee population, such as women, engineers, African Americans, or millennials — have proved a huge winner for employees and employers alike in this recession.  

 These groups provide a much-needed sense of connection for talented workers who might otherwise feel adrift or stressed out as their companies focus on survival. Paradoxically, many high-performing women don't participate, either because they don't know that the groups exist or because they're not aware of their value. But these new networks are a far cry from the oft-caricatured, squirm-inducing "support groups" or hoity-toity "Old Girls'" conclaves. Instead, these new networks offer some of the most significant ways in which talented women can enhance their careers.  

 Here are three examples: 
 Even prior to the economic downturn,  GE's Women's Network  began to enhance its circle of support with a program called myConnections. Introduced in January 2008, the program requires GE's senior leaders, dubbed "champions," to sponsor local "pods," groups of approximately 20 high-potential women who agree to meet six to eight times a year. "The relationships established in myConnections groups makes reaching out to an experienced senior leader for advice and coaching easier," says Pam Bellamy, GE Energy's senior human resources manager. 

 	 The program has been so successful that other GE affinity networks are adapting it to fulfill their own agendas. Explains Deborah Elam, GE Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer, "Moving ahead at GE is a lot about connections, and myConnections lets me get to know people so if a job comes up, I might be able to recommend them."  

 	 Six years ago, the partners leading the Professional Women's Network for the tri-state offices of  Ernst & Young  had a smart idea about how to build relationships and improve business development opportunities among its female partners: Create a series of events putting top female talent at E&Y together with the firm's most important clients. Issues on My Mind, a series of intimate "salons" in Manhattan where senior women from all sectors could gather to discuss the issues that really matter to them, was born in 2003. 

 	 It has since evolved into a "go-to" event for New York-based women leaders in business, politics and public policy. At each bi-annual dinner-and-dialogue meeting, a panel of guest speakers such as  Gloria Steinem , Xerox CEO  Anne Mulcahy ,  U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand , and University of Miami president  Donna Shalala  share "issues on their minds" for five minutes to stimulate thought-provoking table conversation among the 200 attendees. Afterward, an E&Y partner moderates a discussion among all the guests. 

 	 Co-Chair Carolyn Buck Luce says that the events have provided a much-needed 	personal and professional network, as well as accelerating E&Y's relationships and turning them into a source of recognition and revenue for the firm. 

 	 Last year, Peter Loescher, the CEO of  Siemens , was  quoted in The Financial Times  as saying that the German engineering giant was "too white, too German and too male." This March, he  took steps to change that  by launching the first-ever network for top-performing women at the corporate level throughout the global organization. GLOW —  Global Leadership Organization of Women  — is not so much about getting support as about giving women the mandate to make visible contributions that further Siemens' strategic agenda. 

 	 Loescher gave his initiative teeth by appointing as Chief Diversity Officer Jill Lee. The Singapore-born former CFO of  Siemens China  is now the highest-ranking Asian at Siemens head office. 

 	 Lee plans to accelerate the development of female and international talent by significantly increasing the number of qualified candidates in the pipeline for top positions by no later than 2011. She is employing the same technical and collaborative rigor that propelled her own 20-year career at Siemens to sell and spread her new mandate: to create the mindset that every employee — regardless of nationality, gender or background — has the chance to reach their full potential at Siemens.  As we struggle through these tough times, no firm can afford to ignore the potential of its talented women. Sponsoring networks that encourage and empower them to perform at their peak is one of the smartest moves a company can make. 

 Read more about GE's myConnections and Ernst & Young's Issues on my Mind by  downloading these success stories ! 

