-- Mall reports may shed light on consumer health
-- By  Ilaina Jonas
-- Mon Apr 28, 2008 5:41pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/28/businesspro-usmalls-results-dc-idUSN2814030220080428

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The two largest U.S. shopping mall 
operators are set to report quarterly results this week, and 
investors are looking for them to shed some light on the 
struggling U.S. consumer's ability to keep retailers going. 

  Simon Property Group Inc ( SPG.N ), the largest U.S. owner of 
malls and shopping centers, and second-ranked General Growth 
Properties Inc ( GGP.N ), are set to report first-quarter results 
on Tuesday.  Simon owns, has an interest, or manages 380 malls, outlet 
centers, and shopping centers totaling 258 million square feet 
of property in North American, Europe and Asia.  Chicago-based General Growth owns, has an interest or 
manages more than 200 malls in 45 U.S. states, as well as 
shopping centers in Brazil and Turkey. The company's portfolio 
includes more than 24,000 retail stores.  "Because they're so broad nationally, people are going to 
be listening about prospective store closings throughout 2008," 
said Robert Gadsden, portfolio manager with Alpine Realty 
Income Growth Fund, which has $300 million in assets under 
management and has stock in both companies.  Faced with soaring gasoline and food prices, and concerns 
about losing their homes or their jobs, the U.S. consumer may 
be in no hurry for trips to the mall.  U.S. consumer confidence fell for a third straight month in 
April to its weakest in 26 years, according to a 
Reuters/University of Michigan survey released on Friday.  Taubman Centers Inc ( TCO.N ), which owns luxury malls, said 
last week that tenant bankruptcies reached their highest 
first-quarter level in four years but said that was well within 
normal levels of its history as a publicly traded entity.  Malls are a favorite among investors because the long-term 
leases -- usually seven to 10 years -- offer a steady source of 
cash, which is relatively insulated from economic stress.  "Obviously consumer confidence is down, but that affects 
the retailers a lot more than it affects the landlord," said 
Jeung Hyun, portfolio manager with Adelante Capital Management, 
which has $3 billion under management and stock in both 
companies. "Unless a tenant goes bankrupt, they have to pay 
rent."  Joseph Betlej, portfolio manager of real estate securities 
for Advantus Capital Management is optimistic that the downturn 
won't turn into blood for retailers.  "Unless we go really go into a deep recession, the regional 
mall companies will fare better in this environment because the 
retailers are in much better shape than they have been in some 
of the recent economic downturns," said Betlej.  Analysts polled by Reuters Estimates on average see Simon 
posting funds from operations of $1.44 per share versus $1.37 a 
year ago, and General Growth reporting 74 cents per share 
against 65 cents a year earlier.
  CAPITAL CONCERNS  General Growth investors will also be looking for 
information concerning possible sales or joint-ventures as part 
of its overall plan to raise capital.  "People are incredibly concerned about the balance sheet," 
Hyun said.  Last month, General Growth refinanced several properties 
and cleared $821.9 million from a 22.8 million share offering. 
The fund-raising helped ease investor fears and quash 
short-seller chatter about the company's financial health.  In 2004, General Growth bought upscale mall operated Rouse 
for $12 billion and faces $18.7 billion in debt coming due over 
the next four years including $2.6 billion this year.  That would not be a problem had the credit crisis not all 
but shut down the commercial mortgage-backed securities market, 
the source of large real estate lending.  In contrast, Simon's corporate debt commands the highest 
rating among real estate investment trusts.  Investors will be looking for an update on the malls Simon 
bought more than a year ago from the now defunct Mills Corp.  "Last year, at this time it was too close to the closing of 
the transaction to talk about it," Gadsden said. "Now they have 
had the portfolio in hand for a year-plus. They've had it a 
long enough time."  (Editing by  Tim Dobbyn )