-- Morgan Stanley see big bank woes just beginning
-- By  Joseph A. Giannone
-- Mon Apr 28, 2008 10:46am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/28/businesspro-banks-research-morganstanley-idUSN2847796620080428

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ) analysts on 
Monday told clients to "sell the rally" in financial stocks, 
slashing forecasts for big bank earnings and warning that the 
current credit crunch is only just beginning. 

  In aggregate, Morgan Stanley reduced its estimates for 2008 
large bank earnings by $17 billion, or 26 percent, and reduced 
2009 forecasts by $13 billion, or 15 percent. The analysts 
expect higher loan losses and expenses, offset by higher net 
interest income, though profits could fall further still if the 
Federal Reserve stops lowering interest rates.  "More capital hikes and dividend cuts (are) coming as our 
credit deteriorates and forward earnings decline," analysts led 
by Betsy Graseck wrote in a report. "We think we are only in 
the third inning of the credit cycle and expect this credit 
cycle will be worse than (the slump in) 1990-91."  A growing number of investors, and industry executives 
including Morgan Stanley Chief Executive John Mack, in recent 
weeks have predicted markets are closer to the end of the 
current mortgage and corporate credit crisis than to the 
beginning. These more upbeat comments, and recent efforts by 
banks to bolster their balance sheets, helped spark a rebound 
in bank stocks last week.  Morgan Stanley's top "long" picks have less credit 
sensitivity or better capital structures: Bank of New York Co 
( BK.N ), JPMorgan Chase & Co ( JPM.N ) and PNC Financial Group 
( PNC.N ).  By contrast, investors should "underweight" banks with 
greater exposure to mortgages -- Wells Fargo & Co ( WFC.N ) and 
Wachovia WB.N -- and those that operate in harder hit 
sections of the United States -- Fifth Third Bancorp ( FITB.O ) 
and KeyCorp ( KEY.N ).  Morgan Stanley also called for underweighting Citigroup 
( C.N ), citing its exposure to risky assets relative to common 
equity.  (Reporting by Joseph A. Giannone, editing by Dave 
Zimmerman)