-- `Killing' BP's Macondo Oil Well Takes Mud, Precision Pressure
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/-killing-bp-s-leaking-macondo-oil-well-will-take-mud-precision-pressure.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is likely to intercept its
Gulf of Mexico gusher this month, ahead of schedule, kicking off
a “kill” process that may take as little as two days or drag
out because of complications caused by the well’s depth.  
 To stop the worst oil spill in U.S. history, BP is drilling
a relief well, from which it will be able to cut into the
Macondo well, 5,000 feet (1,524 meters) below the ocean’s
surface. Once the interception is complete, London-based BP will
pump mud to temporarily plug the leaking well, until it can
apply a cement seal.  
 BP expects to kill the Macondo well by the middle of next
month, spokesman  Robert Wine  said in a telephone interview
yesterday from Houston.  
 “It’s a very complicated process,” Wine said. “The fact
that we were ahead of schedule with the main length of the well
is good, gives us a bit of extra time to take things steadily
and safely.”  
 BP  shares  have dropped 49 percent since the April 20
blowout that sank the Deepwater Horizon rig, killing 11 workers.
The stock rose 3.5 percent in London  trading  yesterday to 333.3
pence.  
 Thad Allen , the U.S. National Incident Commander, has said
that plugging the Macondo well might take two to five days after
the relief well is drilled. Fighting the force of the natural
gas coming up through the well, contending with pressure created
by the depth of the water, and potentially struggling with an
inadequate containment system may cause the timeline to drag,
according to engineers and analysts tracking BP’s progress.  
 Electromagnetic Tests  
 “If it was shallow water, it wouldn’t be anything
serious,” said Don Van Nieuwenhuise, director of Petroleum
Geoscience Programs at the University of Houston. In deep water,
the mud will flow out if unchecked. “They have plenty of extra
mud, but if you have it flowing out of control, it wouldn’t take
too long to run out of it.”  
 BP already has 44,000 barrels of mud on hand for the
operation,  Kent Wells , the company’s senior vice president of
exploration and production, said last week in a technical
briefing.  
 BP’s first relief well has reached a  depth  of 17,725 feet,
the company said in a statement yesterday. BP conducted seven
electromagnetic tests to detect the steel casing of the Macondo
well, known as ranging tests, Wine said. These tests take about
a half-day to perform, and ensure that the well is on track.  
 A Better Seal  
 In mid-July, BP hopes to replace the cap that is currently
funneling the flow from the Macondo well to containment vessels.
The new cap has a larger capacity and will sit atop the blowout
preventer, and may form a better seal than the current cap, said
 David Pursell , a managing director with Tudor, Pickering, Holt &
Co. in Houston.  
 Should BP successfully secure the new cap, it will improve
the company’s chances of successfully filling the well with mud
from the relief well, Pursell said. Without it, BP would run a
risk of the mud flowing directly out of the hole, Pursell said.  
 Once in place, the cap will let BP fill from the top, if
needed, to reinforce the mud, Van Nieuwenhuise said.  
 “It’s not necessary to do the relief well, but it can
help,”  Toby Odone , a spokesman for BP, said from Houston.  
 The cap will help BP contend with the particularly strong
upward force created by the vast natural gas reservoir that
feeds the Macondo well, Pursell said. The new seal may be able
to restrict the amount of leaking mud, creating back-pressure
that will more successfully contain the gas, he said.  
 Heavy Mud  
 The Macondo well  produces  about 100 million cubic feet of
natural gas a day. “That’s a big well, anywhere in the world,”
Pursell said. Natural gas in a well can provide the same effect
that gas in a bottle of soda does, forcing liquid -- in this
case oil -- out of the top at a higher speed.  
 The strength of the gas could push the mud up and out of
the well, he said.  
 To prevent the mud from rushing out of the well, BP will
try to find a mud that is heavy enough to outweigh the pressure
of gas coming out of the well, said Les Ply, a Houston-based
geologist who has participated in kill operations in the past.  
 An appropriate balance must be struck -- if the mud is too
heavy, the rocks around the reservoir can be cracked or
overburdened, he said. “Mud will take the path of least
resistance. You want the path to be up the well bore,” he said.  
 Finding the right pressure and mud weight can be
challenging for killing a well at this depth, because there’s an
additional pressure dynamic created by the 5,000 feet of water
bearing down on it, said Van Nieuwenhuise.  
 “It’s water, so it won’t patch itself,” he said. The goal
will be to slow the mud flow enough to plug the well adequately
so that cement can be poured in and set, Van Nieuwenhuise said.  
 Even with these potential complications, confidence in the
relief well’s success is high, with U.S. National Incident
Commander Allen calling it a “proven” technique.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Thad Allen, the U.S. National Incident Commander, has said that plugging the Macondo well might take two to five days after the relief well is drilled. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Shokri Ghanem, chairman of the Libya National Oil Corp., talks about the valuation of BP Plc and his recommendation that the nation's sovereign wealth fund take a stake in the European oil company.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Saud Masud, head of Middle East research at UBS AG, speaks about possible interest from the region's sovereign wealth funds in BP Plc.
     He talks with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Peter McGuire, managing director at CWA Global Markets Pty, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for BP Plc as the company seeks cash to meet the costs of the worst oil spill in U.S. history. 
     BP is considering selling fields in Colombia, Venezuela and Vietnam, a person with knowledge of the matter said. BP shares have dropped 49 percent since the April 20 blowout that sank the Deepwater Horizon rig, killing 11 workers. McGuire, speaking from Sydney, also discusses his forecast for crude oil prices. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Hannes Loacker, analyst at Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich, talks about potential investment in BP Plc from Middle East sovereign wealth funds.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Luca Del Conte, executive director for treasury and capital markets at MediCapital Bank Plc, talks about the outlook for investment from the Middle East in BP Plc and the risk of a hostile takeover.
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown" with Maryam Nemazee. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
