-- `Wiseguys' Ask U.S. Judge to Dismiss Scalping Charges
-- David Voreacos
-- 2010-07-06T18:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/-wiseguys-charged-with-ticket-scalping-scheme-ask-judge-to-throw-out-case.html

          
          
             Three men accused of beating computer
security to buy and scalp 1.5 million seats for events such as
 Bruce Springsteen  concerts asked for dismissal of charges they
say seek to turn lawful activity into crimes.  
 The men, dubbed the “Wiseguys” because they ran Wiseguy
Tickets Inc., claim U.S. prosecutors misapplied the Computer
Fraud and Abuse Act and wire fraud statute to charge them with
illegaly getting ahead of the public to buy premium seats
through Ticketmaster,  Live Nation Entertainment Inc.,  Telecharge
and other vendors.  
 The indictment is “a naked effort to punish legal conduct
under federal law -- the resale of tickets for events -- by
using the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (‘CFAA’), a statute that
has nothing to do with so-called ‘ticket scalping,’” lawyers
for the men said in a July 2 motion in federal court in Newark,
New Jersey.  
 Prosecutors claim that after buying tickets on a first-
come, first-served basis, the defendants resold them making more
than $28.9 million in profit from 2005 to 2008. They were
accused of buying 220 of the 440 best seats offered to the
public for a Springsteen concert at Giants Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey, on July 27, 2008.  
 Defendants  
 Kenneth Lowson, 40, Kristofer Kirsch, 37, and Faisal Nahdi,
46, all of Los Angeles, were named with Joel Stevenson, 37, of
Alameda, California, in an indictment made public March 1.
Nahdi, who is outside the U.S., was never arrested or appeared
in court. They were indicted again on April 20. Lowson, Kirsch
and Stevenson, who pleaded not guilty on May 4, filed the motion
asking U.S. District Judge  Katharine Hayden  to throw out the
case.  
 Rebekah Carmichael , a spokeswoman for  Paul Fishman , the
U.S. attorney in New Jersey, declined to comment and said
prosecutors will respond in writing by the Aug. 2 deadline.  
 By working with programmers in Bulgaria, California-based
Wiseguy Tickets defeated technology known as CAPTCHA, which
required users to read, then retype, distorted images of letters
and numbers to buy tickets, prosecutors alleged. They also
sidestepped audio CAPTCHA challenges for the visually impaired.  
 By getting around CAPTCHA challenges in tenths of a second,
the defendants sped up the purchasing process when other
consumers were locked out of the primary ticket market, the
indictment charged.  
 In their filing, defense lawyers said prosecutors seek to
criminalize breaches of contractual terms of service by using
automation.  
 ‘Legal Secondary Fraud’  
 Lawyers led by Lowson’s attorney,  Mark A. Rush  of K&L Gates
LLP in Pittsburgh, said the case isn’t about fraud. Prosecutors,
don’t allege the defendants got information restricted from
public access, “broke in” to non-public server locations or
Web pages, or stole any property or defrauded individual ticket
buyers, they wrote in the filing.  
 Prosecutors said the tickets they illegally bought were for
performers such as  Miley Cyrus ,  Barbra Streisand ,  Kelly Clarkson ,  Kenny Chesney ,  Billy Joel  and  Bon Jovi . Events
included seats for the Rose Bowl football game in 2006, baseball
playoff games at Yankee Stadium in 2007, the U.S. Open tennis
tournament, and a National Football League playoff game between
the Philadelphia Eagles and New York Giants in 2009, according
to the indictment.  
 The average resale price was $30 a ticket, Fishman said.
The men used aliases, shell corporations and fraudulent
misrepresentations to sidestep “virtual queues” that
Ticketmaster and other primary ticket vendors offered,
prosecutors alleged.  
 A friend-of-the-court brief in support of the defendants
also was filed by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a non-
profit digital civil liberties organization; the Association of
Criminal Defense Lawyers of New Jersey; and the Center for
Democracy and Technology, a non-profit civil liberties group.  
 The case is U.S. v. Lowson, 10-cr-114, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Rock musican Bruce Springsteen preforms on stage. Photographer: Sebastian Widmann/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
