-- Abertis Bonds Plunge Most on Record as Shareholders, CVC Consider Buyout
-- Sharon Smyth
-- 2010-07-06T10:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/abertis-bonds-plunge-as-largest-investors-negotiate-on-cvc-capital-buyout.html

          
          
             Abertis Infraestructuras SA  bonds
plunged the most on record and shares climbed after the Spanish
highway operator’s largest investors said they’re in talks with
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. about a possible debt-funded takeover.  
 Abertis’s 1 billion euros ($1.26 billion) of 4.625 percent
notes due in 2016 fell 9.7 cents to a bid price of 90.5 cents on
the euro as of 10:56 a.m. in London after declining to as low as
88.5 cents, according to HSBC Holdings Plc prices on Bloomberg.
Its shares jumped as much as 6.2 percent to 14.40 euros.  
 The two main shareholders,  Criteria CaixaCorp SA  and
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA, said in filings
yesterday that they are in talks with CVC about forming a
company to bid for all of Abertis. A buyout might push
Barcelona-based Abertis’s net leverage to close to nine times
earnings from six times,  Rocco Schilling , a credit analyst at
UniCredit SpA in Munich, said in a report published today.  
 UniCredit cut Abertis’s debt to “underweight” from
“overweight given the expected weakening credit profile and
expected negative rating actions in case of a successful
takeover by CVC and its partners,” Schilling wrote.  
 The 4.625 percent notes fell 1.74 cents yesterday.  
 Abertis shares gave up some of their gains as investors
questioned how any transaction would be financed, said  Guillermo Escribano , a fund manager at Metagestion SGIIC SA in Madrid, who
oversees 50 million euros.  
 They traded at 14 euros, up 3.3 percent, extending
yesterday’s 12 percent gain and boosting the company’s  market
value  to 10.3 billion euros.  
 Funding Doubts  
 “Markets are doubting how the operation will be funded and
until there’s some clarification on that point the shares won’t
react further,” Escribano said. “Neither of the sellers is
distressed so this could take some time.”  
 Mediobanca SpA  has lined up 10 banks that will lend 600
million euros each to fund the purchase, Il Messaggero reported,
without saying how it obtained the information. Among the
lenders are Credit Agricole SA, BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale
SA, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, UniCredit, Banco Santander SA and Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, the newspaper said.  
 Lazard Ltd. is advising the shareholders, according to the
report.  
 Under the scenario in which a joint company bids for
Abertis, it would acquire a “very substantial part” of shares
controlled by Criteria and ACS, with a view to bidding for the
rest at the same price it paid for the stock, Criteria said in
its filing.  
 LBO Value  
 Criteria, which  owns  28.5 percent of Abertis, and ACS,
which holds 25.8 percent, are considering a buyout with CVC that
would value the infrastructure company at more than 25 billion
euros, including debt, the Financial Times reported yesterday.
Criteria said in its statement that value figures for Abertis
appearing in press reports were not an agreed amount.  James Olley , a spokesman for London-based CVC, which manages a 10.8
billion-euro buyout fund, declined to comment.  
 “The described transaction is in the stage of analysis and
may not come about, be structured in a different way or be on a
different scale,” Criteria said.  
 In a leveraged buyout, a buyer funds its acquisition with
money borrowed in the target company’s name. The result is
typically a cut in credit ratings and a decline in the value of
the acquired company’s bonds.  
 Abertis  is ranked BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, the third-
lowest investment grade, and a step higher at A- by Fitch
Ratings.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Abertis debt jumped 27 basis
points to 402 basis points, the highest level since April 2009,
according to CMA DataVision. The contracts are used to speculate
on a company’s ability to repay debt, and an increase indicates
deterioration in the perception of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Abertis Infraestructuras SA Executive President Salvador Alemany. Photographer: Xabier Mikel Laburu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
