-- Abertis $8.8 Billion Loan Shows Bank Appetite for Mergers
-- Elisa Martinuzzi
-- 2010-07-07T16:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/abertis-8-9-billion-loan-shows-bank-appetite-for-mergers-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Banks committed as much as 7 billion
euros ($8.8 billion) in loans to fund the acquisition of Spain’s
 Abertis Infraestructuras SA  as lenders boost financing for
takeovers and shrug off concern that a slowing economy will
weaken credit markets.  
 The highway operator’s two main shareholders and buyout
firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd. are in talks with banks for the
biggest leveraged buyout financing commitment since May, when
Blackstone LP lined up $10 billion of debt to back a failed
takeover bid of  Fidelity National Information Services Inc.   
 “If this deal goes through, it shows that banks are
willing to offer funding for LBO-type transactions,”  Suki Mann ,
head of credit strategy at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote
in a note to clients.  
 The transaction may signal that banks from around the world
have diminished concern that Europe’s fiscal crisis will slow
the global economic recovery or that stress tests on the
region’s financial institutions will reveal inadequate capital.
In the U.S., lenders have provided $175.5 billion in financing
to high-yield, high-risk companies in 2010, compared with $167.8
billion in all of 2009.  
 Mediobanca SpA will syndicate the loan for Abertis to at
least 14 banks next week, according to two people familiar with
the plans who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  Criteria CaixaCorp SA , Actividades de Construccion y
Servicios SA and London-based CVC are considering a bid for all
of Abertis, Criteria and ACS said in filings to regulators. No
decision has been made on whether to proceed, said Criteria,
which owns 28.5 percent of Barcelona-based Abertis, and ACS,
which holds 25.8 percent.  
 Ending Rally  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, credit-default swaps tied to
U.S. investment-grade corporate debt fell for the fourth time in
five business days, indicating improving investor confidence,
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch reduced its estimate of
investment grade bond issuance to $700 billion from $800 billion
this year.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
slipped 1.9 basis points to a mid-price of 119.8 basis points at
11:53 a.m. in New York, according to index administrator Markit
Group Ltd.  
 Time Warner Inc.  may sell at least $1.5 billion of 5-,
10.5- and 30-year debt, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The notes may be sold as soon as today, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 European High Yield  
 European high-yield corporate bonds snapped the longest
winning streak in more than two weeks as doubts about the
strength of the economic recovery overshadowed yesterday’s
successful Spanish bond sale. Telefonica SA plans to sell as
much as 6 billion pesos ($463 million) of bonds in Mexico today.  
 The cost of insuring against losses on European
company debt fell, with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
default swaps on 50 mostly high-yield borrowers falling 2.43
basis points to 558.5 at noon in New York, according to Markit.
The index fell for the previous three days, signaling an
improvement in perceptions of credit quality and the longest run
of gains since June 21.  
 Credit-default swaps on Spanish debt pared yesterday’s
decline and advanced 1.5 basis points to 253.5, compared with
the all-time high closing price of 274.5 on May 6, CMA
DataVision prices show.  
 Spain Sale  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting
$10 million of debt.  
 Spain, which is struggling to plug the euro region’s third-
largest budget deficit, sold 6 billion euros of bonds due
October 2020 yesterday in its first issue through a bank
syndicate since February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The southern European nation’s new bonds fell in the
first day of trading after the Institute for Supply Management
said yesterday that  service industries  in the U.S. expanded more
slowly in June than forecast.  
 “I remain in the camp that’s concerned about medium-term
growth prospects but think that we’ll avoid a complete
meltdown,”  Gary Jenkins , a strategist at Evolutions Securities
Ltd. in London, wrote in a client note today.  
 Emerging Markets  
 In emerging markets, the extra yield investors demand to
own bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed 8 basis points to 329
basis points, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index. The
spread has ranged from a low this year of 229 on April 15 to as
high as 359 on May 25. Madrid-based Telefonica plans to split
its proposed offering between 10-year fixed-rate and four-year
variable rate bonds, it said in a filing with the Mexican stock
exchange.  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its forecast for U.S.
investment-grade debt sales in 2010 to $700 billion from $800
billion, citing growth in company cash balances.  
 U.S. corporate investment-grade bond issuance slowed to
$387.8 billion in the first half of this year, the least since
2005, amid concern among investors that Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis would spread, hampering the economic recovery. In
response to the recession, nonfinancial borrowers boosted cash
and equivalents from $814 billion in 2008 to $1 trillion in the
first quarter of this year, according to Bank of America data.  
 “Many issuers in high grade have flexibility to stay on
the sidelines because balance sheets have become increasingly
liquid over the past couple of years both for banks and
industrials,” Bank of America analysts  Hans Mikkelsen  and  Yuriy Shchuchinov  wrote yesterday in a report.  
 Buyout Lending  
 Lending to buyout firms slumped 85 percent to $7.5 billion
in Europe last year after credit markets seized up, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Banks shunned the riskiest borrowers
after taking $12.4 billion of writedowns on leveraged loans in
2008 and 2009.  
 With credit markets opening up, financing for takeovers is
more available. Private equity firms have agreed to $56.3
billion worth of LBOs this year, compared with $74.7 billion in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The Abertis loan will be distributed to banks as leveraged-
loan buyers in the U.S. have bought almost three times more of
the debt than a year ago even with borrowing costs at the
highest levels since Dec. 17, according to Standard & Poor’s
Leveraged Commentary and Data.  
 Mediobanca, along with UBS AG and Citigroup Inc., plan to
lend as much as 500 million euros each to fund the purchase,
according to the people. Raising a third of the money through
debt might push Abertis’ debt to 9.1 times its earnings, from
5.9 times, according to  Andrew Belton , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London.  
 Abertis Bonds  
 Abertis bonds fell on concern a takeover would pile on more
debt and lead to losses for investors, while shares jumped to
the highest in more than five months. Abertis’s 1 billion euros
of 4.625 percent notes due in 2016 dropped 1. 5 cent to a bid
price of 88.57 cents on the euro in London today, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc prices.  
 “There is a real risk of a potentially significant rise in
leverage,” Belton said in a note to clients. Belton’s estimate
assumes that the deal will be financed with 8 billion euros of
debt and 4 billion euros of equity.  
 UniCredit cut Abertis’s debt to “underweight” from
“overweight given the expected weakening credit profile and
expected negative rating actions in case of a successful
takeover by CVC and its partners,” the bank said in a note to
investors.  
 ‘Very Surprising’  
 In a leveraged buyout, a buyer funds its acquisition with
money borrowed in the target company’s name. The result is
typically a cut in credit ratings and a decline in the value of
the acquired company’s bonds.  Abertis  is ranked BBB+ by Standard
& Poor’s, the third-lowest investment grade, and a step higher
at A- by Fitch Ratings.  
 “It’s very surprising,” said  Prashant Agarwal , who helps
oversee 250 million euros in high-yield assets as a fund manager
at Pictet & Cie. in Geneva. “From a shareholder’s perspective
it makes sense. Are the credit markets ready to fund it? I’m not
too sure of that.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Abertis Loan Shows Bank Appetite for Mergers  
                       
                         
                           Xabier Mikel Laburu 
                         
                         Salvador Alemany, chief executive officer of Abertis Infraestructuras, speaks during a news conference in Barcelona. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Salvador Alemany, chief executive officer of Abertis Infraestructuras, speaks during a news conference in Barcelona. Photographer: Xabier Mikel Laburu  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
