-- Abertis Shares Rise as Main Investors Confirm Buyout Option Talks with CVC
-- Sharon Smyth
-- 2010-07-06T08:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/abertis-shares-rise-as-main-investors-confirm-buyout-option-talks-with-cvc.html

          
          
             Abertis Infrastructuras SA  climbed as
much as 6.2 percent in Madrid trading after its largest
shareholders said they’re in talks with CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. which could lead to a buyout of Spain’s largest highway
operator.  
 Abertis rose as much as 85 cents to 14.40 euros and traded
at 13.90 euros, up 2.3 percent, as of 9:44 a.m., extending
yesterday’s 12 percent gain and boosting the company’s market
value to 10.2 billion euros ($12.8 billion).  
 The two shareholders,  Criteria CaixaCorp SA  and Actividades
de Construccion y Servicios SA, are considering setting up a
company along with CVC that would bid for all of Abertis, ACS
and Criteria said in filings to regulators yesterday after
markets closed.  
 “Markets are doubting how the operation will be funded and
until there’s some clarification on that point the shares won’t
react further,” said  Guillermo Escribano , a fund manager at
Metagestion SGIIC SA in Madrid, who oversees 50 million euros.
“Neither of the sellers is distressed so this could take some
time.”  
 If a joint company is set up to bid for Abertis, it would
acquire a “very substantial part” of shareholdings controlled
by Criteria and ACS, with a view to bidding for the remaining
shares at the same price it paid, Criteria said in its filing.  
 Leveraged Buyout  
 No decision has been made on whether to proceed, according
to Criteria, which owns 28.5 percent of Barcelona-based Abertis,
and ACS, which holds 25.8 percent.  
 “The described transaction is in the stage of analysis and
may not come about, be structured in a different way or be on a
different scale,” Criteria said.  
 Abertis’s two main shareholders are considering a leveraged
buyout with CVC that would value the infrastructure company at
more than 25 billion euros, including debt, the Financial Times
reported yesterday. Criteria said in its statement that value
figures for Abertis appearing in press reports were not an
agreed amount.  James Olley , a spokesman for CVC, declined to
comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        