-- Africa Gold Rush May Wane for Vodafone, Bharti as Margins Slip
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-07-07T07:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/african-glory-days-may-wane-for-vodafone-bharti-as-mobile-profits-cool.html

          
          
             Vodafone Group Plc ,  France Telecom SA 
and Bharti Airtel Ltd., which spent at least $18 billion on
deals in Africa and the Middle East in the last two years, may
face lower margins in the world’s fastest-growing phone markets.  
 Countries with as many as 11 operators, falling tariffs, a
shrinking pool of new customers who can pay the bills and
unpredictable government regulation are weighing on profit for
companies operating in Africa.  
 “The next round of growth in Africa is not as profitable
as the first stage, and the difference is quite dramatic,” said
 Mike Dunning , a managing director at Fitch Ratings in London.
“You hit a certain point where you’ve got all the juicy
subscribers covered, and you have to mine the people who can’t
really afford the service.”  
 Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, had 11 mobile
operators at the end of 2009, compared with about four in
European countries. In Tanzania, tariffs fell by 80 percent in
the 18 months to May, according to Vodafone’s South African
unit,  Vodacom Group Ltd .  
 European companies haven’t been deterred because revenue
gains in Africa are still faster than stagnant or slowing growth
at home. France Telecom Chief Executive Officer  Stephane Richard 
said in April the Paris-based company may spend as much as 7
billion euros ($8.8 billion) on deals in Africa and the Middle
East in the next five years.  
 Still Growing  
 Vodafone is targeting sub-Saharan Africa as one of three
“priority areas” for expansion, and  Vivendi SA  has built up
its Maroc Telecom unit with deals in Mali and Burkina Faso.  
 “Five years ago, it took half a year to recover
investments in infrastructure for new clients,” said  Marc Rennard , the head of France Telecom’s African and Middle Eastern
operations. “Now it’s more than two years, but that’s still
pretty good.”  
 Services revenue in Africa, which grew 3.4 percent to $48.7
billion last year, will rise 2.9 percent this year and 7.9
percent next year, according to market researcher  Gartner Inc. 
The region is still one of the largest untapped mobile-phone
markets with about 300 million unsigned subscribers as of last
year. Still, operators expanding with those growth rates in
sight may be less willing to pay rich premiums for assets.  
 Bharti  paid $9 billion, or about 10 times annual earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, for
Zain’s African assets. The assets had also had been considered
by Vivendi before it balked at the price.  
 ‘Gold Rush’  
 “Except in a truly special case, we wouldn’t be prepared
to pay 10 times Ebitda for a target,” France Telecom CEO
Richard said on July 5.  
 Vodacom had also been in talks with Zain “long before
Bharti,” said  Pieter Uys , Vodacom’s CEO. It walked away from
the price “knowing the businesses, knowing the countries,
knowing the opportunities,” he said. Vodacom would pay as much
as six or seven times earnings for the right assets, Chief
Financial Officer  Rob Shuter  said.  
 “The glory days and gold rush are over to some extent,”
said Dave Hagedorn, a former mergers and acquisitions executive
at Zain’s Celtel unit.  
 Few large deals remain on the continent.  MTN Group Ltd., 
Africa’s largest mobile-phone company, last month halted talks
to purchase $10 billion of assets from Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE after Algeria’s government blocked a sale of the company’s
local unit, the most profitable in the portfolio.  
 Shortage of Assets  
 Africa has “a serious shortage of available assets,” with
multinational companies already controlling many operators, said
 David Lerche , an analyst at Avior Research in Cape Town. “There
is no country that stands out with a high GDP and a high
population to be a big, exciting, worthwhile acquisition.”  
 Kinnevik Investment AB’s  Millicom International Cellular
SA , with operations from Chad to Tanzania, may be “the only
real possibility to buy something that is more or less
worthwhile,” Lerche said.  
 Millicom Chief Executive Officer  Mikael Grahne  said in an
interview in May that Africa has too many licenses and that the
Luxembourg-based company may sell units that can’t be among the
top two operators in their countries.  
 With multiple companies in markets, profit margins have
been sliding. In Sierra Leone, the margins of Mobile
Telecommunications Co., known as Zain, tumbled to 7 percent in
the nine months to September 2009 from 26 percent in the year-
earlier period. MTN’s Ebitda margins slipped to 41 percent last
year from about 44 percent in 2007.  
 Growth Needed  
 “We do not want to deteriorate our Ebitda ratio, but we
need growth,” France Telecom’s Rennard said. Margins in Africa
are higher than those in Europe, according to CEO Richard.  
 Bharti will invest about $600 million over three years in
Nigeria, the company’s Africa CEO  Manoj Kohli  told reporters in
Lagos yesterday. Half of that amount will be spent in the first
year in the West African state, where Bharti bought Zain’s
assets.  
 In addition, mobile companies are grappling with the
operational challenges in some of the world’s poorest countries.  
 Operators also face mercurial governments and partners. In
October, a government-commissioned body in Ghana recommended
renegotiating the sale in 2008 of a 70 percent stake in Ghana
Telecommunications Co. to Vodafone. The U.K. company in April
said it will begin arbitration proceedings after shareholders in
its Democratic Republic of Congo venture failed to reach
agreement on issues including a capital restructuring.  
 Governments, Regulations  
 Tanzania last month told Bharti it needs to hold a second
round of talks with the government over its purchase of Zain’s
unit in the country. Countries from South Africa to Nigeria are
also pushing for registration of mobile users and slashing
interconnection rates, both weighing on profit margins.  
 At the same time operators are rarely able to build a loyal
customer base.  
 More than 95 percent of African mobile subscribers pre-paid
for their service last year, the highest proportion of any
region in the world. With no penalty for switching operators,
between four and six percent do so every month, costing the
African mobile industry about $11.4 billion annually, according
to consulting firm Green Giraffe.  
 To lower churn, operators could try to sell African
consumers long-term data plans, analysts say. Doing so will mean
selling higher-end phones and subscriptions to consumers
accustomed to cheap, pre-paid voice and text service.  
 “Mobile data is the next area, and that’s yet to be
tested,” Nick Jotischky, an analyst at  Informa Telecoms &
Media , said by phone. While the most promising value-added
service is mobile banking like that offered by  Safaricom Ltd  in
Kenya, “no one’s been able to replicate it entirely,” he said.  
 Value-added services will be marginal for the foreseeable
future as underserved rural areas are connected, said Rosalind
Craven, an analyst at Business Monitor International in London.  
 “All growth is at the bottom of the market,” making cost
control critical for operators, she said. “Previously, this was
ignored in a mad scramble to expand.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman talks on the phone infront in a market in Abidjan on June 23, 2009. The African market for mobile telephones has since 2002 shown the "fastest growth rate in the world", according to a survey conducted by business consultancy Ernst Young and published Monday.  "Since 2002, the African market has seen a growth rate of 49.3 percent, where the French market has only seen 7.5 percent a year, compared with 28 percent in Brazil and 27.4 percent in Asia, said the report released in Abidjan. Photographer: Issouf Sanogo/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
