-- AgriBank Said to Raise $19.2 Billion in H.K., Shanghai IPO
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-07T13:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/agribank-said-to-raise-19-2-billion-in-hong-kong-shanghai-initial-sale.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  is
raising at least $19.2 billion in what may become the world’s
biggest initial public offering, according to two people with
knowledge of the pricing and a company filing in Shanghai.  
 China’s largest lender  by customers priced its Hong Kong
shares at HK$3.20 apiece yesterday after the stock was offered
for HK$2.88 to HK$3.48, said the two people, who declined to be
identified before a public announcement is made. The Beijing-
based company is selling 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai at 2.68
yuan (40 cents) each, the top of its range, it said in a
statement to the city’s stock exchange.  
 Chairman  Xiang Junbo  overcame a stock market rout that
drove the  Shanghai Composite Index  to a 15-month low this week
and led companies to shelve almost 50 IPOs worldwide in the past
three months. The lender can expand the sale to $22.1 billion
using an overallotment option, allowing it to surpass  Industrial
& Commercial Bank of China Ltd.’s  $21.9 billion IPO in 2006.  
 “Given market conditions, they should be pleased” with
the pricing, said  Uri Landesman , president of New York-based
hedge fund Platinum Partners LLP, which oversees about $525
million. “It sends out a mildly reassuring message about how
global investors feel about the market in general and the
greater China area in particular.”  
 Agricultural Bank also had to contend with concern that a
real-estate slump in China may cause delinquent debts to surge,
curbing earnings at banks after they extended a  record  $1.4
trillion of new loans last year.  
 Property Market  
 Kenneth Rogoff , the Harvard University professor and former
chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, said
yesterday that China’s property market is beginning a
“collapse” that will hit the nation’s banking system.  
 Agricultural Bank is selling a 15 percent stake before the
overallotment. The lender today authorized the sale’s arrangers
to exercise the option to sell more shares in Shanghai,
increasing that part of the IPO by as much as 15 percent to meet
excess demand. Investors ordered 9.76 times more shares than
were offered to them, the bank said in the statement.  
 The IPO values the company at $126 billion, making it the
world’s eighth-largest lender by market capitalization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The pricing is “impressive just given the economic
picture, the recent IPO market and some of the concerns coming
out of China and the property market,” said  Timothy Cunningham ,
who helps oversee $57 billion at Thornburg Investment Management
in Santa Fe, New Mexico. “When you get deals that are this
large, it takes a lot of demand to move that stock.”  
 Cornerstone Investors  
 Xiang lured investors from Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund to
 Standard Chartered Plc  to help support the offering. Such
buyers, commonly referred to as cornerstone investors, accounted
for more than half of the $10.43 billion Hong Kong sale -- a
larger share than in any other major Chinese bank’s IPO.  
 Set up in 1951 by  Mao Zedong  to finance rural cooperatives,
Agricultural Bank was the first Chinese commercial lender
established during Communist rule. It was the last major state
bank to go through restructuring, receiving a bailout valued at
about $139 billion in 2008.  
 Agricultural Bank, with 320 million customers and 23,624
outlets in China, made a record 1 trillion yuan of new loans
last year, more than the gross domestic product of New Zealand.  
 The company’s overall non-performing loan ratio stood at
2.91 percent as of Dec. 31, the highest among China’s largest
lenders. Of loans to property developers, 3.47 percent were
listed as delinquent at the end of last year.  
 Agricultural Bank spokeswoman Ding Yuan didn’t answer calls
made to her mobile phone.  
 ‘Unique Operation’  
 Agricultural Bank’s Hong Kong price represents 1.65 times
forecast book value, the people said. That compares with 2.1
times for ICBC, 2 times for  China Construction Bank Corp. , and
1.54 times for  Bank of China Ltd .  
 The valuation discount to peers narrowed since Agricultural
Bank set its price range as shares of Chinese banks retreated.  
 “They’ve cleverly kept the price range realistic from the
start, and they recognize that the market is not the best market
environment,” said  Julian Mayo , who helps oversee $3 billion as
investment director at Charlemagne Capital in London. “This is
a unique operation. It’s got a huge footprint and a huge number
of clients. As it becomes more and more efficient, it will be
something that we want to participate in.”  
 Agricultural Bank set aside $5.45 billion of the Hong Kong
offering for corporate investors, according to a June filing.
Corporate, or cornerstone, buyers are guaranteed shares in IPOs
in exchange for a pledge to hold the stock for a certain period.  
 Qatar, Kuwait  
 Qatar Investment Authority agreed to invest $2.8 billion
and Kuwait Investment Authority said it would buy $800 million
of shares. Standard Chartered, the bank that gets most of its
profit from Asia, will invest about $500 million in the IPO.  
 China International Capital Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Macquarie Group
Ltd. and  Morgan Stanley  were hired to arrange the Hong Kong
portion of the IPO, along with Agricultural Bank’s investment-
banking unit.  
 CICC, Citic Securities Co., China Galaxy Securities Co. and
Guotai Junan Securities Co. are managing Agricultural Bank’s
yuan-denominated A-share offering.  
 Companies may raise about 500 billion yuan in IPOs in
Shanghai and Shenzhen this year, making China the world’s
biggest market for first-time sales, PricewaterhouseCoopers said
on July 5. The 180 companies that went public in China this year
have climbed an average 7.8 percent from their IPO price, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Rivals’ Fundraising  
 In addition, Agricultural Bank’s four largest rivals --
ICBC, Construction Bank, Bank of China and  Bank of
Communications Co.  -- have announced plans to raise a total of
as much as $34.4 billion by selling bonds and shares. The
lenders are seeking to restore capital eroded by record lending
and comply with stricter rules governing financial strength.  
 Bank of China said on July 2 it plans to raise as much as
60 billion yuan in a rights offer. The Beijing-based lender
completed the sale of 40 billion yuan of convertible bonds in
June.  
 ICBC is seeking to raise as much as 45 billion yuan in a
rights offer, Hong Kong’s Ming Pao Daily News reported today,
citing unidentified people.  
 -- Cathy Chan ,  Bei Hu ,  Luo Jun . With assistance from  Yidi Zhao  in Beijing,  Zijing Wu  in London and  Lee Spears ,  Kristen Scholer  and  Michael Tsang  in New York. Editors:  Ben Richardson ,
 Daniel Hauck .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6629 or
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6633 or
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       AgriBank Said to Raise $19.2 Billion in H.K., Shanghai IPO  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Xiang Junbo, chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Xiang Junbo, chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Liu Yang, chairwoman of Atlantis Investment Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, talks about Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s initial public offering.
     Agricultural Bank is raising at least $19.2 billion in what may become the world’s biggest IPO, according to people with knowledge of the pricing for Hong Kong and Shanghai. Liu speaks from Hong Kong with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Paul Allen reports on the outlook for 
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd's initial public offering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
