-- AgriBank Said to Raise $8.79 Billion in Shanghai Part of IPO, Top of Range
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-06T14:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/agribank-said-to-raise-8-79-billion-in-shanghai-part-of-ipo.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ,
China’s largest lender by customers, priced shares in the
Shanghai part of its initial public offering at 2.68 yuan apiece,
the top end of the offered range, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  
 The mainland’s portion of the offering raised 59.6 billion
yuan ($8.79 billion), based on the number of shares the lender
was offering. The price of the Hong Kong portion has not yet
been set, the people said, declining to be identified before an
announcement.  
 Selling the 25.4 billion shares on offer in the Hong Kong
part of the sale at HK$3.15 apiece or higher may make the IPO
the world’s biggest. The sale is coinciding with an equities
rout that saw  Shanghai’s benchmark index  fall to a 15-month low
this week. Chairman  Xiang Junbo  brought in investors including
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund and Standard Chartered Plc for the
Hong Kong offering.  
 Agricultural bank’s spokeswoman Ding Yuan didn’t answer
calls made to her mobile phone.  
 In wooing investors, Agricultural Bank also had to overcome
concerns that a real estate slump could cause delinquent debts
to surge, hurting banks after they extended a  record  $1.4
trillion of new loans last year.  
 Kenneth Rogoff , the Harvard University professor and former
chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, warned today
that China’s property market is beginning a “collapse” that
will hit the nation’s banking system, echoing views from Fitch
Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Chairman Mao  
 Set up in 1951 by  Mao Zedong  to finance rural cooperatives,
Agricultural Bank was the first Chinese commercial lender
established during Communist rule. It was the last major state
bank to go through restructuring, receiving a bailout valued at
about $139 billion in 2008.  
 Agricultural Bank, with 320 million customers and 23,624
outlets in China, made a record 1 trillion yuan of new loans
last year, more than the gross domestic product of New Zealand.
Its overall non-performing loan ratio stood at 2.91 percent as
of Dec. 31, the highest among China’s largest lenders.  
 Of loans to property developers, 3.47 percent were listed
as delinquent at the end of last year.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top financial stories: FTOP <GO>
Stories on China Banks: TNI CHINA BNK <GO>
Equity Offerings: IPO <GO>
Stories on China share sales: TNI CHINA NEWSTK <GO>
China Banks Overview: 1398 HK <Equity> RVC <GO>  
          
          


  


        