-- Thai Cabinet Extends State of Emergency in Bangkok for Three More Months
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-07-06T08:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/thai-cabinet-extends-state-of-emergency-in-bangkok-for-three-more-months.html

          
          
             Thailand’s Cabinet extended emergency
rule in a quarter of the country, including Bangkok, for another
three months after using troops to disperse opposition
protesters in May, Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said.  
 The government kept the decree in 19 of 76  provinces , down
from 24 earlier, Abhisit said. The special law, in place in
Bangkok for 91 days, gives security officials immunity and
permits detentions for 30 days without charge.  
 “We want to bring the situation to normalcy, but there are
still movements now,” Abhisit said. “So we need a tool to take
care of the situation and restore order.”  
 The extension may deter overseas investors after gun
battles between troops and demonstrators seeking an immediate
election claimed at least 89 lives in April and May. The
government has used the decree to investigate opposition
financial transactions and close media outlets.  
 “The emergency decree indicates that the political
situation in Thailand remains unstable,”  Therdsak Thaveeteeratham , an analyst at Asia Plus Securities Pcl, told a
conference in Bangkok today. It’s “the main reason that will
discourage overseas investors from returning,” he said.  
 Foreign investors have sold $585 million more of Thai
stocks than they bought this year, the most in Asia after Taiwan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Thailand’s  SET Index 
increased 0.6 percent as of 2:58 p.m. in Bangkok.  
 Auto Investments  
 The political violence has failed to deter automakers  Ford
Motor Co. , General Motors Co. and Mitsubishi Motors Corp., all
of which announced plans to build new factories in Thailand in
the past month. Visitors are also returning, Tourism Minister
 Chumpol Silapa-Archa  said.  
 “Tourist arrivals are rising,” he told reporters in
Bangkok today. “Everybody gets used to it and understands our
situation.”  
 Abhisit has set up at least five committees to work on
political reforms to bring reconciliation before his term
expires at the end of 2011. Many of his opponents, supported by
billionaire former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , are under
detention after their protests for a new election turned violent.  
 “We don’t know the number, names and whereabouts of the
people in detention” under the emergency decree, said  Sunai Phasuk , a senior researcher at New York-based  Human Rights Watch .
“There is no transparency and no accountability.”  
 Thaksin, ousted in a 2006 coup, fled Thailand in 2008 to
avoid a two-year jail sentence for abuse of power. Parties
linked to him have won the past four elections on strong support
from poorer areas of Bangkok and the country’s northern regions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Ten Kate  at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        