-- Thai Cabinet Endorses Kasikornbank Chief Prasarn as Central Bank Governor
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-07-06T06:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/thai-cabinet-endorses-kasikornbank-chief-prasarn-as-central-bank-governor.html

          
          
             Thailand’s government plans to
appoint  Prasarn Trairatvorakul , President of Kasikornbank Pcl,
as central bank governor to guide an economy emerging from the
nation’s worst political violence in almost two decades.  
 The Cabinet agreed to propose Prasarn, 57, to head the Bank
of Thailand for the next five years, Information and
Communication Technology Minister  Chuti Krairiksh  confirmed
after the Cabinet meeting today. The appointment must be
endorsed by Thailand’s King  Bhumibol Adulyadej .  
 “He will make a great governor with his experience in the
private sector,”  Pornthep Jubandhu , an economist at Siam
Commercial Bank Pcl, said before today’s Cabinet decision. “The
challenge that the new governor will face is raising interest
rates without disrupting the ongoing recovery.”  
 The central bank’s 22nd governor will replace  Tarisa Watanagase , whose term ends in September, and inherit an economy
hurt last quarter by political clashes that claimed 89 lives.
The  Bank of Thailand , which has kept its  benchmark interest rate 
at 1.25 percent at the past nine meetings, said this month it
will consider raising borrowing costs after the unrest ended
without derailing the economic recovery.  
 “The most important thing for the new governor is he must
stand straight for the country’s benefit and be down to earth,”
Tarisa said today. Prasarn “is a suitable person and well
experienced, especially on bank management,” she said.  
 Private Sector Experience  
 Prasarn is the only one of four candidates to come directly
from the private sector. He worked for the central bank for nine
years, followed by 11 years at the  Securities & Exchange
Commission .  
 He left the government and joined Kasikornbank, the
nation’s third-biggest commercial lender by assets, in 2004, and
was elected chairman of the Thai Bankers’ Association earlier
this year. He received a doctorate in Business Administration
from Harvard Business School in 1981.  
 “Prasarn is well-rounded, with experiences both from the
regulatory side and from the private sector,” said  Payungsak Chartsutipol , chairman of the Federation of Thai Industries.
“This will strengthen the Bank of Thailand’s team in outlining
monetary policy as well as managing interest rates and foreign
exchange.”  
 The other candidates were Deputy Governor Bandid
Nijathaworn,  Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala , head of the
 Securities & Exchange Commission , and  Pisit Leeahtam , a former
deputy finance minister.  
 Rates May Rise  
 Thailand has refrained from joining Taiwan, Malaysia, India
and Australia in raising borrowing costs this year, choosing to
maintain its benchmark rate at 1.25 percent in June as local
political unrest and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis threatened
the economy.  
 The nation’s  economy  may grow between 5 percent and 6
percent this year, Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva said today.  
 Tarisa, the outgoing governor, said today the central bank
may raise its benchmark interest rate this year amid concern
government stimulus spending and a rebound in the nation’s
economy could cause inflation to accelerate.  
 “Government subsidy programs will delay the acceleration
of inflation, but the factors that drive inflation haven’t
changed,” Tarisa said. “This will make policy decisions
slightly harder.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        