-- Taiwan's Biggest Companies to Gain as China's Wage Costs Rise, Fubon Says
-- Weiyi Lim
-- 2010-07-06T02:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/taiwan-s-biggest-companies-to-gain-as-costs-increase-in-china-fubon-says.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s biggest companies that were
the first to set up plants in China are expected to boost market
share and edge out smaller competitors as wage costs rise in the
country, the island’s second-best performing fund manager said.  
 China’s labor costs are expected to rise as cities
including Beijing raised minimum wages, while Taipei-based
 Foxconn Technology Group  is doubling salaries at some factories
to 2,000 yuan ($295) a month after a spate of suicides. Expenses
may also climb as the country’s central bank increased the
flexibility of its exchange rate last month after pegging the
yuan to the dollar since mid-2008.1  
 “As the costs accelerate, companies will need to automate
or move the plants to cheaper countries,”  Hsu-Cheng Fu , who
helps oversee the equivalent of $310 million at Fubon Asset
Management Co., said today in Taipei. “These Taiwan companies
have the capital, they can afford to do so and smaller companies
get eliminated,” he said, declining to name specific stocks.  
 Taiwanese-controlled businesses, which make iPhones,
Playstations and instant noodles, have invested an estimated
$200 billion in China, according to President  Ma Ying-jeou .
These companies face the effects of rising costs as well as
benefits from a trade agreement the island signed with China
last week that marks the warmest ties between the two since they
were separated by a civil war six decades ago.  
 Foxconn , the world’s largest contract maker of electronics,
said last month it’s hiring 100,000 workers in China to add to
its 800,000 workforce in the country, while  Compal Electronics
Inc. , the biggest laptop manufacturer, said in June it may add
more factories in the mainland.  
 Automation  
 Foxconn, Compal and other Taiwanese technology companies
account for 11 percent of China’s  electronics exports , according
to the  Taiwan Institute of Economic Research .  Terry Gou ,
chairman of Foxconn, said last month he plans to combat the
higher wage costs in China by boosting automation and raising
efficiency.  
 The trade agreement with China will also help boost Taiwan
stocks, said Hsu, 35, whose  Fubon Aggressive Growth Fund  is the
second-best performing Taiwan equities fund in the past year.
The island’s benchmark Taiex Index has fallen 9.1 percent this
year, the second-worst performer in Asia excluding Japan.  
 “China’s market is much bigger than ours,” Hsu, who has
managed the fund since April 2009, said in an interview. “We
have much more to benefit from the deal.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Founder and Chairman of Hon Hai Group Terry Gou is surrounded by the media at the company's Foxconn plant in Shenzhen. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Susan Li reports on employee wage increases at Foxconn Technology Group after the company was criticized for contributing to worker suicides at its plants.
     Foxconn, the manufacturer of Apple Inc. iPhones and Hewlett-Packard Co. computers, said for the second time in less than a week that it will raise wages, more than doubling base salaries at its Shenzhen factories within four months. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
