-- Malaysia May Consider Third Rate Increase as Asia Splits on Economic Risks
-- Michael Munoz
-- 2010-07-07T05:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/malaysia-may-consider-third-rate-increase-as-asia-splits-on-economic-risks.html

          
          
             Malaysia will consider tomorrow
whether to raise interest rates for a third time this year as
policy makers across Asia weigh the risks of faster inflation
against threats to the global economic recovery.  
 Half of the 20 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey 
predict Bank Negara Malaysia will increase its  benchmark
overnight policy rate  to 2.75 percent from 2.5 percent tomorrow,
while the other half expect no change. The central bank raised
borrowing costs by a combined half a percentage point in March
and May.  
 The split among economists mirrors a divergence between
countries that are refraining from raising borrowing costs, such
as Indonesia and the Philippines, and those that lifted rates in
recent weeks, including India and Taiwan. A third increase would
give Malaysia, among the first to act this year, more
flexibility to reduce rates should the global rebound falter.  
 “Malaysia’s economic conditions warrant Bank Negara
raising rates again and we think they will pause after another
25 basis-point increase,” said  Ho Woei Chen , a regional
economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “At 2.75
percent, it will give them room to cut rates if the global
environment worsens.”  
 The ringgit dropped 0.3 percent to 3.2155 per dollar at
1:05 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, after touching a two-week high of
3.1992, Bloomberg data showed. Benchmark five-year bonds rose
for a third day, pushing yields to the lowest since April 2009.  
 Trimming Deficits  
 Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  raised the benchmark rate from a
record low this year, calling it a “normalization” rather than
a tightening of policy, as economic growth surged to the fastest
pace in at least a decade in the first quarter.  
 Governments in Europe are embarking on austerity programs
to trim budget deficits and households in some of the world’s
largest economies are holding back spending, suggesting the
global rebound from last year’s recession may slow. Stock
markets have tumbled amid signs the recovery is losing steam and
more than $7.5 trillion has been wiped from equities worldwide
since this year’s high on April 15.  
 Malaysia’s  economic growth  may slow in the second half of
the year because of “external factors,” Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said yesterday. Exports by companies such as Sime Darby
Bhd. and Unisem (M) Bhd. rose at the slowest pace in three
months in May as sales to Europe and China eased.  
 “With the clouds of Eurozone worries hanging over the
horizon and export activities probably now past their better
days for at least the next few months, we anticipate the central
bank will become more cautious,” said  Wellian Wiranto , an
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Singapore.  
 Not a Concern  
 Zeti said last month inflation is currently “not a
concern.” In contrast, India has raised interest rates three
times since mid-March to contain price increases.  
 Malaysia’s  consumer prices  rose 1.6 percent in May, the
biggest increase in a year. Inflation is forecast to average 2
percent to 2.5 percent this year, accelerating from 0.6 percent
in 2009, according to the central bank.  
 Inflation may become a problem for Asian nations should
they continue to refrain from raising rates,  Kenneth Rogoff , the
Harvard University professor and ex-International Monetary Fund
chief economist, said at a conference in Hong Kong yesterday.  
 Indonesia, Australia  
 Bank Indonesia kept  borrowing costs  unchanged at a meeting
this week, while the Bank of Korea may do the same when its
policy makers gather July 9, according to 10 of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia left rates unchanged at its
last two meetings after six increases since early October. The
decision to return borrowing costs to “average” levels in May
has given policy makers “the flexibility to await information
on how the recent market uncertainty might affect the global
economy,” the bank said in the minutes of its June meeting.  
 Standard Chartered Plc and Citigroup Inc. are among those
expecting the Malaysian central bank to keep rates unchanged for
the rest of 2010 after raising rates tomorrow.  
 “This is a close call,” said  Kit Wei Zheng , an economist
at Citigroup in Singapore. “We think a last 25 basis points’
hike would strike the balance between policy normalization, yet
leaving rates sufficiently accommodative to support growth.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        