-- Amar'e Stoudemire Says He'll Sign Free-Agent Contract With New York Knicks
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-07-06T06:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/amar-e-stoudemire-says-he-will-sign-free-agent-contract-with-ny-knicks.html

          
          
             Amar’e Stoudemire  was wearing a New
York Knicks cap when he announced where he will sign a free-
agent contract.  
 Stoudemire, 27, a forward who has spent his eight-year
National Basketball Association career with the Phoenix Suns,
said he will join the Knicks and be reunited with coach  Mike D’Antoni .  
 “The Knicks are back, it’s definitely great to be a part
of a beautiful organization,” he told reporters yesterday after
meeting with team officials. “Looking to build something
special here.”  
 Stoudemire said one of his first jobs with his new team
will be to help recruit other free agents, including  LeBron James . Stoudemire said he will phone and text James “and see if
he wants to join me here in New York.”  
 The five-time All-Star will get a five-year, $99.7 million
contract from the Knicks, ESPN.com reported. Teams may not sign
players or discuss possible contracts publicly until July 8.  
 “The fact that Amar’e really wanted to come here and
stepped up front, it got to the point that we had to acknowledge
that,” Knicks President  Donnie Walsh  said. “That means
something to us.”  
 James scrimmaged yesterday at his Nike basketball camp in
his hometown of Akron, Ohio, taking a break from his meetings
with teams bidding to sign him.  
 James, 25, isn’t expected to announce before the end of the
camp on July 7 where he will play next season, ESPN reported.
The two-time reigning Most Valuable Player, who has spent his 
seven-year NBA career with the Cleveland Cavaliers, is being 
courted by the Knicks, Chicago Bulls, New Jersey Nets, Miami 
Heat and Los Angeles Clippers as well as the Cavaliers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        