-- Anchor Ship Investment May Buy First Iron-Ore Vessels on Chinese Demand
-- Kiyotaka Matsuda
-- 2010-07-06T01:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/anchor-ship-investment-may-buy-first-iron-ore-vessels-on-chinese-demand.html

          
          
             Anchor Ship Investment Co. , Japan’s
largest ship-fund manager, said it may spend part of a planned
200 billion yen ($2.3 billion) fund on its first dry-bulk
vessels in anticipation of a rebound in Chinese iron-ore demand.  
 The company plans to start raising money for the new fund
in September, President  Hajime Tsuji  said in an interview in
Tokyo yesterday. The new investment vehicle may make an average
annual return of 10 percent a year over 10 years, he said.  
 Anchor Ship plans to add dry-bulk vessels even as the
 Baltic Dry Index , a measure of commodity-freight rates, suffers
its longest decline in almost five years because of a glut of
ships. The fund expects a revival as China’s economic growth
spurs demand for steel to make cars, buildings and railways.  
 “China’s growth indicates that demand for transportation
from Australia and Brazil will increase,” Tsuji said. “We
don’t know if we can make money over three years but over 10
years we should be able to make a 10 percent average annual
return.”  
 The company owns 10 ships, including container vessels,
very large crude carriers, a chemical tanker, a car carrier and
a liquefied petroleum gas tanker, Tsuji said. The ships are
leased to Japanese lines, including  Nippon Yusen K.K. , the
nation’s largest shipping line by sales. The new fund may lease
vessels to overseas operators, he said.  
 Anchor Ship raised just less than 200 billion yen for its
first fund, which it started in May 2007, Tsuji said. He
declined to comment on the fund’s performance.  
 The Baltic Dry Index fell for a 27th straight day yesterday
in London, dropping 2.8 percent. The index has declined 47
percent during its losing streak, which is the longest since
August 2005.  
 Imports of iron ore in China, the world’s biggest buyer,
declined from a year earlier in both April and May, according to
customs data tracked by Bloomberg. In the first five months, the
 tally  rose 8.4 percent to 262 million tons.  
 The nation’s economy may grow 9.5 percent this year leading
a 3.3 percent expansion in the global economy, according to the
World Bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        