-- Apple Studies iTunes User Downloads to Hone Mobile Ads
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-06T20:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/apple-studies-150-million-itunes-users-habits-to-hone-ads-combat-google.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. , with a storehouse of
billions of music, movie and software downloads, is studying the
buying habits of many of its 150 million iTunes users to show
more appealing mobile ads and fuel competition with Google Inc.  
 Through the iAd program that began last week, Apple started
placing ads in iPhone applications for the first time. Early iAd
clients include  Nissan Motor Co. , Unilever NV,  JC Penney Co. ,
 Best Buy Co.  and AT&T Inc.  
 At stake is leadership in mobile ads, forecast by EMarketer
Inc. to almost triple to $1.56 billion in 2013. Google, which
gained the biggest share of online advertising by placing ads
based on PC-Web surfing habits, may use that tack to widen a
lead on handheld devices. Examining consumers’ entertainment and
software purchases may give Apple an advantage, says Rachel
Pasqua, director of mobile at marketing firm  ICrossing .  
 “Apple knows what you’ve downloaded, how much time you
spend interacting with applications and knows even what you’ve
downloaded, don’t like and deleted,” said Pasqua, whose clients
include  Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Mazda Motor Corp.  She isn’t
currently working with Apple on iAd campaigns.  
 Relying on the music, videos and apps that customers are
downloading from its iTunes, App Store and iBooks helps Apple
sketch a behavioral profile that can be paired with appropriate
promotional messages. On its  website , Apple says its “standard
targeting options” include demographics, application
preferences, music passions, movie genre interests, television
genre interests and location.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, climbed $1.69 to
$248.63 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .
It has  gained  18 percent this year.  
 ‘Surgical’ Targeting  
 Unilever, which began working with Apple in May on a
campaign for its  Dove Men+Care  soap, is using iAd to zero in on
married men who are in their late 30s and have children.  
 “Apple then overlays that with the iTunes information and
targets quite well and quite surgically,” said Rob Candelino,
marketing director at Unilever, based in London and Rotterdam.  
 Apple doesn’t share information on individuals, Candelino
said. Instead,  Unilever  can choose to advertise in certain
“buckets” of applications, such as those on news or
entertainment, based on characteristics of its users.  
 “The leading global brands we’re working with are
developing iAds timed with their seasonal marketing campaigns,
such as back to school and the holiday shopping season,” said
Apple spokeswoman  Trudy Muller . “We’re just taking our first
few steps. We’ll work our way up to walking and running as this
year progresses.” IAd was announced in April.  
 5 Billion Downloads  
 U.S. mobile advertising spending will grow 43 percent this
year to $593 million, according to EMarketer. The business will
grow almost threefold more by 2013, reaching $1.56 billion, the
New York-based research firm said.  
 The ads are being integrated into some of the 225,000
applications created for Apple’s online App Store. Users have
downloaded more than 5 billion of them, according to Apple. The
iAd system will be rolled out later this year to the iPad, which
sold more than 3 million units in its first 80 days.  
 Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  said at a
conference last month that the company had sold more than $60
million in advertising since the iAd platform was introduced in
April. That’s about half the mobile display-ad market, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Google, which this year bought mobile-ad network AdMob,
doesn’t report what portion of sales comes from mobile. Google
and AdMob may generate more than $100 million in U.S. mobile-ad
sales in 2010, says IDC in Framingham, Massachusetts.  
 Google’s Strengths  
 From early on, Google has honed an ability to make ads
relevant to users. As it rolls out mobile-ad strategies, the
company could tap a wealth of information on how people use Web
search, e-mail and software available via the  Android  mobile
operating system, said  Michael Collins , chief executive officer
of mobile-ad agency Joule Inc.  
 “The question that many of us in the industry are very
curious about is how much of that data will Google be making
available to target,” said Collins, whose agency is a part of
 WPP Plc . “The more available data, the better the targeting.”  
 Apple appeals to a “premium” audience because of the cost
of its products, while Google can reach a broader market because
its Android operating system is on more devices, said Noah
Elkin, an  analyst  at EMarketer.  
 “It boils down to the exclusivity of Apple and the
customer you can target that way, versus the breadth that you
have with Google,” he said.  
 ‘Hype and Buzz’  
 Some marketers are skeptical that  Apple’s success  in
selling gadgets will translate to advertising. Apple hasn’t
proven that its platform will result in more effective ads that
are worth the investment, said Thom Kennon, vice president of
strategy at Wunderman, whose clients include Campbell Soup Co.  
 “Right now it’s hype and buzz more than reality,” he
said. “There are just not that many people with iPhones in
their pockets or iPads in their hands to consume this
advertising.”  
 Companies that opt for iAd, though, say they’re drawn to
the marketing prowess that has helped Apple sell about 100
million  iPhones, iPod Touches and iPads  in three years. Working
with Apple was “unequivocally” a reason for choosing iAd, said
Chad Jacoby, senior manager of  Nissan ’s marketing team.  
 To keep companies paying, Apple will need people to click
on the ads and respond with their wallets, said ICrossing’s
Pasqua. The better Apple can target ads, the more effective iAd
will be, she said.  
 Privacy, Antitrust  
 Apple will also need to keep from running afoul of
government officials concerned about anticompetitive practices
and the way tech companies handle information gathered on users.  
 Federal Trade Commission officials are preparing to review
allegations that Apple is trying to trammel rivalry in mobile
advertising, people familiar with the matter said in June.
They’re examining app-developer instructions, issued in June,
that AdMob says might bar programmers from using Google and
AdMob advertising software on the iPhone.  
 AdMob also alleges that the new instructions limit what
information developers can share with third-party marketers. The
change helps Apple hold onto valuable user-behavior data and
keep it from rivals such as AdMob.  
 Regulators in the U.S. and Europe are also paying heed to
privacy practices. The German Justice Minister last month raised
questions about Apple’s practice of compiling data on users of
its iPhone. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation also began
an inquiry into a security breach that exposed the e-mail
addresses of as many as 114,000 users of the iPad.  
 Apple lets customers opt out of receiving ads based on
iTunes download history or location. “With iOS 4, Apple has
gone further to protect users’  privacy , particularly with
respect to location, than anyone else has to date,” Apple said
in a statement, referring to its mobile operating system.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Apple Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs said that the company had sold more than $60 million in advertising since the iAd platform was introduced in April. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 7 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Jobs, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., introduces the new iPhone at the company's Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco. The phone delivers a refashioned chassis and 100 new features. (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Krishna Subramanian, co-founder of Mobclix Inc., talks about the growth in advertising opportunities on mobile phone applications.
     Subramanian, speaking with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business," focuses primarily on Apple Inc.'s new 4G iPhone. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
