-- U.S. Sues to Block Arizona Immigration Law
-- Emily Heller
-- 2010-07-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/arizona-s-immigration-law-is-challenged-by-u-s-on-constitutional-grounds.html

          
          
             The U.S. government sued to block the
state of Arizona from enforcing a law aimed at cracking down on
illegal migrants, arguing that under the Constitution
immigration is a matter for federal policy only.  
 The lawsuit, filed by the Justice Department yesterday in
federal court in Phoenix, seeks an injunction against
implementing the Arizona law that’s set to take effect on July
29.  
 “A state may not establish its own immigration policy or
enforce state laws in a manner that interferes with the federal
immigration laws,” the U.S. wrote in the complaint.  
 The Arizona statute makes it a state crime to be in the
U.S. illegally. It requires local police officers who come in
contact with someone for a law enforcement reason to check the
individual’s immigration status if they suspect the person lacks
proper documentation.  
 The lawsuit follows other challenges, including by the
 American Civil Liberties Union  and an Arizona police officer who
doesn’t want to enforce the statute. U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said earlier that the Obama administration
planned to challenge the law.  
 Arizona Governor  Jan Brewer  said yesterday current U.S.
policies have resulted in the state being “under attack” from
Mexican drug and immigrant-smuggling cartels.  
 ‘Reasonable and Constitutional’  
 “The truth is the Arizona law is both reasonable and
constitutional,” Brewer said in a statement. “It mirrors
substantially what has been federal law in the United States for
many decades. Arizona’s law is designed to complement, not
supplant, enforcement of federal immigration laws.”  
 The bill doesn’t allow racial profiling or discrimination,
Brewer said when she signed it in April.  
 U.S. Representative  Ann Kirkpatrick  of Arizona, a Democrat,
today criticized the Obama administration for failing to fix
what she called a broken immigration system. The lawsuit is a
distraction from the immigration debate, she said in a
statement.  
 “The White House and Congress need to start developing a
better approach to border security and immigration reform,
working with us instead of against us,” Kirkpatrick said.  
 President  Barack Obama  has said overhauling immigration law
is one of his highest priorities. In 2007, Congress failed in an
attempt to rewrite immigration legislation for the first time in
20 years.  
 Border Security  
 Obama said in April that lawmakers may lack the
“appetite” to try again. Democratic leaders are focusing on
measures to improve border security before addressing the 11
million undocumented immigrants now in the U.S.  
 The ACLU said in its lawsuit that the Arizona law
interferes with federal power and authority over immigration
matters in violation of the U.S. Constitution. The statute also
infringes the free-speech rights of day laborers in the state,
the group said.  
 Other suits challenging the law claim it will hinder law
enforcement efforts, with people less likely to attend community
meetings or come forward to report crimes out of concern their
appearance or accent may cause police to question their
citizenship.  
 “The idea of letting one state, much less 50, have their
own schemes that come into a conflict with federal immigration
law -- it is untenable,” said  Anne Milgram , the former New
Jersey attorney general who is now a senior fellow at New York
University Law’s Center on the Administration of Criminal Law.
The center plans to file an amicus brief in support of the U.S.  
 The Justice Department claims the law will hinder pursuit
of high-profile targets in Arizona, such as aliens implicated in
drug smuggling and gang activity.  
 Serious Crimes  
 “Deterring, investigating and solving serious and violent
crimes are the department’s top priorities, and it would be
impossible for us to do our job without the collaboration and
support of community members, including those who may be in the
country unlawfully,” Jack Harris, the Phoenix police chief,
said in a filing in support of the lawsuit.  
 Almost three-quarters of Americans support provisions
requiring people to produce documents verifying they are in the
U.S. legally, according to a May poll by the Washington-based
Pew Research Center for the People & the Press.  
 “Arizonans are understandably frustrated with illegal
immigration, and the federal government has a responsibility to
comprehensively address those concerns,” Attorney General  Eric Holder  said in a statement. “But diverting federal resources
away from dangerous aliens such as terrorism suspects and aliens
with criminal records will impact the entire country’s safety.”  
 The U.S. said it filed the lawsuit after consulting with
Arizona officials, law-enforcement officers and civil-rights
advocates.  
 The case is United States of America v. State of Arizona,
2:10cv1413, U.S. District Court for Arizona (Phoenix).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
 Emily Heller  in Phoenix.  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jan Brewer, governor of Arizona, speaks to the media outside the White House. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
