-- Stocks Rise as Europe Snaps Slump
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-07-06T20:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/asia-stocks-u-s-futures-fall-on-concern-global-growth-slowing-yen-gains.html

          
          
             Stocks  gained, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising from a 10-month low, on speculation
earnings growth will help the market rebound from its lowest
valuation since 2009, while a Spanish bond sale quelled concern
the nation will struggle to fund its deficit. The dollar fell.  
 The  S&P 500  ended 0.5 percent higher at 1,028.06 at 4 p.m.
in New York, after briefly erasing a 2 percent morning rally and
then recovering in the final half hour. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average snapped a seven-day losing streak, its longest since the
financial crisis in 2008. The dollar slid versus 15 of 16 major
currencies. Australia’s dollar rallied as the nation’s central
bank paused in lifting interest rates. Treasuries advanced.  
 Equities rose after an 11-week plunge that erased $7.6
trillion worldwide as U.S. government bond yields signaled
almost no sign of the economy contracting and analysts raised
S&P 500 earnings estimates at the fastest rate since at least
2004. The MSCI World Index rose after trading at 15 times
reported profit yesterday, the lowest since March 2009. Spain’s
IBEX 35 Index jumped 3.6 percent as the nation sold bonds in the
first syndicated issue since February.  
 “The markets are oversold short-term and we’ve had a fair
amount of weakness the last couple of weeks,” said  Mark Bronzo ,
an Irvington, New York-based fund manager at Security Global
Investors, which oversees $23 billion. “Now we’re about to get
earnings. Most people feel earnings will be OK and maybe
guidance will be a little conservative. You’ll see less shorting
before earnings, that’ll give the market a lift.”  
 Losses Pared  
 The  S&P 500  recovered only about one-tenth of last week’s 5
percent tumble today. Utilities, energy producers and technology
companies led gains among nine of 10 industry groups. Microsoft
Corp., Alcoa Inc. and Bank of America Corp. climbed at least 1.6
percent to lead gains in 22 of 30 stocks in the Dow, which rose
57.14 points, or 0.6 percent, to 9,743.62.  
 Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, is scheduled to
unofficially start the second-quarter earnings season on July 12
as the first Dow average company to report results.  
 Profit for S&P 500 companies will jump 34 percent in 2010,
compared with a projected gain of 27 percent on March 29,
according to more than 8,000 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The revisions, the most during any quarter in at least six
years, come as lower-than-forecast home sales, manufacturing and
private-sector job growth sent the benchmark gauge for American
equities down 16 percent since April 23.  
 Service Industry Growth  
 The afternoon retreat in U.S. stocks came amid concern
earnings estimates may be too high amid signs of slowing
economic growth. The Institute for Supply Management’s index of
non-manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of
the economy, fell to 53.8 in June from 55.4 the prior month.
Readings above 50 signal expansion. Economists projected the
index would fall to 55, according to the median of 59 forecasts.  
 “If you don’t believe in a double dip, valuations are very
attractive, but obviously some portion of the market believes in
a double dip,” said E.  William Stone , who oversees $104 billion
as chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in
Philadelphia.  
 Treasuries rose, pushing benchmark 10-year note yields down
four basis points to 2.94 percent, near their lowest level this
year. U.S. government bond yields are signaling almost no chance
of the economy slipping into another recession even as stocks
and commodities tumble, according to research from the Federal
Reserve Bank of Cleveland.  
 Yield Curve  
 At the start of trading today, the 2.34 percentage point
gap between yields on two-year and 10-year Treasuries was more
than double the 20-year average and about the same as in 2003,
just before gross domestic product rose 3.6 percent. The so-
called yield curve suggests growth won’t slow to less than 1
percent and about a 12 percent chance of a recession in the next
year,  Joseph G. Haubrich , head of the banking and financial
institutions group at the Cleveland Fed, and  Kent Cherny , a
researcher, wrote in a July 1 report.  
 Almost 49 stocks rose for each that fell in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, with mining companies Rio Tinto Group and BHP
Billiton Ltd. rallying more than 5 percent.  BP Plc  climbed 3.7
percent in London as drilling for the relief well that will kill
off the Gulf of Mexico oil spill advanced ahead of schedule and
the company said it has no plans to sell new shares to raise
cash. Banco Santander SA, Spain’s largest lender, jumped 6.1
percent, leading the IBEX to its biggest gain in three weeks.  
 Today’s gains in stocks come even as former International
Monetary Fund chief economist  Kenneth Rogoff  warned China’s
property market is beginning a “collapse” that will hit the
nation’s banking system, and Europe is in “denial” about its
lenders.  
 Asian Rally  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  advanced 1.8 percent, its
biggest gain in two weeks. Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the
country’s largest bank by market value, jumped 2.3 percent in
Sydney after the central bank kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged. The Australian dollar rose against all 16 major
currencies, climbing at least 1.4 percent against the South
Korean won, the U.S. dollar and Brazilian real.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite  climbed 1.9 percent, the most in
two weeks, as stocks rebounded from the lowest level relative to
earnings in 18 months. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. is
raising $19.2 billion in an initial public offering after
setting a final price for shares on sale in Hong Kong and
Shanghai, said five people with knowledge of the matter.  
 China IPO  
 Agricultural Bank, China’s largest lender by customers
priced its Hong Kong shares at HK$3.20 apiece, two of the people
said, declining to be identified as no public announcement has
been made. The Beijing-based company is also selling 22.2
billion shares in Shanghai at 2.68 yuan each, three other people
said.  
 European bonds fell, with the German 10-year bund’s  decline 
driving the yield five basis points higher to 2.59 percent, up
from within five basis points of the lowest level since at least
1989.  
 The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond rose six basis points to
4.67 percent. The nation with the euro region’s third-largest
budget deficit sold new notes due in October 2020 that were
priced to yield 195 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, or about 4.85 percent, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal.  
 The cost of insuring Spain’s debt fell. Credit-default
swaps on the nation dropped 10.5 basis points to 254.5, compared
with a record-high closing price of 274.5 on May 6, according to
CMA DataVision.  
 Credit Protection  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 1.9 basis points to a mid-price of 120.8 basis points as of
12:29 p.m. in New York, according to index administrator Markit
Group Ltd.  
 Australia’s dollar climbed 1.7 percent against the U.S.
dollar and at least 1.3 percent versus the yen, pound and South
Korean won after the Reserve Bank of Australia said that
consumer spending and business investment are expanding even as
policy makers held their key rate steady.  
 Copper prices jumped the most in more than a week as
shrinking inventories signaled demand will remain steady even as
global economic growth slows. Copper futures for September
delivery climbed 5.5 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $2.971 a pound in
New York. Oil was little changed at $71.98 a barrel in New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks gained, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rising from a 10-month low, amid speculation earnings growth will help equities rebound from their lowest valuations since the bull market began in 2009. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Joseph Battipaglia, an investment strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Battipaglia also discusses his investment strategy and the outlook for stocks. Battipaglia talks with Matt Miller, Carol Massar and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Tommy Huie, president and chief investment officer of M&I Investment Management Corporation, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the outlook for the U.S. economy and corporate earnings, and M&I's equity investment strategy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Jeremy Zirin, senior equity strategist at UBS Wealth Management, talks about the outlook for U.S. corporate earnings, stocks and the economy, and his equity investment strategy.
     Zirin speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Demos, a portfolio manager with Fifth Third Asset management, talks about the outlook for the U.S. stock market and investment strategy.
     Demos, speaking with Betty Liu, Jon Erlichman and Sheila Dharmarajan on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses corporate earnings and risks in the bond market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Niall Ferguson, a professor at Harvard University, talks about so-called bond vigilantes and the U.S.'s debt position and fiscal policy. Ferguson talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
    Paulsen, speaking from Minneapolis, also discusses his investment strategy for U.S. stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
