-- Asian Stocks Rise Most in Two Weeks on Valuations; Taiwan Semi, HTC Climb
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-07-06T10:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/asian-stocks-fall-for-fifth-time-in-six-days-on-european-growth-concerns.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  rose, driving up the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index by the most in two weeks, as investors
bet equities had become cheap relative to earnings prospects.  
 Jiangxi Copper Co.  and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. both
gained more than 1 percent after at least nine days of declines,
raising China’s Shanghai Composite Index from a 15-month low.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the country’s largest bank by
market value, gained 2.3 percent in Sydney after the central
bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged. HTC Corp., a
phone maker, surged 5 percent in Taipei on a brokerage upgrade.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 1.4 percent to 113.44 as
of 7:21 p.m. in Tokyo, the biggest gain since June 21. The gauge
reversed a drop of 0.9 percent this morning that cut the average
price of its stocks to 13.6 times  estimated profit , the lowest
level since December 2008.  
 “Valuations have become attractive and bargain hunting is
pushing the market higher,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based
strategist at AMP Capital Investors, which holds $90 billion.
“I doubt this is durable. Until we get more clarity on whether
we will get a double dip in the economy, markets are likely to
remain volatile.”  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 3.4 percent last week,
the  biggest weekly drop  since the period ended May 21, as weaker
manufacturing growth in the U.S., Europe and China added to
signs the global economic recovery is slowing.  
 Sydney to Shanghai  
 Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  gained 1.3 percent today,
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average increased 0.8 percent, Taiwan’s
 Taiex Index  climbed 1.5 percent and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
rose 1.2 percent. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 1.9
percent, the biggest advance among benchmark indexes in the
Asia-Pacific region.  
 “The rally in China’s stocks gave direction to investors,
and they started buying stocks again,” said  Ayako Sera , a
strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which
manages about $310 billion.  
 Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.1 percent.
U.S. markets were closed yesterday for Independence Day. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.3 percent yesterday after a report
from Markit Economics showed growth in Europe’s  services and
manufacturing industries  slowed for a second month in June.  
 The gauge has fallen 13 percent from its high this year on
April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese steps to
curb property prices will hurt global growth.  
 Copper, Aluminum  
 Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
gained 2.9 percent to 22.97 yuan in Shanghai, having fallen 22
percent in the past 10 days. Aluminum Corp. of China rose 1.8
percent after having lost 16 percent in the past nine days. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, climbed 0.5
percent in Sydney following seven days of declines.  
 All 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
climbed, with financial stocks  advancing the most . Five banks
contributed the most to the gauge’s increase today.  
 Commonwealth Bank climbed 2.3 percent to A$48.89. Westpac
Banking Corp., Australia’s second-biggest lender, gained 3
percent to A$21.41.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Corp. , the
third-biggest, gained 3 percent to A$21.51. National Australia
Bank Ltd. increased 3 percent to A$23.43.  
 Policy makers led by Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the
overnight cash rate target at 4.5 percent, the Reserve Bank of
Australia said today. The decision was predicted by all 22
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 ‘Well Positioned’  
 “The big downshift in equity markets, and global commodity
markets has probably given them pause for thought as to how
aggressive they want to be from here,” said  Rory Robertson , an
economist at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney. “They’re well
positioned to move in either direction from here, with an
increase more likely than a cut.”  
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s biggest bank
by market value, gained 3 percent to 418 yen and was the biggest
single contributor to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc., the second-biggest, climbed 3.4
percent to 2,620 yen. China Construction Bank Corp. advanced 2.3
percent to HK$6.28 in Hong Kong.  
 HTC, the maker of Google Inc.’s Nexus One mobile phone,
surged 5 percent to NT$495 in Taipei. The stock was raised to
“overweight” from “underweight” at HSBC Holdings Plc, and to
“buy” from “sell” at Yuanta Financial Holding Co.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of chips, increased 2.6 percent to NT$59.9.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its share-price forecast to NT$80
from NT$75 and maintained its “overweight” rating.  
 Elpida Memory Inc. , the world’s third-biggest maker of
computer-memory chips, advanced 4.5 percent to 1,391 yen in
Tokyo. The company plans to cut debt and “seek opportunities
including acquisitions” as a recovery in computer sales boosts
profits, Executive Officer  Takehiro Fukuda , who oversees finance
and accounting at Tokyo-based Elpida, said in an interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Andy Mantel, founder and managing director of Pacific Sun Investment Management Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
      Mantel, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering in Shanghai and Hong Kong, and the outlook for China's banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Rory Robertson, economist and interest rate strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd., talks about the outlook for the Australian economy and central bank monetary policy. 
     The Reserve Bank of Australia paused today in raising borrowing costs for a second month, and dropped a reference to the level of its benchmark being appropriate for the "near term."  Robertson speaks from Sydney with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connections." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
