-- Ask George W. Bush How to Avert a Double Dip: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-07-06T01:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/ask-george-w-bush-how-to-avert-a-double-dip-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             As the jobless recovery continues,
President  Barack Obama  and his liberal supporters argue that the
U.S. needs another stimulus or risks a double-dip recession. A
look behind the numbers suggests that liberal policies will hand
us a double dip whether we get a stimulus or not.  
 A major reason for the revival of sour economic news is the
looming expiration of  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts. The top
marginal income-tax rate is set to increase on the first day of
2011 to 39.6 percent from 35 percent. The phase-out of itemized
deductions will lift that, effectively, to 40.8 percent. In
2013, the 3.8 percent Obama health-care tax on investment income
will kick in, making the top rate 44.6 percent.  
 This tax hike will push us into double-dip territory for
two reasons.  
 First, it will hurt small businesses. In fact, it’s already
having that effect. While some of the income in the top bracket
is wage and salary income of high earners, a big chunk of the
money is the profit of small businesses. If you lift the top
rate, you depress small-business activity, which in good times
is often the engine of job growth.  
 According to the latest  ADP National Employment Report, 
goods-producing small businesses -- those with fewer than 50
employees -- have reduced their total payroll employment by
about 20,000 jobs each month this year, including in June. (A
corresponding rise in jobs at small service businesses is less
revealing, since people get haircuts in good times and bad.)  
 Shrinking Companies  
 So companies affected most by Obama’s planned tax hike are
shrinking, while big businesses -- primarily subject to the
corporate tax code -- have been adding jobs.  
 Why are small businesses battening down the hatches? In
May, the National Federation of Independent Business  asked  small
business owners about the most important problem they face.
Twenty-two percent named taxes, up from 19 percent a year
earlier. Sales performance was the top worry, cited by 30
percent, unchanged from the prior year.  
 The other way the tax hike will rekindle the recession is
through its treatment of dividends. Absent action by the
Democratic majority in Congress, which seems increasingly
unlikely, the current 15 percent top tax on dividends will rise
to the top income tax rate --39.6 percent in 2011, which, again,
will grow to 44.6 percent.  
 This massive increase will reduce the desirability of
equities, significantly harming the stock market, while giving
firms a powerful incentive to pay dividends this year, while the
rate is lower. Businesses may well focus on paying out cash in
the second half of this year -- not a terrible thing, but not as
helpful to the recovery as spending the money to expand their
operations.  
 No Binging  
 If history is a guide, shareholders are unlikely to go on a
consumption binge with their dividends -- certainly not one big
enough to compensate for the drop in business investment, which
could well be enough to push growth in gross domestic product
into negative territory in the second half of this year.  
 It is no surprise, given the dramatic changes in taxation
and the winding down of stimulus spending just over the horizon,
that the U.S. economy is getting weaker. The correct policy
response is to extend the Bush tax cuts for all income levels,
giving small businesses and shareholders cause for renewed
optimism, while enacting spending cuts to preserve budget
discipline.  
 The alternative idea, to tax the economy into oblivion and
then try to revive it with more Keynesian spending, is
tragically wrong-headed. As we’ve seen, the small businesses
that are necessary to create a lasting recovery will be
contracting while government reacts to any new stimulus.  
 Blown Chance  
 There are two ways to stimulate an economy that is in
trouble: with tax cuts or with increased government spending.
Declaring early and resolutely that he would extend the Bush tax
cuts would have given Obama a chance to try both. Instead,
Democrats hoped that higher government spending would offset the
suffocating prospect of tax increases. It hasn’t worked.  
 That fact may be too painful for some to admit. But we all
better hope that some semblance of rationality creeps into the
discussion before it is too late. The left’s ideological
opposition to the Bush tax cuts is poised to push the U.S. into
a depression, regardless of whether we get another Keynesian
stimulus.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        