-- Australia Lifts Bar for Further Rate Increases as World Economy Moderates
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-07T04:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/australia-lifts-bar-for-further-rate-increases-as-world-economy-moderates.html

          
          
             The Reserve Bank of Australia
signaled it’s prepared to refrain from further interest-rate
increases in coming months as signs mount that economies around
the world will slow.  
 Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  yesterday kept the
 benchmark cash rate  at 4.5 percent for a second month, even as
he forecast inflation will accelerate above the top of his 2
percent to 3 percent target range. He also dropped a reference
to the level of rates being appropriate for the “near term.”  
 “The bar has been lifted on raising official interest
rates,” said  Paul Brennan , a senior economist at Citigroup Inc.
in Sydney. “The fact that the bank has not responded to this
change in the inflation outlook with an adjustment to monetary
policy or the tone of the statement indicates that the bank is
comfortable with the setting of policy.”  
 Australia represents a global bellwether, after in October
becoming the first Group of 20 member to boost borrowing costs
since the height of the financial crisis. Governor Stevens is
now pausing as stocks drop worldwide, China’s growth moderates
and Europe’s governments slash spending. Australia’s currency
climbed yesterday as the central bank stopped short of
forecasting a more pronounced global downturn.  
 “The RBA isn’t being alarmed by the global demand
backdrop,” said  Ray Attrill , global research director at
Forecast Ltd. in Sydney.  
 Currency Strengthens  
 The so-called Aussie rose against all 16 major counterparts,
advancing to as much as 85.60 U.S. cents yesterday from 83.70
cents before Stevens’ statement was published. The currency
traded at 84.87 at 1:56 p.m. today.  
 Australia’s central bank has increased rates six times
since early October from a half-century low of 3 percent, citing
an economic expansion it forecasts will almost double to 4
percent in the next two years fueled by China’s demand for iron
ore and energy.  
 The interest-rate moves helped stoke a 27 percent
appreciation of the Australian dollar in the 12 months through
April 30, making it the second-best performer among the world’s
16 most-traded currencies. It has since pared around a third of
those gains on signs the global economy is cooling.  
 Stevens joins central bankers in the U.S., Europe and parts
of Asia, including Indonesia, in keeping borrowing costs
unchanged to gauge whether Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
threatens the global economic recovery.  
 Growth Outlook  
 “Caution in financial markets has been evident in the past
couple of months, driven principally by concerns about European
sovereigns and banks but also by some uncertainty about the pace
of future global growth,” Stevens said yesterday.  
 While the global economy has advanced at a “trend pace of
growth” in recent months, the expansion “remains uneven,”
with major economies recording “modest growth,” the governor
said. By contrast, Asia has been “very strong,” and China is
now starting to moderate to a “more sustainable rate.”  
 China is Australia’s largest trading partner, and its
demand for resources is stoking a mining investment boom that
has pushed Australia’s  jobless rate  to almost half the level of
the U.S. and Europe. The rebound in jobs also threatens to stoke
wages, increasing pressure on consumer prices.  
 Inflation is likely to exceed 3 percent in the “near
term,” partly because of an increase in tobacco taxes and
utilities, Stevens said yesterday.  
 Policy makers also said the current benchmark interest-rate
setting is “appropriate,” pending further information about
economic growth and prices.  
 ‘Clear Reference’  
 “This clear reference to local conditions for prices
provides flexibility for the bank to respond to an unfriendly
consumer price index” report, said  Bill Evans , chief economist
at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.  
 “Short of a further substantial deterioration in the
global economy,” a increase in underlying inflation of 0.8
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months
will be enough to trigger another rate increase, Evans said.  
 Second-quarter inflation figures will be released on July
28, six days before the bank’s next monthly policy meeting.
Consumer prices rose 0.9 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months for an annual increase of 2.9 percent, the
most since late 2008.  
 Building Industry  
 A report published today by the Australian Industry Group
showed the building industry shrank in June at the fastest pace
in 10 months, a sign the central bank’s interest rate moves are
eroding demand for new dwellings.  
 Still, unlike Europe and the U.S., Australia’s economy
shows signs of strengthening.  Gross domestic product  expanded
for a fifth straight quarter in the three months through March,
and the nation posted its largest trade surplus in May in 14
months, boosted by exports of coal and gold.  
 Mining companies including Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. 
reached an agreement last week with Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
on a new resources tax, ending a dispute that cost her
predecessor  Kevin Rudd  his job and paving the way for an
election this year.  
 Traders are betting there is no chance of a rate increase
at central bank monthly meetings until next year, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney
Futures Exchange. There is also a 6 percent chance of a rate cut
next month, the futures showed at 11:52 a.m.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens  
                       
                         
                           Ian Waldie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens kept the benchmark cash rate at 4.5 percent for a second month, even as he forecast inflation will accelerate above the top of his 2 percent to 3 percent target range. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens kept the benchmark cash rate at 4.5 percent for a second month, even as he forecast inflation will accelerate above the top of his 2 percent to 3 percent target range. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
