-- Australia's Central Bank Keeps Key Interest Rate at 4.5% as Demand Cools
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-06T05:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/australia-s-central-bank-keeps-key-interest-rate-at-4-5-as-demand-cools.html

          
          
             Australia’s central bank paused in
raising borrowing costs for a second month, and dropped a
reference to the level of its benchmark being appropriate for
the “near term,” citing concern about the global outlook.  
 Policy makers led by Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the
overnight  cash  rate target at 4.5 percent, the Reserve Bank of
Australia said in a statement in Sydney today. The decision was
predicted by all 22 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  
 Stevens joins central bankers in the U.S., Europe and parts
of Asia, including Indonesia, in keeping borrowing costs
unchanged to gauge whether Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
threatens the global economic recovery. The central bank today
also said it expects inflation to hold near the top of Stevens’
2 percent to 3 percent target range over the next year.  
 “The big downshift in equity markets, and global commodity
markets has probably given them pause for thought as to how
aggressive they want to be from here,” said  Rory Robertson , an
economist at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney. “They’re well
positioned to move in either direction from here, with an
increase more likely than a cut.”  
 The Australian dollar traded at 83.97 U.S. cents as of 3:11
p.m. in Sydney from 83.70 cents before the decision. The
benchmark two-year government bond yield was unchanged at 4.43
percent.  
 Economic Expansion  
 Stevens has increased rates six times since early October
from a half-century low of 3 percent, citing an economic
expansion the central bank forecasts will almost double to 4
percent in the next two years fueled by China’s demand for iron
ore and energy.  
 The interest-rate moves helped stoke a 27 percent gain in
Australia’s dollar in the 12 months through April 30, making it
the second-best performer among the world’s 16 most-traded
currencies. It has since pared around a third of those gains on
signs the global economy is cooling after manufacturing weakened
in China.  
 “Caution in financial markets has been evident in the past
couple of months, driven principally by concerns about European
sovereigns and banks but also by some uncertainty about the pace
of future global growth,” Stevens said today.  
 Central Banks  
 The decision comes a day after Indonesia’s central bank
maintained its benchmark rate at 6.5 percent for an 11th month,
as policy makers judged they have time to strengthen economic
growth before responding to faster inflation. The Bank of
England and the European Central Bank will also keep borrowing
costs unchanged this week, according to analysts.  
 “Underlying inflation appears likely to be in the upper
half of the target zone over the next year,” Stevens said today.
“The rate of CPI increase is likely to be a little above 3
percent in the near term, due to the effects of increases in
tobacco taxes announced earlier in the year and significant
increases in prices for utilities.”  
 Rising investment by mining companies is fueling an
employment surge that has pushed Australia’s  jobless rate  to
almost half the level of the U.S. and Europe. The rebound in
jobs also threatens to stoke wages, increasing pressure on
inflation.  
 “They are optimistic on the recovery,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “The next
move is up, it’s just a question of when,” he said.  
 Inflation Figures  
 The next quarterly inflation figures will be released on
July 28. Consumer prices rose 2.9 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the most since late 2008.  
 Mining companies including Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. 
reached an agreement last week with Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
on a new resources tax, ending a dispute that cost her
predecessor  Kevin Rudd  his job and paving the way for an
election this year.  
 Reports published since the bank’s last meeting show the
 economy  expanded for a fifth straight quarter in the three
months through March, and exports excluding farm goods surged
the most in almost three decades in April.  
 Still, there are signs that higher borrowing costs are
prompting households to cut spending that accounts for more than
half of gross domestic product. Retail sales growth weakened in
May to the slowest pace in three months and building  approvals 
fell. Manufacturing growth slowed in June for a second month and
the services industry contracted, surveys of purchasing managers
showed.  
 ‘Consumption Spending’  
 “Consumption spending is recording a modest increase at
present, with households displaying a degree of caution,”
Stevens said today.  
 The governor’s 150 basis points of rate increases have
added about A$3,600 ($3,000) a year to loan repayments on an
average A$300,000 mortgage. Government figures published July 1
showed the number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments in May dropped 6.6 percent.  
 Signs of a cooling housing market, which surged 20 percent
in the year to March 31, may give Stevens scope to keep
borrowing costs unchanged in coming months.  
 Traders are betting there is no chance of a rate increase
at central bank monthly meetings until next year, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney
Futures Exchange. There is also a 12 percent chance of a rate
cut next month, the futures showed at 2:22 p.m.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens speaking in Sydney. Photographer: Gillianne Tedder/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Rory Robertson, economist and interest rate strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd., talks about the outlook for the Australian economy and central bank monetary policy. 
     The Reserve Bank of Australia paused today in raising borrowing costs for a second month, and dropped a reference to the level of its benchmark being appropriate for the "near term."  Robertson speaks from Sydney with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connections." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
