-- Australia's May Trade Surplus Widens on Overseas Shipments of Coal, Gold
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-06T02:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/australia-s-may-trade-surplus-widens-on-overseas-shipments-of-coal-gold.html

          
          
             Australia’s  trade surplus  widened in
May as exports of coal and gold climbed on demand from Asia,
outpacing a gain in imports.  
 The surplus swelled to A$1.65 billion ($1.4 billion) from a
revised A$1.12 billion in April, the Bureau of Statistics said
in a report in Sydney today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News  survey  of 21 economists was for a A$500 million surplus.  
 Australia’s trade surplus is being fueled by a surge in
prices for iron ore and coal shipped by companies including BHP
Billiton Ltd. Signs of a rebound in mining investment may gather
pace in coming months after resource companies agreed with Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government on the introduction of a new
industry tax last week.  
 “We’re going to see pretty supportive conditions for
Australian exports over the rest of the year,” said  Ben Jarman ,
an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “In the first
quarter and coming into the second quarter, Asian growth was
going at a real gangbuster pace, particularly emerging Asia.”  
 The Australian dollar rose to 83.52 U.S. cents at 12:01 p.m.
in Sydney from 83.33 cents just before the report was released.
The two-year government bond yield was unchanged at 4.43 percent.  
 The central bank, forecast by all 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News to keep borrowing costs unchanged at 4.5 percent
today, said commodity prices rose 3 percent in June, climbing
for a third month.  
 Capital Equipment  
 Imports rose 4 percent in May to A$23.1 billion. Consumer
goods imports gained 4 percent and capital equipment shipments
such as aircraft and industrial machinery jumped 10 percent.  
 Exports  gained 6 percent to A$24.7 billion, today’s report
showed. Coal exports rose 10 percent and non-monetary gold
jumped 66 percent.  
 Increasing demand from Asia is stoking an investment boom
in Australia’s resources industries that is forecast by the
central bank to last more than a decade.  
 Concerns that the mining boom may worsen a shortage of
workers and drive up  inflation  are among reasons Governor  Glenn Stevens  has increased the central bank’s overnight cash rate
target from a half-century low of 3 percent in early October to
4.5 percent in May.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        