-- Bajaj to Make Low-Cost Cars for Renault India After Scrapping Venture Plan
-- Arijit Ghosh
-- 2010-07-06T10:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/bajaj-scraps-renault-india-low-cost-car-joint-venture-for-supply-agreement.html

          
          
             Bajaj Auto Ltd. , India’s second-
largest motorcycle maker, said it will supply low-cost cars to
 Renault SA  for local sales after the companies abandoned plans
for an automaking joint venture.  
 “There is no need for a manufacturing or a marketing JV,
because our responsibilities are distinct,” Managing Director
 Rajiv Bajaj  said in an interview yesterday in Pune, southeast of
Mumbai. “We will just be an original equipment maker.”  
 The new structure may enable  Bajaj  to widen its product
range beyond motorcycles and three-wheelers without incurring
marketing costs as rising incomes encourage Indians to switch to
four-wheeled vehicles. The company had planned to take a 50
percent stake in a venture with Renault and Nissan Motor Co.
that would build and sell a $3,000 competitor to Tata Motors
Ltd.’s Nano, the world’s cheapest car.  
 “This new arrangement will help the partners see how the
project is turning out before making any full-fledged
commitments,” said  Deepesh Rathore , managing director of IHS
Global Insight India. Vehicle sales for the model could reach
about 25,000 a month, he said.  
 New Plant  
 Bajaj plans to spend about 5 billion rupees ($107 million)
on developing the car and on setting up a factory in Pune, Bajaj
said. The vehicle, the brand of which is yet to be decided, will
go on sale in 2012 as scheduled, he said.  
 In the four-wheel space we are very new,” Bajaj said.
“When we are associated with Renault-Nissan, we can take
advantage of their distribution at least in some markets.”  
 Bajaj , the  best-performing stock  in the  MSCI India Index 
this year, closed 0.29 percent lower at 2,437.9 rupees in Mumbai.
The benchmark Sensitive Index rose 1 percent.  
 The project “is proceeding on track” based on the
original agreement between Renault Chairman  Carlos Ghosn  and
Rajiv Bajaj that was announced in early November 2009, Ashish
Sinharoy, a Mumbai-based spokesman for Renault’s India unit,
said in an e-mail. “The new agreement clearly stated that Bajaj
will build a vehicle and supply it to the Renault-Nissan
alliance to market and distribute.”  
 Nissan spokesman  Mitsuru Yonekawa  also said cooperation was
moving ahead.  
 Bajaj Car Plans  
 Bajaj may use the low-cost car’s platform to develop more
products in future, Rajiv Bajaj said. The company is aiming to
develop a car that will cost owners about 5,000 rupees a month
in financing, fuel and other expenses, compared with about 3,000
rupees for a motorcycle.  
 Renault-Nissan and Bajaj announced the original venture
plan in 2008.  Ghosn  in November said the small car may be priced
at about $3,000.  
 Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based  Renault  is building a
factory in the southern city of Chennai with affiliate Nissan.
The automaker will introduce the Fluence sedan in India by the
middle of next year, followed by the Koleos and three other
models by the end of 2013.  
 The carmaker pulled out of a venture with  Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. , India’s largest maker of sport-utility vehicles,
in April after slumping sales of Logan cars.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vipin V. Nair  in Mumbai at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net ;
 Arijit Ghosh  in Mumbai at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Managing Director of Bajaj Auto Rajiv Bajaj speaks during an interview at the company's headquarters in Pune. Photographer: Kuni Takahashi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
