-- Barclays Should Weigh Breakup to Form `Pure' Retail Bank, Mediobanca Says
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-07-06T15:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/barclays-should-weigh-breakup-to-form-pure-retail-bank-mediobanca-says.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc  should consider selling
its investment banking and wealth management units to boost the
share price by as much as 39 percent, according to an analyst at
Mediobanca Securities.  
 The stock is trading at a discount to competitors because
Barclays earns more than 80 percent of its pretax profit from
its investment banking unit, more than its 30 percent target,
analyst  Christopher Wheeler  wrote in a note to investors today.
London-based Barclays will struggle to cut that proportion
because the likely price and political obstacles rule out the
purchase of a large consumer bank, he wrote.  
 “We think Barclays is evaluating a break-up,” Wheeler
wrote. “Political considerations and commercial imperatives
would see investment-corporate banking and Barclays Wealth spun
off, leaving the remaining Barclays business as a pure play on
retail banking.”  
 Wheeler, 56, started coverage of Barclays with an
“outperform” rating today. The analyst said in March 2008 UBS
AG would create a separate “bad bank” unit. Two months later,
the Swiss lender said it would sell $15 billion of subprime
assets to a fund managed by  BlackRock Inc.  He also left Barclays
in 1988, where he had been head of investor relations.  
 Barclays has declined 6.4 percent in the past year,
compared with a 10.4 percent gain for the 52-member Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. Barclays  gained  5.3
percent to 272.95 pence at 3:53 p.m. in London trading today.  
 ‘Universal Banking’  
 A bank spokesman said the bank doesn’t comment on analyst
reports. Barclays continues to believe in its “universal
banking model,” which enables investors to benefit from
separate revenue cycles, retail banking chief Antony  Jenkins 
told analysts in London last week.  
 Barclays has increased its dependence on its investment
banking division, run by  Robert Diamond , since its acquisition
of the North American unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008. The bank handed Diamond control of the bank’s commercial
lending unit in November as  Frits Seegers  quit.  
 That change “effectively paves the way for a breakup,”
Wheeler wrote, because it gave Diamond control over all Barclays
activities serving corporate and institutional clients as well
its wealthy individual clients. “This would leave Barclays as a
pure-play retail banking business in Europe and Africa.”  
 The separated investment banking unit could move its head
office to New York and sell shares in the U.S., where such
stocks command a bigger premium, he wrote.  
 Barclays could finance an acquisition of a U.S. consumer
bank by selling its stake in Absa and Blackrock, which would
free up about 8 billion pounds of capital, Wheeler said.  
 That would allow the bank to purchase a lender with risk
weighted assets of as much as 63 billion pounds. Royal Bank of
Scotland’s Citizens Financial unit has about 60 billion pounds
of such assets, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        