-- Barcelona, World Cup Top Scorer's Club, Seeks Loan to Pay Players' Wages
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-06T14:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/barcelona-world-cup-top-scorer-s-club-seeks-loan-to-pay-players-wages.html

          
          
             Barcelona, which added World Cup top
scorer  David Villa  this offseason, is negotiating a 150 million-
euro ($188.6 million) bank loan after falling behind with salary
payments to players. The soccer club denied it’s bankrupt.  
 The 2009 European champion hopes to secure the loan in a
few days, Barcelona President  Sandro Rosell  said, according to
the team Web site. Rosell, who replaced  Joan Laporta  last week,
didn’t identify the banks the club is negotiating with or name
players affected by the wage delay.  
 “We have to finance” our short-term obligations such as
wages, Rosell said, adding the team also plans to trade defender
Dmytro Chygrynskiy back to Shakhtar Donetsk for 15 million
euros, 10 million less than it paid for him in August 2009. Club
members “can relax,” Rosell added. “The club isn’t
bankrupt.”  
 Last week, Barcelona said it became the world’s biggest
sports team by sales, overtaking Real Madrid. Revenue rose 16
percent to 445.5 million euros for the year through June 30
following its 2009 Champions League title. Net income was 9
million euros.  
 Spanish soccer clubs are under pressure from spiraling
payroll costs, two years of recession and a credit crunch,
according to a study last month by Barcelona University
professor Jose Maria Gay. On June 16, Mediaproduccion SL, owner
of the broadcast rights for the domestic league, said it sought
bankruptcy protection.  
 TV Deal  
 Barcelona’s seven-year, 1 billion-euro contract with
Mediapro through 2013 isn’t secured by a bank guarantee, unlike
Real Madrid’s accord, Rosell said. While Barcelona has had
assurances from Mediapro, concern over the contract remains,
Rosell said, according to the website.  
 The team’s costs soared the last year as it paid out 40
million euros in bonuses to players and coaches after winning
several trophies, the team said last week.  
 Barcelona, which is owned by its members, acquired Villa
from Valencia for 40 million euros in May. He has scored five
World Cup goals in five games.  
 Rosell played down speculation that the club is poised to
sign Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas, even though he said
“everyone knows he wants to come here.”  
 He “denied adamantly” that there was any possibility of
Barcelona paying 50 to 60 million euros for the midfielder.
Publicity about the possible deal was “the worst thing that
could have happened,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        