-- Blanc Says French Soccer Players Have to `Be Disciplined' to Stay on Team
-- Albertina Torsoli
-- 2010-07-06T13:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/blanc-says-french-soccer-player-have-to-be-disciplined-to-stay-on-team.html

          
          
             New France soccer coach  Laurent Blanc 
said players will have to “be disciplined” and behave
“impeccably” if they want to remain on the team after squad
members went on strike under  Raymond Domenech  at the World Cup.  
 “My task is to retain the best players, in their best
positions, and to create the best team possible,” Blanc said
today during the first press conference. “It will be up to them
to give proof, with no ambiguity, of hard work and discipline.”  
 Blanc, who made 97 international appearances for Les Bleus,
will have to help the national team regain the respect of fans
and the public after a World Cup campaign marked by a squad
mutiny and the failure to win a single match.  
 Striker  Nicolas Anelka  was sent home after insulting
Domenech at halftime of the match against Mexico. In protest,
the rest of the team refused to train two days before the third
match against South Africa. The affair dominated news coverage
in France and drew criticism from President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and a host of former team
members.  
 “I clearly cannot act as if nothing had happened in South
Africa,” Blanc said. “I followed these events with great
sadness. I was disappointed by the performance and disgusted by
certain behavior.”  
 Captain  Patrice Evra , Bayern Munich winger  Franck Ribery ,
and Barcelona’s  Eric Abidal  are among the French players
criticized by politicians and former team members for their role
in the rebellion that took place in South Africa. Blanc today
wouldn’t say whether any of these players will be left behind.  
 “We could start anew, with a clean slate,” leaving
everyone behind, Bland said today. “You would be happy for a
while but in the long run it wouldn’t be enough neither for you,
nor for me. I am here to win and this is what I will be judged
on.”  
 The former center-back, who last season guided Bordeaux to
sixth place in French soccer’s Ligue 1, said he still hasn’t
decided what players to pick for an Aug. 11 exhibition match in
Norway. He also said it’s not up to him to sanction the players
for what happened in South Africa.  
 “I won’t be the bogeyman,” Blanc said. “But there may be
some form of sanction in the choices I make.”  
 Blanc, 44, said his priority in the coming days will be to
pick his technical and medical staff. The Norway game will help
him figure out what players “I will be able to count on in the
future,” he said. The goal is to establish a “hard core” of
players around whom to rebuild the national team, Blanc said.  
 He signed a two-year contract to guide Les Bleus through
the qualification campaign for Euro 2012 in Poland and Ukraine.
Les Bleus were world champions in 1998 and runner-ups at the
last World Cup four years ago.  
 “I am proud to be here,” Blanc said. “For me, as for
many, the French team is the top, it’s above everything. It does
not belong to anybody, it is for everyone. It was a thread
throughout my career.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        