-- Boral Writes Down U.S. Assets, Announces Capital Raising of $408 Million
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-07-06T02:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/boral-writes-down-u-s-assets-announces-capital-raising-of-408-million.html

          
          
             Boral Ltd. , Australia’s largest
seller of building materials, said it will take a charge on
assets including four U.S. brick plants and plans to raise about
A$490 million ($408 million) in a share sale.  
 The company will take a A$289 million charge, it said in a
statement today. The shares will be sold at A$4.10 each, 16
percent less than yesterday’s  closing price . The proceeds will
help fund investments, including buying the 50 percent of U.S.
roof tile business  MonierLifetile  Boral doesn’t already own.  
 “The writedowns probably weren’t totally unexpected, given
that the market knew about the strategic review,” said  Chris Weston , head of institutional dealing at IG Markets in
Melbourne. “There is an interesting investment thesis behind
the company and the 16 percent discount should provide a big
enough carrot for investors to support the rights issue.”  
 Boral, which got 11 percent of its  revenue  from the U.S. in
the year to June 2009, has more than doubled its market value
from a  low  in March 2009 as the global economic recovery sparked
demand for the building products it makes. It will focus any
future investments on cement and construction materials in
Australia, plasterboard in Australia and Asia, and bricks, roof
tiles and masonry in Australia and the U.S., it said today.  
 Closing Price  
 Boral said it earned between A$123.5 million and A$132
million in the year to June 30, not including the writedowns.
Analysts had been expecting profit of A$123.5 million, according
to the company.  
 Its review “has identified a number of underperforming
assets and assets which may have more natural owners who can
derive greater value than Boral,” the company said in a
separate presentation filed with the exchange. “Boral’s current
performance can be significantly improved.”  
 The assets that were written down include the company’s
construction materials business in Thailand, according to the
presentation.  
 Boral will spend $75 million on acquiring the other half of
loss-making MonierLifetile, which is expected to return to
profitability “as the market recovers,” it said.  
 The company may spend about A$200 million in the next three
years on its Peppertree quarry project in Australia’s New South
Wales state, including associated rail transport infrastructure,
it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        