-- BP, Berkshire Bank, Altimo, Formula One, Kagan, Drill Ban in Court News
-- Ellen Rosen
-- 2010-07-06T13:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/bp-berkshire-bank-altimo-formula-one-kagan-drill-ban-in-court-news.html

          
          
             BP Plc  and the U.S. Coast Guard have
reached an agreement to end the inadvertent killing of
endangered sea turtles trapped inside containment booms during
controlled burns of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, a judge said.  
 “The lawyers have told me they’ve reached some sort of
agreement,” U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier said in an
interview in his chambers in New Orleans federal court. He said
he wasn’t informed of the details of the settlement yet as the
lawyers were continuing to meet.  
 The agreement comes in advance of an emergency court
hearing July 2 in New Orleans federal court, where
environmentalists sought to force BP to either stop controlled
burns or place rescuers on the boats to scoop federally
protected sea turtles out of floating sludge patches before the
corralled oil is ignited. Barbier said the hearing has been
postponed.  
 Environmental groups sued BP and the Coast Guard on June
30, seeking to block the use of controlled burns or require all
boats involved in the process to rescue turtles from inside
floating “burn boxes” before the oil is ignited.  
 “BP has already killed or otherwise harmed” hundreds of
rare  Kemps Ridley , Leatherback, Loggerhead and other species of
endangered sea turtles through its use of controlled burns or as
a result of contamination from the oil spill itself, the lawsuit
claims. The animals become trapped when shrimp boats encircle
patches of floating oil with fire-resistant booms to create
“burn boxes” 60 to 100 feet in diameter, they said.  
 BP spokesman Tony Odone said June 30 that the company had
no comment on pending litigation.  
 The wildlife activists added the Coast Guard to the lawsuit
after BP said all company clean up and containment activities,
including the controlled burns, are being carried out under
Coast Guard orders.  
 BP has yet to contain a damaged underwater well that has
been spewing as much as 60,000 barrels of crude oil daily off
the Louisiana coast since the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
burned and sank in April.  
 The case is Animal Welfare Institute v. BP America Inc.,
2:10-cv-01866, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Berkshire Bank Sues First American Over Appraisal  
 Berkshire Bank, a commercial bank based in Manhattan, sued
First American Appraisal and Consulting Services LLC., claiming
the company overvalued a proposed condominium development in
Brooklyn, New York.  
 First American pegged the market value of the proposed
project at $47 million, at least 33 percent more than its
legitimate value, according to the lawsuit filed July 2 in New
York state Supreme Court in Manhattan.  
 Berkshire relied on the appraisal to make a $13.8 million
loan in 2007 to Westshore 480 Development LLC, the owner of the
property, the suit says. Westshore defaulted on the loan,
resulting in a foreclosure sale March 25 that left a deficiency
of $6 million, Berkshire said.  
 Berkshire, which is suing for negligence, professional
malpractice, and breach of contract, is seeking the $6 million
in damages from the company, which was dissolved, and its
successor parent CoreLogic Inc. The valuation overstated the
square footage of the property and the maximum buildable area,
the suit claims.  
 Bob Visini, a spokesman for CoreLogic, said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  
 First American Appraisal is a defunct company formerly
known as KTR Valuation and Consulting Services, LLC, which was
owned by First American Corporation, according to the suit.  
 The suit is Berkshire Bank v. First American Appraisal,
650803/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 TeliaSonera, Altimo to Appeal Court Ruling on Merger  
 TeliaSonera AB  and Altimo said they will appeal a Moscow
court ruling aimed at hampering a merger of their stakes in OAO
MegaFon, Russia’s third-largest wireless operator.  
 The companies “believe that the agreement is fully valid
and enforceable and does not contradict Russian or other
applicable legislation or unlawfully infringe interests of any
third party,” Stockholm-based TeliaSonera said in a statement.  
 TeliaSonera and Altimo, the telecommunications arm of
Russia’s Alfa Group, agreed last year to combine their stakes in
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS and MegaFon to improve corporate
governance and increase dividends.  
 OAO Telecominvest, a MegaFon shareholder, sued in April to
block the merger of the holdings, citing a Russian law that bars
state-controlled foreign investors from taking control of
strategic companies.  
 The court ruling June 22, which would nullify the
agreement’s provisions relating to MegaFon, hasn’t been enforced
yet, TeliaSonera said.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Formula One Gets Singapore’s Speed to Stop Selling ‘F1’ Drink  
 Formula One  settled its dispute with  Speed Drinks Pte  after
the beverage distributor agreed to stop selling its F1 Racing
Energy Drink in Singapore, host of the first night race of the
world’s most-watched motor sport.  
 Formula One Licensing BV agreed to withdraw its lawsuit
against Speed Drinks if the distributor retracts its challenge
stating that the ‘F1’ trademark was indistinctive or generic,
according to court papers filed after a closed door Singapore
High Court hearing July 1.  
 “This is a victory for Formula One,” its lawyer Arthur
Loke said in a phone interview. “We’re very pleased.”  
 Speed Drinks, which acknowledged that Formula One is the
owner of the “F1” trademarks in Singapore, must also hand over
65,000 cans of the beverage to be destroyed and end its contract
with their Dutch supplier. No payment to Formula One is
required, Loke said.  
 The motor sport owner, controlled by Bernie Ecclestone, had
sued seeking damages, claiming that Speed Drinks caused
“irreparable damage to the reputation and goodwill of the
brand.”  
 Speed Drinks’ lawyer Kelvyn Oo from  Arfat Selvam Alliance
LLC  didn’t return messages left with his office. The beverage
distributor’s director Ashok Murthy didn’t pick up calls made to
his mobile phone.  
 Formula One had accused Speed Drinks of passing off the
beverage, which has a circled checkered “F1” logo and the
slogan “Start Your Engine,” as licensed by it, according to
court papers.  
 Formula One had said Speed Drinks’ actions, including
directing users to the official F1 website, would hinder its
future attempts to license the use of the “F1” mark on
beverages.  
 The case is Formula One Licensing BV v. Speed Drinks Pte
Ltd., S314/2010, Singapore High Court.  
 Ryanair, Aer Lingus Lose EU Court Appeals Over Blocked Takeover  
 Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest discount airline,
lost a European Union court appeal of its failed 1.48 billion-
euro ($1.86 billion) hostile takeover bid for Aer Lingus Group
Plc. In a related ruling, the court allowed Ryanair to keep its
29.8 percent stake in the carrier.  
 The  EU’s General Court , the region’s second-highest court,
said the 2007 veto of the deal by European antitrust officials
was valid. The court also said EU regulators have no power to
decide on the shareholding “in the absence of effective control
by Ryanair over Aer Lingus.”  
 “It is not disputed that in the present case Ryanair’s
shareholding in Aer Lingus does not confer on Ryanair the power
to ‘control’ Aer Lingus,” the court said.  
 The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, in
June 2007 halted Ryanair’s hostile takeover of Aer Lingus
because it said a combination of the two Dublin-based carriers
would create market dominance on some routes. The commission
four months later refused to force Ryanair to sell the shares it
acquired in Aer Lingus because the holding wasn’t a controlling
stake.  
 Ryanair, whose  stake  in Aer Lingus has grown to almost 30
percent, in January 2009 withdrew a second attempt to take over
Aer Lingus after the Irish government said it would reject the
deal. Today’s decision wouldn’t prevent the company making a
future offer for Aer Lingus,  Michael O’Leary , Ryanair’s chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement. “But
obviously any such offer will have to take account of the
court’s detailed ruling.”  
 O’Leary said Ryanair “has no immediate plans to make a
third offer for Aer Lingus, which in any event would be unlikely
to succeed unless” the Irish Government decides to sell its 25
percent stake.”  
 Ryanair, has the right to appeal today’s ruling at the
European Court of Justice, the EU’s highest court.  
 “It is regrettable that the court has not taken this
opportunity to take the further step necessary to address the
anti-competitive effects of Ryanair’s minority shareholding in
Aer Lingus,”  Colm Barrington , chairman of Aer Lingus, said in a
statement.  
 The cases are T-411/07 Aer Lingus Group v. Commission; T-
342/07 Ryanair v. Commission.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Hatch Says He Will Oppose Kagan for Supreme Court  
 Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah said he will vote against the
confirmation of Elena Kagan to be a U.S. Supreme Court justice,
a signal that her appointment will receive little support from
his fellow Republicans.  
 Hatch, in a statement July 2, said he “cannot ignore
disturbing situations” in which Kagan’s personal opinions
appeared to drive her legal views. Hatch is a member of the
 Senate Judiciary Committee , which completed four days of
hearings on Kagan’s nomination to the high court by President
Barack Obama on July 1.  
 “The law must control the judge; the judge must not
control the law,” Hatch said. “I have concluded that, based on
evidence rather than blind faith, General Kagan regrettably does
not meet this standard and that, therefore, I cannot support her
appointment.”  
 The Judiciary Committee, with 12 Democrats and seven
Republicans, will vote later this month and set the stage for
action by the full Senate well before the Supreme Court begins
its next term in October. Democrats control 58 of the Senate’s
100 seats.  
 Kagan, 50, was nominated by Obama on May 10 to replace
Justice John Paul Stevens, who has retired from the nine-member
court. She is a former dean of  Harvard Law School  and worked for
four years in President Bill Clinton’s White House as a lawyer
and policy adviser.  
 Court Filings  
 Drilling Ban Lawsuit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  
 A lawsuit by  Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other oil
service companies challenging the six-month Gulf of Mexico deep
water drilling moratorium was the most-read litigation docket on
the Bloomberg Law system last week.  
 On June 29, a federal appeals court granted the U.S. an
expedited hearing on its request to delay enforcement of a
federal judge’s order overturning the ban on deep-water
drilling. The appeals court scheduled the hearing for July 8.  
 The government is seeking to delay an order by U.S.
District Judge Martin Feldman that scrapped the six-month
drilling ban, imposed May 27 after the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in April. President Barack Obama
said the moratorium, covering waters deeper than 500 feet, was
needed to give a presidential commission time to study offshore
operations safety as the BP Plc oil spill became the largest in
U.S. history.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other oil service
companies had sued U.S. regulators, including Interior Secretary
 Kenneth Salazar , arguing the drilling suspension would cause
them irreparable economic harm.  
 Feldman ruled June 22 that the measure was overly broad and
two days later denied a U.S. request to put his order on hold
while regulators appealed. The U.S. filed notice of appeal June
23. On June 25, the government asked the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New Orleans to stay the order.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar, 2:10-
cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, 5th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 To read more, click here.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        