-- BP Climbs in London as Drilling Nears Completion, Share Sale Ruled Out
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-07-06T16:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/bp-gains-in-london-as-drilling-to-stop-leaking-gulf-well-nears-completion.html

          
          
             BP Plc  rose for a second day after
drilling for the relief well that will kill off the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill advanced ahead of schedule and the company said
it has no plans to sell new shares to raise cash.  
 BP rose 3.7 percent in London to 345.5 pence today. While
that’s 13 percent higher than the stock’s low on June 25, the
stock is still down 47 percent since the April 20 blowout on the
Deepwater Horizon rig that killed 11 workers and started the
leak on the ocean floor.  
 Sovereign wealth funds in the Middle East are reportedly
interested in buying BP stock as the company sells assets across
the globe. Spokeswoman  Sheila Williams  said the company won’t
issue shares, and yesterday the company said it may intercept
the damaged Macondo well ahead of schedule to end the worst oil
spill in U.S. history.  
 “The view is that the worst has now passed,” said  Peter Hitchens , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London. “If the
uncertainty about the spill is taken away, you can start looking
at fundamentals again.”  
 BP is a “good buy” after the drop in the share price,
Shokri Ghanem, Libya’s top oil official, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. He’s advising Libya’s sovereign
wealth fund to take a stake in BP.  
 The Kuwait Investment Office is in talks with BP about
increasing its stake in the company, the Guardian newspaper said
on its website on July 4.  
 Sell Assets  
 BP may also shore up its finances by selling assets in
Argentina, Columbia, Venezuela and Vietnam, a person with
knowledge on the matter said yesterday.  
 The company said that the cost of the spill response
reached $3.1 billion. It agreed last month to set aside $20
billion for cleanup and litigation related to the accident. BP
canceled three quarters of dividends, reduced investment plans
and pledged to sell assets to pay for the fund.  
 BP was the biggest producer of oil and gas last year,
beating  Exxon Mobil Corp.  for the first time. BP made $17
billion in profits for the year on $240 billion of revenue.  
 “The fear and uncertainty has driven the stock to a new
low,” Panmure Gordon’s Hitchens said. “If the relief well can
be finished soon, that would be really good news.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        