-- BP Retailers See Little Help From Aid Plan as Spill Cuts Sales
-- Leslie Patton
-- 2010-07-06T13:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/bp-retailers-see-little-help-from-aid-plan-as-gulf-oil-spill-slashes-sales.html

          
          
             Owners of  BP -brand gasoline stations
may receive little or no help from a $60 million aid package as
they try to cope with a sales slowdown that intensified after
failures in May to end a record U.S. oil spill.  
 BP Plc is leaving it to distributors to dole out the aid,
including reduced credit-card fees and fuel rebates of one cent
a gallon, to help make up for consumer backlash over the Gulf of
Mexico spill, company spokesman  Scott Dean  said.  
 “Giving the money to the distributors is not doing
anything for us,” said Lori Reid, who has owned one  BP  station
in Topeka, Kansas, for six years. “That is one thing that
really upsets me about how BP is handling this.”  
 Frustration mounts as the entrepreneurs who own more than
95 percent of  BP ’s 11,500 U.S. filling stations lose sales to
angry consumers who have no way to punish the London-based oil
producer directly. Bob Juckniess said sales declines at his 10
Chicago-area stations worsened to 20 percent in June, after BP
failed in a so-called top-kill effort to plug its leaking well.  
 Most U.S. filling stations are owned by individuals rather
than the major oil companies whose names they bear. About 80
percent of refined fuels in the U.S. are sold by the nation’s
convenience stories. Of the almost 115,000 convenience outlets
that sell gasoline, 57 percent have one-store owners, according
to  2010 data  from the National Association of Convenience Stores
in Alexandria, Virginia.  
 BP, which said yesterday that it has spent $3.1 billion
responding to the spill, generated  net income  of $67.5 million a
day on revenue of $812 million a day in the first quarter.  
 Distributors Decide  
 The aid package, unveiled last week to distributors, equals
about $5,200 per station.  BP  said relying on distributors will
ensure the retailers hurting the most get the most help.  
 “My fear is that the money won’t flow down to the
individual station owners,” Juckniess said in an interview at
his station near Chicago’s Midway Airport. “When you’re talking
about a penny a gallon, it’s not a whole heck of a lot.”  
 Two of the distributors Juckniess deals with have agreed to
give him the one-cent incentive. The third, Atlas Oil Co. of
Taylor, Michigan, said it will instead help with capital
projects at filling stations.  
 “It will be more longer-lasting at their sites, rather
than, ‘Hey, here’s $1,000,’” said  Michael Evans , executive vice
president of business development at Atlas. “What we want to
build is something long term.”  
 Boycotts  
 The spill began after an April 20 explosion aboard the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that killed 11 workers. BP’s
leaking Macondo well is spewing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil
a day into the ocean, according to a government estimate.  
 Campaigns to boycott BP retailers intensified in June,
after several efforts to stanch the flow failed in May, station
owners said. The company is drilling a relief well, scheduled
for completion in August, to intercept and plug Macondo.  
 “The greatest impact has been over the last month because
people thought it was going to get plugged,” said John Phelps,
president of Carroll Independent Fuel Co., a Baltimore-based
distributor.  
 People have written “stop the leak” on pumps in permanent
marker and taped up pictures of dead turtles at  BP  stations,
Phelps said. He said fewer than 20 of the 105 BP stations to
which he distributes fuel have seen sales drop.  
 “People are separating us from the tragedy down in the
Gulf,” Phelps said.  
 Sales Drop 30%  
 Dean, the BP spokesman, said the spill’s impact has varied
by location and customer type. For instance, boycotts have hurt
sales most in the Gulf Coast region, he said. Stations on
highways with other brands around them have lost more sales than
outlets where customers know the local owners, he said.  
 Stanley Roberts, president of fuel distributor Capital Oil
Inc. in Jackson, Mississippi, said Gulf Coast retailers are
“being hammered” as the spill also keeps tourists away. He
said he heard sales at some coastal stations are down as much as
30 percent from last year.  
 Station owners said  BP  rebates to consumers of five to 10
cents a gallon might help win back customers. P. Noble, a
Stickney, Illinois, resident who was buying fuel at a BP station
in Chicago, said such savings wouldn’t engender loyalty.  
 “It’s not even the prices,” Noble said. “I’m more
socially and consciously involved in what’s going in our
community and our world. It’s just terrible right now what’s
going on.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Controlled oil burns conducted by BP in the Gulf of Mexico are killing sea turtles, according to a lawsuit. Photographer: Justin E. Stumberg/U.S. Navy via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
