-- BP's Default Swaps Fall for a Fifth Day as Relief Well Drilling Advances
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-07-06T22:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/bp-s-default-swaps-fall-for-a-fifth-day-as-relief-well-drilling-advances.html

          
          
             The cost to insure  BP Plc  debt
against default fell for a fifth day after news a relief well
designed to stem the company’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill and well
rupture was ahead of schedule.  
 “There was a marginal rebound,” said  Mikhail Foux , a
credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “The whole BP
story really hinges on their ability to close the hole. If, as
the market believes, it’s going to work, we’re all fine.”  
 The cost to protect one-year bonds against default fell 15
basis points to 575.4 basis points, and five-year bonds
decreased 0.7 basis point to 451.9 basis points as of 4:30 p.m.
in New York, according to CMA DataVision. That compares with a
record-high closing price for the five-year contracts of 594.5
basis points on June 29.  
 BP shares rose for a second day, climbing as much as 4.9
percent in  London trading . The stock is 17 percent higher than
its June 25 low, and 47 percent below where it stood at on April
20 when the blowout on the Deepwater Horizon rig killed 11
workers and started the spill on the ocean floor, the biggest
such disaster in U.S. history.  
 BP rose $2.56, or 8.7 percent, to $31.91 as of 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange  composite trading .  
 BP has no plans to sell shares to raise funds, spokeswoman
 Sheila Williams  said today.  
 Since the spill, the prices of BP’s credit-default swaps,
whose price rises as investor confidence in the company’s
creditworthiness deteriorates, have soared to as high as 12
times the April 20 level.  
 Spill Cost  
 The cost of one-year and five-year bond insurance fell for
six of the past seven sessions after the company reported
advanced progress on the relief well and as a hurricane bypassed
the spill zone.  
 The company said that the cost of its response reached $3.1
billion. It agreed last month to set aside $20 billion for
cleanup and litigation related to the accident. BP canceled
three quarterly dividends, reduced investment plans and pledged
to sell assets to pay for the fund.  
 London-based BP was the biggest producer of oil and gas
last year, beating  Exxon Mobil Corp.  for the first time. BP made
$17 billion in profits for the year on $240 billion of revenue.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        