-- BP Squandered Chance to Capture More Oil From Well, Helix CEO Kratz Says
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-07-06T20:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/bp-squandered-chance-to-capture-more-oil-from-well-helix-ceo-kratz-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc  waited six weeks to accept
Helix Energy Solutions Inc.’s offer to help gather oil spewing
into the Gulf of Mexico, opting to rely on vessels with less
than half the capacity to capture crude from its leaking well.  
 Helix , the Houston-based owner of floating oil platforms
and subsea wells, offered its Helix Producer I vessel in late
April to help BP collect oil that has been gushing from the
Macondo well since an April 20 rig explosion that killed 11
workers, Chief Executive Officer  Owen Kratz  said today in an
interview. BP initially declined the offer, he said.  
 BP notified  Helix  June 10 that it wanted to lease the Helix
Producer I platform to augment two other vessels that are
receiving oil from the Macondo well, Kratz said. The delay meant
Helix had to construct a collection tube from spare parts that
will be plugged into a pipe just one-sixth the diameter of the
main opening atop the well, he said.  
 “The ad-hoc way this has been reacted to has reduced the
amount of oil captured,” Kratz said by telephone from Houston.
“The connection to the vessel itself is jury-rigged because
we’ve only had since June 10 to put it together.”  
 Bryan Ferguson, a BP spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone message seeking comment for this story.  
 Macondo has been gushing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a
day into the ocean, according to a government estimate. London-
based  BP  has been capturing about 25,000 barrels of oil a day
from the well this month.  
 Below Capacity  
 Once the Helix Producer I hooks into a floating buoy
connected to the well, it will collect as much as 25,000 barrels
a day, less than 60 percent of its capacity, because of the
mechanical limitations associated with  BP ’s delay, Kratz said.  
 Waves as high as 8 feet about 40 miles off the Louisiana
coast have prevented the 24-year-old vessel from connecting a
flexible tube to a buoy 300 feet under water and linked to the
well through a pipe, Kratz said. Gulf waters probably won’t be
calm enough to allow the platform to connect to the buoy until
July 10 or 11, he said.  
 If  BP  had accepted his offer to make the Helix Producer I
available in late April, the vessel would have plugged directly
into an 18-inch opening at the top of the blowout preventer, a
stack of safety valves sitting atop the well, Kratz said.  
 Because that opening is now partially blocked by a device
that’s funneling some of the leaking oil to  Transocean Ltd. ’s
Discoverer Enterprise drillship, the Helix Producer I will be
gathering crude from a 3-inch line on the side of the blowout
preventer, Kratz said. Another Helix vessel, the Q4000, already
is collecting oil from a 3-inch line in the blowout preventer.  
 ‘Hodgepodge Manner’  
 Helix  built the tube it will use to connect to the buoy at
a shipyard in Ingleside, Texas, with help from Kiewit Offshore
Services Ltd., Kratz said.  
 “We had to put this all together in a hodgepodge manner
because there wasn’t time to wait around for specially designed
equipment to be fabricated and delivered,” Kratz said.  
 The Helix Producer I has a crew of 150 workers and has been
at the well site in the Gulf of Mexico since June 27. The
company has 500 workers and contractors afloat in the Gulf
working on the spill response, Kratz said.  
 BP , the largest oil and natural-gas producer in the Gulf,
has spent $3.1 billion so far on containment efforts, cleanup
and legal claims. The spill, the largest in U.S. history, fouled
beaches, killed wildlife and shut a swath of federally
controlled fishing grounds over an area the size of Nebraska.  
 BP and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , owners of the largest
stakes in the Macondo well, have lost 47 percent and 48 percent
of their market values, respectively, since the rig blast.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- David Boies, a partner at Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP, discusses the Obama administration's handling of BP Plc's oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico and the possibility that a drilling moratorium may be reinstated by the government. Boies talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Fred McCallister, a vice president at Allegiance Capital Corp., talks about the need to waive the Jones Act, a 90-year-old maritime law that bars foreign ships from transporting goods between U.S. ports, to help fight the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     McCallister speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Colin McLean, managing director at SVM Asset Management Ltd., talks about the potential for leadership change at BP Plc as the company copes with the Gulf of Mexico oil leak.
     McLean, speaking with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses BP's cash position. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- David Hart, an analyst at Westhouse Securities, talks about the outlook for BP Plc and Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward's future. 
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse" with Andrea Catherwood.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Ed Crooks, energy editor for the Financial Times, talks with Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu about the future of BP Plc Chief Executive Tony Hayward. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
