-- Brazilian Banks Look to Pitch In on Infrastructure Lending, Barbosa Says
-- Jose Sergio Osse
-- 2010-07-06T20:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/brazilian-banks-look-to-pitch-in-on-infrastructure-lending-barbosa-says.html

          
          
             Brazilian banks are looking for new
ways to share the burden of financing infrastructure projects
with state development bank BNDES, said  Fabio Barbosa , chief
executive officer of Banco Santander Brasil SA.  
 The head of BNDES,  Luciano Coutinho , can “have
confidence” that the private sector will take on part of the
projects currently financed by the state bank, said Barbosa, who
is also president of the Brazilian Federation of Banks, in an
interview yesterday in Sao Paulo.  
 “We’re discussing conditions under which banks can raise
long-term funding,” Barbosa said. “They won’t be able to make
long-term loans if the terms of their borrowing continue to
change every day.”  
 The private sector should “share the burden” of long term
infrastructure financing with BNDES, Coutinho said in an
interview July 2. The outflow of low-interest BNDES loans may
push the benchmark Selic rate higher because it offsets the
effectiveness of tighter monetary policy, central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  said in an interview with Valor Economico
newspaper published yesterday.  
 Barbosa also addressed recent developments in Brazil’s
credit-card industry, saying that the July 1 end of  Cielo SA ’s
exclusivity agreement with  Visa Inc.  will boost competition.  
 Fees  
 In December, Cia. Brasileira de Meios de Pagamento, the
processor of credit- and debit-card payments known as Cielo,
agreed with Brazil’s antitrust regulator to end its exclusive
rights to handle Visa-branded card transactions.  
 Brazil decided to strengthen regulation of credit cards
after a central bank report last year pointed out that lack of
competition allowed Redecard SA, the Brazilian processor for
Mastercard Inc., and Cielo to post profits higher than what can
be considered “fair.” The bank is now taking a tougher line
with the industry, pressing for lower fees to consumers and
greater transparency, Barbosa said.  
 “The central bank is tightening the rules a lot. The most
important measures involve transparency, standardization and
comparability” of fees, he added.  
 Brazilians have increased their use of credit and debit
cards while relying less on checkbooks for purchases, a central
bank report published yesterday said.  
 The use of debit cards more than doubled from 2004 to 2009,
increasing 153 percent, said the report on the bank’s website.
Credit-card transactions rose 122 percent in the period, while
the number of checks written fell 37 percent.  
 The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.7791 per dollar at 3:43
p.m. New York time from 1.7774 yesterday.  
 The yield on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2011 was unchanged at 11.31 percent, while the contract due in
January 2012, the most traded on the BM&FBovespa exchange, rose
three basis points to 11.94 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net 
 Jose Sergio Osse  in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        