-- BRIC Stepchild Is Only Cheap at Half the Price: Julian Rimmer
-- Julian Rimmer
-- 2010-07-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/brics-stepchild-is-cheap-at-half-the-price-commentary-by-julian-rimmer.html

          
          
             When strategists appraise the Russian
stock market, they cheep “It’s cheap!” without fail. In this
new world order, investors are meant to prize inexpensive
emerging markets with flexible exchange rates, political
predictability, current account surpluses and reassuring
reserves. Markets like Russia’s, for instance.  
 So why is it that Russia languishes near the bottom of the
valuations table on about five times prospective earnings, lower
than Greece and Pakistan, to name but two basket cases? And why
when markets suffer one of their periodic slumps is Russia, the
redheaded stepchild of the BRIC economies -- Brazil, Russia,
India and China -- punished accordingly, underperforming the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index  by 4 percentage points this year?  
 It doesn’t take a nuclear physicist (handy because I’m not)
to deduce that the Kremlin’s economic policy is the crux of the
issue. Russia’s oil and gas companies comprise the greater part
of the main equity indexes, and these heavyweights are taxed
into oblivion. Their profits, which might otherwise attract
minority shareholders, are siphoned away to subsidize other
parts of the economy.  
 This year, we have witnessed an escalation in the intensity
of debate between various competing factions within government
as to how Russia’s energy assets should be taxed. The dispute
between Rosneft Oil Co. Chairman  Igor Sechin , eminence grise
among the “siloviki” community of former intelligence and
military officers, and  Alexei Kudrin , the softly spoken finance
minister, has developed along personal and increasingly
acrimonious lines.  
 Holiday Is Over  
 The former wants to maintain the tax holidays presently
enjoyed by greenfield sites in eastern Siberia to boost
production while the latter feels his ministry was tricked into
the proposals originally and is determined to apply the same
regime across all oil fields. That way, he controls the revenue
rather than leaving it to the oligarchs.  
 Generating some 25 percent of its earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in the  Vankor field ,
Sechin’s Rosneft is extremely sensitive to changes in taxation
and much of its  almost 30 percent  share-price decline this year
can be attributed to the realization that the holiday, such as
it was, is over. Either Kudrin fails to realize that Russia’s
relatively pedestrian 2 percent pace of production growth will
reverse and decline in 2010, or he doesn’t care.  
 Knowing and Caring  
 It’s difficult to know from a Russian investor’s standpoint
which would be worse -- the not knowing or the not caring --
because his latest proposals to increase revenue from the  mining
extraction tax  by 165 percent over the next three years will
reduce the internal rate of return on some of the less prolific
wells below the cost of capital.  
 The Rosneft case is far from unique. Across all industries,
the Kremlin’s clunking fist can be seen pounding the table,
demanding unthinking obedience and unswerving loyalty from its
captains of industry. If inflation sprouts, then tariffs for OAO
Gazprom are constrained and the conversion to  regulatory asset
base  tariffs for utilities is delayed to keep household bills
down. If miners are seen to be benefiting “excessively” from
high demand, then Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  upbraids them
publicly and proscribes profiteering.  
 Making money is OK in post-Soviet Russia but you must make
it in the right places.  
 Half the Price  
 So when strategists assert that Russia is cheap at half the
price, they mean that literally. With fewer upward revisions for
earnings growth these days, the benchmark  RTS stock index  is
dependent on rising price-earnings ratios and no one wants to
pay more for companies whose earnings are dictated by the state.
Not this state anyway. Not at present.  
 There’s no doubt slicker international relations would
reduce the discount applied to the Russian equity market. Blind
optimism, that international investors will be seduced over
time, won’t.  
 In a survey conducted by a Russian media company last week,
when asked who would win the 2010 World Cup, 8 percent of
respondents replied Russia would triumph even though it didn’t
actually qualify.  
 That’s the kind of blind optimism I’m talking about.  
 ( Julian Rimmer  is a trader at CF Global Trading in London.
The opinions expressed are his own. His firm or clients may own
or trade securities discussed in this column.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Julian Rimmer at  jrimmer1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        