-- British Airways CEO Wages `War of Attrition' as Pay Vote Starts
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-07-07T16:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/british-airways-mounts-war-of-attrition-as-cabin-crew-votes-on-pay-offer.html

          
          
             British Airways Plc  Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh  may be counting on strike fatigue among
12,000 cabin crew to enable him to force through cost cuts and
weaken union influence at Europe’s third-largest carrier.  
 As flight attendants begin voting today on a pay offer that
ignores union grievances over the removal of travel perks, the
firing of strikers and the use of volunteer staff, the appetite
for stoppages is probably diminishing, said  Andy Cook , CEO of
 Marshall-James , which advises companies on employee relations.  
 “A lot of cabin crew will be thinking: What’s the point?
I’m losing money. Am I prepared to go back on strike again and
lose more?” said Cook, the former head of human resources at
 Transport for London , which runs the U.K. capital’s buses and
subway trains. “I don’t think British Airways will concede on
the points that the union wants them to concede on.”  
 While stoppages over  staffing levels  have grounded flights
on 22 days since March 20, Walsh says the weakening of the
strike will permit the operation of all long-haul services in
any new walkout. The CEO also says a pay offer put to the Unite
union on June 25 is “final,” and has begun an advertising
campaign to recruit 1,250 flight attendants for less pay.  
 That hiring plan shows Walsh is seeking to pressure workers
to vote for the latest proposals and shun further strike action,
according to Gregor Gall, professor of industrial relations at
the  University of Hertfordshire  in Hatfield, England.  
 ‘War of Attrition’  
 “I don’t see the signs that Unite is willing to match the
firepower of BA at the moment,” said Gall, whose research
focuses on industrial action and union recognition. “British
Airways is mounting a war of attrition and so far it’s certainly
coming out as the better-off party.”  
 Walsh cut crew complements on long-haul flights in November
and wants to save 160 million pounds ($243 million) annually
within 10 years. Of the total, 60 million pounds will come from
the staffing reduction and the rest from establishing a parallel
fleet using crews with separate contracts and bargaining rights,
as detailed in the plan on which workers began voting today.  
 The proposals seek to deliver a “permanent structural
change” to the British Airways cost base, according to the
document. It’s envisaged that more than 4,800 flight attendants
will be employed in the new fleet within a decade, or 42 percent
of the total at the carrier’s London Heathrow hub, up from about
500, or 5 percent, in the first year, Chief Financial Officer
 Keith Williams  said in a presentation to investors on May 21.  
 Concession  
 In a concession to existing staff, British Airways has
agreed to lift pay for two years from 2011 and drop benefit cuts
that would have funded higher staffing levels on some flights.  
 The carrier will also top up flying allowances that may
decline as a consequence of long-haul routes being switched to
planes staffed by the new recruits, though the payments won’t be
available to workers engaging in further industrial action. The
allocation of destinations between the old and new fleets would
be decided at a future day in consultation with Unite.  
 “We have changed our offer in line with feedback we have
received from crew,” British Airways spokesman  Euan Fordyce 
said in comments sent via e-mail. “It is fair and reasonable
and provides a genuine opportunity to end this dispute.”  
 Neutral View  
 Unite has already departed from its previous stance by
putting the deal to members in a two-week postal ballot without
recommending that they reject it. A previous offer that had been
dismissed by the union was spurned by 81 percent of respondents.  
 Plans for a strike vote starting June 29 were halted after
British Airways issued the latest package, with  Tony Woodley ,
Unite’s joint general secretary, saying it would be “suicidal”
not to put the deal to members. The union won’t back the offer
because Walsh hasn’t compromised on travel perks and dismissals,
a person with knowledge of the matter said on June 30.  
 “The union is making no recommendation one way or
another,” Unite spokesman  Andrew Murray  said in an e-mail.  
 The walkouts have so far  lost  London-based British Airways
154 million pounds, according to Unite, and extended stoppages
could cost 1.4 billion pounds in lost sales as people switch to
discount carriers such as Ryanair Holdings Plc and EasyJet Plc,
researchers at Manchester Business School estimate.  
 British Airways shares have  fallen  5.5 percent since Unite
said on Feb. 22 that members had voted to strike, versus a 4.2
percent drop in the eight-member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index.
They closed up 1.8 percent at 199 pence in London today.  
 Lower Wages  
 The cabin-crew recruitment drive begun by British Airways
would pay attendants about 18,000 pounds including allowances,
according to the company. Unite says the basic wage is as little
as 11,500 pounds, half of the median salary across the U.K.  
 “If BA continues to recruit more people on different terms
they’re going to have more options for being able to cover any
future industrial action,” said Marshall-James’s Cook, who
doesn’t advise British Airways. “The cabin crew will find
almost that the world has passed them by.”  
 In addition to forcing through a reduction in labor costs,
Walsh is seeking to complete a merger with  Iberia Lineas Aereas
de Espana SA  of Spain to generate annual savings of 400 million
euros ($503 million) in the fifth year.  
 British Airways last month reached an agreement with
trustees of its  pension  plans which will reduce a 3.7 billion-
pound deficit. Iberia has the right to pull out of the
combination if it deems any pension deal unsatisfactory.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     British Airways Chief Executive Officer Willie Walsh may want to force through cost cuts and  weaken union influence as cabin crew continue to strike. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
