-- Buffett Donates $1.6 Billion in Biggest Gift Since 2008 Crisis
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-06T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/buffett-donates-most-since-2008-after-urging-wealthiest-to-increase-giving.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett , the billionaire who
has promised to give away 99 percent of his fortune to charity,
made his largest donation since the 2008 financial crisis after
profits at his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  jumped.  
 The value of Buffett’s annual gift to the foundation
established by Bill Gates rose 28 percent to $1.6 billion from
$1.25 billion last year. The donation, made in  Berkshire Class B
stock , was accompanied by gifts totaling $328 million in shares
to three charities run by Buffett’s children and another named
for his late first wife, according to a July 2 filing.  
 Buffett, 79, is depleting the world’s third-largest
personal fortune in installments. The step-by-step approach
means Buffett will control Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire as
long as he lives. His chosen charities are counting on Berkshire
profits to fund programs aimed at easing world hunger, boosting
education in the U.S. and promoting access to abortions.  
 “It’s good that he’s staying with his plan,” said  Daniel Borochoff , president and founder of the American Institute of
Philanthropy, a Chicago-based charity watchdog. “Other wealthy
donors are stepping back from their giving plans” after the
economic crisis.  
 The gift value was calculated from the July 1 closing price
of $78.81. The filing didn’t contain a dollar total.  
 Berkshire rose  35 percent on the New York Stock Exchange in
the 12 months ended July 1, the day Buffett made the gifts. A
stock-market rally helped increase Berkshire profits 61 percent
last year. The $27 billion takeover of railroad Burlington
Northern Santa Fe Corp., Buffett’s biggest, may boost Berkshire
results further as the U.S. economy improves.  
 Less Giving  
 The financial crisis lowered charitable giving in the U.S.
by 3.6 percent to $303.75 billion in 2009, according to a study
by Indiana University and GivingUSA Foundation. Buffett’s gift
to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation last year fell about 31
percent from $1.8 billion in 2008 as Berkshire shares slumped.  
 “Financial markets, for better or for worse, drive how
people feel” about giving, said  Nancy Raybin , chairman of
Giving Institute, a consultant to non-profit groups.  
 Buffett, whose wealth was estimated at $47 billion by
Forbes magazine in March, announced his philanthropic plans in
2006. He pledged about 85 percent of his Berkshire holdings to
the Gates Foundation, the Susan Thompson Buffett Foundation, the
Howard G. Buffett Foundation, the Sherwood Foundation and the
NoVo Foundation. In a Fortune magazine op-ed last month, Buffett
said more than 99 percent of his wealth would go to charity.  
 ‘Giving Pledge’  
 Buffett and Bill Gates, co-founder of  Microsoft Corp.  and
world’s second-richest man behind Mexico’s  Carlos Slim , are
pressing fellow billionaires to give more. On June 16, the two
men and Gates’s wife  Melinda Gates  announced a campaign called
“ The Giving Pledge ” to induce the wealthiest individuals and
couples to commit half their fortunes to charity.  
 Buffett, who has given away more than $9 billion in
Berkshire stock in the last five years, said in 2006 that his
company is an “ideal asset” for charities because of its
stability and earnings power. Since announcing his charity
pledge four years ago, Berkshire has advanced 27 percent,
beating the 18 percent slide in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .  
 Buffett has arranged that the shares promised to each
charity will be delivered after his death. During his lifetime,
the number of shares he hands over is scheduled to decline by 5
percent each year. Increases in Berkshire’s stock price should
more than make up for the reductions, Buffett has said.  
 “You can reasonably expect the value of Berkshire shares
to increase, in an irregular manner, by an amount that more than
compensates for the decline in the number of shares that will be
distributed,” Buffett said letters to the charities in 2006.  
 Gates Foundation  
 The Gates Foundation, with a $35 billion endowment, combats
disease and global poverty, and funds U.S. education programs.
Last year, The Susan Thompson Buffett Foundation, named for
Buffett’s first wife, who died in 2005, gave more than $2
million each to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Abortion Access
Project Inc. and Washington-based Catholics for Choice and more
than $40 million to  Ipas , which works to expand the availability
of safe abortions and provides reproductive health care. Buffett
remarried in 2006.  
 Gates, 54, is a Berkshire director.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Billionaire Warren Buffett has made his largest donation since the 2008 financial crisis. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Betty Liu reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
