-- Bulgaria Caps Belene Nuclear Plant's Cost at $8.8 Billion, Borissov Says
-- Elizabeth Konstantinova
-- 2010-07-06T15:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/bulgaria-caps-belene-nuclear-plant-s-cost-at-8-8-billion-borissov-says.html

          
          
             Bulgaria aims to limit the cost of
the Belene nuclear plant being built by Russia’s ZAO
Atomstroyexport to 7 billion euros ($8.8 billion), Prime
Minister  Boiko Borissov  said.  
 Borissov met today with Russia’s First Deputy Prime
Minister  Viktor Zubkov  in Sofia to discuss joint energy projects
including construction of the 2,000-megawatt power plant on the
Danube river, natural-gas supply and the South Stream gas
pipeline from Russia to Western Europe via Bulgaria.  
 “I hope the cost of Belene will not exceed 7 billion euros
by the time it is completed, as we agreed with the Russian
counterparts today,” Borissov told reporters after the meeting.  
 The two countries agreed to work out by September the
future electricity rates and a detailed financing plan for the
project. The two-reactor plant, budgeted at 4 billion euros in
2005, was delayed as funding dried up because of the global
financial crisis.  
 Bulgaria is seeking a strategic European investor in the
plant, Borissov said.  RWE AG , Germany’s second-largest utility,
withdrew in 2008 after the government changed and Bulgaria
stopped funding construction.  
 Gas Negotiations  
 The first reactor will be built by mid-September for
delivery to the site. Bulgaria has to pay an installment of 280
million euros then in addition to 300 million euros already
paid, Borissov said. Atomstroyexport was chosen in 2005 to build
the plant, with  Areva SA  and  Siemens AG  as subcontractors.  
 Officials from Bulgaria’s dominant gas trader Bulgargaz AD
will travel to Moscow on July 8 to negotiate a new supply
contract as the current one expires this year, Borissov said.
OAO Gazprom sells Bulgaria gas through three units, which the
country seeks to eliminate in the new contract.  
 “We expect a favorable decision on the gas price by
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ,” Borissov said.  
 Gazprom sells Bulgaria gas at an average price of about
$339 per 1,000 cubic meters, Zubkov said at the briefing. It is
sold in Bulgaria at a higher price, he said.  
 Bulgaria agreed to speed up work on South Stream, the
Gazprom-led pipeline that will cross the Black Sea from Russia
to Bulgaria and carry gas to Italy and Austria, Borissov said. A
feasibility study on the project is underway, he said.  
 “There are no open questions left on South Stream,”
Borissov said, “In 2015 the pipeline should be a fact.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        