-- California Banks Pitch `Budget-Impasse Loans' to State Workers
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-07-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/california-lenders-pitch-budget-impasse-loans-to-workers-facing-pay-cuts.html

          
          
             Banks and credit unions will offer
zero-interest loans and other assistance to the 200,000
California government employees who may see their pay reduced to
the minimum wage as a result of the state’s budget stalemate.  
 The  Golden 1 Credit Union , a lender that caters to state
workers, will offer zero-interest loans to customers whose pay
falls because of the stalled spending plan, according to a July
2  statement . About 1,100 legislative aides and gubernatorial
appointees whose pay was stopped on July 1 already have access
to so-called budget-impasse loans, said Donna A. Bland, the
company’s chief financial officer.  
 “We’re trying to show our support for our state-employee
members,” Bland said in a telephone interview. Golden 1, based
in Sacramento, the state capital, describes itself as the sixth-
largest credit union in the nation with about $7 billion in
assets.  
 Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender by assets,
will waive fees and offer emergency credit-line increases and
mortgage-payment help to customers whose California pay is cut,
said Colleen Haggerty, a spokeswoman for the company, based in
Charlotte, North Carolina.  
 “We could survive off our savings for a little while, but
it would be a real burden on us,” said Chava Yniquez, a 49-
year-old technician in the Senate printing office who has used
Golden 1 budget-impasse loans in the past. “It’s a lifeline.”  
 California’s Republican governor,  Arnold Schwarzenegger ,
and its Democrat-led Legislature are at odds over how to close a
$19.1 billion deficit for the fiscal year that began July 1. The
state has passed its budget by the start of the fiscal year only
10 times in the past 34 years.  
 Court Backs Governor  
 The Schwarzenegger administration won a Sacramento state
appellate court decision on July 2 upholding an order compelling
state Controller  John Chiang  to reduce employee pay until a
budget is passed. That order affects about 200,000 state
employees who work under civil-service contracts, according to
the state Personnel Administration Department.  
 Reducing workers’ wages can’t be done until the state
overhauls its payroll system, Chiang, a Democrat, said July 2 in
a statement. He is running for re-election in November.  
 “I will move quickly to ask the courts to definitively
resolve the issue of whether our current payroll system is
capable of complying with the minimum-wage order,” he said.  
 Budget-impasse loans have been around since at least 1992,
when Golden 1 first offered them. The credit union made the
loans available to about 850 customers during the last budget
stalemate, in 2008, Bland said.  
 55,000 Potential Borrowers  
 Golden 1 said as many as 55,000 of its customers may
participate this year, if state-employee pay is cut to the
federal minimum wage, currently $7.25 an hour. Flyers that tout
the program are being distributed in its 84 offices, carrying a
message that says “balancing the state’s budget doesn’t have to
affect your own.”  
 Other institutions offering similar loans include San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. , the fourth-largest U.S. bank
by deposits, and Sacramento’s  Schools Financial Credit Union .
The zero-interest loans are available only to current customers
whose pay is deposited directly into their accounts, said Nathan
Schmidt, vice president of marketing at Schools.  
 “It’s the philosophy of credit unions helping people,”
Schmidt said in a telephone interview. “Eventually the state
will pass a budget.”  
 Impasse lending isn’t limited to the Golden State. PSECU, a
credit union based in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, offered state
workers the zero percent loans last year, according to its
 website . This year, the Pennsylvania Legislature passed its
budget on time for the first time in eight years.  
 “California has a whole lot of experience in this, year in
and year out,” Patrick Keefe, a spokesman for the  Credit Union
National Association  in Washington, said in a telephone
interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     California’s Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and its Democrat-led Legislature are at odds over how to close a $19.1 billion deficit for the fiscal year that began July 1. Photographer: Jed Jacobsohn/Getty Images  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
