-- Cancellara Regains Tour de France Yellow Jersey; Armstrong Trails Contador
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-06T16:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/cancellara-regains-tour-de-france-yellow-jersey-armstrong-trails-contador.html

          
          
             Switzerland’s  Fabian Cancellara 
retook the lead in the Tour de France after punctures and
crashes hit  Lance Armstrong  and other riders on cobblestones
today. Thor Hushovd won the third stage.  
 Cancellara of Team Saxo Bank overtook France’s Sylvain
Chavanel. Armstrong lost time after a puncture and fell behind
defending champion Alberto Contador. Frank Schleck, fifth
overall last year, quit after a fall.  
 Eight miles near the end of the 132-mile stage between
Wanze in Belgium and Arenberg Porte du Hainaut, France, were
over cobblestones, following part of the route of the Paris-
Roubaix one-day race known as the “Hell of the North.”  
 “I was really motivated,” Hushovd told Eurosport. “It
was like a mini Roubaix.”  
 Seven-time champion Armstrong, who’s riding his last Tour,
dropped to 18th from fifth and is 2 minutes, 30 seconds off the
lead, according to provisional standings. Cancellara leads by 23
seconds from Britain’s Geraint Thomas, while two-time runner-up
Cadel Evans of Australia is third.  
 Schleck fell on cobblestones with about 20 miles left. His
younger brother Andy, who also rides for Team Saxo Bank, stayed
out of trouble and rose to sixth overall.  
 Armstrong lost ground with about 10 miles left. Television
footage showed him riding a bike with one tire thicker than the
other after an apparent wheel change. He wrested back some time
by following the rear wheel of RadioShack teammate Yaroslav
Popovych and then going solo.  
 Contador appeared to slow because of a tire problem over
the last mile. He dropped to ninth from seventh overall and is 1
minute, 40 seconds off the lead.  
 Chavanel had punctures with about 10 miles and six miles
left and threw his bike into a grass bank on the second occasion
as he saw his race lead slip away.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        