-- Cattle, Hog Futures Advance as Equities Rally May Boost U.S. Meat Demand
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-07-06T18:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/cattle-hog-futures-advance-as-equities-rally-may-boost-u-s-meat-demand.html

          
          
             Cattle futures rose to a one-month
high and hogs gained on speculation that demand for U.S. meat
will increase as the dollar drops and equities climb.  
 The  dollar  sank to an eight-week low against a basket of
six major currencies, increasing the appeal of U.S. beef and
pork exports. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose as much as
1.9 percent, before paring gains.  Wholesale choice beef  prices
climbed to a four-week high at midday and pork rose for two
straight days last week, government data show.  
 “A lot of the strength we’re seeing in cattle, and to some
extent the hogs, is being derived from the gains we’ve seen in
the equity markets and weakness in the U.S. dollar,” said  Dan Vaught , the owner of Vaught Futures Insights in Altus, Arkansas.
“It’s based on ideas of improving global economic demand.”  
 Cattle futures for August delivery rose 0.325 cent, or 0.4
percent, to 89.8 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Earlier, the price touched 90.85 cents, the highest
level for a most-active contract since June 3. Feeder-cattle
futures for August settlement advanced 0.85 cent, or 0.8
percent, to $1.13525 a pound.  
 Hog futures for August settlement rose 0.225 cent, or 0.3
percent, to 80.275 cents a pound. Futures dropped 4.6 percent
last week, the biggest weekly decline since late March.  
 Wholesale choice beef climbed to $1.5609 a pound at midday,
the highest level since June 9, according to the U.S. Department
of Agriculture. Wholesale pork sold for 82.42 cents a pound at
the end of last week.  
 Grocers in the U.S. may need to refill freezers with beef
and pork after warm, dry  weather  during the Independence Day
holiday weekend allowed more consumers to grill outdoors, said
 Dennis Smith , a broker at Archer Financial Services Inc. in
Chicago.  
 The weather “was not really stormy, so the rate of retail
clearance was probably good over the long weekend,” Smith said.
Meatpackers “are probably looking to do some business, and get
slaughter ramped up a little here to replenish the pipeline.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        