-- McDonald's Says Chicken McNuggets Sold in China Have `Harmless' Additives
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-06T11:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/mcdonald-s-says-chicken-mcnuggets-sold-in-china-have-harmless-additives.html

          
          
             McDonald’s China Co.  said additives
in its chicken McNuggets are “harmless,” in response to
reports the ingredients may pose health risks.  
 The use of tertiary butylhydroquinone in the fast-food
chain’s fried chicken pieces meets Chinese food safety standards,
McDonald’s unit in the nation said in an e-mailed statement.
“The chemical is toxic to some extent,” the China Daily
newspaper  quoted  Liu Qingchun, a nutritionist at the General
Hospital of Armed Police Forces, as saying today. Liu said
China’s standards allow its use.  
 McDonald’s has “strict quality control on all its food,”
Jacky Sun, a spokesman for the company said by phone today.
Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  on April 20 called for
authorities to “significantly improve” the safety and
reputation of domestic foods, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported.  
 McNuggets served in the U.S. also contain tertiary
butylhydroquinone, a petroleum-based product, and
dimethylpolysiloxane, an anti-foaming agent used in cosmetics
and other goods.  McDonald’s Holdings Co. Japan  also serves
chicken with the additives, which meet Japanese safety standards,
 Kazuyuki Hagiwara , a spokesman for the company said today. Both
chemicals are “harmless,” Sun of McDonald’s China said.  
 “The State Food and Drug Administration is working with
other relevant departments to monitor the products of McDonald’s
McNuggets,” the agency said in a  statement  posted on its
website. “The government asks food service providers to
strictly follow the national standard use of food additives, and
to ensure public food safety.”  
 Poultry Eaters  
 Poultry is the second most-consumed meat in China after
pork. Demand this year is estimated at more than 12.6 million
tons, according to a statement on the industry website  China
Animal Agriculture Association .  
 Safety concerns about food have risen in China since
contaminated milk powder killed at least six babies in 2008 and
sickened about 300,000 children. That same year, pesticide-
tainted dumplings imported from China sickened at least 10
people in Japan.  
 China opened its first 1,000 McDonald’s restaurants faster
than any other country outside of the U.S. and is the main focus
for investment in the region,  Tim Fenton , McDonald’s president
for Asia, Middle East and Africa, said in an interview on June
10. The fast-food chain plans to have 2,000 outlets there by
2013, he said.  
 The company, which opened its first restaurant in Shenzhen
in 1990, now has 1,146 stores in China, the world’s third-
largest economy.  
 -- Jin Jing ,  Stephanie Wong  in Shanghai, with assistance from
 Feiwen Rong  and  Yidi Zhao  in Beijing and  Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo.
Editors:  Dave McCombs ,  Ben Richardson .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jing Jin at 
 jjin32@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        