-- CFA Franc Must Be Decoupled From Euro to Help Exports, AfDB Economist Says
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-07-06T11:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/cfa-franc-must-be-decoupled-from-euro-to-help-exports-afdb-economist-says.html

          
          
             Ivory Coast, Senegal and other West
and Central African nations that use the CFA franc should
consider decoupling their currency from the euro to boost
exports, the African Development Bank’s Chief Economist Mthuli
Ncube said.  
 While the CFA franc has fallen 13 percent against the
dollar in the past six months following the euro’s decline, it’s
still not “competitive enough,” Ncube said in an interview in
Johannesburg today.  
 The CFA franc, which is pegged at 655.95 to the euro by the
Central Bank of West African States and the Bank of Central
African States, was last devalued in 1994 by 50 percent to help
improve export competitiveness. With a 50 percent chance of
European growth slowing, it’s a “disadvantage” to be tied to
the euro, Ncube said.  
 “There’s a need to look at substantial currency
depreciation to help that region be more competitive,” Ncube
said. “It is a political hot potato, but it needs to be dealt
with.”  
 The CFA franc is the official currency of Benin, Burkina
Faso, Ivory Coast, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of
Congo, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon.  
 The countries, former colonies of France, had the currency
pegged to the French franc from 1960 to 1999, when they switched
to the euro.  
 ‘Laggard’  
 Europe is a “laggard” in the global economy, with a slow
recovery expected in the region, Ncube said.  
 “A large chunk of Africa is tied to the least adaptive
zone in the world,” Ncube said. “Surely that’s a
disadvantage.”  
 The Tunis-based Development Bank forecast in May that
economic growth on the continent would rebound to 4.5 percent
this year and 5.2 percent in 2011, from 2.5 percent in 2009.  
 “I see the potential of a double-dip recession impacting
on Africa,” Ncube said.  
 The African Development Bank is also considering selling
infrastructure bonds within the next year in countries including
Botswana, Kenya and Nigeria, to help fund power and
transportation projects and “deepen capital markets” in
African countries, Ncube said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Abidjan at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        