-- Chinese, Brazilian Firms Use First World Cup Ads to Go Global
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-07T17:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/chinese-brazilian-firms-use-first-world-cup-ads-to-go-global.html

          
          
             When Uruguayan striker Luis Suarez
used his hand to deny Ghana victory in their World Cup quarter-
final,  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.  knew its sponsorship of
the world’s most-watched sporting event was worth it.  
 The Chinese solar-panel manufacturer’s logo, displayed on a
screen behind the goal, was beamed repeatedly into millions of
homes around the world as Suarez was red-carded. The incident
was one of the most controversial of the tournament so far.  
 “With a moment like that, people are paying attention,”
Yingli spokeswoman Judy Lee said in an interview yesterday.
“It’s like wow! Our logo has been seen by millions! People are
going to know about us!”  
 Yingli, based in Baoding, is the first Chinese business to
sponsor the World Cup, an event that attracts more than 500
million TV viewers. Brazil’s Seara, a unit of  Marfrig Alimentos
SA , the world’s fourth-biggest meatpacker, and Indian software
company  Mahindra Satyam  also became the first companies from
their countries to ally their brands with the tournament.  
 “You’re seeing something of a democratization of global
branding,” said Alan Gould, chief executive officer of Nielsen
IAG, part of New York-based Nielsen Co., which measures what
consumers watch and buy. “To invest in the World Cup in a major
way is certainly a major indicator that they are seeking
aggressively to become a global player.”  
 Yingli has a 7 percent share of the global solar-energy
market, according to  Bloomberg New Energy Finance . It plans to
spend about $2.3 billion over the next three years tripling its
capacity to 3 gigawatts a year. Marfrig, based in Sao Paulo,
relies on exports to generate 35 percent of its revenue.  
 ‘Global Reach’  
 Associating the company with the world’s most popular sport
gives Marfrig “top-level global reach,” Chief Executive
Officer Marcos Molina dos Santos said in an e-mailed response to
questions last month.  
 The spending by companies from the so-called BRIC countries
at this year’s tournament comes after growth in their stock
markets outpaced developed nations since the last World Cup four
years ago.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite index  jumped 39 percent,
Brazil’s  Bovespa index  surged 71 percent and India’s  Sensex
index  advanced 65 percent. Over the same period, the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  dropped 13 percent and London’s FTSE 100
declined 16 percent.  
 Exponential Growth  
 Yingli, Mahindra and Seara’s sponsorship deals at this
year’s World Cup are “directly affected by the scale of the
emerging economies,” Anil Gupta, a professor at France’s Insead
business school, said in a June 29 interview. “I would predict
pretty confidently that this is a trend that will take off
exponentially over the next decade.”  
 In the past, advertising at the World Cup has been
dominated by sponsors from rich countries, who benefit from
higher revenue from the increased exposure.  
 Adidas AG , the world’s second-biggest sports goods maker,
last month raised its forecast for record soccer-related revenue
because of the tournament.  Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, reported sales in the quarter following the
2006 World Cup in Germany rose 14 percent because of the
tournament.  McDonald’s Corp. , the biggest restaurant chain, said
global store sales grew 5.5 percent after that event, the
biggest rise in seven quarters.  
 Sales Boost  
 Sponsorship of the World Cup is “certain” to boost sales,
said Dilbagh Gill, head of sport at Mahindra Satyam, which aims
to increase revenue in its sports-management division to $100
million from $30 million before the next World Cup in 2014. It
wants to be one of the top three information-technology
companies in host-country Brazil, providing a “gateway to Latin
America,” said Gill.  
 “You can cut a sales person’s calls by 10 minutes by not
having to explain who we are,” Gill said. “Football is the
only single language that reaches Asia and Europe.”  
 During the 2006 World Cup, the top 10 advertisers in the
U.S. spent a combined $112 million on TV advertising, according
to Nielsen. Total TV advertising in that tournament was $195
million, it said.  
 Established brands spend as much on advertising during the
World Cup as they do on sponsoring the event “to build deeper
understanding of what makes them special and different,”
Boston-based branding strategist Michael D’Esopo of Lippincott
said in an interview.  
 By paying $100 million to sponsor the two World Cups and
act as the event’s “invisible hand” by managing its IT,
Hyderabad-based Mahindra Satyam hopes to revive a brand whose
reputation was damaged by its involvement in India’s biggest
fraud inquiry, Gill said.  
 Overstated Assets  
 Tech Mahindra Ltd.  acquired Satyam Computer Services Ltd.
last year after Satyam’s founder said he’d overstated assets by
more than $1 billion, triggering the fraud investigation.  
 “We are proving to the world we didn’t implode,” said
Gill. “It’s been flawless and we’re proving that the company is
a solid entity.”  
 FIFA , soccer’s governing body, banked $1.2 billion from
tournament sponsors this year. While Lee wouldn’t say how much
her company spent to buy advertising, the amount was “worth
it.” Yingli is anticipating more exposure in the final games of
the tournament, which ends on July 11.  
 “For the final, we hope when there’s a crucial moment when
a goal is scored, when something big happens, that our logo pops
up in the background,” she said. “Especially if it’s the
winning goal.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Uruguay's striker Luis Suarez gestures during the 2010 World Cup quarter final Uruguay vs Ghana at Soccer City stadium in Soweto, suburb of Johannesburg. Photographer: Roberto Schmidt/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
