-- China Bashing Over Yuan Needs a Long Rest: Ronald I. McKinnon
-- Ronald I. McKinnon
-- 2010-07-06T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/china-bashing-over-yuan-needs-a-long-rest-commentary-by-ronald-mckinnon.html

          
          
             I’ll say it at the outset: Focusing
on the yuan-dollar rate is a serious distraction, and it’s time
for the U.S. to back off from bashing China over problems that
are born mostly at home.  
 Let’s start with the source of all the misdirected
attention. On June 20, the People’s Bank of China bowed to
American pressure and said it was abandoning the peg of 6.83
yuan to the dollar. Now the bank will vary the exchange rate at
the beginning of each trading day, as well as widening the range
of variation to plus or minus 0.5 percent.  
 But the PBC is concerned about re-introducing the one-way
bet that prevailed between July 2005 and July 2008: that the
currency steadily rises as it did at about a 6 percent annual
rate. This led to massive inflows of hot money that threatened a
loss of monetary control while impeding the forward market in
foreign exchange.  
 China’s central bank is again in a difficult situation. The
U.S. Congress, led by New York Senator  Charles Schumer , again is
threatening to impose punitive tariffs on imports from China
unless the yuan appreciates. Thus China’s ritualistic de-pegging
exercise to defuse American pressure.  
 Yet any gradual appreciation, or even the threat of it,
will restart the hot-money inflows. Moreover, any sharp
appreciation won’t defuse the situation because it will be
unlikely to reduce China’s  trade  surplus, mainly the result of
that country’s high savings rate.  
 False Belief  
 Unfortunately, what lies behind this unnecessary political
crisis is a widely held but false economic belief: the idea that
the exchange rate can be used to control any country’s trade
balance, which is the difference between its saving and
 investment  rate. Instead, the problem is a saving deficiency in
the U.S. -- with very large fiscal deficits and low personal
saving -- coupled with surplus saving in China.  
 To correct the trade imbalance between the two countries,
these fundamentals must be jointly altered by changes in public
policies.  
 Nobody disputes that almost three decades of U.S. trade and
net saving deficits have made the global system of finance and
trade more unstable. Dollar  debts  outstanding have become huge,
and threaten America’s own financial future.  
 Because the U.S.’s main creditors in Asia -- Japan in the
1980s and 1990s, China since 2000 -- rely heavily on exports,
the transfer of their surplus savings to the U.S. entails that
they run large trade surpluses in manufactured goods.  
 The result has been that U.S. trade deficits have worsened
the decline in the American manufacturing sector.  
 Industrial Decline  
 One unfortunate consequence of this industrial decline has
been an outbreak of protectionism in the U.S., which is
exacerbated by the conviction that foreigners have somehow been
cheating with their exchange rate.  
 However, the prevailing idea that a country’s exchange rate
could, and indeed should, be used to bring its external trade
into better balance is often wrong.  
 This conventional wisdom is based on faulty economic
theorizing. It need not apply in a globalized financial system
where capital flows freely.  
 There are several forces at play tied to a simple economic
formula with exports and imports on one side and saving and
investment on the other.  
 Most economists and commentators focus on exports and
imports. Looking at this alone suggests that a depreciation of
the home currency will make its exports cheaper in world markets
and make the home country’s imports more expensive, leading to
an improved trade balance.  
 Whole Picture  
 But that’s not the whole picture. For the  trade balance  to
improve with currency depreciation, overall domestic
expenditures must fall relative to aggregate output. This is the
same as saying that domestic saving must rise relative to
domestic investment. Looked at this way, one can’t presume that
U.S. net saving will rise when the dollar is devalued.  
 Indeed, the presumption may go the other way when domestic
 investment  (fueled in part by multinational firms) is sensitive
to the exchange rate.  
 Suppose the yuan were to appreciate a lot against the
dollar. Potential investors -- either foreign or domestic --
would now see China to be a more expensive place in which to
invest and the U.S. less expensive. This might set off a minor
investment boom in the U.S., where investment expenditures rise
from a relatively small base, and a major slump in China’s huge
investment sector, which now is about 45 percent of the
country’s annual output. Overall, investment-led expenditures in
China would fall, the  economy  would contract, and Chinese
imports might fall.  
 Japan Lesson  
 So why wouldn’t the trade imbalance between China and the
U.S. be reduced? Let’s look to Japan to see what happened when
it allowed its currency to appreciate in the 1980s into the mid-
1990s, when the yen went ever-higher.  
 Japan became a higher-cost place in which to invest, so
that large Japanese firms decamped to invest in lower cost Asian
countries and in the U.S. Yet, even though yen appreciation
slowed Japan’s  export  growth, because its economy slowed and
imports declined, the trade surplus with the U.S. still
increased.  
 No wonder China is reluctant to appreciate. Like Japan, its
trade and saving surplus would likely not diminish because
domestic saving is relatively insensitive to the exchange rate.  
 Critics in the U.S. and Europe might well come back and say
“you just didn’t appreciate enough.” But continual yuan
appreciation is an invitation to further hot money inflows. The
People’s Bank of China would be, as it has been, forced to
intervene to  buy  dollars on a grand scale to prevent an
indefinite upward spiral in the yuan.  
 So we need a permanent moratorium on bashing China to
appreciate its exchange rate, allowing China’s central bank to
stop its obscure fiddling with the yuan-dollar rate. The U.S.
should work toward a credible program for closing its enormous
fiscal deficits and encouraging personal saving, while China
works on reducing incentives for corporate over-saving by
allowing a freer labor market and more rapid wage growth. But
these are stories for another time.  
 ( Ronald I. McKinnon  is a professor of international
economics at Stanford University. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ronald I. McKinnon at   mckinnon@stanford.edu   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Ronald McKinnon, professor of international economics at Stanford University, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about U.S. President Barack Obama's goal to double exports during the next five years, and implications of China's currency policy on the trade relations between the two countries.
     Obama says his administration is increasing access to export financing for small and medium-sized U.S. businesses while removing barriers to trade. The U.S. trade deficit with China reached $71 billion in the first four months of the year, up 5.7 percent from the same period in 2009, U.S. government data show. China’s peg of its currency to the dollar had provided the country with an "unfair trade advantage," Obama said on June 24. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
