-- Coal Discount to Winter Gas in U.K. May Shrink on EU Rules: Energy Markets
-- Ben Farey
-- 2010-07-06T14:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/coal-discount-to-winter-gas-in-u-k-may-shrink-on-eu-rules-energy-markets.html

          
          
             The advantage of using coal instead
of natural gas to generate electricity in the U.K. this winter
may diminish because of European Union pollution restrictions.  
 Gas for next-month delivery in the U.K., Europe’s biggest
market, has jumped 58 percent since the end of the first
quarter, after the coldest winter in 30 years depleted
stockpiles, according to Bloomberg data. The increase helped
push winter gas 47 percent higher, while coal for delivery next
year in Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp, the benchmark contract,
gained 12 percent.  
 Utilities that can switch between the two would earn 3.02
pounds ($4.58) a megawatt-hour more burning coal than gas in the
fourth quarter, the biggest premium this year, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg and brokers such as ICAP Plc. EU caps on
coal-fired generation may narrow that advantage, said  Jim Robertson , a former energy buyer at Terra Industries Inc.  
 Winter gas prices “will tumble,” said Robertson, who
advises industrial users on gas and power purchases at Great
Ayton, England-based Energy Purchasing Specialists (U.K.) Ltd.
“It’s completely ridiculous. Winter has gone up because summer
has gone up.”  
 Gas climbed as North Sea fields stopped for summer
maintenance and European users replenished  stockpiles . Winter
gas traded at 56.8 pence a therm as of 2:41 p.m. in London, the
equivalent of $8.62 per million British thermal units, according
to broker data. Coal for next year was at $99.25 a metric ton.  
 Spark Spreads  
 Clean-dark spreads, which measure coal plant profitability
taking into account power prices, fuel costs, carbon-dioxide
emissions permits and transport costs, were 6.95 pounds a
megawatt-hour. Clean-spark spreads, measuring gas-fed power-
plant profits, were at 3.93 pounds. Both refer to the three
months through December.  
 Demand for coal, which produces about double the amount of
carbon dioxide compared with gas generation, may fall because
more than 30 percent of Britain’s fossil-fueled stations have
restrictions that cap sulfur-dioxide emissions and dust. Those
that haven’t curbed pollution had their operating hours limited
under the EU’s Large Combustion Plant Directive to 20,000 hours
in the eight years through 2015.  
 “Despite coal now looking more competitive than gas on
paper, operating restrictions mean generators are unlikely to
make the switch,”  Paul Love , a senior market analyst at
Dunfermline, Scotland-based McKinnon & Clarke, which buys energy
for clients including Arsenal Football Club Plc and Dow Chemical
Co., said in an e-mail.  
 Generators Offline  
 RWE AG’s U.K. business has idled the four units of its
2,000-megawatt Didcot coal-fed plant near Oxford, England, since
mid-February, grid data on Bloomberg show. The station has used
7,573 hours of its quota, according to the  website  of National
Grid Plc, Britain’s network operator.  
 Scottish & Southern Energy Plc, Electricite de France SA,
Iberdrola SA’s Scottish Power and E.ON AG have some of their
coal-fired units switched off, grid data show. More than 11,500
megawatts of coal-fired capacity was idle today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Winter U.K. natural-gas prices should not experience
further significant strength” as European demand for U.K. spot
gas declines, liquefied natural-gas cargoes start heading back
to the U.K. and Norwegian fields restart, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in a  report  dated June 29.  
 “Europe’s spot interest for UK gas may start to fade,”
Merrill said. “Once more gas is brought into Europe by pipeline
from Norway, Algeria and Russia, where production and exports
are trending up strongly, current U.K. export flows could
reverse.”  
 Exports to Belgium were forecast at 40 million cubic meters
today, from 53.5 million cubic meters yesterday, according to a
website run by  Interconnector  (U.K.) Ltd., owner of the
reversible pipeline between Bacton and Zeebrugge.  
 Bloomberg compiles information from brokers including ICAP,
GFI Group Inc. and Spectron Group Ltd.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Farey  in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Coal Discount to Winter U.K. Gas Seen Shrinking  
                       
                         
                           Wolfgang von Brauchitsch/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Demand for coal may fall because more than 30 percent of Britain’s fossil-fueled stations have
restrictions that cap sulfur-dioxide emissions and dust. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Demand for coal may fall because more than 30 percent of Britain’s fossil-fueled stations have
restrictions that cap sulfur-dioxide emissions and dust. Photographer: Wolfgang von Brauchitsch/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
