-- Companies Market Debt as Speculative-Grade Defaults Slide: New Issue Alert
-- Katie Evans
-- 2010-07-06T10:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/companies-market-debt-as-speculative-grade-defaults-slide-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             Companies are marketing $4.22 billion
of debt in the U.S. as default rates for high-yield, high-risk
U.S. borrowers slide.  
 The rate at which U.S. speculative-grade borrowers default
on their debt fell to 6 percent at the end of June, an 85 basis-
point drop over the past month and down from the 11.3 percent
peak in November 2009, Standard & Poor’s said in a report today.
Planned debt sales have risen 44 percent from the level two
weeks ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The build-up in potential issuance comes amid rising risk
aversion that pushed the 10-year Treasury yield below 3 percent
last week for the first time since April 2009 on concerns of
slow economic growth. The July 2 employment data fueled concerns
the economic recovery is sputtering.  Martin Fridson , the global
credit strategist for BNP Paribas Asset Management in New York,
said he expects default rates to continue to fall despite what
he calls “slow economic progress” in the second half of 2010.  
 “The trend over the next 12 months is default rates will
go lower and spreads will contract,” Fridson said in an
interview on June 29.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own high-risk, high-
yield debt instead of Treasury bonds narrowed 4 basis points to
713 basis points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. High Yield Master II Index. The index widened 17 basis
points last week.  
 Narrowing Spread  
 Fridson said he expects the spread on high-yield debt to
fall to below 500 basis points by the end of this year.
Speculative-grade bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 The spread on investment-grade debt narrowed 1 basis point
to 208 basis points, according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  
 High-yield issuers sold $1.66 billion last week, down from
$2.68 billion the week before. Investment-grade companies issued
$5.93 billion last week, including more than $4 billion June 30.
That followed $16.9 billion of high-grade sales the prior week.  
 “Corporate liquidity remains very healthy,” Fitch Ratings
analyst  Mark Oline  said in a June 29 report. Capital markets
recently have been “very accommodating to issuers across the
rating spectrum.”  
 Following is a description of at least $4.22 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year bonds, along with
warrants and peso debt, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Chile will use the proceeds
for general purposes, the filing said. The country, which hasn’t
sold international bonds in six years, is seeking financing for
repairs after a Feb. 27 earthquake and subsequent tsunami killed
more than 400 people and caused as much as $30 billion of
damage.  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank hasn’t decided which currency to
sell the bonds in, he said. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 POSTMEDIA NETWORK INC. plans to sell $275 million of eight-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Proceeds will be used to acquire assets of Canwest LP, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 OXEA FINANCE & CY S.C.A. plans to sell the equivalent of
500 million euros of seven-year bonds in dollars and euros,
according to two people with knowledge of the offering. Proceeds
will be used to repay debt, shareholder loans and a payment to
shareholders, and for general corporate purposes, the people
said.  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP. said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
plans to issue seven-year debt to repay existing indebtedness,
Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 High Yield  
 GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC. , the U.S. home-nursing
company that is buying Odyssey HealthCare Inc., plans to sell
$305 million of eight-year notes, the Atlanta-based company said
in a May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying the timing of
the transaction. Proceeds will be used to help fund the
takeover, according to the filing. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the unsecured notes a B- credit rating on June 29.  Moody’s
Investors Service rated the notes a grade of B2 and ranked $925
million of loans three steps higher at Ba2, it said in a report.  
 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities that’s buying Psychiatric Solutions
Inc., plans to sell $400 million of senior unsecured debt to
help finance the acquisition, it said in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 PROMSVYAZBANK OJSC , Russia’s third-largest private bank,
plans to sell $200 million of six-year loan participation notes
at a yield of 11.25 percent, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale.  
 CKE RESTAURANTS INC. may sell $600 million of eight-year
notes, according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 AKBANK TAS , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
plans to sell five-year, dollar-denominated eurobonds worth up
to $1 billion, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock
Exchange.  
 CEDAR FAIR ENTERTAINMENT CO., the operator of amusement
parks that called off a takeover by an Apollo Management LP
affiliate, said it plans to sell $500 million of senior
unsecured notes due in 2020. Proceeds will be used to repay
existing debt, the Sandusky, Ohio-based company said in a May 20
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Moody’s Investor Service
rated the company’s senior notes B2, citing the refinancing
meaningfully improves the company’s liquidity position and
provides the company flexibility to reduce debt and manage
through a period of attendance-constraining high unemployment
notwithstanding the increase in cash interest costs resulting
from the refinancing.  
 IRSA INVERSIONES Y REPRESENTACIONES SA, Argentina’s biggest
real-estate company, extended an offer to sell $250 million in
10-year bonds until June 24, the company said in a regulatory
filing in Buenos Aires on June 14. S&P assigned the notes a
grade of B-, six steps below investment quality.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC., the maker of tire and wheel
systems for off-highway equipment, said it plans to sell at
least $150 million of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds will be
used to repurchase the 8 percent senior unsecured notes due in
2012 and for general corporate purposes, the Quincy, Illinois-
based company said in a May 13 statement distributed by Business
Wire.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC., the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 NOMURA HOLDINGS INC.  Japan’s largest brokerage, plans to
sell dollar-denominated sukuk, or Islamic bonds, in Malaysia,
according to a media invitation in Kuala Lumpur. Kuwait Finance
House (Malaysia) Bhd., a unit of Kuwait’s biggest Islamic bank,
will arrange the sale, which will be “the first dollar-
denominated sukuk” issued by a Japanese company, according to
the invitation.  
 OAO GAZPROMBANK , the lending unit of Russia’s gas export
monopoly, hired Barclays Capital, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, and UBS AG to organize meetings with investors in Europe
and Asia starting July 5, according to two people with knowledge
of the transaction.  
 CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESAROLLO S.A. Peru’s state
development bank known as Cofide, plans to sell as much as $250
million of dollar-denominated bonds, according to Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Linares. Linares said in an interview
in Lima, that the lender is selling long-term debt as it boosts
lending to local infrastructure projects. “Peru’s need for
infrastructure is huge,” Linares said. “The government is
trying to promote foreign investment in a long list of
projects.”  
 SRI LANKA plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds, according
to its central bank. The South Asian country’s third-ever
overseas offering is likely after August, Central Bank of Sri
Lanka Assistant Governor C.J.P. Siriwardena said in a telephone
interview on June 30.  
 GEORGIAN RAILWAY LTD. hired Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for a sale of bonds in dollars, according
to a banker involved in the transaction.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 BANK OF EAST ASIA LTD.  hired Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to help it sell subordinated 10-year bonds in
dollars, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter. The banks are meeting potential investors in Hong Kong
and Singapore, the person said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia
is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 INDOSAT PALAPA CO., a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest
phone operator, delayed a planned dollar bond sale until market
conditions improve, a person familiar with the matter said May
26. Indosat began meetings with investors in Asia, the U.S. and
Europe on May 12 to gauge demand for a global bond sale,
according to a company statement sent to the Indonesian stock
exchange that day. Moody’s assigned a provisional Ba1 rating to
the notes and S&P rated them BB, one step lower.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering a “no-
deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 KAZAKHSTAN plans to sell between $500 million and $750
million in bonds to investors abroad in the autumn, Kazakh
Finance Minister  Bolat Zhamishev  said in a May 14 interview. The
bonds will probably be denominated in dollars and will be used
to set a benchmark for corporate borrowing, Zhamishev said.  
 QATARI DIAR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CO. may raise about $1.5
billion by selling global bonds backed by Qatar, according to a
person familiar with the sale plan. The developer may offer 10-
year conventional bonds and 5-year Islamic securities, said the
person who declined to be identified because details of the
transaction haven’t been completed. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays Capital are among banks expected to manage the sale,
according to the person.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 KOREA FINANCE CORP.  hired BNP Paribas SA and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell dollar bonds backed by Korean
residential mortgages, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The banks will help arrange meetings with investors
in Asia, Europe and the U.S., the person said. Edaily reported
in April that the company planned to sell $100 million to $200
million of foreign-currency bonds in its first overseas debt
sale since October, without citing anyone. The state-run agency
also plans to sell $1 billion of global bonds in the U.S., the
Korean-language online newspaper said.  
 PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL , the Thai oil explorer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to help it sell global bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the
plan is private.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt through next year, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell 
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 POLAND may sell dollar bonds if markets stabilize, Deputy
Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said. The European Union
member earlier planned to sell $1 billion in five-year debt
denominated in the U.S. currency as early as April.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales this year
after Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment
banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5
to 10 years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The
securities may yield between 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 Kevans28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        