-- Conrad Black, in Florida Prison Since 2008, Asks Appeals Court for Bail
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/conrad-black-in-prison-since-2008-asks-u-s-appeals-court-to-grant-bail.html

          
          
             Conrad Black , the ex-chairman of
Hollinger International Inc., in prison for fraud since March
2008, asked an appeals court for bail as it weighs whether a
U.S. Supreme Court ruling last month will overturn his
conviction.  
 Black’s lawyer, in papers filed yesterday with the court in
Chicago, said the request was based on the high court’s decision
that narrowed the federal “honest services” fraud statute to
cases involving bribery or kickbacks. Black, also Hollinger’s
chief executive officer, faced no such allegations in his
prosecution in 2007, the justices said.  
 The court returned his case to the appellate panel to
determine whether jury instructions, allowing for conviction
under more than one legal theory, make it impossible to know if
he was convicted under the now-invalid “honest services”
standard, the court said.  
 “The Supreme Court has now unanimously ruled that a
violation affecting Mr. Black’s Sixth Amendment jury trial right
occurred,” wrote defense attorney  Miguel A. Estrada  of the
Washington office of Los Angeles-based Gibson Dunn & Crutcher
LLP.  
 Prosecutors used the law, which criminalized the
deprivation of one’s intangible right to the honest services of
a corporate officer or public official, in winning the
convictions of Black and  Enron Corp . CEO  Jeffrey Skilling .  
 Grounds for Reversal  
 Skilling’s attorneys have said the decision gave them
grounds to seek reversal of their client’s entire conviction and
his 24-year sentence.  
 Black and three other Hollinger executives were accused of
stealing $60 million from Hollinger, once the third-largest
publisher of English-language newspapers and owner of the
Chicago Sun-Times and U.K.’s Daily Telegraph. Prosecutors said
he made illegal gains using agreements not to compete with
buyers of Hollinger papers.  
 After a four-month trial, he and his associates were found
guilty in connection with the theft of $6.1 million from the
Chicago-based newspaper publisher, as they engineered its sale
of assets.  
 Black’s conviction on three counts of fraud “must be set
aside,” Estrada wrote, unless the court is certain the verdict
could not be attributed “to the error” of using the now-invalid
standard. The former Hollinger CEO was also convicted for
obstruction of justice.  
 The case was brought by the office of Chicago U.S. Attorney
 Patrick Fitzgerald . His spokesman,  Randall Samborn , declined to
comment on the bail request.  
 Sun-Times Media  
 Hollinger International is now known as the  Sun-Times Media 
Group Inc.  
 The appeals court in June 2008 rejected Black’s appeal of
his conviction. He has been serving his sentence at the low
security facility at the Coleman Federal Correctional Complex in
Florida and will turn 66 next month.  
 “Society’s interest in seeing Mr. Black complete his
sentence will not be frustrated in the least if, after being
released on bail, he does not prevail. But the time he spends in
prison between now and a favorable ruling can never be returned
to him,” Estrada said.  
 The case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. 7th Circuit Court
of Appeals (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        