-- Conti Says Enel May Beat Earnings Target, October Is `Right' for Green IPO
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2010-07-06T11:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/conti-says-enel-may-beat-earnings-target-october-is-right-for-green-ipo.html

          
          
             Enel SpA  Chief Executive Officer
 Fulvio Conti  said Italy’s biggest utility is “well on its way”
to beating its 2010 earnings forecast and considers October the
“right time” for its renewable-energy unit to sell shares.  
 The utility said in March that this year’s  earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization  will be 16 billion
euros ($20 billion), unchanged from a year earlier. Enel also
plans a 4 billion-euro initial public offering of its Green
Power division, which manages wind, solar, biomass, hydro and
geothermal power producers in 17 countries, to help repay debt.  
 The Italian government’s plans to cut subsidies for
renewable-energy producers won’t affect Enel’s Green Power unit,
two-thirds of which operates without state support, and won’t
sway the IPO, Conti told reporters in Moscow today. The unit
already has “solid cash flows” and can float “successfully
even in the turbulent times that we are in now,” he said.  
 The IPO and a recovery in the Russian market, where the
company forecasts growth in electricity demand of about 5
percent this year, will help Enel pare debt to a planned 45
billion euros by the end of this year from 51 billion euros in
April. The Ebitda of Enel’s Russian utility unit OGK-5 is
forecast to rise to 471 million euros next year and more than 1
billion euros in 2014. In 2007, the year Enel purchased OGK-5,
the utility had Ebitda of 93 million euros.  
 OGK-5 Ownership  
 Enel, which owns 56.4 percent of OGK-5, doesn’t have any
immediate plans to purchase more shares in the utility as the
Russian government seeks to sell stakes in public companies to
help cover a budget deficit, Conti said. The Russian state owns
26.4 percent of OGK-5.  
 “With 56 percent we do control and run the company,”
Conti said. “It’s for the government to decide what to do with
its stake. We’re happy and content with the way we are.”  
 Separately, Conti said he expects Enel’s purchase of
Spain’s  Endesa SA  to close in September. Enel also expects
Moscow-based OAO Gazprom to make a decision on buying a stake in
one of its power assets in Italy this year,  Marco Arcelli , head
of gas projects at Enel, said at the Moscow briefing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        