-- Copper Rallies Most in Week as Exchange Stockpiles Extend Slump
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-07-06T18:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/copper-climbs-for-third-day-in-london-on-weaker-dollar-lower-inventories.html

          
          
             Copper prices jumped the most in more
than a week as shrinking inventories signaled demand will remain
steady even as global economic growth slows.  
 Stockpiles tracked by the  London  Metal Exchange dropped to
a seven-month low today, tumbling 12 percent in 2010. Codelco
and Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, the world’s top copper
producers, have warned that lower ore-grades and a dearth of new
projects will constrain supplies.  
 Falling inventories “tell us that the level of demand is
still high enough to prevent surpluses from accumulating on
exchanges,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd.
in Darien,  Connecticut , said today in a report.  
 Copper futures for September delivery climbed 5.5 cents, or
1.9 percent, to $2.971 a pound on the Comex in  New York , the
biggest gain for a most-active contract since June 25. The price
is up 31 percent from a year ago.  
 The metal also rose as the dollar weakened and equity
markets gained, said Gijsbert Groenewegen, a partner at Gold
Arrow Capital Management in New York.  
 “Copper is being supported by the outside markets,”
Groenewegen said. “There are still economic uncertainties.”  
 Slower U.S. Growth  
 A gauge of growth in U.S. service industries, which account
for the bulk of the economy, fell to a four-month low in June, a
private report showed today.  
 On the LME, copper for delivery in three months added $136,
or 2.1 percent, to $6,605 a metric ton ($3 a pound), gaining for
a third straight session. Prices are down 10 percent this year,
partly on concern that slowing economic growth will erode demand
for copper wires and plumbing.  
 “While we believe that the copper market still faces some
downward pressure, as economic conditions are likely to continue
to erode, we expect that considerable buying support could
emerge at the $5,500-$6,000 level,”  Daniel Brebner , an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said today in a report. “We
believe that the market already reflects many of the concerns
highlighted.”  
 Aluminum, nickel, lead, tin and zinc also gained in London.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
Anna Stablum in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
Millie Munshi in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        