-- Crude Oil Rises for First Time in Six Days as Dollar Weakens, Stocks Gain
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-06T12:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/crude-rises-for-first-time-in-six-days-as-equities-advance-dollar-weakens.html

          
          
             Oil rose for the first time in six
days as the dollar weakened and advancing equities reaffirmed
confidence the global recovery will stimulate fuel demand.  
 Crude reversed earlier losses of as much as 1.5 percent as
 European equity indexes  climbed the most in a month. The
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute will release its
weekly report on fuel supply and demand levels tomorrow, a day
later than normal because of yesterday’s Independence Day
holiday in the U.S.  
 “Risk appetite is improving with higher equities,” said
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst with VTB Capital in London.
“There’s a close correlation between crude and the dollar, and
that explains the small rebound today, but I’d be careful about
buying here as we’ll likely remain in a narrow trading range.”  
 The contract for August delivery gained as much as $1.08,
or 1.5 percent, to $73.22 a barrel in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange, and traded for $73.16 at 1:34 p.m.
London time. It earlier dropped as low as $71.09 a barrel. Brent
crude for August was at $72.62 a barrel, $1.15 higher, on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  
 Floor trading was closed yesterday on the Nymex for the
U.S. Independence Day holiday and electronic trades are booked
today for settlement purposes.  
 Before today, the market had been in its longest pullback
since a six-day drop through May 18. Crude oil retreated 8.5
percent in the six days through yesterday, bringing its decline
this year to 9 percent.  
 Stocks, Euro  
 European stocks  gained, ending the longest losing streak in
a year for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, on speculation the
decline in equities has overrun the outlook for company
earnings. Asian shares and U.S. index futures rose.  
 The euro rose 0.5 percent against the dollar to $1.2598. A
weaker U.S. currency makes dollar-priced assets such as crude
cheaper for foreign investors, and attractive for protecting
against inflation.  
 “It’s very likely that the market will take cue from the
dollar this week,” said  Clarence Chu , a trader at Hudson
Capital Energy in Singapore. “In the Asian hours and even the
earlier London hours, the market seems to have a higher
correlation between crude and the dollar.”  
 Oil’s 50-day moving average crossed below its 200-day mean
at the end of last month for the first time since 2008, when
crude sustained a 53 percent collapse as the financial crisis
slashed demand around the world. This “dead cross” pattern may
precede a drop to $54 a barrel should prices break through a $68
resistance level, according to analysts at Societe Generale SA.  
 Barclays Capital’s technical analysts said that prices are
heading toward the low of $58.32 a barrel reached on July 13
last year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        