-- Oil Little Changed as Equities Pare Gains; Israel Meeting May Ease Tension
-- Margot Habiby
-- 2010-07-06T20:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/crude-oil-futures-rise-first-time-in-six-days-as-dollar-drops-versus-euro.html

          
          
             Crude oil was little changed at a
four-week low as equities trimmed increases and President  Barack Obama  said he believes Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
will take “risks for peace” with the Palestinians.  
 Oil fell below $72 a barrel as equities dropped following a
report that showed U.S. service industries expanded in June at a
slower pace than forecast, indicating the economy was beginning
to cool entering the second half. Obama said he expects talks
between Israel and the Palestinians to start by late September.  
 “A nice meeting between Israel and the United States does
ease some tensions on a day without a lot driving this market,”
said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in
Chicago. “If you combine that with the fact that the stock
markets are off the highs of the day, it helped turn oil
lower.”  
 Oil for August delivery fell 16 cents to $71.98 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
June 7. Prices have dropped for six days, the longest stretch of
declines since the period ended May 18. They’re down 9.3 percent
for the year.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 5.48 points to
1,028.06 after dropping 5 percent last week. Earlier, it was up
as much as 2 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced
57.14 points to 9,743.62.  
 U.S. commodity and equity markets were closed yesterday for
the Independence Day holiday.  
 Obama told reporters Netanyahu had affirmed the goal of
moving toward the creation of a Palestinian state existing
alongside Israel and with “Israel’s security needs met.”  
 Volatility  
 Oil prices also fell today after breaking technical support
at $72.70 and $72.30 and testing $71.90 a barrel, said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston.  
 Earlier, oil jumped as the dollar weakened to a six-week
low against the euro, strengthening the appeal of commodities as
an alternative investment.  
 Current oil prices are “bothering everyone” because of
“volatility coming out from speculation,” Shokri Ghanem,
chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp. and the country’s top oil
official, said today in a Bloomberg Television interview. “This
volatility has to come to an end.”  
 Libya, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, pumped 1.55 million barrels a day of oil in June,
based on Bloomberg estimates.  
 Implied volatility for at-the-money crude-oil options
expiring in 30 days, a measure of expected price swings in
futures and a key gauge of options prices, was 37.7 percent at
3:36 p.m. in New York, compared with 32 percent on June 18.  
 Dollar Weakens  
 The dollar declined 0.6 percent against the euro. The
European currency was at $1.2616, compared with $1.2538
yesterday. It touched $1.2662, the lowest level since May 21 on
an intraday basis.  
 “The dollar is down, which is supportive,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “There’s probably going to be another
crude draw this week.”  
 U.S. oil inventories probably fell 2.75 million barrels
last week from 363.1 million, based on the median estimate of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Seven of the
respondents forecast a decline and one said supplies would rise.
Stockpiles in the week ended June 25 were at the highest level
in 20 years for the last week of June.  
 The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
supply report at 11 a.m. on July 8, a day later than usual
because of the holiday. The American Petroleum Institute
inventory report is scheduled for release tomorrow, also a day
later than usual.  
 “Oil has traded in a $68-to-$75 range over the past couple
of weeks, and we’re just going to be happy in there until we see
some definitive movement on a storm or the economy or until the
BP oil spill gets resolved,” Larry said.  
 U.S. Economy  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
U.S. economy, fell to a four-month low of 53.8 from 55.4 in May,
according to a report today. The figure was less than the median
forecast of 55 in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 BP Plc  is drilling a relief well to stop the worst oil
spill in U.S. history, which followed an April 20 blowout that
sank the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico, killing 11
workers.  
 Brent crude for August delivery fell 2 cents to $71.45 a
barrel on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  
 Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 483,659
contracts as of 3:36 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 438,662
contracts July 2, 44 percent below the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.27 million contracts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        