-- Ctrip.com, Chinese Travel Agencies Tumble on Report Commission Rates Cut
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-07-07T00:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/ctrip-com-chinese-travel-agencies-tumble-on-report-commission-rates-cut.html

          
          
             Ctrip.com International Ltd. , a
consolidator of hotel and airline bookings in China, tumbled in
New York after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the nation’s three
biggest carriers cut commission rates paid to travel agencies.  
 Ctrip.com declined 14 percent to $32.81, the biggest drop
since December 2008.  eLong Inc. , a Chinese web-based travel
service company, fell 8.4 percent to $12.  
 Commission rates will decline by about two percentage
points to around 3 percent of ticket prices, Goldman Sachs said
in a note to clients, citing a July 5 report by Sina.com.
Ctrip.com has confirmed with  China Eastern Airlines Corp.  that
commission rates for flights originating from Shanghai will be
lowered, Goldman Sachs said. Ctrip.com has not yet received
confirmation from China Southern Airlines Co. or  Air China Ltd. ,
according to Goldman Sachs.  
 “It appears airlines are taking steps to reduce the
commissions they are paying to travel agents as they are also
increasing their own direct sales efforts,” Goldman Sachs’s
analyst  Kathy Chen  said in a note to clients.  
 Air China,  China Southern  and China Eastern have reduced
the commissions they pay to agents for selling tickets aboard
domestic flights, China Business News reported July 5, citing
unidentified ticketing agents. China Eastern and its unit
Shanghai Airlines cut commissions for flights departing Beijing
to 3 percent from July 3, the Shanghai-based newspaper reported,
without saying what the rate was cut from.  
 Rating Cut  
 Ctrip.com was cut to “hold” from “buy” by BNP Paribas
analysts  Chris Zee  and  Kenneth Tung , who cited the impact of a
cut in commission rates on the company’s earnings. Ctrip.com’s
share-price  estimate  was cut to $35 from $51.50 by the analysts.  
 “Although we remain confident of Ctrip.com’s medium- to
long-term growth prospects via market share gains and efficiency
enhancements, we are cautious about this cut in commission
rates by the three major Chinese airlines,” the analysts said,
estimating that the reduction in commission will amount to about
10 yuan per ticket and cut their 2010 and 2011 earnings  forecast 
by as much as 13 percent.  
 Both  Ctrip.com  and  eLong  got all of their sales from China
last quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Calls to
Lin Zhang, spokesman at Ctrip.com, and eLong’s investor
relations department weren’t answered after normal operating
hours.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        