-- Dalian Commodity Exchange Plans to Start Coke, Coking Coal Futures in 2010
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-06T06:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/dalian-commodity-exchange-may-introduce-coke-futures-this-year-liu-says.html

          
          
             Dalian Commodity Exchange plans to
introduce coke futures this year and is studying plans for
coking coal contracts as consumption for the raw materials rises
in China, the world’s biggest  steelmaker .  
 “Due to a combination of factors, the price of coke and
coking coal this year fluctuated a lot,”  Liu Xingqiang , the
director of the bourse, China’s largest derivatives market, said
at a conference in the city today. “The industry’s need for a
risk transfer is very strong.  
 Dalian Commodity Exchange joins  Singapore  in pushing
futures for bulk commodities, as demand for steel rebounds with
the global economic recovery. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
largest exporter of coking coal, this year won two price
increases for the material from Asian mills after dropping
annual contracts for quarterly agreements.  
 “It gives participants an opportunity to hedge some of
their purchases and protect the downside.”  Andrew Driscoll ,
head of resources research at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said by
telephone. “A lot of the long term contracts are fixed in
volumes but not prices, so futures will provide the industry
with ways to hedge their positions.”  
 Prices of coking coal traded in Asia rose to $225 a ton for
the July quarter, up from $200 in the previous quarter, and
compared with annual prices of $129 in 2009, according to
Deutsche Bank AG. Prices could fall in the fourth quarter and
into the first half of 2011 as global steel demand could
“decelerate and potentially contract,” the bank said in a June
30 report.  
 Trading Volume  
 Futures trading in China, the third-largest economy, jumped
47 percent in the first half from a year ago, according to data
compiled by the Futures Industry Association, as the government
cede control of prices of some commodities and allow more market
participants.  
 The Chinese government maintains controls of prices of
commodities including electricity and fuel and imposes export
and import limits on products such as minor metals to prevent
inflation.  
 CME Group Inc. , the world’s largest futures exchange,
predicts “great growth” in Asian derivatives as the economy
grows. Dalian Commodity Exchange may introduce energy, coking
coal and live-hog futures contracts to spur trading volume, Liu
said in October last year.  
 Still, trading volume on the futures contracts may take a
while to pick up, according to Driscoll.  
 “A lot of producers and consumers have been dealing
directly with each other for a number of years. They’re set in
their ways of doing business,” said Driscoll.  
 China’s coking coal imports may reach the second highest on
record this year as domestic production can’t meet demand from
steelmakers, Citigroup Inc. said on April 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        