-- Dollar Decline Won't Cause `Real' Reserve Loss for China, Regulator Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-06T07:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/dollar-decline-won-t-cause-real-reserve-loss-for-china-regulator-says.html

          
          
             China’s foreign-currency  regulator 
said a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar won’t cause
“real” losses from foreign-exchange reserve investments.  
 Paper losses on reserve investments from yuan appreciation
have been smaller than book-value gains on financial assets
translated into foreign currency, the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange  said  on its website today.  
 The yuan has gained 22 percent against the dollar since a
peg against the greenback was scrapped in July 2005, raising the
potential for losses should China convert its $2.45 trillion in
reserves into local currency. The government used the reserves
to recapitalize the nation’s four largest state-owned banks,
including Bank of China Ltd. and China Construction Bank Corp.  
 “Unless there’s a war or a crisis, the central bank won’t
convert foreign-exchange reserves massively back into yuan so
there won’t be any actual loss on reserves as a result of dollar
depreciation against the yuan,” SAFE said in the statement.  
 The purchasing power of reserve assets has increased
steadily as returns have outpaced U.S. inflation for many years,
the regulator said. China  held  $900.2 billion in U.S. Treasury
bonds as of April, up from $895.2 billion in March.  
 SAFE also said it has not invested reserves in stocks of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two U.S. state-backed mortgage
lending agencies, and the two agencies’ bonds are paying back
principle and interest “normally.”  
 The regulator said Europe will weather the sovereign debt
crisis and safeguard stability of financial markets, according
to the statement.  
 “As a responsible long-term investor, China sticks to the
principle of diversifying investments,” said SAFE. “Europe was,
is and will be one of the major markets for foreign-currency
reserve investment.”  
 -- Zhang Dingmin ,  Judy Chen . Editors:  Sandy Hendry   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
Dingmin Zhang in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7576 or
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        