-- China's Yuan Stocks to Beat H Shares This Quarter on Liquidity, UBS Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-06T02:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/domestic-shares-in-china-may-beat-h-shares-for-next-three-months-ubs-says.html

          
          
             China’s  yuan-denominated stocks  may
outperform H shares listed in Hong Kong for the next three
months as liquidity and earnings improve, UBS AG said.  
 The price-to-earnings  multiple  for A shares, as the yuan
stocks are known, are 1.2 standard deviation below the 10-year
average, while the two-year compound earnings growth rate is
“among the highest in history,” UBS’s Hong Kong-based
strategist  John Tang  wrote in a report. He also said earnings
downgrades will be “limited” in the second half.  
 China’s domestic stock markets are the worst performers in
Asia this year, with the CSI 300 Index tumbling 29 percent amid
government efforts to curb property speculation and cool lending.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index , a measure of 40 H shares,
has lost 13 percent in the same period. The CSI 300 gauge,
tracking A shares traded Shanghai and Shenzhen, rose 1.3 percent
as of 10:22 a.m. local time.  
 “A shares could be a better play than H shares in a
decelerating second half,” Tang wrote, citing the outlook for
liquidity given the low level of non-tradable shares unlocking,
“less tight” bank lending, increasing regulatory support and
improved clarity on banks’ refinancing.  
 The CSI 300 is valued at 14 times this year’s earnings,
down from a high of 22 times in January, according to data
tracked by Bloomberg. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises  is trading
at 11.7 times, compared with a high of 16 times at the start of
the year.  
 Pacific Sun Investment Management Ltd. and GF Securities Co.
are less optimistic, saying further declines may be in store for
Chinese stocks.  
 ‘Range-Bound’  
 Credit Suisse Group AG also said Chinese stocks will be
“range-bound” because a shift to increased reliance on
consumption to drive the nation’s economic growth will benefit
companies that have a “very marginal index weighting,”
according to a report by analysts  Vincent Chan  and  Peggy Chan .  
 Tang last month advised investors to return to Chinese
stocks traded in the domestic and Hong Kong markets because of
their valuations and the outlook for growth. The brokerage
favors bank and technology shares, Tang said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on June 14.  
 Around 54 percent of A shares’ first-half  profit guidance 
indicate year-on-year net profit growth of more than 50 percent,
while another 22 percent signal earnings growth of between 30
percent and 50 percent, the strategist said in the report today.  
 Materials, capital-goods and technology companies have
provided “especially strong” profit forecasts while developers
are the weakest, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Andy Mantel, founder and managing director of Pacific Sun Investment Management Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
      Mantel, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering in Shanghai and Hong Kong, and the outlook for China's banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- John Tang, a strategist at UBS AG, talks in Hong Kong with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for China stocks.
     Tang also discusses Foxconn Technology Group's wage increases. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
