-- Domingo Digs Deep; Decadent Giovanni; Lusty Tosca; London Stage
-- Warwick Thompson
-- 2010-07-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/domingo-digs-deep-decadent-giovanni-lusty-tosca-london-stage.html

          
          
             Tenor  Placido Domingo  has made
history by switching voice types to sing the baritone role of
Simon Boccanegra in Berlin, New York, and Milan. Now, three
months after his successful operation for colon cancer, he’s in
London digging again to the baritone bedrock of his voice.  
 What a voice. He’s as stylish, passionate and
authoritative as ever in the title role of Verdi’s opera, and
as magnetic on stage too.  
 That said, it’s more of a fascinating experiment than a
triumph. The notes are there, granted. They’re just not the
most exciting notes in his range. His baritone register is rich
and rounded, not goose-bump thrilling.  
 Still, trying to grade Domingo on stage is like trying to
give a star rating to a lightning strike or hurricane. Domingo
is a force of nature, plain and simple, and it’s wonderful to
see him back on stage after his time in the hospital.  
 The staging is easier to rate. The complicated plot, which
is about a Genoese Renaissance Doge who dreams of uniting
Italy, takes in a 25-year timeframe. The chorus scenes are
static, and confrontations between characters rambling. The
pacing feels like the speed of Venice sinking. Slowed by half.  
 The luscious tenor sound of Joseph Calleja as the
firebrand Gabriele Adorno, and the boomy bass of Ferrucio
Furlanetto (as Boccanegra’s enemy Fiesco) provide distraction.
Marina Poplavskaya, who strains to sing pianissimo as the
heroine Amelia, doesn’t always even manage that.  
 Conductor  Antonio Pappano  makes the orchestra sound
gorgeous. So it’s all the more unfortunate that the good parts
don’t add up to a good whole.  
 Rating: ** ½.  
 ‘Don Giovanni’  
 For a truly innovative staging, head to Stephen Barlow’s
production of “Don Giovanni” at Opera Holland Park.  
 Barlow’s point of reference is  Oscar Wilde’s  story “The
Picture of Dorian Gray.” The set creates a luxurious English
mansion in which rows and rows of identical portraits (of
baritone Nicholas Garrett as Don Giovanni) adorn the walls.  
 It’s a neat way of suggesting the decadence and narcissism
of Giovanni’s life, and also his elevated social status.
Without giving too much away, it also leads the audience to
guess how Giovanni will eventually die and be dragged to hell.
Barlow still manages to keep the surprises coming right until
the end.  
 Garrett is a superb Giovanni, combining arrogance and
humor with just the right amount of psychopathic coldness, and
he’s matched by an amusing Leporello in Matthew Hargreaves. Ana
James has too light a voice for Donna Anna, and doesn’t provide
enough contrast with the excellent Elvira (Laura Mitchell) and
Zerlina (Claire Wild). Robert Dean keeps things cracking along
with some speedy tempi.  
 Rating: ***.  
 Energetic ‘Tosca’  
 There are more thrills and spills in a terrific, tiny-
budget “Tosca” from Opera a la Carte, which is now touring.
Director Nicholas Heath updates the action to the late 1940s
and, with awe-inspiring economy, invests the action with a
highly effective film-noir sensibility. If just a couple of
moments lack punch, the overall energy doesn’t flag.  
 Cheryl Enever reprises the femme fatale look of  Joan Crawford  in “Mildred Pierce” beautifully, and sings a fine
Tosca. Charne Rochford (Cavaradossi) and Paul Keohone (Scarpia)
are uniformly good too.  
 The accompaniment, arranged for piano, organ and
percussion, provides a surprising amount of beefiness. Even the
climax to Act 1, which usually requires a massed chorus, works
beautifully with just a handful of singers and the organ and
bells at full blast.  
 It was a mad risk to stage “Tosca” as a chamber-sized
piece. Heath’s lusty production shows that the greater the
risk, the greater the rewards.  
 Rating: ***.  
 “Simon Boccanegra” is in repertoire at the Royal Opera
until July 15. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or
+44-20-7304-4000.  
 “Don Giovanni” plays in tandem with “Fidelio” at Opera
Holland Park until July 14. Information:
 http://www.ohp.rbkc.gov.uk  or +44-845-230-9769.  
 Opera a la Carte’s “Tosca” is now touring until July 31.
Information:  http://www.operaalacarte.com  or +44-20-7724-2696  
 (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  

 
What the Stars Mean:
****      Excellent
***       Good
**        Average
*         Poor
(No stars)Worthless
 
 
To contact the writer on the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ferruccio Furlanetto, left, and Placido Domingo in the Verdi opera "Simon Boccanegra" at the Royal Opera House. It is only when Boccanegra (Domingo) is suffering from the effects of poison that his old enemy Fiesco (Furlanetto) can make peace with him. Photographer: Catherine Ashmore/Royal Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Placido Domingo as Simon Boccanegra in the 1881 Verdi opera, at the Royal Opera House. Famed for his career as a tenor, Domingo turns baritone to sing this role. Photographer: Catherine Ashmore/Royal Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ana James  
                       
                         
                           Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ana James as Donna Anna in "Don Giovanni" at Opera Holland Park in London. As in Oscar    Wilde's "The Picture of Dorian Grey," the portrait of the hero comes to dominate the action. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ana James as Donna Anna in "Don Giovanni" at Opera Holland Park in London. As in Oscar    Wilde's "The Picture of Dorian Grey," the portrait of the hero comes to dominate the action. Photographer: Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Placido Domingo and Marina Poplavskaya in the Verdi opera "Simon Boccanegra" at the Royal Opera House. The Elijah Moshkinsky production keeps the action in the fourteenth century, the era of the real-life Simon Boccanegra. Photographer: Catherine Ashmore/Royal Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nicholas Garrett and Laura Mitchell  
                       
                         
                           Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nicholas Garrett, left, and Laura Mitchell in "Don Giovanni" at Opera Holland Park in London. Director Stephen Barlow uses Oscar Wilde's "The Picture of Dorian Gray" as the reference point for his clever production. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nicholas Garrett, left, and Laura Mitchell in "Don Giovanni" at Opera Holland Park in London. Director Stephen Barlow uses Oscar Wilde's "The Picture of Dorian Gray" as the reference point for his clever production. Photographer: Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nicholas Garrett and Claire Wild  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Claire Wild and Nicholas Garrett in "Don Giovanni" at Opera Holland Park in London.  Stephen Barlow's production is clear on the class implications of the opera's plot. Photographer Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Claire Wild and Nicholas Garrett in "Don Giovanni" at Opera Holland Park in London.  Stephen Barlow's production is clear on the class implications of the opera's plot. Photographer Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cheryl Enever  
                       
                         
                           Nicola Lande/Opera a la Carte via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Cheryl Enever as Tosca in the Opera a la Carte production of the Puccini opera. Director Nicholas Heath brings a film-noir sensibility to the action by updating the story to the 1940s. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Cheryl Enever as Tosca in the Opera a la Carte production of the Puccini opera. Director Nicholas Heath brings a film-noir sensibility to the action by updating the story to the 1940s. Photographer: Nicola Lande/Opera a la Carte via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Cheryl Enever as Tosca in the Opera a la Carte production of the Puccini opera. With only chamber-sized forces, the company creates an impressive production of the opera. Photographer: Nicola Lande/Opera a la Carte via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
