-- East African Nations Urge Deployment of 2,000 More Peacekeepers in Somalia
-- William Davison
-- 2010-07-06T09:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/east-african-nations-urge-deployment-of-2-000-more-peacekeepers-in-somalia.html

          
          
             A group of East African countries
called for the  African Union Mission in Somalia  to deploy an
additional 2,000 troops to help the transitional government
battle “extremist and terrorist groups.”  
 The  Inter-Governmental Authority on Development , at a
meeting yesterday in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, ordered
the chiefs of defense of Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Sudan and
Djibouti to submit a deployment plan to Amisom, according to a
 statement  posted on its website.  
 It didn’t say which countries would send peacekeepers.
Uganda and Burundi currently have 6,100 troops in Somalia. The
five nations in IGAD, which border Somalia, aren’t allowed to
send forces to Somalia, according to a  resolution  passed by the
 United Nations Security Council  in 2006.  
 Insurgents of the two main Islamic groups, al-Shabaab and
Hisbul Islam, control most of southern and central parts of
 Somalia  following a three-year battle to overthrow the
government of President  Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed .  
 Somalia is in its 19th year of civil war and hasn’t had a
functioning central administration since the ouster of  Mohamed Siad Barre , the former dictator, in 1991. The conflict has sent
thousands of refugees across the border into Kenya and Ethiopia.  
 IGAD said it wanted Amisom and the UN Security Council to
raise 20,000 peacekeepers for the Horn of African nation, which
it said is suffering a “deteriorating situation.”  
 “The conflict is not a conflict among Somalis but between
the people of Somalia and international terrorist groups,” IGAD
said.  
 To contact the reporterS on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via the Johannesburg bureau at +
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        