-- Heat Wave in China Sends Temperatures to Six-Decade High, Kills 2 People
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-06T05:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/heat-wave-in-china-sends-temperatures-to-six-decade-high-kills-2-people.html

          
          
             A heat wave across 16 provinces in
China has killed at least two people as temperatures in the
northern port of Tianjin rose to the highest for any day in July
in six decades yesterday.  
 Temperatures in Beijing and parts of Hebei and Shandong
provinces are forecast to be as high as 40 degrees Celsius (104
Fahrenheit) in the next three days, according to the  China
Metrological Administration . Hot weather in Tianjin is forecast
to moderate in the next three days after temperatures rose to as
high as 40.7 degrees yesterday, the hottest in July since 1951,
the weather agency said.  
 A 27-year-old man died at  Beijing’s  train station yesterday
because of the heat, which has caused the hospitalization of 59
people in the capital since Saturday, the Beijing Times reported.
Electricity and water use both rose to records in Beijing
yesterday, the newspaper said, citing an unidentified official
with the city’s electricity company.  
 “China’s power consumption will likely peak in July
because the scorching weather is forcing more use of air-
conditioning,”  Zhang Shun , an analyst with Ping An Securities
Co., said by phone from Beijing today.  
 Temperatures at 34 weather monitoring stations in the
provinces of Heilongjiang, Jilin, Inner Mongolia and Xinjiang
hit records from June 1 to July 4, People’s Daily said. A
resident of the southern city of Shenzhen who was more than 70-
years old, died on a local street last week, the Shenzhen News
reported July 3.  
 Production Cuts  
 The eastern Chinese province of  Zhejiang  ordered more than
1,000 companies in energy-intensive industries including
papermaking and metal smelting to halt or cut production for 15
days starting from this month in order to increase electricity
supplies to residential users, the Zhejiang Online News reported
on July 2, citing a local government meeting.  
 The Shanghai Wild Animal Park installed air conditioners
for the 10 panda bears housed there during the city’s World Expo,
China Daily reported. China’s financial hub is forecast to have
temperatures of as high as 33 degrees today and 35 degrees
tomorrow, according to the weather agency.  
 Temperatures in Beijing exceeded 40 degrees yesterday for
the third time in July since the city began keeping records, the
weather agency said. The city posted a high of 41.9 degrees in
July 1999 and 41.1 degrees in July 2002, it said.  
 Temperatures in  Tianjin  are forecast for a high of 36
degrees today and 33 degrees tomorrow, according to the agency.  
 For Related News and Information:
Most-read Asian stories: MNI ASIA <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>  
          
          


  


        