-- Telecom Italia Should Work With Rivals on New Fiber Network, Calabro Says
-- Chiara Remondini
-- 2010-07-06T15:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/telecom-italia-should-work-with-rivals-on-new-fiber-network-calabro-says.html

          
          
             Telecom Italia SpA  and rivals such as
 Vodafone Group Plc  should work together to build an ultrafast
broadband network in Italy, the country’s communications
regulator said.  
 Phone companies, local governments and entrepreneurs should
cooperate with the aim of upgrading Italy’s copper network to a
fiber-optic grid, the regulator said in an annual report
presented in Rome today.  
 Italy needs a coordinated plan to transform itself into a
“fiber nation to avoid costly duplications of civilian
infrastructure,”  Corrado Calabro , the chairman of the
regulator, said in a speech. Greater use of smartphones in Italy
may cause a “collapse” of the mobile wireless network if there
isn’t “fast intervention,” he said.  
 Vodafone,  FastWeb SpA  and Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA said
in May they would invest 2.5 billion euros ($3.16 billion) in a
network to serve about 10 million people in Italy’s 15 largest
cities within five years. Tiscali SpA also joined that group,
whose members called on Telecom Italia to take part.  
 A joint approach offers “more certain profitability
returns,” and would encourage financing from investors such as
Cassa Depositi & Prestiti, Italy’s state-owned lender, the
regulator said.  
 Telecom Italia Chief Executive Officer  Franco Bernabe  said
June 10 that his company’s planned ultrafast broadband network
will reach 50 percent of the population by 2018 and that the
provider is proceeding with a plan to upgrade its grid to
high speed.  
 The CEO said today there is no risk of a collapse of the
wireless network in Italy, Ansa newswire reported. Italy ranks
second in Europe for the usage of mobile broadband and data
traffic, Calabro said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        