-- Telefonica's Vivo Bid May Be Helped by Court Ruling
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/telefonica-9-billion-vivo-bid-may-be-aided-by-portugal-golden-share-case.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA ’s 7.15 billion-euro
($9 billion) bid for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA ’s stake in
Brazil’s largest wireless operator may be bolstered by a
European Union court reviewing Portugal’s ability to block the
deal.  
 The  European Court of Justice  in Luxembourg will likely
rule tomorrow that Portugal’s special rights in the country’s
biggest phone company breach EU law, lawyers said. The court,
the EU’s highest, has repeatedly struck down so-called golden
shares that gave governments veto power at formerly state-owned
monopolies.  
 “The EU court has had no sympathy for this type of
restriction,” said  Denis Waelbroeck , a partner specializing in
EU law at law firm Ashurst in Brussels by telephone. Portugal
will “face some difficulties in defending its special right.”  
 The Portuguese government on June 30 used its veto right
through its control of 500 class “A” shares in Portugal
Telecom to block Telefonica’s bid. The decision came after 74
percent of the shareholders present at their meeting in Lisbon
accepted Telefonica’s sweetened offer for the Portuguese
company’s stake in Brasilcel NV, owner of 60 percent of Vivo
Participacoes SA.  
 Telefonica and Portugal Telecom have sought growth in
Brazil as markets at home cooled. Vivo had 30 percent of
Brazil’s 179 million wireless subscriptions at the end of March,
according to Anatel, the country’s phone regulator.  
 Telefonica Chairman  Cesar Alierta  wants to combine Vivo’s
mobile-phone network with Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA, or
Telesp, the Spanish company’s fixed-line unit in Brazil.  
 Shareholder Leverage  
 A ruling striking down the veto rights “would give
leverage” to Portugal Telecom shareholders “who want to see
the deal pass to put pressure on the CEO and the board of
directors to accept the deal,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in London. “It gives Telefonica
more ammunition.”  
 Portugal’s power over the company, including the right to
name a third of the board and to veto capital increases, bond
issuances and dividend payments, breaches rules that allow the
free movement of capital in the 27-nation region, Advocate
General  Paolo Mengozzi  of the EU court said in a  non-binding 
 opinion  in December.  
 A ruling upholding this view would force Portugal to
abolish its special rights in the company, said Waelbroeck, who
is also a professor of EU and antitrust law in Brussels.  
 “It would mean Telefonica could go ahead with its bid
again,” he said.  
 Only When ‘Necessary’  
 Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  on July 4 told
Spanish newspaper El Pais he had expected Telefonica to
negotiate with Portugal Telecom before announcing its bid. “The
golden share is there to be used when necessary,” Socrates said
June 30 on television channel SIC Noticias. The prime minister’s
office declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  
 A ruling canceling the golden share might not force
Portugal to drop its opposition immediately, said  Michel Struys ,
a partner in the Paris office of law firm Allen & Overy LLP.  
 “Portugal could decide to sit on the judgment and play the
clock and wait until the European Commission dares to initiate a
new action,”  Struys  said. “There’s no time limit.”  
 If the government fails to comply with a court ruling, the
commission, the EU’s executive agency, has the possibility to
sue Portugal for damages at the EU court, which may delay any
decision by at least two years.  
 ‘Delaying Tactics’  
 While Portugal has “delaying tactics” at its disposal, a
ruling against the veto rights would help Telefonica in a
national court, Struys said. “It doesn’t abrogate the special
rights, but the ruling has direct effect.”  
 The dispute goes back to 2008 when the commission  sued 
Portugal, saying its power over Portugal Telecom breaches EU
rules and makes investments less attractive. The dispute is part
of a fight by the Brussels-based commission against governments
using golden shares to control former state monopolies.  
 A string of EU court rulings on golden shares have forced
countries including Spain, France, the U.K. and Italy to give up
special rights in former public monopolies, such as Telefonica.  
 Two other lawsuits against Portugal are pending at the EU
court over golden shares in Lisbon-based  EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA  and  Galp Energia SGPS SA , Portugal’s biggest oil and
gas company. The government has  special rights  and veto powers
that regulators say are unlawful and restrict investments.  
 The court has only allowed Belgium to keep its powers in a
2002 ruling that the nation’s golden shares in Distrigaz SA and
Societe Nationale de Transport par Canalisations helped protect
energy supplies in the event of a crisis. Golden shares must be
of “legitimate public interest,” the EU court has ruled.  
 The case is C-171/08 European Commission v Portuguese
Republic.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Telefonica Chairman Cesar Alierta speaks during an interview. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
