-- Singapore Wealth Fund Set to Reclaim Peak as Asia Bets Win
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-07-07T08:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/temasek-s-assets-set-to-reclaim-peak-rebounding-as-bets-on-asia-pay-off.html

          
          
             Temasek Holdings Pte  is set to post a
record jump in the value of its assets as markets rebounded and
the Singapore state investment firm increased bets in Asia.  
 Temasek will likely say assets recovered by about 40
percent to around the S$185 billion ($133 billion) peak reached
two years earlier when it reports results for the 12 months to
March 31, said  Song Seng-Wun , an economist at CIMB Research Pte
in Singapore. A year ago, assets plunged S$55 billion as Temasek
lost on bank stakes during the financial crisis.  
 “It’s a pretty spectacular rebound,” Song said. “All
that red from the previous year would have turned around very
sharply in line with the strong performance of the market.”  
 Temasek bought more shares in  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia  and
 Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.  over the past year, among investments
that increased in value as markets recovered. The  MSCI World
Index  rose 49 percent in the 12 months through March. Temasek,
seeking a successor to Chief Executive Officer  Ho Ching , 57,
also spent more in Asia as the region led a rebound from the
deepest global recession since World War II.  
 Globally, sovereign fund assets climbed 9 percent in 2009
from a year earlier to $3.5 trillion, London-based research firm
Preqin Ltd. said in March. Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the
world’s second largest, said the value of its investments
increased a record 26 percent last year.  Khazanah Nasional Bhd. ,
Malaysia’s state investment company, said in January the net
value of its assets swelled 63 percent in 2009.  
 Temasek’s biggest jump in the value of its assets since it
started reporting in 2004 was the year ended March 31, 2007,
when it increased by S$35 billion.  
 ‘War Chest’  
 Temasek said in September it had built a stronger net cash
position since the credit crisis.  Melvyn Teo , associate
professor of finance at Singapore Management University, said
the company is “building a war chest to take advantage of
opportunities going forward.”  
 Wholly owned by Singapore’s Ministry of Finance,  Temasek 
also doubled the size of its medium-term bond program to $10
billion, under which it raised S$5.4 billion between October and
February. That’s in part to help develop the local debt market,
said Victoria Barbary, senior analyst at Monitor Group in London,
and “a good way of diversifying the capital base.”  
 Temasek is set to publish the annual report after real
estate unit Mapletree Investments Pte said June 30 that profit
surged 87 percent to S$393.8 million in the 12 months to March
31 from a year earlier, boosted by new developments and the
increased value of its property holdings. It owns about S$6.8
billion of real estate assets.  
 Danamon, Neptune  
 Temasek’s participation in rights offerings by companies in
its portfolio bolstered assets. It spent more than S$1 billion
in the financial year buying additional shares of companies
including Jakarta-based Danamon and  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.   
 Danamon’s shares have risen more than fourfold from the
subscription price of 1,200 rupiah in April last year. Neptune
Orient has risen 48 percent from the S$1.30 price offered to
investors in June last year.  
 Excluding the purchase of rights shares, Temasek invested
about $4.4 billion in 2009, down from $9.5 billion the previous
year, according to estimates by Monitor Group. It completed 15
publicly announced deals worth about $2.1 billion this year,
according to preliminary data compiled by the consulting firm.  
 No Chip  
 The company is unlikely to pick up the pace of investments
in the coming months as Europe battles a sovereign-debt crisis
and China attempts to contain asset-price bubbles, said Barbary.  
 “They are investing much less than we had seen them
previously; it’s obviously a function of the markets, the losses,
and the turmoil at management level,” she said. “There is also
a sense that Temasek is trying to find its strategy and place.”  
 Temasek, which aborted the appointment of Charles “Chip”
Goodyear last year to replace Ho, has named former Singapore
Exchange Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Hsieh Fu Hua  an executive
director and president in charge of succession planning.  
 Last July, the company reversed its appointment of 52-year-
old Goodyear, the former head of BHP Billiton Ltd., citing
“differences regarding certain strategic issues.” BHP Billiton
is the world’s largest mining company.  
 Ho, wife of Singapore’s Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong ,
remains in charge of Temasek, which was founded in 1974 to
foster development of the island’s banks, airlines and ports.  
 Temasek is the biggest shareholder in five of Singapore’s
10 biggest listed companies by market value including  Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. , Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company,
and DBS Group Holdings Ltd., the region’s largest bank by assets.
SingTel fell 0.7 percent to S$3.05 as of 4:13 p.m. in Singapore
trading today, while  DBS  lost 1 percent to S$13.82.  
 Energy, Resources  
 The asset manager has been diversifying into energy and
resources, following the previous year’s S$16 billion of
divestments including stake sales in Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America Corp. and London-based Barclays Plc at
losses. Temasek hasn’t disclosed the size of those losses.  
 Temasek spent at least $2 billion on energy and resources
companies, including convertible preferred shares in U.S.
natural gas producer  Chesapeake Energy Corp.  and Singapore-based
agricultural commodities supplier  Olam International Ltd. , in
the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Chesapeake shares have declined 11.1 percent since Temasek
announced its investment on May 11, compared with an 11.4
percent decline in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index . Olam has
risen 61 percent since Temasek’s purchase.  
 Temasek will “continue to overweight more in Asia,” Ho
said in September. It is seeking to invest in industries such as
banking and infrastructure that are proxies for the economy and
middle-class growth, she said.  
 Overseas Asian investments made up 43 percent of the
portfolio last year, up from 16 percent in 2004.  
 “Temasek is looking at opportunities to latch on to the
emerging market consumer base,” said  Jan Randolph , head of
sovereign risk at IHS Global Insight in London. “It’s a general
shift from traditional investments in the West, because it’s
ironic the West have the risk issues now.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ho Ching, chief executive officer of Temasek Holdings, speaks during a news  conference in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
