-- Emerging-Markets Equities Advance, Led by Technology, Consumer Companies
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-06T15:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/emerging-markets-equities-advance-led-by-technology-consumer-companies.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in two weeks as consumer and technology companies rallied on
outlook for earnings growth.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 1.9 percent to
930.76 as of 11:12 a.m. in New York. China’s Shanghai Composite
Index rose 1.9 percent, rebounding from a 15-month low as
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. prepared to sell shares in what
may be the world’s biggest initial public offering.  
 Taiwan’s  HTC Corp. , the world’s largest maker of handsets
using Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc. operating systems, jumped
5 percent before posting second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates. Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s largest television maker, added 1
percent after raising this year’s target for global flat-panel
television sales.  
 “We’ve allocated capital to the fast-growing emerging
economies in Asia,”  Puru Saxena , chief executive officer of
Puru Saxena Wealth Management, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Hong Kong. “Economic growth is going to be a lot
better.”  
 The MSCI emerging index has retreated 5.9 percent in 2010
after rallying a record 75 percent last year. The gauge is
 valued  at 11 times this year’s earnings estimates, compared with
a multiple of 17 times in January, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Russia, South Africa  
 Russia’s  Micex Index  advanced 2.2 percent as oil companies
including OAO Lukoil and OAO Rosneft rallied on higher crude
prices. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index climbed 1
percent and South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index
increased 1.9 percent as benchmark gauges in most major emerging
market open for trading advanced.  
 South Africa’s rand increased 1.6 percent and Romania’s leu
strengthened 1.2 percent to lead gains in emerging-market
currencies versus the dollar. India’s rupee lost 0.3 percent for
the biggest decline.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined a second day, falling 11
basis points to 3.27 percentage points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 HTC  jumped to a 13-month high after HSBC Holdings Plc
raised its rating on the stock to “overweight” from
“underweight” and Yuanta Financial Holding Co. upgraded the
shares to “buy” from “sell.”  
 Samsung, Agricultural Bank  
 The company said after exchanges closed that net income
climbed 33 percent to NT$8.6 billion ($267 million) from NT$6.5
billion a year earlier. The average of 19 analyst estimates was
for profit of NT$6.8 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Samsung raised this year’s target for global flat-panel
television sales to as many as 50 million units. The company
previously aimed to sell 39 million units in 2010,  James Chung ,
a company spokesman, said today by phone.  
 Agricultural Bank, China’s largest bank by customers, is
raising $19.2 billion in an initial public offering after
setting a final price for shares on sale in Hong Kong and
Shanghai, said five people with knowledge of the matter.  
 Agricultural Bank can increase the size of its IPO to as
much as $23.1 billion, which would surpass the $21.9 billion
offering of Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. in 2006.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        