-- Men at Work Told to Pay 5% of `Down Under' Royalties After Copyright Fight
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-07-06T02:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/men-at-work-told-to-pay-5-of-down-under-royalties-after-copyright-fight.html

          
          
             Men at Work, the Australian band that
won a Grammy award in 1983, must pay 5 percent of the royalties
collected on their hit “ Down Under ” for having used a flute
riff from a 1934 song “Kookaburra Sits in The Old Gum Tree.”  
 Australian Federal Court Judge  Peter Jacobson  in Sydney,
who ruled in February that “Down Under” infringed the
copyright of “Kookaburra,” rejected Larrikin Music Publishing
Pty’s claim for as much as half the royalties the band earned
from the song.  
 “The sample of Kookaburra is not an immediately
recognizable part of the 1981 recording,” Jacobson wrote in his
39-page ruling. “To most listeners the similarity can only be
heard after this is pointed out to them.”  
 “Down Under” topped the charts in the U.S. and U.K.,
according to  Billboard , and was the theme song for the
victorious  Australia II  yacht team in the America’s Cup in 1983,
the year the band won the Grammy for Best New Artist.  
 It celebrates Australia as a land where beer flows and
“ women glow ” and remains a favorite on jukeboxes more than 25
years later.  
 Published first in 1979, “Down Under” gained popularity
following a 1981 recording that added the flute riff, which the
judge found had been lifted from “Kookaburra.” Both
“Kookaburra” and “Down Under” are “iconic” in nature, the
judge said.  
 Misrepresentations  
 EMI Music Publishing Australia Pty, the song publisher, was
also a defendant in the suit. EMI is owned by Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd., a private equity firm.  
 John Anderson, managing director of EMI Music Publishing
and Adam Simpson, Larrikin’s lawyer, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  
 The damages weren’t awarded for copyright infringement,
rather because of misrepresentations made to the Australasian
Performing Rights Association and the Australasian Mechanical
Copyright Owners Society, Jacobson wrote.  
 The misrepresentations were that “Down Under” didn’t
infringe the copyright of any other work and that the composers
and publishers were entitled to all of the income from the song,
the judge said.  
 The case is Larrikin Music Publishing Pty v. EMI Songs
Australia Pty. NSD145. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Hong Kong at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        