-- EPA Proposes Reducing Pollution From Power Plants
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-07-06T21:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/epa-seeks-to-cut-cross-state-pollution-from-power-plants-in-rules-revision.html

          
          
             The Obama administration proposed
cutting air pollution from power plants owned by companies such
as  Duke Energy Corp. ,  American Electric Power Co.  and  Southern
Co.  in 31 states from Massachusetts to Texas.  
 The rules aimed at curbing smog and acid rain, to take
effect in 2012, revamp those issued by the Bush administration
five years ago for pollution crossing state lines, the
Environmental Protection Agency said today. A federal court
rejected the prior regulations in 2008, saying the EPA sought to
create an unlawful emissions-trading program.  
 The rules would result in more than $120 billion in annual
health benefits in 2014 while adding $2.8 billion in yearly
costs for utilities, according to the agency. The proposal,
known as transport rules, would limit trading of pollution
rights while slashing sulfur dioxide, which produces acid rain,
and nitrogen oxide, the cause of smog, the EPA said.  
 “EPA’s new proposal would require dramatic reductions in
power-sector emissions, on top of major reductions to date, on a
very short timeline,”  Dan Riedinger , a spokesman for the Edison
Electric Institute, a Washington-based trade group representing
utility companies including AEP, Duke and Southern, said in a
statement. The standard “leaves the power sector exposed to a
great deal of regulatory uncertainty.”  
 Asthma, Heart Attacks  
 The proposed regulations would cut sulfur dioxide by 71
percent by 2014 from 2005 levels and nitrogen oxide by 52
percent over the same period, according to the EPA. Emissions
from power plants have been linked to illnesses such as asthma
and heart attacks, according to the EPA.  
 The rules would protect the public from the health dangers
tied to air pollution better than those issued under former
President  George W. Bush , and the requirements would achieve
“greater reductions more quickly,”  Gina McCarthy , the EPA’s
assistant administrator, said on a conference call today with
reporters.  
 The regulations are more stringent than Bush’s would have
been for sulfur dioxide and begin earlier than the 2014 start
year that had been expected,  Kevin Book , managing director at
ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based policy
analysis firm, said in an interview.  
 Under Bush’s rules, the cap on sulfur dioxide would have
been about 4.66 million tons, while the proposed regulations
would permit about 3.4 million tons a year, Book said.  
 “This is another example of the Obama administration
trying to be very aggressive in satisfying their environmental
constituency,”  Jeff Holmstead , a former assistant administrator
at the EPA and now a partner at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in
Washington, said in an interview. “The industry will be
surprised just how tight the sulfur dioxide caps are.”  
 ‘Smallest, Dirtiest’  
 The rules will probably trigger the closing of the
“smallest and dirtiest coal plants” when coupled with new
limits expected from the EPA for mercury emissions from coal-
fired generators,  K. Whitney Stanco , a Washington-based analyst
with Concept Capital, said in a research note to clients today
before the regulations were announced.  
 The agency doesn’t know whether the regulations would
result in shutting plants, McCarthy of the EPA said.  
 “Millions of people continue to breathe unhealthy air,”
McCarthy said on the call. “Yesterday most of the East Coast
had pretty lousy ozone days” as temperatures soared, McCarthy
said, referring to ground-level ozone formed when chemicals from
burning fossil fuels combine with sunlight.  
 ‘Single Best Thing’  
 “It’s the single best thing the Obama administration has
done to deal with air pollution,”  Frank O’Donnell , president of
the Washington-based environmental group Clean Air Watch, said
in an interview.  
 Duke Energy spokesman Tom Williams said the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based company would release a statement during
the EPA’s 60-day public comment period for the rules. Duke, the
third-largest operator of U.S. coal-burning power plants, had
sued to overturn a part of the Bush administration’s rule that
based emissions-trading allowances on 20-year-old data.  
 Melissa McHenry , a spokeswoman for Columbus, Ohio-based
AEP, said the company is reviewing the EPA’s statement. AEP is
the biggest U.S. producer of coal-fueled electricity.  
 Valerie Hendrickson , a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based
 Southern Co. , the second-biggest U.S. utility owner, didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  
 Limited Cap-and-Trade  
 Today’s proposal initially caused the sulfur-dioxide
emissions market to trade lower, in part because the rules
appear to eliminate the ability to use surplus sulfur-dioxide
trading permits,  Paul Tesoriero , director of environmental
trading at Evolution Markets LLC in White Plains, New York, said
in an interview.  
 There’s also “uncertainty” about how polluters would be
able to use their extra nitrogen-oxide allowances, he said.  
 The EPA is proposing that emissions be reduced through a
limited cap-and-trade system among the states and Washington,
D.C., letting companies that exceed their pollution limits buy
credits from those that pollute less.  
 The EPA also proposed two alternative approaches, one that
would permit emissions trading only within a state and another
that would enable a company to trade pollution rights among its
own power plants.  
 A federal appeals court struck down the Bush
administration’s regulations two years ago, saying it
overstepped its authority in creating the Clean Air Interstate
Rule, which was intended to reduce allowable emissions of sulfur
dioxide and nitrogen oxide in 28 U.S. states.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 KChipman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Power Plant Pollution  
                       
                         
                           Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images) 
                         
                         Smoke stacks at American Electric Power's Mountaineer coal power plant in West Virginia. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Smoke stacks at American Electric Power's Mountaineer coal power plant in West Virginia.  Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
