-- Equity-, Currency-Linked Note Sales Fall in June Amid `Flight to Safety'
-- Zeke Faux
-- 2010-07-06T21:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/equity-currency-linked-note-sales-fall-in-june-amid-flight-to-safety-.html

          
          
             U.S. sales of equity-linked
structured notes fell 31 percent in June and currency-linked
note issuance fell 73 percent as investors turned to fixed-
income securities such as callable step-up notes.  
 U.S. investors bought $1.2 billion of equity-linked notes
in June, down from $1.7 billion in May, and $31.6 million of
currency-linked notes, compared with $118 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Structured-note sales rose 9 percent
overall as issuance of securities tied to interest rates more
than tripled to $1.7 billion, the data show.  
 The decline in equity-linked note issuance came as
investors pulled $7.9 billion from U.S. stock mutual funds in
the four-week period ended June 23, according to data compiled
by the Investment Company Institute, a trade group. As demand
rose for government bonds in June, 10-year Treasury note yields
fell 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, to 2.94 as of
June 30, according to BGCantor Market Data.  
 “People moved out of risky assets and into bonds,” said
 Jose Ortega , who sells structured notes as director of
investments at Atlas One Financial Group in Miami. “It was a
flight to safety.”  
 Rates-linked note sales were led by Morgan Stanley’s $750
million offering of 15-year callable step-up notes, which pay an
initial 5 percent interest rate. The New York-based bank led
with $1 billion of total issuance, almost triple its May sales,
and Bank of America Corp. sold the second-most structured notes,
$889.3 million, the data show.  
 GE-Linked Notes  
 The Morgan Stanley 15-year callable step-up note pays an
initial 5 percent interest rate that rises to 6 percent after 3
years then to 8 percent in 2016. After one year, the New York-
based bank can redeem, or call, the securities for face value.  
 “When a 10-year Treasury pays only 2.9 percent, investors
are more inclined to go into these rate-linked notes,” Ortega
said in a telephone interview today.  
 Bank of America sold $91.4 million of notes linked to the
stock of General Electric Co. on June 24, the month’s largest
equity-linked note offering according to the data. The one-year
notes pay 9 percent interest, with an additional 2.4 percent
payment if GE shares close at least 9 percent above their
initial level of $15.21 at maturity.  
 The largest reverse-convertible note, an $84 million
offering linked to the stock of JPMorgan Chase & Co., was sold
by Morgan Stanley on June 24. The six-month securities pay 9
percent annualized interest, with principal returned in six
months as long as shares of the New York-based bank don’t close
more than 25 percent less than their initial price of $38.03 on
any day.  
 Structured notes are bank-issued securities that combine
bonds with derivatives, which are contracts whose value is
derived from stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        