-- Tetangco Sees `No Urgency' for Philippine Rate Increase as Inflation Slows
-- Clarissa Batino
-- 2010-07-06T13:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/tetangco-sees-no-urgency-for-philippine-rate-increase-as-inflation-slows.html

          
          
             The Philippine central bank isn’t in
a hurry to raise borrowing costs as inflation at a seven-month
low is prompting a review of its forecasts for price gains this
year and next, Governor  Amando Tetangco  said today.  
 “There does not seem to be an urgency to move given recent
developments,” Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message in reply
to questions from Bloomberg today. The central bank will review
inflation forecasts “given the new information to see if we
need to make any adjustments to policy stance,” he said.  
 Inflation  unexpectedly eased for a second month in June to
3.9 percent, the slowest pace since November 2009 and less than
the 4.3 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. That
is giving Tetangco scope to keep the  benchmark overnight
borrowing rate  at a record-low 4 percent, where it’s been since
July 2009.  
 Ten of 13 economists expected Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
to raise the key rate by at least 0.25 percentage point this
quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey early last month. The
next policy meeting will be on July 15.  
 “Over the next week or so, we would probably start seeing
some of them push back interest-rate hike expectations,” said
 Deanno Basas , investment director for fixed-income at ATR KimEng
Asset Management Inc. in Manila. “The signals from the central
bank seem to point that, for as long as they don’t see a spike
in inflation, they would keep rates on hold.”  
 Australia Pauses  
 Australia’s central bank paused for a second month, joining
central bankers in the U.S., Europe and parts of Asia including
 Indonesia  in keeping borrowing costs unchanged to gauge whether
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis threatens the global economic
recovery.  
 “Negative news from Europe seems to have abated,
translating into reduced volatilities in the commodity and
foreign-exchange markets,” Tetangco said earlier today.
“Nevertheless, we will have to be watchful of demand conditions
on the domestic front as well as official action from the major
central banks,” he said.  
 Bank Negara Malaysia  will decide on July 8 whether to
increase its overnight policy rate for a third time this year.
The Bank of Korea will meet the next day to decide whether it
will raise borrowing costs from a record low.  
 The Philippine central bank last month cut its 2010
inflation forecast to 4.7 percent from 5.1 percent and lowered
next year’s projection to 3.6 percent from 3.7 percent.  
 “Based on what we see, it looks like inflation will
continue to be stable at lower rates,” Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said today.  
 The Philippines’ monetary stance “remains appropriate” and
the central bank can maintain “low interest rates,” Tetangco
told reporters in Manila today. The country may lower its 2010
inflation forecast on the June consumer price data, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        