-- EU Gives Bulgaria Deadline of End of Next Year to Narrow Budget Deficit
-- Elizabeth Konstantinova
-- 2010-07-06T14:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/eu-gives-bulgaria-deadline-of-end-of-next-year-to-narrow-budget-deficit.html

          
          
             The European Union gave Bulgaria
until the end of next year to bring its  budget deficit  within
the EU’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  
 The  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm,
recommended the Balkan government “avoid deterioration of the
2010 deficit beyond the planned 3.8 percent of GDP” and
“ensure a fiscal effort of at least three-quarters of a percent
of GDP in 2011,” it said in a statement in Brussels today.  
 Bulgaria revised this year’s budget in June, allowing a
widening of the deficit to 3.8 percent from an original target
of 0.8 percent of GDP, to help account for a revenue shortfall
of 2 billion lev ($1.3 billion), or 2.9 percent of output.  
 Eurostat, the EU’s statistical arm, will visit Bulgaria in
September to inspect its accounting methods after the commission
said on June 9 it has “doubts about the methodology” of
calculations, which lead to fluctuations in forecasts. The
commission previously predicted Bulgaria’s deficit at 2.8
percent of GDP this year.  
 The government of Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov , which took
office a year ago, has refused to raise taxes, keeping them at
the EU’s lowest level with 10 percent income and corporate
taxes, to spur an economic recovery and sustain budget revenue.  
 Fiscal Crisis  
 The government has forecast  economic growth  of 1 percent,
while the commission envisages stagnation this year.  
 The EU is struggling to defuse a fiscal crisis in the euro
region that has sent bonds and the single currency sliding since
the Greek government, citing accounting mistakes, revised its
deficit, raising concern about its solvency. A further 16 EU
countries have revised their budgets so far.  
 The commission also recommended Bulgaria “strengthen
fiscal governance and transparency by reinforcing the Ministry
of Finance’s spending controls” to improve the monitoring of
budget execution through the year.  It also wants the government
to cut public spending “by fully implementing the planned
structural reforms in the area of public administration,
healthcare, education, and pensions.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        