-- EU Pension Debate, German Short-Selling Ban, GM Stock Bonuses: Compliance
-- Carla Main
-- 2010-07-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/eu-pension-debate-german-short-selling-ban-gm-stock-bonuses-compliance.html

          
          
             The  European Commission  said it will
start on July 7 “a wide-ranging debate on the future of
pensions in Europe.”  
 The consultation will “call for views and fresh ideas”
for possible future actions, the European Union’s executive
agency said in an e-mailed  statement  July 2.  
 The commission said it will also publish draft measures on
July 12 including proposals to improve deposit-guarantees in
European banks and a plan to enhance EU investor compensation
schemes.  
 The EU agency will also publish July 12 possible changes to
insurance guarantee programs. The document “will set out ideas
for a coherent framework” in order to “remedy existing
loopholes and inequalities,” the commission said.  
 Compliance Policy  
 German Short-Selling Ban Advances in German Parliament  
 German  lower-house  lawmakers approved a ban on naked short-
selling of euro-area government bonds, credit-default swaps
based on the bonds and shares of German companies in a bid to
counter “volatility” of the euro.  
 Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition passed the measure
July 2 in the Bundestag in Berlin, confirming the main elements
of the government’s May 19 ban on naked swaps that was
criticized by other European countries, the European Union and
economists for Germany’s go-it-alone approach.  
 Intraday trading isn’t affected by the legislation, which
also gives Germany’s BaFin regulator the power to ban financial
market instruments for as long as 12 months. The  Bundesrat ,
parliament’s upper house, plans to debate the measure on July 9
and can propose changes.  
 Separately, Germany and France will make a joint proposal
for a EU tax on financial transactions in the next few days,
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said in parliament July 2.
Imposing an EU-wide tax won’t be easy and limiting the tax to
euro-area countries is an option, he said.  
 EU Has ‘Doubts’ Over Hungary Bank Tax, Matolcsy Says  
 The European Union has “serious doubts” about Hungary’s
plan for a “brutal” bank tax that is key to meeting its
creditor-approved budget deficit target, Economy Minister Gyorgy
Matolcsy said.  
 The government failed to agree with lenders July 1 on a 120
billion-forint ($526 million) tax for this year after the owners
of six banks withdrew the negotiating mandates of their local
units, Matolcsy said in an interview in Budapest July 2.  
 Hungary pledged last month to meet the budget deficit
target set by the  International Monetary Fund  and European
Union. The nation is seeking to extend the bailout when it
expires in October and sign a two-year precautionary loan
agreement of as much as 20 billion euros ($25 billion) starting
next year, Matolcsy said. The EU and IMF will review Hungary’s
budget policy starting this week.  
 For more, click here.  
 Japan May Remove Insurance Asset Allocation Rules, Nikkei Says  
 Japan’s  Financial Services Agency  plans to ask the Diet to
eliminate investment regulations restricting asset allocations
at insurers, which may result in more higher-yielding overseas
bonds, Nikkei English News reported, without saying where it
obtained the information.  
 Japanese insurers now are required to invest no more than
30 percent of their assets in domestic shareholdings, 30 percent
in foreign-currency-denominated assets and 20 percent in real
estate, Nikkei said.  
 Compliance Action  
 BMW, Mazda Cars Examined for Flaws in Power Steering, U.S. Says  
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Mazda Motor Corp.  cars are
under investigation by the U.S. auto-safety regulator for
possible defects that can cause the power steering to fail,
raising the risk of a crash.  
 The  BMW Z4  and  Mazda3  have been the subject of 140
complaints related to a flaw in the power steering, the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration said  July 2 on its
website. The probe covering more than 342,000 cars may lead to
recalls.  
 The safety agency is elevating oversight of defects
following record recalls of more than 8 million vehicles by
 Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s largest carmaker.  
 “We will provide all the information they request and we
cooperate with them always at these levels,” said  Tom Kowaleski , a U.S.-based spokesman for BMW, based in Munich.  
 “We are aware of the NHTSA concern,” said spokesman
Jeremy Barnes, who is a U.S. spokesman for Hiroshima, Japan-
based Mazda. “We are working hand-in-hand with NHTSA on the
investigation.”  
 For more, click here.  
 Delta, US Airways Drop New York-Washington Asset Swap  
 Delta Air Lines Inc.  and  US Airways Group Inc.  won’t pursue
a swap of takeoff and landing slots in New York and Washington
under regulators’ terms, a setback to strengthening their holds
on two eastern U.S. markets.  
 The airlines instead will challenge in federal court the
U.S. requirement that they give rivals more access to flights at
New York’s  LaGuardia Airport  and Ronald Reagan Washington
National Airport, according to a filing with the  U.S.
Transportation Department  and  Federal Aviation Administration .  
 Delta had sought to expand at LaGuardia to complement its
hub at Kennedy International Airport and dominate New York. US
Airways sought to build its base in Washington and secure the
right to serve valuable international routes. The decision
avoids a requirement that some flight slots be auctioned,
opening the door to low-cost rivals like  Southwest Airlines Co.   
 Trebor Banstetter, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Delta,
declined to comment beyond the filing. The transportation
department also declined to comment on the airlines’ decision,
said Bill Mosley, an agency spokesman.  
 For more, click here.  
 General Motors Gives $6.66 Million in Stock to Top Executives  
 General Motors Co., the largest U.S. automaker, gave stock
valued at $6.66 million to 14 top managers, including $1.33
million worth to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ed
Whitacre.  
 The 123,347 shares were valued at $53.98 each, a price
determined by a third party, the company said July 2 in filings
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 GM gives executives salary stock units and restricted
shares to augment their compensation, which is constrained by
government rules because the automaker is 61 percent owned by
the U.S. Treasury Department. The company must disclose the
shares it grants in filings every quarter.  
 Whitacre, whose stock would be worth about $2.31 million
based on GM’s bonds, also receives a $1.7 million annual cash
salary.  
 Chief Financial Officer Chris Liddell was awarded 15,979
shares worth about $862,500 under GM’s valuation and $1.5
million at market rates. Liddell receives a base salary of
$750,000 a year.  
 Energy Hedge Funds Close After Investor Withdrawals  
 Energy hedge funds in Europe are collapsing after investor
withdrawals forced managers to scale back bets amid sliding
prices for oil, coal and electricity.  
 At least six funds managing more than $158 million shut in
the first half, including four in May and June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. London-based Rampart Capital LLP
succumbed after failing to reach “critical mass” within nine
months of opening, according to Chief Investment Officer
Marcello Romano.  
 The funds were battered after Brent crude fell in May by
the most since November 2008 and German power had its fourth
monthly drop this year. Liquidations around the world rose to
about 240 in the first quarter, compared with 165 in the
previous three months, Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research
reported June 8.  
 For more, click here.  
 Courts  
 SEC Sues Utah Man For $145 Million Real Estate Investing Fraud  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission sued Travis Wright,
of Utah, for falsely telling customers their $145 million would
be invested in commercial real estate while instead directing
funds to other ventures, including a sandwich-in-a-can business.  
 Wright, 47, sold promissory notes for his Waterford funds
to about 175 investors from 2001 to 2009, the SEC said in a
lawsuit filed at U.S. court in Salt Lake City July 1. Wright
used only $6 million of investor money in a manner consistent
with his promises, using more than $15 million to live a
“lavish” lifestyle, the agency alleged.  
 The SEC is seeking disgorgement and unspecified fines, as
well as an order that Wright be prohibited from selling
securities.  
 No one could be reached at two telephone numbers listed to
Travis L. Wright in Ogden, Utah. A phone number for Waterford
Funding, LLC, was busy. Court documents did not list a lawyer
for Wright.  
 Interviews  
 Liddell Says Swap Clearinghouse Plan ‘Good for System’  
 Roger Liddell, chief executive officer of  LCH.Clearnet
Group Ltd. , discussed the potential impact of U.S. financial-
regulatory overhaul legislation on the over-the-counter
derivatives market.  
 Liddell talked with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.”  
 For the video, click here.  
 Merkel Says EU Rescue Deal Only Bought Time for Euro  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said that the European
Union’s 750 billion-euro ($945 billion) rescue package for the
euro is only buying time for governments to cut budget deficits.
The task now before the EU is a “policy of saving” and scaling
back deficits, she said.  
 Merkel made the remarks in an interview with RTL television
July 2 in Berlin.  
 Dingell Assails Senate Rules, Praises Finance Bill  
 U.S. Representative John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat,
talked with Bloomberg’s Al Hunt about Senate rules, legislation
overhauling financial regulation, net-neutrality rules and
prospects for additional stimulus.  
 Dingell, who has held his House seat since 1955, became the
longest-serving member of Congress with the June 28 death of
West Virginia Senator Robert Byrd.  
 For the video, click here.  
 ECB’s Paramo Says Stress Tests Don’t Need to Consider Default  
 European Central Bank Executive Board member Jose Manuel
Gonzalez-Paramo said bank stress tests don’t need to take the
“absurd” scenario of a sovereign default into account, though
they will consider sovereign risk.  
 “The euro cannot allow a default and therefore there’s no
sense doing a stress test based on that,” Gonzalez-Paramo said.
He made the remarks to reporters in La Coruna, Spain, on July 2.
The tests will look at sovereign risk, he said.  
 The European Union plans to publish stress tests this month
in a bid to reassure investors about the strength of the
regions’ banks.  
 Comings and Goings  
 Starsupply Hires Oil Broker Banned for Drunk Trades in Geneva  
 Steven Perkins, the oil trader banned by the U.K. financial
regulator for making bets price would rise while in an
“alcohol-induced blackout,” was hired by  Starsupply Renewables
SA  in Switzerland.  
 Perkins, a former broker at PVM Oil Futures Ltd., was
banned from working in the U.K. financial services industry for
five years and fined 72,000 pounds ($109,000) by the Financial
Services Authority. Starsupply will respect the FSA ruling and
Perkins won’t trade in regulated markets, the biofuels brokerage
said in a statement July 2.  
 Perkins joined an alcohol rehabilitation program after the
incident and has been sober for almost a year, Starsupply said.  
 Chris Hamilton, a spokesman for the FSA in London, declined
to comment.  
 HSBC Holdings Hires Tim Sykes From U.K. Financial Investments  
 HSBC Holdings Plc said it hired Tim Sykes, the former head
of market-investment strategy at U.K. Financial Investments Ltd.
Sykes had joined UKFI in January 2009, soon after UKFI was
established in November the previous year to oversee the
government’s stakes in banks that received financial assistance.  
 Sykes will become head of European banks and securities
companies within the company’s global banking financial
institutions group, HSBC said in an e-mailed statement July 2.
He will start with HSBC in September.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        