-- Europe's Private Equity Queen Readies Axa for Shopping Spree
-- Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
-- 2010-07-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/europe-s-private-equity-queen-senequier-readies-axa-for-a-shopping-spree.html

          
          
             Dominique Senequier  is different.  
 It’s not because she’s a woman who built one of Europe’s
largest private equity firms from France, a country more famous
for fashion than for finance. Rather, it’s because she’s
convinced now is the moment to invest in Europe.  
 “Thanks to the attacks on the euro, the lower currency
will stimulate growth and Angela Merkel has become the leader of
a pan-European budget-tightening plan,” the chief executive
officer of  Axa SA ’s buyout unit said in an interview in her
office, overlooking the Ritz hotel across from the 18th century
Place Vendome in Paris. “It’s a heaven-sent opportunity,” she
said with a smile.  
 Senequier, 56, 5-feet-2 and  $25 billion  under her watch,
isn’t afraid to sound contrarian just as European Union
governments struggle to cut record budget deficits, making
investors flee the currency. Every year, Axa Private Equity,
which she started 14 years ago, has been delivering some of the
industry’s best returns, purchasing mid-sized European companies
and stakes in U.S. leveraged buyout funds run by  KKR & Co. ,
 Blackstone Group LP  and the Carlyle Group. Now, as the private
equity industry emerges from the worst crisis in decades, she is
embarking on a shopping spree.  
 In April, Senequier bought $1.9 billion of stakes in mostly
American LBO funds from Bank of America Corp., the largest
acquisition of its kind. In Europe, she purchased travel
reservation website  GO-Voyages  from Belgian financier Albert
Frere and France’s richest man,  Bernard Arnault . She is taking
over companies in three Natixis SA funds for 534 million euros
($676 million) and competing for deals ranging from German
specialty valves maker  Phonix Armaturen-Werke Bregel GmbH  to the
European liquefied petroleum gas unit of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc .  
 Global Network  
 Senequier, on the road 240 days a year to raise funds in
North America and Asia, has built Axa Private Equity’s
international influence while operating from a country with no
significant pension funds and little private equity tradition.
Distancing herself from the highly political French business
world, she’s succeeded by building a global network in the male-
dominated buyout community that includes Blackstone Chief
 Stephen Schwarzman , TPG Inc. founder  David Bonderman  and KKR co-
founder  Henry Roberts Kravis . Her returns have made her a money
magnet, boosting assets under management more than 10-fold over
the last decade.  
 “Dominique is an independent thinker,” Schwarzman, who
sees her when he’s in Paris about twice a year, said in a phone
interview from New York. “She’s very smart, an excellent
investor and she has a very good view of economic trends.”  
 Early Setback  
 It began in 1995 with what she calls the biggest career
setback of her life.  
 Senequier, one of the first seven women to graduate from
France’s top engineering school, Ecole Polytechnique, was then
the head of French insurer GAN’s private equity business, which
she started a decade earlier. The insurer was forced to sell
assets as part of a government bailout. Senequier bid for the
unit with the backing of London-based firm Electra Fleming.
Instead, GAN sold the unit to the former Financiere Saint
Dominique, now part of  Natixis , and she was forced to leave.  
 Even now, Senequier fumes about the sale process, saying
she was “betrayed by almost everybody,” including GAN Chairman
Jean-Jacques Bonnaud, whom she says promised to support her bid,
and Banexi, the investment bank of former BNP SA, which dropped
her bidding group to join the eventual winner. It was then, she
said, that she realized French business was all about who had
political weight. And that she had none.  
 Learning the Game  
 “I didn’t know how to spell the word politics,” recalled
Senequier, wearing a black suit and a white-stoned pendant as
her only jewellery. “I thought being legitimate would be
enough. I lost 95 percent of my naivety.”  
 Pascal Henisse , a spokesman for BNP Paribas SA, declined to
comment. Bonnaud didn’t return calls nor respond to e-mails
seeking comment.  
 Senequier, the daughter of a marine engineer who was born
in Toulon, southern France, said she learned to play the
political game. She sought advice from Axa Chief Executive
Officer  Claude Bebear , also a Polytechnique graduate, who hired
her to start Axa’s private equity unit. Known as “the godfather
of French capitalism” in the French press, Bebear promised Axa
would match a third of what she raised from other investors.  
 She immediately turned overseas for funds, convincing
Caisse de Depot du Quebec, Canada’s largest pension fund
manager, to commit about 30 million euros for her first 95
million euro LBO fund. Dutch bank  Rabobank Groep  pledged the
same.  
 The Axa Connection  
 “I had this idea of retiring after this first fund, or
slowing down,” said Senequier, who says she believes in living
day to day, not focusing on big plans. She burst into laughter.  
 The Axa name helped in her quest for funds and the
insurer’s acquisitions planted the seeds for new private equity
businesses. The takeover of France’s Union des Assurances de
Paris SA in 1997, for example, brought a 150 million-euro
portfolio of funds of funds. Senequier raised 300 million euros
to match with Bebear’s money and turned it into one of the best-
performing units of its kind. Its so-called secondary fund
raised in 2004, which buys second-hand stakes in buyout funds
from investors who want to offload commitments, yielded 50
percent a year net of fees and carried interest, the world’s
highest rate of return recorded for that vintage year, said
London-based research firm  Preqin Ltd .  
 50 Active Funds  
 Axa’s 50 active funds invest in buyout funds,
infrastructure, mezzanine, venture capital, small, mid-sized
companies and have minority stakes in large LBOs. In Europe, Axa
Private Equity ranks among the largest firms raising money from
others in terms of assets under management, neck and neck with
London firms  Pantheon Ventures Ltd.,  which manages about $22.6
billion of funds of funds, and compares with  Permira Advisers
Ltd. , which has raised 20 billion euros for LBOs. London buyout
fund manager Apax Partners LLP says it has more than $35 billion
under management. As a comparison, Blackstone, based in New
York, says it manages $25.2 billion of fee-earning assets in its
private equity unit.  
 “Dominique has been a visionary about the private equity
industry in Europe and through her leadership Axa Private Equity
has become a driving force,” Henry Kravis said in an e-mail
responding to questions.  
 The $5 billion the firm has left to spend is drying up
quickly, Senequier said. She is targeting 1.5 billion euros for
its next infrastructure fund, and may start raising another $3
billion secondary fund after investing most of its current $2.9
billion one, people with knowledge of the matter said. Senequier
declined to comment on fundraising.  
 Audacious and Cautious  
 “Axa Private Equity is really Dominique’s baby,” said
Bebear, 74, now Axa’s honorary chairman, who says he was
impressed by the “sharp woman who’s not afraid to speak her
mind” when he met her about 20 years ago.  
 “What strikes me is her ability to be audacious while
remaining cautious,” he said. “She kept away from the leverage
craziness, for example.”  
 Senequier, who’s a passionate pianist and goes to Venice
and Salzburg, Austria, to listen to opera, could have been
tempted to raise a multibillion LBO fund during the boom years.
She didn’t, instead sticking to what her direct investment teams
did best: targeting mid-sized European companies such as French
pet food ingredient maker  Diana Ingredients SA  or German
shopping broadcaster  HSE 24 .  
 “We’re pretty slow and conservative people here,”
Senequier said. “I didn’t want to concentrate all our efforts
and resources on a mega-buyout team, when most of the best teams
in that field already exist in the U.S.”  
 ‘Best Positioned’  
 Axa’s first two LBO funds netted more than 30 percent
annually, placing them in the top 25 percent best-performing
funds in their category, according to Preqin. Axa LBO III,
raised in 2005, has made more than 10 percent, above average.  
 The firm, which is 100 percent owned by Axa and employs 232
people, was ranked first ahead of TPG, Carlyle and KKR among the
world’s top firms “best positioned for long-term performance”
in an April study by the  HEC School of Management  in Paris. One
of the main factors for the ranking was Axa’s ability to play
macroeconomics cycles and time acquisitions and exits, said
 Oliver Gottschalg , an associate professor of strategy at HEC and
author of the study.  
 “Senequier has gained international recognition in a way
no other French private equity executive has,” said  Eric Meyer, 
senior banker advising buyout firms at Societe Generale SA in
Paris. “At home in Europe, she kept away from the frenzy during
the boom years and is now very active when others are still
grappling with their legacy problems.”  
 Key Departures  
 Not everything has worked out.  
 Eighteen months with very few deals has been difficult for
some of her dealmakers. The firm lost three managing directors
in its star secondary unit: Daniel Benin and Stephane Chevrier
in New York last year and Barthelemy de Beaupuy in Paris left
partly because they disagreed with Senequier’s decision to delay
investments, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter. None of three could be reached for comment.  
 This may not help fundraising just as competitors such as
New York-based Lexington Partners Inc. are also coming back to
investors, Jeremie Le Febvre, partner at placement agent Triago
SA, said.  
 “There’s nearly $100 billion of dry powder waiting to be
spent in the secondary markets by specialist funds and
institutional investors,” he said. “Fundraising is going to be
challenging.”  
 Mixed Results  
 Senequier also had mixed results when she wandered
occasionally into some of the giant buyout deals. Axa’s “co-
investment” fund bought minority stakes in Texas utility Energy
Future Holdings Corp., which was taken private by KKR and TPG
for $43 billion in 2007, and payment-processing company First
Data Corp., acquired by KKR for $27.5 billion in 2007. The value
of those investments has been marked down in the wake of the
credit crisis. The firm’s first co-investment fund, raised in
2005 and which also includes stakes in KKR’s  Alliance Boots
Holdings Ltd.  and PAI Partners’ Chr. Hansen Holding A/S, is
almost at cost.  
 Through the years, the love-hate relationship with her home
country has continued, she said. Her dominant position at home
has made Axa a natural partner for the U.S. buyout firms in
France, a nation not always welcoming to foreign investors. That
advantage is more than offset, Senequier said, by the
provincialism of French capitalism.  
 “She belongs to Axa,” Bebear said.  
 ‘Heavy Burden’  
 Axa’s French roots are a “heavy burden,” said Senequier,
who points to the country’s lack of financial culture at the
highest levels of the administration. Being French has been
harder than being a woman in this world, she said.  
 “Our investors don’t understand that we can be French and
succeed in this industry,” she said. “I tell them being a
minority forces us to be more open to other cultures and forces
us to be modest.”  
 Her job now, she says, is to convince her investors Europe
is the place to be.  
 A lower euro will boost exports and stimulate internal
economic growth, while European countries will tackle their
deficits and implement reforms for real this time, she said.
European governments won’t be able to fund infrastructure
projects, creating opportunities for emerging markets investors.  
 “The gap between indebted countries and those with
surpluses is widening,” Senequier said. “This will influence
private equity massively in the next decade.”  
 Emerging Markets  
 Greece, she said, is playing this trend “beautifully.”
“While European governments are grappling with their own budget
issues, they are tempted to seek the help of the Libyans, the
Qataris or China,” she said. “These investors will help fund
infrastructures and create jobs.”  
 The money will mostly come from emerging markets and their
sovereign wealth funds, particularly China, Senequier said.
Those countries are no ordinary investors, though.  
 “We’ll have to try to capture this flow, and this will be
possible only if we show our willingness to invest in those
regions, too,” she said. “It has to be a win-win game.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Axa Private Equity CEO Dominique Senequier gestures while speaking during an interview in Paris. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
