-- European Shares Advance Most in Five Weeks; BHP Billiton, Santander Climb
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-07-06T16:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/europe-index-futures-gain-balfour-beatty-may-rise-deutsche-bank-may-fall.html

          
          
             European stocks  gained the most in
five weeks, ending the longest losing streak in a year for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, on speculation the decline in equities
has overrun the outlook for company earnings.  
 Banco Santander SA rallied 6.1 percent as Spain’s sale of
10-year bonds eased concern the nation will struggle to fund its
deficit. BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group led basic-
resource producers higher. Balfour Beatty Plc gained 2.8 percent
after Britain’s biggest builder said it expects its order book
to increase. BP Plc rose 3.7 percent as Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc recommended the shares.  
 The  Stoxx 600  climbed 2.6 percent to 242.76, the biggest
gain since May 27. The gauge had fallen for five straight days
to the lowest level since May 25 as disappointing economic data
from China and the U.S. fanned concern that the global recovery
is faltering. The decline left the gauge trading at 11 times
estimated earnings, the lowest  valuation  in more than a year,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 “Hardly any earnings growth is currently priced in by
markets,”  Bill O’Neill , Merrill Lynch Wealth Management’s chief
investment officer for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said
in an e-mail. “We still see value” in European equities.
O’Neill helps manage about $1.4 trillion and forecast a 10
percent gain in European stocks by year end on June 22.  
 National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European
markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  gained 2.9 percent, Germany’s DAX
climbed 2.2 percent and France’s CAC 40 advanced 2.7 percent.  
 Spanish Stocks Gain  
 Spain’s  IBEX 35  rallied 3.6 percent as the nation sold 6
billion euros ($7.6 billion) of bonds to plug the euro region’s
third-largest deficit. Spain received 13 billion euros of orders
for the notes, a banker involved in the deal said.  
 Santander, the country’s biggest bank, jumped 6.1 percent
to 9.21 euros. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, the second-
largest, rose 3.9 percent to 8.81 euros.  
 BHP Billiton, the world’s biggest mining company, climbed
5.5 percent to 1,777 pence and Rio Tinto gained 5.9 percent to
3,049.5 pence. ArcelorMittal, the largest steelmaker, surged 5.8
percent to 22.58 euros. Basic resource shares led gains among
the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600 as copper advanced for a
third day in London.  
 Balfour Beatty advanced 2.8 percent to 243.1 pence. The
U.K. builder expects its order book to be ahead of the 14.1
billion pounds ($21 billion) reported in December even as it
sees some “uncertainties.”  
 Persimmon, Taylor Wimpey  
 Rival  Persimmon Plc  climbed 6.2 percent to 370.2 pence, the
most in two months. Sales in the first six months of the year
rose 26 percent as the housing market recovery enabled the
company to increase prices.  
 Taylor Wimpey Plc, Britain’s second-largest homebuilder by
volume, soared 6.7 percent to 26.75 pence.  
 BP, the oil company grappling to stop a leak that has
caused the biggest oil spill in U.S. history, rose 3.7 percent
to 345.5 pence. RBS upgraded the shares to “buy” from
“hold,” saying the “pessimistic view on the probable costs of
the Macondo spill is currently discounted” in the share price.  
 BP “is a good buy for anyone who has the guts to take the
chance,”  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of the Libya National Oil
Corp., said in a Bloomberg television interview. “The price of
the shares are very low. It gives a good opportunity to
invest.”  
 Petroplus Holdings AG  increased 6.2 percent to 15.98 Swiss
francs. Europe’s largest independent refiner was rated “trading
buy” at Credit Suisse Group AG, which increased its price
estimate to 21.5 francs from 20 francs.  
 Tullow, TUI  
 Tullow Oil Plc gained 4 percent to 1,083 pence after the
U.K. explorer with the most licenses in Africa said the Ugandan
government gave conditional approval to its delayed purchase of
assets from Heritage Oil Plc.  
 TUI AG  jumped 8.7 percent to 7.54 euros. Europe’s largest
travel company raised its forecast for container shipping,
saying it now expects Hapag-Lloyd to “post significantly
positive operating earnings.”  
 Abertis Infraestructuras SA rallied 5.7 percent to 14.33
euros, extending yesterday’s 12 percent jump. The company’s two
main shareholders and CVC Capital Partners Ltd. are in talks to
borrow as much as 7 billion euros to fund a buyout of Spain’s
biggest highway operator, according to two people familiar with
the plans.  
 Eutelsat Communications SA, whose  biggest shareholder  is
Abertis Telecom, according to Bloomberg data, slid 4.9 percent
to 25.67 euros amid speculation Abertis may have to sell assets
if the buyout proceeds.  
 Debenhams Upgrade  
 Debenhams Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest department-store
company, advanced 5 percent to 60.05 pence, rising for a fourth
day. UBS AG upgraded the stock to “buy” from “neutral,”
calling the shares “cheap, cheap, cheap.”  
 The retailer’s third quarter is “likely to be the low
point and we expect management to increase focus on delivering
market share gains and positive like-for-like” sales, UBS
analyst  Adam Cochrane  wrote in a report today.  
 Zodiac Aerospace SA surged 7.4 percent to 39.60 euros.
Europe’s biggest maker of airplane seats was upgraded to “buy”
from “hold” at Societe Generale SA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Andy Mantel, founder and managing director of Pacific Sun Investment Management Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
      Mantel, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering in Shanghai and Hong Kong, and the outlook for China's banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
