-- BNP Paribas Says Europe Should Be Ready to Break From U.S. Over Bank Rules
-- Editors: [bn:PRSN=1] Jennifer Freedman []
-- 2010-07-06T10:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/europe-should-consider-breaking-with-u-s-on-bank-rules-bnp-chairman-says.html

          
          
             BNP Paribas SA  Chairman  Michel Pebereau  said European countries should be prepared to break
from the U.S. on bank capital requirements and bonus rules if
such regulations risk harming their economies.  
 “There is a necessity, which is not to overreact at the
level of regulation,” Pebereau said at the Europlace conference
in Paris today. “At this period of time, it is clear we have a
different situation if we compare the U.S. and Europe. The
priorities are not the same.”  
 His remarks reflect concern on the part of banking
executives across Europe that Group of 20 plans to raise capital
requirements risk choking off growth in the region, which is
more dependent on banks for financing than the U.S.  
 Within the G-20, the U.S. is pushing for faster
implementation of new rules while European governments want a
phasing-in period. Banks provide about 75 percent of financing
to the economy in Europe, while 70 percent of lending in the
U.S. comes from markets rather than from banks, according to the
Bank of France.  
 “If we overreact on the field of banking regulation, we’re
going to have a problem on the level of financing the economy in
Europe,” Pebereau said. “The future of growth in Europe is
totally dependent on that. It would be better to have good
regulation in Europe than to try to have global regulation in
which Europe will not be able to have growth.”  
 He also expressed concern that stricter application of
rules on banker pay than elsewhere risks driving business away.  
 “We’re not on a level playing field,” Pebereau said,
speaking in English. “In the U.S., there is a very low level of
regulation for compensation. If in Europe we have very high
level of regulation, you will have a situation in which it is no
more possible for European banks to be competitive.”  
 The financial crisis resulted from problems “in investment
banking in the U.S, not in Europe, so an overreaction in Europe
would be totally inappropriate,” he said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on banking regulation: TNI BNK RULES <GO>
Stories on the credit crisis: NI CRUNCH <GO>
  
          
          


  


        