-- Ex-Goldman Trader Maruyama Targets $114 Million for New Japan Hedge Fund
-- Komaki Ito
-- 2010-07-06T01:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/ex-goldman-trader-maruyama-targets-114-million-for-new-japan-hedge-fund.html

          
          
             Tan Maruyama , a former proprietary
trader at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , aims to boost assets of his
new Japan-focused hedge fund that bets on securities ranging
from equities to convertible bonds to about $114 million.  
 The R-SQUARED Master Fund, a multi-strategy hedge fund,
began on April 1 with 1.36 billion yen ($16 million) of capital
and has returned 0.7 percent through June on a preliminary basis,
said Maruyama, the founder of Round Rock Capital Advisors Co., a
Tokyo-based hedge-fund advisory firm. The fund aims to increase
assets to 10 billion yen within 12 months and to about 30
billion yen in a year-and-a-half, he said.  
 Maruyama, 39, joins a new breed of Japanese hedge funds
introducing a wider range of strategies in a country formerly
dominated by long-short funds that bet on rising and falling
stock prices. His fund combines three main strategies:  equity 
long-short,  credit  and arbitrage trading of convertible bonds.  
 “There isn’t that much competition in Japan, even with the
market size we have, which gives us an edge with the sort of
background we have” Maruyama, who headed the convertible bond
trading desk at Goldman Sachs, said in an interview in Tokyo on
July 2. “Investors also told us the Japanese hedge-fund space
has been dominated with long-short funds and they were becoming
interested in other strategies, which prompted us to enter.”  
 Eurekahedge’s index tracking Japan-focused, multi-strategy
funds includes seven members, compared with more than 250
globally and more than 40 for Asia.  
 Assets Growing  
 The R-SQUARED Master Fund’s gain in the first three month
since its start contrasts with a 1.6 percent decline by the
 Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index  in the same period.  
 The fund’s assets have grown to 1.6 billion yen through new
allocations from high-net-worth individuals, Maruyama said.
Prior to the start, the fund returned 5.2 percent from Jan. 22
through March 31, based on a paper portfolio employing simulated
strategies, said Maruyama, who also headed the credit sales and
trading team at Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Ltd.  
 The fund’s return was trimmed because of losses it took
amid market turmoil in May triggered by European sovereign debt
concerns, he said, adding that Japan’s credit market remains
attractive.  
 Maruyama runs the fund with  Takatoshi Itoshima , former
hedge-fund manager at U.K.-based Capula Investment Management
LLP’s Tokyo office;  Satoshi Kamata , who also joined from Capula
Investment in Tokyo; and  Shuhei Komatsu , who was also formerly
at Merrill Lynch.  
 Talent ‘Injection’  
 Hedge funds being set up by proprietary traders are
attracting investors because of their ability to control risks
and experience in managing large amounts of funds at their
former employees, usually major financial institutions, prime
brokers including  Futoshi Ago  at Bank of America Corp. say.  
 “The Japanese hedge fund space needs an injection of new
talent and strategies other than equity long-short in order to
focus global investor attention back on the entire universe of
managers there,” said Kirby Daley, a senior strategist in Hong
Kong with Newedge Group’s prime brokerage business.  
 Among the Japan-focused funds starting this year are
Alithion Japan Fund, set up by former Mizuho Securities Co.
proprietary traders, and the Orix Commodities Fund, headed by
Orix Investment Corp.’s chief trader.  
 Maruyama’s Cayman Island-based fund has maximum capacity of
50 billion yen and is managed by MAM Pte in Singapore.  
 Hedge funds are private, largely unregulated pools of
capital whose managers can buy or sell any assets, bet on
falling as well as rising asset prices, and participate
substantially in profits from money invested.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        