-- Ex-Integrity Bank Executives Plead Guilty in Connection With Loan Fraud
-- Jef Feeley
-- 2010-07-06T22:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/ex-integrity-bank-executives-plead-guilty-in-connection-with-loan-fraud.html

          
          
             Two former executives of  Integrity
Bank , a failed bank in Atlanta, pleaded guilty to bank fraud for
helping the institution’s biggest customer use a construction
loan to buy a private island in the Bahamas.  
 Douglas Ballard , 40, and Joseph Todd Foster, 42, were
senior vice presidents at the bank, which was taken over by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in 2008, according to a U.S.
Justice Department statement issued today.  
 Alpharetta, Georgia-based Integrity was closed by state
regulators, causing a $235 million charge to the FDIC. About
one-third of those losses came from $80 million in loans to
Integrity’s largest borrower, hotel developer Guy Mitchell, 50,
of Coral Gables, Florida.  
 In May, Mitchell pleaded not guilty to fraud charges
related to the loans.  
 Aaron Danzig, a lawyer representing Ballard, and Allison
Dawson, a federal public defender representing Foster, weren’t
immediately available for comment.  
 Banks have been failing at the fastest rate since the early
1990s as defaults rose on residential and commercial real estate
loans. Since Jan. 1, 2008, 228 federally-insured banks have
failed, including 64 banks this year through April 30.  
 Foster and Ballard helped Mitchell and companies he
controlled obtain more than $80 million in business loans under
false pretenses, prosecutors say. Ballard admitted getting
$200,000 in bribes from Mitchell, United States Attorney  Sally Quillian Yates  said in a statement.  
 Foster sold his shares of Integrity stock based on his
knowledge that there was an undisclosed risk Mitchell would
default on the loans, prosecutors said.  
 Mitchell allegedly deposited almost $20 million of the
loans in a personal checking account and used part of the money
for himself, according to the statement.  
 At least $7 million of the money was borrowed to renovate a
luxury hotel Mitchell owed in Sausalito, California, Yates said.  
 Ballard faces a maximum of 10 years in prison and Foster
faces as much as 20 years.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ballard, 10-cr-00168, U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        