-- Texas Rangers Ask Court to Approve Auction for Major League Baseball Team
-- Dawn McCarty
-- 2010-07-06T18:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/texas-rangers-ask-bankruptcy-court-judge-to-set-a-july-16-auction-for-sale.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers baseball team,
which was moving ahead with a proposed sale of the club,
reversed course and agreed to put its assets on the block as
part of a bankruptcy auction.  
 The Rangers asked a judge to set a July 16 auction to
ensure the highest price for the assets, according to papers
filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Fort Worth, Texas.
The chief restructuring officer for the team’s equity owners
“would be more likely to support” its bankruptcy plan, which
is based on a sale, if there’s an auction, the Rangers said.  
 After filing for bankruptcy in May, the Rangers sought
court permission to sell the team to a group led by  Chuck Greenberg  and  Nolan Ryan  without an auction, in a transaction
the team valued at $575 million. A bankruptcy judge ruled last
month that the equity owners must support the Greenberg-Ryan
deal before it can win court approval.  
 Mark Semer , a Rangers spokesman, declined to comment on
yesterday’s filing. The chief restructuring officer,  William Snyder , also declined to comment, citing the confidentiality of
mediation.  
 A mediation session was scheduled to begin this afternoon
among several parties involved in the bankruptcy case. Snyder, a
managing partner at CRG Partners in Dallas, said the mediation
may last all week.  
 “These things rarely settle in half a day,” he said.  
 Crane Offer  
 The team’s request for an auction comes after lenders led
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. called for a competitive sale process as
part of the bankruptcy case. They said the Rangers passed on a
higher offer from Houston businessman  Jim Crane .  
 George Postolos , a spokesman for Crane, declined to comment
on whether Crane was interested in participating in the auction.  
 Under the bidding rules, which require court approval, the
Greenberg-Ryan group would act as the lead bidder if rival
bidders come forward, according to court papers. The group would
receive a $15 million breakup fee if it is outbid. Bidders must
obtain approval from Major League Baseball to participate in the
auction, according to court documents.  
 The Greenberg-Ryan group said in a statement that it agreed
to the auction to overcome efforts of lenders “to extract
additional payments by delaying the team’s exit from Chapter
11.” The group said it has financing in place for the purchase
and is ready to complete the deal.  
 “Our group was selected last December after an extensive
marketing process because we put forward the strongest bid,”
Greenberg said in the statement. “Today, nearly seven months
later, our bid is still superior and best serves the interests
of the Rangers and their lenders.”  
 Adam McGill, a spokesman for a group of lenders, declined
comment.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        