-- Textron CEO Boosts Cessna, Bell Research for Rebound
-- Rachel Layne
-- 2010-07-06T20:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/textron-pours-more-cash-into-cessna-bell-ahead-of-business-flying-rebound.html

          
          
             Textron Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Scott Donnelly  cut jobs and shrank the finance unit to steer the
maker of Cessna jets and Bell helicopters through the recession.
Now he’s preparing for recovery with new aircraft.  
 New models and upgrades to existing aircraft may come as
soon as 2012, said Donnelly, who is boosting spending on
research at Bell by about 50 percent and by a lesser,
unspecified amount at Cessna during the next two to three years.
His timeline would fit a recovery in corporate flying that
industry analysts and executives expect in 2011.  
 “The programs are there, the teams are working, so we’re
going full-speed ahead,” Donnelly, 48, said in an interview at
Textron’s headquarters in Providence, Rhode Island. “You will
see some refreshes, some block changes to some aircraft, and we
also have a couple things in there that will be brand-new
aircraft.”  
 His push to keep spending bucks a nearly two-year slump in
business aviation that exacerbated losses at Textron’s finance
unit, forcing him to cut 27 percent of the company’s total
workforce, shelve development of the eight-seat Columbus jet and
fend off speculation he’d have to sell Bell or file for
bankruptcy.  
 ‘Skating to the Puck’  
 Donnelly will display Cessna and Bell products at the
Farnborough International Air Show near London this month as he
tries to persuade investors that a turnaround is in place before
demand for business jets revives. He has shifted development
dollars from the larger Columbus to the small- and mid-sized
jets at the heart of Cessna’s lineup, where it faces new
competition from Brazil’s  Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautic SA 
and old rivals such as  Bombardier Inc.   
 “He’s demonstrating patience and discipline in being
willing to invest during the downturn,” said  Heidi Wood , an
analyst with Morgan Stanley in New York, who has an
“overweight” rating on the stock. “That’s the right approach,
because they’re skating to where the puck is headed.”  
 Research and development that isn’t paid for by the U.S.
government may increase to $450 million this year from $438
million in 2009, the company told investors in February.  
 Championing such increases is a familiar role for Donnelly,
who led corporate research during more than two decades at
General Electric Co. before coming to Textron as chief operating
officer in 2008 and taking the top job at the end of 2009.  
 Investors have responded to his strategy,  pushing the stock 
up more than fourfold from a record low of $3.75 on March 6,
2009. Textron rose 21 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $16.28 at 4:15
p.m. today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 ‘Ultimate Backstop’  
 To be sure, Donnelly faces challenges while implementing
his strategy that include repaying money borrowed during the
height of the financial crisis, plane sales that may be more
than 50 percent lower this year than in 2008 and regaining
market share Bell lost to a European rival.  
 The company had to draw down what it called its “ultimate
backstop,” $3 billion in committed credit facilities, last year
to survive. That money has to be paid back in 2012, and Donnelly
said he will still need a couple of years to get debt “back to
the place it ought to be” and pay “an appropriate level of
dividend.”  
 Donnelly said he’s alleviated last year’s “big concerns
over  liquidity”  and is ahead of schedule in winding down the
finance unit to only those pieces tied to manufacturing.  
 He expects net debt to drop below $6 billion by the end of
this year from  $7.4 billion  at the end of 2009.  
 ‘Wild Card’  
 Cessna, which Donnelly refers to as “the wild card,”
typically doesn’t see orders pick up until about eight quarters
after corporate profits recover. This cycle looks no different,
said Cessna CEO  Jack Pelton .  
 Textron expects deliveries of 225 Cessna planes this year
and 150 Bell commercial helicopters. Cessna turned over 289
aircraft to their owners in 2009, down from 476 a year earlier.
Bell commercial-helicopter shipments declined to 153 last year
from 169 in 2008.  
 “The recovery, as we see it, is following everything we
had predicted,” Pelton said. “We have felt the bottom, we’re
no longer free-falling, and we think that we will be flat this
year and that by late next year we will start to see some
growth.”  
 New Models, Retrofits  
 Analysts and executives including John Saabas, who runs
Pratt & Whitney Canada, the biggest maker of engines for small-
and medium-sized business jets, say as planemakers climb out of
the trough of 2010, they will need to entice customers with new
models and major retrofits.  
 “Everyone expects Cessna will improve profitability,”
said  Cai Von Rumohr , an analyst at Cowen & Co. who has a
“neutral” rating on Textron. “Whether it’s going to be going
to prior margin peaks is still a question.”  
 Bell and Cessna accounted for 32 percent and 27 percent,
respectively, of Textron sales last year. In 2008, Bell made up
20 percent of revenue and Cessna supplied 40 percent,
illustrating how quickly the business-jet market collapsed.
Cessna sales tumbled 41 percent to $3.32 billion as the
planemaker cut more than 8,000 jobs, or half its workforce.  
 Bell, which has steady military contracts including the V-
22 Osprey, lost  market share  in light- and medium-sized
commercial helicopters to rival  Eurocopter SAS  over the past
decade in part by betting on tilt-rotor technology for
commercial aircraft, said  Ray Jaworowski , an analyst at Newtown,
Connecticut-based Forecast International.  
 ‘What We Have’  
 Donnelly said regaining that market share is the driver
behind his boost in research funding. He views Cessna and Bell
as the core of the company and has no plans to sell either one,
or to make major moves such as exiting or entering markets.  
 “If you look at the history of this company, it’s all
around buying and selling,” Donnelly said of Textron, which was
founded as a textiles producer in 1923. “My focus is: We have
what we have. How do you run it, and how do you run it well?”  
 Donnelly will need to use his operational skills to
persuade investors to stick with Textron, said Morgan Stanley’s
Wood.  
 “There’s so much low-hanging fruit in operations, and
that’s his forte,” she said. “It’s not something they’ve been
heralded for in the past, so earning his badges from that
standpoint will earn him the right in investors’ minds to get
more expansive in the future. You can’t put the cart before the
horse.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Providence, Rhode Island, at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in Providence, Rhode Island, at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        