-- Exxon, Petrobras May Have to Shut Japan Units on New Refining Regulation
-- Yuji Okada
-- 2010-07-06T07:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/exxon-petrobras-may-have-to-shut-japan-units-on-new-refining-regulation.html

          
          
             Exxon Mobil Corp. ’s Japanese unit and
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  may have to spend billions of dollars
upgrading plants or else shut units because of new rules aimed
at boosting heavy-oil refining, analysts said.  
 The regulations require refiners to increase the proportion
of gasoline and gasoil they produce from residues, which are
cheaper than lighter crudes, Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima 
said yesterday. The move may force the nation’s fuel producers
to cut capacity by 800,000 barrels a day, or 17 percent, as they
opt to mothball plants rather than carry out costly upgrades,
said  Hidetoshi Shioda , a senior energy analyst at Mizuho
Securities Co.  
 The rules are meant to compel Japanese refiners to
modernize refineries or cut capacity in an oversupplied market
so they can compete more effectively with Asian rivals,
according to the trade ministry. About 10 percent of the
country’s capacity is dedicated to heavy oil processing,
compared with 36 percent in China and an Asian average of 19
percent, the ministry said in April.  
 Exxon’s unit, Tonengeneral Sekiyu K.K., Cosmo Oil Co. and
the Brazilian company known as Petrobras stand to lose the most
because they have low ratios of residue-refining capacity to
crude distillation, said Osamu Fujisawa a Tokyo-based oil
economist at industry consultant FE Associates.  
 “Given the bleak prospects for Japan’s fuel demand, these
refiners aren’t likely to spend large sums of money on upgrades
but will instead downsize plants,” Fujisawa said.  
 Low Ratios  
 Kosuke Kai , a spokesman for ExxonMobil Yugen Kaisha, which
holds a 50 percent stake in Tonen, said the company is reviewing
the new regulations and declined to comment further. Nelson
Toyomura, a spokesman for Petrobras unit Nansei Sekiyu, said the
company hasn’t determined what to do with its 100,000 barrel-a-
day plant on Okinawa island.  
 Cosmo Oil spokesman Katsuhisa Maeda said he’s not sure how
the company will deal with the new rules. The Tokyo-based
refiner,  21 percent owned  by the government of Abu Dhabi, has
started internal talks to decide how to make its refineries
competitive.  
 Companies whose ratio of residue refining to crude
distillation is less than 10 percent will need to increase the
proportion by 45 percent by March 2014, according to the new
rules. Nansei Sekiyu, Cosmo Oil and TonenGeneral all fall into
that category, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
refinery data compiled by the Petroleum Association of Japan.  
 Showa Shell  
 Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K.  will be the least affected among
Japanese refiners as it already has a relatively high ratio of
residue-processing capacity, said  Hirofumi Kawachi , a senior
energy analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 The company has 88,000 barrels a day residue-processing
capacity compared with 515,000 barrels a day of crude
distillation, a ratio of about 17 percent, according to the
company’s website. That proportion will climb to 22 percent when
the company makes good on plans to shut permanently a 120,000
barrel-a-day crude unit by September 2011.  
 Refiners with a ratio between 10 percent and 13 percent
need to boost the proportion by 30 percent, and those with more
than 13 percent must increase the ratio by 15 percent, the trade
minister said in its announcement on July 5.  
 Residue processing facilities such as coker units and
residue fluid catalytic crackers that can produce gasoline and
gasoil components from fuel oil cost around 100 billion yen
($1.1 billion) to build, making them too costly to be viable in
a market where fuel demand is declining, said  Yuji Nishiyama , an
analyst at Credit Suisse in Tokyo.  
 Japan’s domestic demand for fuels is likely to decline at a
rate of 3.5 percent a year through March 2015 because of a
shrinking population and a shift to energy conservation,
according to the trade ministry.  
 “The refiners may have to make more cuts if local demand
falls faster and steeper in the next decade,” said Shioda of
Mizuho Securities in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        