-- Fairfield Residential Wins Bankruptcy Court Approval for Reorganization
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-06T17:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/fairfield-residential-wins-bankruptcy-court-approval-for-reorganization.html

          
          
             Fairfield Residential LLC, the
California-based owner and developer of 200 apartment projects,
won court permission to restructure $3 billion in loan
guarantees and exit bankruptcy.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Brendan Linehan Shannon  in
Wilmington, Delaware, said today in a hearing that he would sign
an order approving Fairfield’s reorganization plan. The company
should exit bankruptcy Aug. 1, its attorney Richard A. Chesley
said in court.  
 Fairfield’s reorganization was delayed after two investors
agreed to drop plans to invest in the company, according to
court records. Those investors were replaced by Brookfield Asset
Management Inc.  
 “Although we have arrived a little bit late, we have
reached a consensual reorganization,”  Melissa A. Hager , an
attorney for unsecured creditors, said in court today.  
 Under the plan, unsecured creditors will be repaid about
9 percent of the $717.8 million they are owed, according to
court documents. About $6 billion in loans used to build
apartments in the 40 U.S. markets where Fairfield operates won’t
be affected by the reorganization, Chesley, of the law firm
Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker, said in an interview.  
 Fairfield, based in San Diego, filed bankruptcy in
December, listing assets of $958 million and debt of $835
million. The company was forced into bankruptcy by $3 billion of
guarantees it made on individual apartment projects, it said in
court papers.  
 Tight Credit  
 The guarantees made it difficult for the company to
refinance its debt after credit markets tightened in 2008.  
 At least $1.5 billion of the guarantees was related to
defaults on loans the company took from Capmark Finance Inc. and
Wachovia Bank NA, Fairfield restructuring adviser  Andrew Hinkelman  said in court papers. Hinkelman became chief
restructuring officer last year when Fairfield hired FTI
Consulting Inc., where he is a senior managing director.  
 Capmark will be fully repaid the $79.5 million it is owed,
according to court documents.  
 The case is In re Fairfield Residential LLC, 09-14378, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        