-- Fed's Lacker, Fisher Differ Over U.S. Consumption Strength, Nikkei Reports
-- Russell Ward
-- 2010-07-06T02:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/fed-s-lacker-fisher-differ-over-u-s-consumption-strength-nikkei-reports.html

          
          
             Two Federal Reserve policy makers
differed on the strength of the U.S. consumer in Nikkei
newspaper interviews, amid evidence that the recovery in the
world’s largest economy is slowing.  
 Jeffrey Lacker , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond, said consumer spending is “moderately strong” and
along with business investment will help sustain the recovery,
the Japanese newspaper quoted him as saying.  Richard Fisher ,
president of the Dallas Fed, cited “cautious” households as a
reason for a growth to cool in the second half.  
 The remarks reflect debate on the durability of the economy
after reports last week showed private-sector payrolls rose less
than forecast in June, consumer confidence slumped and
manufacturing growth slowed. Fed officials last month retained a
pledge to keep record-low  interest rates  for an “extended
period” and signaled Europe’s debt crisis may harm growth.  
 Lacker said he was comfortable with the current level of
interest rates, according to Nikkei. Later this year it will be
a “legitimate question” whether to drop the ‘extended period’
language and “think about raising rates,” the newspaper
reported him as saying.  
 Fisher said any tightening of monetary policy “depends on
the course of the economy,” according to the report. He said on
June 4 that while it’s not time for central bankers to tighten
policy, they may be “getting closer” as the economy further
expands this year.  
 Neither Fisher nor Lacker vote on rate decisions this year.
The newspaper didn’t say when the interviews took place.  
 Consumer Spending  
 Fisher said consumer spending lacks strength because of
high unemployment, declining home values and concern about
financial markets, the newspaper reported. Banks and companies
are hoarding cash partly due to “too much uncertainty,” the
Nikkei quoted him as saying.  
 The Dallas Fed chief estimated growth of 2 percent to 3
percent in the second half of 2010, and probably “closer to the
low end of that range,” according to the report. The world’s
biggest economy expanded at an annual 2.7 percent pace in the
first quarter.  
 Lacker told the newspaper that even after household wealth
eroded to 2003-2004 levels, consumer spending is “expanding at
a reasonable pace” amid increased job security. Corporate
investment on equipment and software is growing at a “healthy
pace,” he added.  
 The recent housing slump is attributable to the expiration
of tax credits and the market “broadly speaking, is relatively
stable at a low level,” Lacker said, according to the report.
Pending  sales  of previously owned houses plunged 30 percent in
May, figures showed last week.  
 Housing will be “choppy, but flat for this year and into
next year,” the Nikkei quoted Lacker as saying. “So I don’t
think housing will contribute much to growth, but I don’t think
it will subtract much from growth either.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Russell Ward  in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Cecchini, chief strategist at BGC Financial LP, talks about the U.S. economy and consumer credit.
     Cecchini speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
