-- Fighting Sea of Manure From Factory Farms, Woman Makes Enemies
-- Mike Di Paola
-- 2010-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/fighting-sea-of-manure-from-factory-farms-woman-makes-enemies.html

          
          
             Harassment in Clayton, Michigan, is a
dead animal tossed on your front porch, a mini-bomb in your
mailbox or buckshot fired through a bedroom window.  
 For Lynn Henning, recent winner of the  Goldman
Environmental Prize , that’s the price of advocacy.  
 “We’ve brought some pretty bad stuff out to the
heartland,” says Henning, 52, whose home is about 45 miles
southwest of Ann Arbor.  
 For the past decade she has been fighting pollutants that
spew from factory farms in her area known as “concentrated
animal feeding operations,” or CAFOs.  
 CAFOs surround the Hennings’ own farm. Most of the animals
involved are cows -- hundreds, thousands in some cases. They’re
crammed into milking assembly lines and rarely see the light of
day.  
 Aside from animal-welfare issues, the problem is waste. A
single cow produces the same amount of waste as 23 humans, so
thousands of cows in a concentrated area is like a small city,
but with no sewage-treatment plant.  
 “There are 12 CAFOs within a 10-mile radius of us,”
Henning says. “There are more than 60 lagoons, with over 400
million gallons of waste.” The lagoons are open pits where the
waste sits and ferments before it is sprayed over the fields.  
 In 2000, Henning co-founded  Environmentally Concerned
Citizens of South Central  Michigan to fight the expansion of
these facilities in the state, and later became the Sierra
Club’s water sentinel for the area. She reckons she has driven
more than a million miles on back roads, testing water and
taking photographs, mostly of foul water being piped into cricks
(as creeks are known around here), sprayed over fields or just
sitting in open fields, rife with pollutants.  
 Permit Denied  
 Henning’s tenacity has paid off. In 2008, Michigan denied a
would-be CAFO a permit, in part because of water-quality data
Henning made public. Other CAFOs have had to pay tens of
thousands of dollars in fines for violations, due to both
Henning and lawsuits launched by the Sierra Club.  
 One rainy day, we drive over muddy roads that run between
the enormous milk factories not far from her farm. These
facilities are relatively new and so look clean from a distance,
yet something in the air tells me things aren’t right. As
someone who grew up near a small dairy farm, I find the sweet
aroma of manure nostalgically pleasant. The acrid, noxious smell
here is more reminiscent of industrial New Jersey.  
 “It’s not so bad today,” Henning says. “The rain is
keeping it down.”  
 Not Just Manure  
 We stop at a small stream and she jumps out, pulling on a
pair of blue surgical gloves to protect herself from the “blood
worms and hepatitis” that could be lurking in water. She takes
a reading of the oxygen level and records the datum, her mane of
silver hair now dripping wet from the rain.  
 The problem isn’t just the waste. The tons of manure and
urine are mixed with chemical solvents and sluiced into the open
lagoons, along with all the other horrors attendant to large
mammals in tight quarters: antibiotics, blood, hormones,
pesticides, spoiled milk, even decaying body parts. The
inevitable smell comes with an eye-burning mix of methane,
hydrogen sulfide and ammonia.  
 Then it gets bad. The vile effluent has to go somewhere, or
the lagoons would be quickly overwhelmed. Since it is not
technically hazardous waste, the stuff is simply sprayed
directly onto the fields.  
 “This,” Henning says with measured disgust, “is the land
that produces our food.”  
 Poisoned In-Laws  
 The health threats are more than theoretical. Her in-laws,
both in their 80s and also farmers, were diagnosed with
hydrogen-sulfide poisoning in 2003. Last year, her husband,
Dean, 55, had a heart attack in the fields, which he is certain
was a direct result of the noxious vapors that pervade the
landscape.  
 “This is not emotional rhetoric,” Henning says. “This is
fact.”  
 The Goldman award netted Henning $150,000, which she says
will go to the Sierra Club and the local group she founded. She
also plans to buy supplies to get other water monitors set up
around the U.S., and we’re going to need them: an estimated 500
million tons of manure are discharged from mega farms every
year, and it inevitably ends up in the water.  
 As for the harassment, Henning shrugs it off. When you go
all  Erin Brockovich  on an industry, feelings will be hurt.
Henning admits she was taken aback when her own pastor advised
her to stop making waves or consider leaving the church. She
chose the latter, something we can all be grateful for.  
 ( Mike Di Paola  writes about preservation and the
environment for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lynn Henning at her home in Clayton, Michigan. "We've brought some pretty bad stuff out to the  heartland," says Henning. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lynn Henning near Clayton, Michigan. Henning estimates she has driven over a million miles on the rural back roads in central Michigan to monitor the water. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A factory farm outside Clayton, Michigan. Mega-farms generate an estimated 500 million tons of manure per year in the U.S. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A creek on a family farm in Clayton, Michigan.  The 12 factory farms in the area spew hundreds of millions of gallons of waste, much of which ends up in the water. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Dean and Lynn Henning at home in Clayton, Michigan. Dean Henning, 55, believes his heart attack last year was related to the noxious fumes emitted from local factory farms. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
