-- Florida's State-Run Insurer Warns 213,000 Clients of Mail-Forwarding Scam
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-07-06T18:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/florida-s-state-run-insurer-warns-213-000-clients-of-mail-forwarding-scam.html

          
          
             Florida’s  government-owned provider
of residential insurance warned clients that their premium
checks may have been stolen after an unidentified person had the
company’s mail forwarded to an apartment.  
 As many as 213,000 customers who may have sent checks from
June 14 to June 28 will be asked to contact the insurer to see
if payments were received, said Christine Turner Ashburn, a
spokeswoman for Citizens Property Insurance Corp. Because
Citizens takes checks at multiple addresses, it is unclear how
many were lost, she said. The U.S. Postal Service said a mail
carrier didn’t notice an increase in deliveries to the apartment
between the change of address request June 24 and when Citizens
canceled it June 29.  
 “We cannot absolutely be sure that nothing slipped
through,” postal service spokesman  Joseph Breckenridge  said
today in a phone interview.  
 Citizens will spend $97,000 on a direct-mail campaign to
potential victims, and will credit customers for payment if
their checks were cashed in the scam, Ashburn said. The company
will reimburse fees that banks charge to stop payments on
checks, according to the insurer’s  website .  
 “We’re obviously not going to make the consumer pay
twice” Ashburn said. “We don’t have any choice but to err on
the side of the consumer.”  
 Ashburn said the insurer is unsure how many customers may
have had their checks cashed illegally. Someone filed change-of-
address forms to the Post Office for both Citizens’ corporate
headquarters and for a P.O. box it uses, in each case asking
letters be forwarded to an apartment in Hialeah, she said. The
second request wasn’t processed, she said.  
 The insurer is working with criminal investigators, she
said. The mail-forwarding scheme was previously reported by
Florida newspapers including the St. Petersburg Times and Miami
Herald.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at   sfrier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        