-- Former Sibir Chief Cameron Is Fined $528,535 Over Tchigirinski Payments
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-06T11:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/former-sibir-chief-cameron-is-fined-528-535-over-tchigirinski-payments.html

          
          
             The U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority fined  Sibir Energy Plc ’s former Chief Executive
Officer  Henry Cameron  350,000 pounds ($528,535) for failing to
disclose the company made cash payments to a shareholder.  
 Cameron was fined after the agency found he made misleading
statements about the payments, the FSA said in an e-mailed
 statement  today.  
 “As the most senior executive director at Sibir, Cameron
should have known these announcements were misleading and the
serious impact they were likely to have on the market,” FSA
enforcement director  Margaret Cole  said in the statement. “The
consequences of his market abuse were so serious that it led to
the suspension of trading in Sibir’s shares.”  
 Sibir, a London-based oil company, halted trading in
February 2009 after opening an investigation into shareholders,
including Russian billionaire  Chalva Tchigirinski , over as much
as $400 million that it said was missing from the company. Sibir
suspended Cameron as CEO that month and began court proceedings
against him and Tchigirinski.  
 Sibir said it paid Tchigirinski $115.4 million for real
estate advances, when in reality the company had paid more than
$300 million and received no written agreement as to what the
money was for, the FSA said. Cameron made the payments to retain
Tchigirinski’s support at the company and prevent him from
selling off his shares because of his own financial problems,
according to the regulator.  
 ‘Matter of Pragmatism’  
 Cameron didn’t admit guilt in the settlement and agreed to
it because it cost too much to defend himself, he said in an e-
mailed statement. By cooperating with the probe, he qualified
for a 30 percent discount on his fine, the FSA said  
 “If I had continued the total legal costs would have been
many times in excess of the agreement I have reached,” Cameron
said. “Reaching this decision was entirely a matter of
pragmatism. I do not admit to market abuse and still maintain
that the market was fully apprised of all the necessary
information.”  
 Sibir fired Cameron in April last year and sued both him
and Tchigirinski in a London court to recover the missing funds.  
 All of Sibir’s claims against Tchigirinski have been
resolved, Cameron said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        