-- Four Beaten-Down Stocks Likely to Reach New Highs: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-07-06T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/four-beaten-down-stocks-likely-to-reach-new-highs-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             The deafening hiss we’ve been hearing
for the past five weeks was the air going out of the U.S. stock
market at the end of the second quarter.  
 For those who still have the nerve to buy equities, I
present my quarterly Casualty List -- a roster of stocks that
have been banged up severely and that I think can recover and go
on to new heights.  
 Microsoft Corp. , which I never thought I would see on this
list, exemplifies the latest batch of casualties. Many of them
are well-known companies with solid balance sheets and long
histories of profitability.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , a decent gauge of the
overall U.S. stock market, lost 11.4 percent for the last three
months, even after taking dividends into account.  
 To me, things seem less grim than many investors think. The
European debt crisis of 2010 -- and probably 2011 -- may pass
without lasting damage, as did the Asian currency crisis of
1997-1998. That, too, provoked fears of a worldwide financial
meltdown. The Gulf of Mexico oil spill is a tragedy for
wildlife, shrimpers, fishermen and tourism. Yet its economic
impact will be diluted with time.  
 Investors seem to forget that in the past 70 years we have
gone through World War II, a cold war with the Soviet Union,
radioactive fallout from nuclear testing, the Vietnam War, the
2001 terrorist attack, the AIDS crisis and numerous recessions.  
 Overcoming Obstacles  
 And yet for the 70 years from 1940 through 2009, the U.S.
stock market has provided a compound annual return of 10.8
percent. We have always had problems, and always will -- yet
enterprise, innovation and economic progress somehow continue.  
 Investors are fixated on whether we are about to have a
double-dip recession. Double-dips are rare creatures, and not
the most likely outcome in my view. If you see stocks such as
Microsoft and  EBay Inc.  on the bargain counter, the wise thing
in my opinion is to buy.  
 Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, fell 21 percent
last quarter. You can now pick up the shares for 12 times
earnings. Over the past 10 years,  Microsoft  has sold for an
average of about 23 times earnings.  
 Enviable Performance  
 The hot fires that stoked Microsoft’s earnings growth in
the mid-1990s have abated. Back then, the company had five
straight years in which earnings rose 20 percent or more. There
is still some heat left. In the first quarter Microsoft earned
$4 billion on sales of $14.5 billion. Its return on
stockholders’ equity was 42 percent, an envy-inspiring level of
profitability.  
 Analysts think Microsoft’s  earnings  increased by about 27
percent in the fiscal year that ended June 30. They foresee more
modest growth in the fiscal year that started last week.
However, I think there is room for positive surprises, as
Microsoft benefits from demand for its latest operating system
upgrade, Windows 7.  
 EBay , the online auction firm located in San Jose,
California, is trading for less than $20, down from about $27
three months ago. In recent years, it has lost market share to
Amazon.com in online retailing, but still is growing strongly.  
 The company has become the leading retailer in mobile
commerce, in which people order merchandise using Blackberry,
iPhone, Droid or similar smartphones, Colin Gillis, a New York-
based analyst at BGC Partners LP told Bloomberg News last week.  
 EBay Sets Records  
 EBay’s 2009 revenue of $8.7 billion and earnings of almost
$2.4 billion were both records. Sales and earnings were more
than double their 2004 levels, when the shares traded at more
than $50. The company is debt-free and the stock sells for 13
times earnings.  
 General Dynamics Corp. , down 23 percent in total return for
the quarter, has been slammed as more people become convinced
that defense spending will have to be sliced as Congress tries
to address the large federal deficit. The Falls Church,
Virginia, military contractor makes planes, ships, weapons and
information systems.  
 I agree that General Dynamics faces a difficult
environment, but that is why its stock sells for less than 10
times earnings. The company increased its earnings in eight of
the past 10 years; last year they were unchanged at $6.17 a
share, a record.  
 Investors also punished  American Eagle Outfitters Inc.  in
the last quarter. The clothing retailer for teenagers and young
adults declined 36 percent, including dividends.  
 The stock faltered after American Eagle forecast second-
quarter earnings below analysts’ expectations. Yet I would put
some faith in the Pittsburgh-based company’s long-term record,
including positive earnings for 14 consecutive years.  
 I also like its  international expansion  push. Working with
foreign partners, it opened stores this year in Dubai, Kuwait
and Israel. It plans to enter mainland China and Hong Kong in
2011.  
 Disclosure note: I own shares of General Dynamics
personally and for clients. I have no long or short positions in
the other stocks discussed in this week’s column.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- John Dorfman, chairman of Thunderstorm Capital and a columnist for Bloomberg News, discusses the U.S. economy and the outlook for the stocks of Microsoft Corp., EBay Inc., American Eagle Outfitters Inc. and General Dynamics Corp.
     Dorfman speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
