-- General Motors Predicts 68% Jump in Brazil Sales
-- Laura Price
-- 2010-07-06T15:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/general-motors-predicts-68-jump-in-brazil-sales-on-luxury-demand-economy.html

          
          
             General Motors Co . expects sales in
Brazil to grow by 68 percent to 1 million vehicles by 2014 as
growth in Latin America’s largest economy stokes demand for
fancier cars, said the automaker’s South America chief.  
 “Brazilians are getting richer and the currency is
stronger,”  Jaime Ardila , head of  GM South America , said in an
interview. The country will make a “significant contribution to
the company’s profits” in the next few years, he said.  
 GM predicts that sales of  Chevrolets  in Brazil will rise to
650,000 vehicles this year from almost  600,000 in 2009 , and then
surge to the 1 million mark in 2014, Ardila said. The Detroit-
based automaker plans to increase deliveries “in line with the
market or a little bit ahead” as total Brazilian car sales
advance to 4 million in 2014, he said.  
 GM is investing more than 5 billion reais ($2.8 billion) in
Brazil through 2012 as a burgeoning middle class, a strong
currency and more jobs spur demand for cars, Ardila said. The
country’s gross domestic product will rise 7.2 percent this
year, according to a central bank survey published yesterday.  
 “South America is perhaps one of the most important assets
and best returns on investment that GM has,” Ardila said in the
July 2 interview in Paris, where he was attending an Economist
conference. GM is focusing the investment on product development
and spending 1.4 billion reais on two plants in the state of
Sao Paulo to increase production.  
 Sales of GM’s luxury brands, such as the  Omega ,  Malibu  and
 Captiva , have grown “tremendously” in Brazil in the past few
years to more than 20,000 vehicles, Ardila said. The automaker
sees “growing prospects” for premium cars, he said.  
 Volkswagen, Fiat  
 GM, the third-biggest automaker in Brazil after  Volkswagen
AG  and  Fiat SpA , boosted market share to 21.1 percent in May
from 20.8 percent a year earlier, according to the National
Vehicle Manufacturer’s Association in Sao Paulo. Volkswagen’s
share fell to 25.4 percent from 26.2 percent and Fiat’s declined
to 23.9 percent from 26 percent.  
 Volkswagen, based in Wolfsburg, Germany, is investing
6.2 billion reais in Brazil through 2014 and expects sales to
increase as much as 8 percent this year,  Thomas Schmall , head of
the local unit, said in November.  
 Brazil accounts for 10 percent of GM’s global sales volume
and the carmaker has made a profit in the country for five
years, Ardila said. Rising income and favorable loan conditions
are helping GM accelerate growth from about 9 percent currently.  
 Lending Policies  
 Average auto loan maturities in Brazil have risen to
45 months from 31 months five years ago and interest rates
have dropped to about 31 percent from 36 percent, he said.
The country has 110 million people with the potential to buy
a new or used vehicle, he said.  
 The executive, 54, first joined GM in 1984 and rejoined the
company in 1998 after a stint at Rothschild Bank AG. He became
leader of GM South America earlier this month after serving as
president and general manager of the division’s predecessor.
Under the new arrangement, the South America group has more
power, including representation on GM’s executive committee.  
 The automaker is investing $1 billion through 2012 on the
continent, excluding Brazil, and sees particular promise in
Colombia and Argentina, he said. GM is financing South American
investment with  cash  as well as loans from Brazil’s state
development bank, known as BNDES, Ardila said.  
 “Cash flow generation in the region is strong,” he said.
“We continue to use BNDES as a very strong partner.”  
 Steel Price Concern  
 Ardila said GM is “very worried” about the effect an
increase in steel prices is having on the automaker’s costs.
 Vale SA  and  BHP Billiton Ltd . won iron-ore price gains in April
in contract negotiations with customers as stimulus spending in
China drove use of the steelmaking material.  
 “Steel prices have increased by an average of 30 percent
this year,” he said. “Obviously that is a huge concern because
it adds to other costs that are putting pressure on the
industry.”  
 Brazil, Russia, India and China, the so-called BRIC
countries, represent the fastest growth prospect for GM and will
make up about 25 percent of the company’s auto sales this year,
Ardila said. In China, the carmaker aims to increase sales to
2 million units this year from 1.83 million in 2009, putting the
Asian nation close to the U.S. by that measure. First-half sales
in China surpassed those in the U.S. for the first time.  
 Fast-Growing Economies  
 “The fastest-growing markets for GM globally will continue
to be Brazil and China over the next five years,” said Ardila.
“We’ll probably grow very fast in India as well because India
is only starting to grow. We don’t have in India the kind of
presence we have in Brazil, so the potential there is huge.”  
 The automaker is preparing for an initial public offering
in the U.S. as soon as the fourth quarter and may sell a 20
percent stake, two people familiar with the plan said last
month. GM isn’t considering a separate IPO in Brazil or the
region, Ardila said.  
 “During the restructuring in 2008 and 2009, we had
tremendous interest from a lot of parties into a potential IPO
for South America,” he said. “But frankly for us, South
America is too strategic an asset.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       GM Predicts 68% Boost in Brazil Sales on Luxury Demand  
                       
                         
                           General Motors Co. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jaime Ardila, president of General Motors South America. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jaime Ardila, president of General Motors South America. Source: General Motors Co. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An employee on the General Motors Brazil production line assembles a vehicle in Sao Caetano do Sul, Brazil. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
