-- Germany's Klose Nears Ronaldo Goal Record, Prefers Winning World Cup Title
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-07-06T22:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/germany-s-klose-nears-ronaldo-goal-record-prefers-winning-world-cup-title.html

          
          
             Germany’s chances of an unprecedented
eighth World Cup final appearance may hinge on a striker who’s
scored more times in South Africa than in the domestic league
last season.  
 Miroslav Klose , 32, is two goals short of breaking the all-
time tournament scoring record going into tonight’s semifinal
with Spain. He had an injury-interrupted campaign for Bayern
Munich, where he had just three league goals and made  20 of his
38  appearances in all competitions from the substitutes’ bench.  
 His four goals in South Africa have lifted his tally over
three editions to 14, one behind the record of 15 held by former
World Player of the Year  Ronaldo . Although Klose gets an
opportunity to overtake the Brazilian today, he has other
priorities, former players said.  
 “Klose isn’t playing just to break Ronaldo’s record,”
 George Weah , the 1995 World Player of the Year, said in an
interview. “He loves to score. He plays like a winner and has
the desire to score. He plays for the good of the team.”  
 Polish-born Klose, who moved to Germany when he was 8
years old, scored five goals at the 2002 and 2006 World Cups to
help the three-time champion reach at least the semifinals. He
was substituted after 74 minutes of the 2002 final, when Ronaldo
scored twice to lead Brazil to its fifth title.  
 “I spoke with Ronaldo after that,” Klose told reporters
three days ago in Johannesburg. “At the time I would not have
dreamed of ever coming this close to him, needing two goals to
surpass him. I hope he’s not too worried.”  
 Using His Head  
 All 14 of Klose’s goals on soccer’s biggest stage have come
from inside the penalty area, and half have come with headers.  
 Klose’s first goal in South Africa came after he out-jumped
Australia goalkeeper  Mark Schwarzer  to head into the net from
near the penalty spot in Germany’s 4-0 win on June 13.  
 After holding off England defender  Matthew Upson  to get his
team’s first goal in the 4-1 victory in the round of 16, Klose’s
51st and 52nd international goals came in his 100th appearance
in the 4-0 rout of Argentina in the quarterfinals.  
 “He truly is impressive,” Germany coach  Joachim Loew  said
after that match. “He scores more than once every two matches
and those statistics don’t need any more comment. He is always
able to put in a top quality performance.”  
 Germany may be more reliant on Klose for goals against
European champion Spain because midfielder Thomas Mueller, who’s
scored four times in five games, is suspended after getting his
second yellow card against Argentina.  
 Klose and Mueller are among five players tied on four goals
at the tournament. One ahead atop the  goal-scoring list  are
 Wesley Sneijder  of the Netherlands and  David Villa , a Spaniard 
who’s closing on some history of his own.  
 Villa’s Streak  
 Villa, who has five goals in South Africa, has scored in
four straight games, becoming the first player since Ronaldo and
fellow Brazilian  Rivaldo  in 2002 to do so in the World Cup. The
record of scoring in six straight games is shared by France’s
 Just Fontaine  and Brazil’s  Jairzinho .  
 Villa has “been the key for Spain,” national teammate
 Fernando Torres  said after the Spaniards’ 1-0 quarterfinal win
over Paraguay. “He’s giving us the opportunity to look forward
and thinking we can win the World Cup.”  
 Today’s game in Durban will be a rematch of the 2008
European Championship final, which Spain won 1-0 on a Torres
goal to claim its first major trophy since 1964. Its best World
Cup performance was fourth place 60 years ago.  
 With Germany seeking its fourth world championship and
first since 1990, Klose said he’ll happily trade individual
records for squad success.  
 “It’s thanks to the team that I have scored so many
goals,” Klose said after his double against Argentina. “I’d
rather become a World Cup champion than overtake Ronaldo.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Durban through the Johannesburg newsroom
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Miroslav Klose of Germany speaks to the media in the media center at the Velmore Grand Hotel in Pretoria, South Africa. Photographer: Joern Pollex/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Rachel Brookes reports from Durban, South Africa, which plays host to today's second semifinal clash in the soccer World Cup between Germany and Spain.
     Brookes also speaks with Durban's Mayor Obed Mlaba about the economic impact of hosting the tournament. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
