-- Gillard Plans New Asylum-Seeker Policy Before Calling Australian Election
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-07-06T05:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/gillard-plans-new-asylum-seeker-policy-before-calling-australian-election.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said her government would introduce policies to
strengthen border protection and “wreck” the people smuggling
trade, key issues in this year’s election.  
 “We believe building a sustainable regional protection is
the most effective way to address irregular migration,” she
said in a speech to the Lowy Institute in Sydney today. “The
purpose would be to ensure that people smugglers have no product
to sell.”  
 The speech came less than two weeks after Gillard ousted
former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , whose border protection
policies were blamed for an influx in asylum seekers. About
3,532 arrived on 75 boats so far this year, Immigration
Department figures show, compared with 2,726 on 60 boats in 2009.  
 Gillard has spoken to United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees  Antonio Guterres  about establishing a regional center
to process asylum seekers. She lifted a ban on processing asylum
claims from Sri Lanka while maintaining a similar ban on people
from Afghanistan.  
 Gillard said she has talked with East Timor President  Jose Ramos-Horta  and New Zealand Prime Minister  John Key  about the
regional center. Australia will buy eight new patrol boats for
border surveillance and her Labor government will toughen
penalties for people smugglers if it wins this year’s election,
she said.  
 Poll Lead  
 Gillard last week cut a planned tax on resources profits,
ending a three-month dispute with companies such as  BHP Billiton
Ltd . and Rio Tinto Group, an issue that gave  Tony Abbott ’s
opposition Liberal-National coalition an election-winning lead
in opinion polls.  
 In her first two days in office, Gillard restored Labor’s
advantage in opinion polls, with a Nielsen survey published in
the Age newspaper on June 26 and a Galaxy poll in the Herald Sun
newspaper the same day showing the government now having an
election-winning lead.  
 Abbott has pledged to re-establish processing centers
offshore for asylum claims, refuse claims from those who discard
their identification and turn back refugee boats if his
coalition wins the election.  
 Australia will  accept  13,750 refugees and people who
qualify under special humanitarian rules in the 12 months ending
June 30, 2010, up from 13,507 in the previous year. The nation
accepted just 0.6 percent of the world’s asylum seekers, Gillard
said.  
 ‘Pacific Solution’  
 Rudd, who won office in November 2007, moved to dismantle
former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s “Pacific Solution” policy
of detaining refugees in island camps in third countries and
pledged to speed up the assessment of asylum claims. In 2008,
the government closed detention centers on Nauru and Manus, a
province of Papua New Guinea.  
 “The prime minister and Mr. Abbott are backing a return to
Howard’s Australia,” Greens Senator Sarah Hanson-Young said in
an interview from Adelaide. “We have a brand new Pacific
Solution that relies on a poor country like East Timor to carry
our humanitarian load.”  
 As of July 1, there were 2,573 people in detention on
Christmas Island, an Australian territory more than 800
kilometers (497 miles) off the northwestern coast.  
 About 1,503 people, who arrived by boat were transferred to
mainland detention centers in Sydney, Darwin, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth and regional centers in Curtin and Leonora in
Western Australia and Port Augusta in South Australia state.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks at the Lowy Institute for International Policy, in Sydney. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaking at the Lowy Institute for International Policy, in Sydney. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
