-- Glucosamine Shows No Benefit for Back Pain Patients in Study
-- Iona Craig
-- 2010-07-06T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/glucosamine-has-no-benefit-for-sufferers-of-chronic-back-pain-study-says.html

          
          
             Taking the nutritional supplement
glucosamine provided no significant benefit to arthritis
patients with chronic lower back pain, according to the first
large, long-term study of its kind.  
 In the trial, conducted at  Oslo University Hospital  in
Norway, 125 patients took 1,500 milligrams of glucosamine and
125 took placebo pills daily for six months. The researchers
found no significant differences and no reduction in pain-
related disability between the two groups during the study and
after one year, according to the results, to be published
tomorrow in the  Journal of the American Medical Association .  
 Lower back pain is the second-most common concern expressed
by patients to their primary-care doctors, the study’s authors
said. More than 25 percent of people with chronic lower back
pain have tried glucosamine, a substance found naturally in
shells and bones, seeking to gain relief, according to a  2009
report  on complementary and alternative medicine by the U.S.
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.  
 “The evidence suggests the best therapy is exercise,
physical therapy, manipulation and cognitive therapy combined,”
said Philip Wilkens, the lead researcher and a chiropractor at
Oslo University Hospital, in an e-mail.  
 Previous studies relating to glucosamine and pain have had
mixed results. A  1980 trial  of 80 patients found glucosamine to
be twice as effective as placebo over 30 days for osteoarthritis
patients, without looking specifically at lower back pain. A
 1999 study  of 34 men with degenerative joint disease of the knee
or lower back showed no effects on the condition over 16 weeks,
though it did relieve some symptoms. A 2008 trial found the
supplement failed to help patients with hip arthritis.  
 ‘Not Discouraging’   
 The negative findings of the Oslo study were
“disappointing but should not be discouraging” to researchers
seeking an effective therapy, said Andrew L. Avins, a scientist
at the  Kaiser Permanente  Division of Research in Oakland,
California. The trial provided “no incentive for clinicians to
recommend glucosamine for patients with chronic lower back
pain,” Avins wrote in an editorial published in JAMA.  
 Participants in the study were recruited between December
2006 and July 2008 in Oslo and Bergen, Norway. The 250 people
included in the one-year trial had lower back pain for at least
six months and degenerative lumbar osteoarthritis, were older
than 25 and scored at least three out of 24 points on the  Roland
Morris Disability Questionnaire.   
 The research, which was funded by the Norwegian Low Back
Pain Association, Norwegian Chiropractic Association and
Wilhelmsens Research Fund, used glucosamine and placebo
purchased from  Pharma Nord, a closely held Danish company.    
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Iona Craig  in London  icraig2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        