-- Goldman Sees Rupee Decline as ING Avoids Won After Most-Accurate Forecasts
-- Lilian Karunungan
-- 2010-07-07T02:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/goldman-sees-rupee-decline-as-ing-avoids-won-after-most-accurate-forecasts.html

          
          
             The most-accurate forecasters of
Asian currencies say it’s time to avoid the South Korean won and
the Indian rupee as the global economic recovery falters.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , which correctly predicted the
Malaysian ringgit’s gain this year, has stopped recommending the
region’s currencies and says the rupee will drop 2 percent this
quarter. ING Groep NV, which had the closest forecasts for the
weakening won and Taiwan dollar, is among the most bearish for
their second-half performance.  
 Strategists got it wrong at the start of the year when the
consensus in Bloomberg surveys was that the won would appreciate
the most in Asia and the ringgit would be the region’s weakest
currency. Instead, South Korea’s currency dropped 5 percent and
Malaysia’s climbed 7 percent. Now, Invesco Ltd. and Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd., which together manage $482 billion, are
avoiding the region’s higher-yielding assets as Europe’s debt
crisis spreads.  
 “Episodes of risk aversion will see the won and rupee
underperform and give strong support to the dollar,”  Tim Condon ,
chief Asia economist in Singapore for ING, the biggest Dutch
financial services company, said in an interview yesterday.
“They may appreciate as markets calm down, but the path won’t
be smooth.”  
 China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on July 3 that the effects
of the global financial turmoil are more severe than expected,
after a Federation of Logistics & Purchasing report showed
manufacturing growth slowed for a second month in June. Markit
Economics reported on July 5 that expansion in Europe’s services
and manufacturing industries also weakened for a second month.  
 Contagion Effect  
 The won slumped 8 percent in the past three months to
1,222.3 per dollar, the worst performer in Asia, while the
Indian rupee declined 5 percent to 46.905. Financial-market
“stresses” may damp global economic activity in the second
half, the International Monetary Fund said on June 16, before
releasing forecasts this month. In April, the IMF projected
Asia’s 8.7 percent expansion this year would lead 4.2 percent
growth worldwide.  
 China’s property market is beginning a “collapse” that
will hit the nation’s banking system,  Kenneth Rogoff , the
Harvard University professor and former chief economist of the
International Monetary Fund, said in an interview in Hong Kong
yesterday. He said the global economic recovery is “very
slow.”  
 “Europe’s debt crisis has some contagion effect on Asian
currencies,” said  Paul Chan , Hong Kong-based chief investment
officer at Invesco, which oversees $430 billion globally. “It
was a trigger for outflows of hot money.”  
 Downgrading Forecasts  
 The won is the most exposed to changes in investor appetite
for riskier assets. Its correlation in the past year to the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a measure of
U.S. share-price swings, was Asia’s highest at 0.75, followed by
the rupee’s at 0.66. A reading of 1 suggests movement in
lockstep. The ringgit’s relationship was the lowest at minus
0.02. The won’s one-month implied volatility, used to calculate
foreign-exchange options, is the highest among Asian currencies
at 17 percent.  
 ING says the won will rise 6 percent in the rest of 2010 to
1,150, more bearish than the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 19 economists for an 11 percent gain. There’s a risk
it may end at 1,200, an increase of less than 2 percent, Condon
said. The company predicts the ringgit will decline to 3.27 from
3.23 this quarter and the rupee to 46.50 from 46.46.  
 Spending Power  
 Standard Chartered Plc, which had the same won forecast as
ING at the start of 2010, is more bullish, predicting the
currency will rally 11 percent to 1,100 as the yuan’s
appreciation makes Korean exports more affordable for Chinese
consumers. China’s currency has gained 0.7 percent since the
central bank ended a two-year dollar peg on June 19.  
 “Robust regional growth should in particular favor
countries like Malaysia and Korea that are closely integrated to
the broader region,”  Michael Hasenstab , who oversees the $34
billion Templeton Global Bond Fund in San Mateo, California,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The yuan still
remains undervalued.”  
 Michael Buchanan , chief Asia-Pacific economist at Goldman
Sachs in Hong Kong, advises against buying Asian currencies. The
New York-based bank, which along with Barclays Plc and Danske
Bank A/S was among the three best ringgit forecasters, lowered
its 2010 economic growth forecast for China to 10.1 percent from
11.4 percent on July 2.  
 “This isn’t a good time to be long these currencies,”
Buchanan said in a June 30 interview. “For most cases, there is
still room for appreciation but the risk-reward doesn’t
entice.”  
 Cutting Forecasts  
 Goldman Sachs in a June report dropped its forecast for the
rupee to 47.50 by September, from an earlier prediction of 44.
It cut its prediction for the won to 1,150 from 1,100, and for
the ringgit to 3.15 from 3.10.  
 Goldman, ING and Standard Chartered are all bearish on the
rupee, after the current-account deficit widened to a record and
investors sold India’s stocks. The  current-account  gap reached
$13 billion in the first quarter, from $12.2 billion in the
fourth, which is “not what the market is looking for,”
Goldman’s Buchanan said.  
 Foreign investors sold a net $5.4 billion of stocks in
South Korea in May and $2 billion in India.  
 “I’m not very confident on Asian currencies at the moment
as it depends very much on  global risk sentiment ,” said  Kei Katayama , who helps oversee the equivalent of $37 billion in
non-yen debt as leader of the foreign fixed-income group in
Tokyo at Daiwa SB.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net ;
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        