-- Government to Cap Pay-Offs to Fired Civil Servants at One-Year's Salary
-- Thomas Penny
-- 2010-07-06T15:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/government-to-cap-pay-offs-to-fired-civil-servants-at-one-year-s-salary.html

          
          
             The U.K. government will introduce
legislation to cap compensation for public-sector workers who
lose their jobs at one year’s salary, Cabinet Office Minister
 Francis Maude  said.  
 The current system, which remains in force after the  Public
and Commercial Services union  won a court battle to stop the
previous Labour government capping redundancy payments at two
years, allows some workers to claim six years and eight months’
salary after being dismissed, Maude said in a written statement
to  Parliament  today.  
 “To play its part in deficit reduction, the civil service
must reform its terms and conditions for pay, pensions and
compensation in the event of redundancy,” Maude told a
conference of public servants in London. “The existing scheme
is simply untenable.”  
 The PCS said strikes are “inevitable” if the government
takes away the rights of workers. The union said the government
is punishing public-sector staff with budget cuts while giving
24 billion pounds of tax breaks ($37 billion) to businesses.  
 “If this government attacks our members’ terms and tears
up their rights then it is inevitable there will be industrial
action,” PCS General Secretary  Mark Serwotka  said in an e-
mailed statement. “The government should not seek confrontation
but should commit to finding an agreement.”  
 Called Off  
 A meeting between the cabinet office and civil-service
trade unions, including the PCS and the Prison Officers’
Association, was called off at short notice yesterday, a
spokesman for the PCS said in a telephone interview. The unions
say the government is bringing in legislation so it no longer
has to consult with staff as it is currently obliged to.  
 Maude said he will bring forward legislation “as soon
parliamentary time allows” to cap compensation at 12 months for
staff who are forced to give up their jobs and 15 months for
those who leave voluntarily.  
 The government has received more than 30,000 submissions
from staff on how savings can be made in public services since
an appeal was made on June 24, Maude said. The civil service in
2020 will have to be smaller and more efficient than it is
today, he said.  
 Prime Minister David Cameron’s coalition of Conservatives
and Liberal Democrats is proposing expenditure cuts and tax
increases totaling 113 billion pounds to slash a deficit of 11
percent of economic output. Some government departments have
been told to plan for spending cuts of as much as 40 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        