-- Gulf States Credit Escapes Damage as Oil Soaks Coasts, S&P Says
-- Esme E. Deprez
-- 2010-07-06T19:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/gulf-states-credit-escapes-damage-as-bp-oil-spill-soaks-coasts-s-p-says.html

          
          
             Fiscal damage to states caused by  BP
Plc ’s leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico has been “manageable”
so far, and current credit ratings will remain unchanged in the
near-term, Standard & Poor’s said.  
 Tourism, fishing, shipping and energy industries are major
contributors to Gulf Coast state economies and the most likely
to be affected by the worst oil spill in U.S. history, S&P said
today in a report.  
 “While we believe it will take some time after the gusher
stops to ascertain the full extent of the economic damage, we
currently see nothing that will pressure state budgets to a
degree that warrants rating actions,”  Horacio Aldrete-Sanchez ,
a Dallas-based credit analyst at S&P, said in the report.  
 The cost of the spill response has reached $3.1 billion,
according to BP, operator of the Macondo well that has spewed as
much as 60,000 barrels a day since an April 20 explosion
destroyed a drilling rig and killed 11 workers.  
 Direct payments by London-based BP and spending from the
estimated 40,000 cleanup workers in the region have helped state
and local budgets stave off unmanageable financial difficulties,
Aldrete-Sanchez said.  
 Reimbursements from BP’s $20 billion escrow fund, set aside
last month for cleanup and litigation related to the accident,
should help curb future economic damage and act as a “very
important factor” in the stabilization of state and local
government ratings, he said.  
 May Intensify  
 “Depending on several factors, including how long the
spill continues and how far it spreads, the total claims made on
BP and the scope of long-term environmental degradation, the
pressures on regional governments could intensify,” Aldrete-
Sanchez said.  
 Moody’s Investors Service warned on June 14 that Gulf
states may be hurt more than first projected as government
estimates of how much oil is flowing from the well have risen.
Florida and Gulf Coast cities in Louisiana, Mississippi and
Alabama may see credit ratings cut because of the spill if
tourism falls and property values drop, Moody’s said in a May 18
report.  
 Florida said today that higher-than-expected sales tax
collections lifted revenue through May above estimates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Fadel Gheit, managing director of oil and gas research at Oppenheimer & Co., discusses the outlook for BP Plc Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward and investor interest in the company's shares.
     Gheit talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Colin McLean, managing director at SVM Asset Management Ltd., talks about the potential for leadership change at BP Plc as the company copes with the Gulf of Mexico oil leak.
     McLean, speaking with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses BP's cash position. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Peter McGuire, managing director at CWA Global Markets Pty, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for BP Plc as the company seeks cash to meet the costs of the worst oil spill in U.S. history. 
     BP is considering selling fields in Colombia, Venezuela and Vietnam, a person with knowledge of the matter said. BP shares have dropped 49 percent since the April 20 blowout that sank the Deepwater Horizon rig, killing 11 workers. McGuire, speaking from Sydney, also discusses his forecast for crude oil prices. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
