-- Lieberman Says Israel Won't Extend Freeze on West Bank Settlement Building
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-06T15:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/lieberman-says-israel-won-t-extend-freeze-on-west-bank-settlement-building.html

          
          
             Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman 
said there was “no chance” Israel will extend a partial freeze
on West Bank construction.  
 “It is important that direct talks resume and the
government supports this but will not agree to pay for this,”
Lieberman said in comments sent from Helsinki by text message.
His remarks came as Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  prepares
for talks in Washington with President  Barack Obama  later today.  
 Netanyahu announced the 10-month halt in West Bank
settlement construction in November. Palestinians, the U.S. and
the European Union say the communities are an obstacle to a
peace agreement that would establish an independent Palestinian
state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.  
 The U.S. is mediating indirect talks between Israelis and
Palestinians, and Netanyahu has called on Palestinians to agree
to face-to-face meetings. Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  has linked participation in such talks to a freeze
on construction in the settlements.  
 Speaking on Army Radio earlier today, Culture and Sport
Minister  Limor Livnat , a member of Netanyahu’s Likud party, also
said that West Bank construction will resume when the freeze
expires.  
 About 300,000 Israelis live in West Bank settlements, and
the population growth rate in those communities in 2008 was
almost three times faster than in Israel as a whole, the
Jerusalem-based human rights group  B’Tselem  said.  
 42 Percent  
 Based on municipal jurisdiction, the settlements cover more
than 42 percent of the West Bank, a territory of 2,200 square
miles (5,700 square kilometers) -- slightly smaller than the
U.S. state of Delaware -- that is home to 2.5 million
Palestinians.  
 “The extensive geographic-spatial changes that Israel made
in the landscape of the West Bank undermine the negotiations
that Israel has conducted for 18 years with the Palestinians and
breach its international obligations,” B’Tselem said in a
report published today.  
 Defense Minister  Ehud Barak ’s spokesman, Barak Seri,
declined to comment on the report. The ministry is responsible
for the West Bank settlements.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        