-- Miklos to Be Slovak Finance Minister as Coalition Parties Sign Agreement
-- Radoslav Tomek
-- 2010-07-06T15:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/miklos-to-be-slovak-finance-minister-as-coalition-parties-sign-agreement.html

          
          
             Ivan Miklos  will return for a second
stint as Slovak finance minister after four parties signed a
coalition agreement pledging to form a fiscally responsible
government.  
 Miklos, 50, cut the budget deficit to prepare for euro
adoption and introduced a flat 19 percent tax that attracted
investment and fueled growth when he served in the cabinet from
2002 to 2006. The  deficit  may widen to 7 percent of gross
domestic product this year, more than double the European Union
limit, the Finance Ministry estimates.  
 “Miklos is well known, and markets will view him as some
sort of a guarantee for change,” said  Robert Prega , an
economist at Tatra Banka AS in Bratislava, the Slovak capital.
“He was a key person for reforms” during his previous tenure,
Prega said.  
 The four coalition parties, led by SDKU, said restoring
fiscal prudence will be their top priority. The parties won a
majority in last month’s election, giving them 79 deputies in
the 150-seat parliament and ousting Prime Minister  Robert Fico ,
who was unable to form a government after winning the most seats
in the legislature.  
 SDKU will have five posts in the 15-seat cabinet, with
Freedom & Solidarity holding four, and the Christian Democrats
and Most-Hid with three each, according to the accord signed
today in Bratislava.  
 “We are ready to take responsibility for this country at a
time when it is coping with a serious economic crisis and
irresponsible decisions of our predecessors,” SDKU leader and
Prime Minister-Designate  Iveta Radicova  said today in
Bratislava.  
 Miklos replaces  Jan Pociatek . While Pociatek oversaw
adoption of the euro last year, the switch was only possible
because of policies enacted by Miklos under former Prime
Minister  Mikulas Dzurinda , Prega said.  
 Dzurinda was selected as foreign affairs minister, while
Juraj Miskov, the co-owner of an advertising agency, will be
economy minister.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        