-- IMF Raises South Korea's Economic Growth Forecast, Calls for Rate Increase
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-07-06T09:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/imf-raises-south-korea-s-economic-growth-forecast-calls-for-rate-increase.html

          
          
             The  International Monetary Fund 
raised South Korea’s 2010 economic growth forecast to 5.75
percent from 4.5 percent and called on the central bank to begin
increasing interest rates.  
 “Monetary policy remains highly accommodative, somewhat
beyond what is necessary to support the recovery,” the IMF said
in a statement after a two-week review in Seoul. “It is now
appropriate for the Bank of Korea to start gradually raising the
monetary policy rate.”  
 Investors have boosted bets on South Korea joining India,
Malaysia and Taiwan in lifting rates as the economy shows it is
weathering Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis. The government last
month increased its 2010 gross domestic product growth forecast
to 5.8 percent from a December projection of 5 percent on strong
exports and local demand.  
 The IMF said the central bank should avoid falling behind
the economic growth trend and control inflation. “We expect the
output gap to close in coming months and we think inflation has
bottomed out,”  Subir Lall , division chief for the IMF’s Asia-
Pacific department, said in Gwacheon.  
 Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said in June after leaving the
 seven-day repurchase rate  at a record-low 2 percent for a 16th
month that the bank will focus more on “price stability.”  
 The one-year treasury bond yield has surged more than 30
basis points since June 9 to close at 3.10 percent in Seoul
today as investors bet on a move. The central bank meets to
review its policy stance on July 9.  
 The fund said risks from Europe’s fiscal problems and
geopolitical tensions with North Korea are broadly balanced by
the potentially faster recovery.  
 South Korea’s exports jumped 32.4 percent in June from a
year earlier, an eighth straight monthly increase, as the global
rebound spurred demand for Hyundai Motor Co. cars and  Samsung
Electronics Co.  semiconductors, a report showed last week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        