-- India Needs Contingency Plan by September to Contain Inflation, Jalan Says
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-07T12:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/india-needs-contingency-plan-by-september-to-contain-inflation-jalan-says.html

          
          
             India needs a “contingency plan” by
September to control inflation as prices are showing few signs
of easing, former central bank Governor  Bimal Jalan  said.  
 “Inflation is an urgent issue and we don’t have a package
as yet which can give us confidence,” Jalan, 69, who headed the
Reserve Bank of India from 1997 to 2003, said in an interview in
New Delhi yesterday. “We heard inflation will come down by
March, then April. It was supposed to come down by now.”  
 Consumer prices in India are rising at least twice as fast
compared with inflation rates in Brazil, Russia and China, the
other three nations that make up the BRIC economies. Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao  is under pressure to raise interest rates in
the monetary policy meeting on July 27 after an unscheduled
quarter-point increase last week, the third since mid-March.  
 “Inflationary expectations could have been curbed had the
RBI tightened rates more aggressively at the beginning of the
year,” said  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “More tightening is definitely needed.”  
 Shares fell the most in a week after Jalan’s comments
stoked speculation interest rates may be raised for a second
time this month. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index 
fell 0.8 percent while the rupee weakened 0.3 percent against
the dollar. The 10-year government bond yield fell four basis
points to 7.57 percent in Mumbai.  
 Consumer Prices  
 Prices paid by industrial and farm workers in India rose
almost 14 percent in May, according to government data. By
contrast, consumer-price gains are running at 5.2 percent in
Brazil, 3.1 percent in China and 5.8 percent in Russia.  
 Inflation in India started picking up after a drought last
year created shortages in rice, wheat and sugar. It accelerated
as consumer demand for manufactured goods and services
strengthened.  
 “Why didn’t you release more grains in the market to
reduce the impact of the drought?” Jalan said. “All the good
expectations are inflation will come down with a good monsoon
and I hope that will happen. But, the real issue is that if that
doesn’t happen, what should we do?”  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is relying on
adequate rains in the June-to-September monsoon season, the main
source of irrigation in the country, to boost agriculture output
and drive down farm prices. Last year’s showers were the least
since 1972.  
 Monsoon Rains  
 The monsoon covered the entire country nine days ahead of
normal yesterday, raising prospects for bigger harvests of rice,
cotton, soybeans and sugar cane.  
 Even so, the  India Meteorological Department , which
forecast sufficient rainfall this year, failed to predict last
year’s drought.  
 “We need to have a contingency plan,” Jalan said. “If
inflation doesn’t come down in September, we should have a plan
to subdue, control inflationary expectations.”  
 As inflation pressures remained unabated, Singh last month
risked fanning it by raising gasoline and diesel prices to cut
the government’s $5.5 billion fuel subsidy bill.  
 The move sparked a national strike in India on July 5,
forcing schools, shops and offices to remain shut and disrupting
air, road and rail transport in several parts of the country.  
 Fuel Prices  
 Subbarao expects the fuel-price increase to boost the
inflation rate by about a percentage point and on July 2
increased the central bank’s benchmark rates.  
 He boosted the  reverse repurchase rate  to 4 percent and the
repurchase rate to 5.5 percent, citing among other reasons,
“strong underlying growth momentum.”  
 India’s $1.2 trillion gross domestic product expanded 8.6
percent in the first quarter of this year from a year earlier,
the fastest pace after China and Brazil among major economies.
 Industrial output  jumped 17.6 percent in April.  
 Growth in India’s services industry including software and
telecommunications accelerated to a two-year high in June,
according to the Purchasing Managers’ Index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics this week.  
 Exide Industries Ltd. , India’s largest maker of automotive
batteries, plans to boost capacity by as much as 60 percent by
April to cater to customers such as Hero Honda Motors Ltd.,
Managing Director T.V. Ramanathan said in May.  
 “They will have to take strong action on the monetary,
fiscal policy and on supply side” to control demand, Jalan said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        