-- Iranian Guards' Company Chiefs Targeted by U.A.E. Sanctions, Chamber Says
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-07-06T09:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/iranian-guards-company-chiefs-targeted-by-u-a-e-sanctions-chamber-says.html

          
          
             The managers of two companies that
are part of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps have had their bank
accounts frozen in the United Arab Emirates in response to a
fourth set of UN sanctions over the Iranian nuclear program,
said the head of the Iran-U.A.E. Chamber of Commerce.  
 “Khatam al-Anbiya and their subsidiaries, and companies
that they thought were involved in Iran’s atomic work, are on
the list” of 41 individuals and entities subject to the
emirates’ action, Masoud Daneshmand, head of the chamber, was
cited today as saying by the state-run  Iranian Students News
Agency . “I didn’t see a private company on the list.”  
 The U.A.E.’s central bank asked financial institutions in
the federation to freeze the accounts in compliance with United
Nations Security Council sanctions passed on June 9, the
Emirates Business 24/7 reported on June 28, citing a bank
circular. There was no immediate response to a telephone call
and an e-mail to the central bank seeking details of the list.  
 Khatam al-Anbiya Construction Headquarters, the engineering
arm of the Guards, says on its  website  that it has completed
1,836 projects and has another 288 under way. The projects vary
from oil and gas to steel structures, port development and
agriculture, it said.  
 Iran has denied allegations from the U.S. and some of its
allies that the nuclear program may be intended for weapons
development. It says its nuclear work is for civilian purposes
and has rebuffed UN demands to suspend production of enriched
uranium, which can fuel a reactor or form the core of a bomb.  
 “We don’t like the behavior of the Emiratis,” Daneshmand
said. “They’re implementing things that are not required by the
United Nations Security Council sanctions and Iranian
businessmen don’t like it.”  
 Sanctions are a temporary thing, according to Daneshmand.
Iran and the U.A.E. will always be on the two sides of the
Persian Gulf and should build their relations on that basis,
Daneshmand was cited as saying.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        