-- Ireland's Bad Bank Sees Possible Loss as it Raises Estimate on Sour Loans
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-07-06T17:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/ireland-s-bad-bank-sees-possible-loss-as-it-raises-estimate-on-sour-loans.html

          
          
             Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency may lose as much as 800 million euros ($1 billion) over
its lifetime under a “stressed” scenario outlined in the so-
called bad bank’s business plan.  
 The agency’s “central” projection is for profit of 1
billion euros, down from a 5.5 billion-euro estimate made in a
draft business plan published in October. An “optimistic”
scenario in the new plan, released in Dublin today, sees profit
of 3.9 billion euros.  
 NAMA Chairman  Frank Daly  said at a press conference he is
“disappointed” that initial information banks provided hasn’t
stood up to a more rigorous assessment. The assumptions that
banks made on loans “were wrong, were incorrect,” he said.  
 The agency is taking over real-estate loans with an
original value of about 81 billion euros from lenders including
 Bank of Ireland Plc  and  Allied Irish Banks Plc  as part of a
government plan to help the country’s ailing financial industry.
It said today it expects about 25 percent of the loans will be
income-producing, down from a previous 40 percent projection.  
 “We don’t think they intentionally withheld information,”
NAMA Chief Executive Officer  Brendan McDonagh  said. “The
institutions themselves were in denial about the quality of
their loan book. They didn’t want to admit things were as bad as
they were.”  
 Loan Discount  
 Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said NAMA expects to pay
about 40 billion euros for the loans, with the discount
reflecting a slump in  property values  over the last three years.
The agency remains on schedule to complete the transfer of all
loans by February 2011, he said in a statement.  
 “Should NAMA eventually make a loss, the government will
recover this through a surcharge on the banks,” Lenihan said.  
 The collapse of Ireland’s property market has left the
country’s biggest lenders with billions of euros in souring
loans. Lenihan said in March that banks needed $43 billion in
capital after “appalling” decisions during the country’s
property boom. Bank of Ireland has raised some money in a share
sale, while rival Allied Irish plans to sell assets in Poland
and the U.S. to bolster its capital levels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        