-- Israeli Likud Minister Says West Bank Construction to Resume in September
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-06T09:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/israeli-likud-minister-says-west-bank-construction-to-resume-in-september.html

          
          
             Israel will resume building in the
West Bank when a construction freeze on settlements ends in
September, a minister said ahead of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s meeting with President  Barack Obama  today.  
 “There is no doubt that construction in Judea and Samaria
will resume when the freeze runs out,” Culture and Sport
Minister  Limor Livnat , a member of Netanyahu’s Likud party, said
on Army Radio, using the Biblical terms for the Palestinian
territory.  
 Netanyahu announced a 10-month partial freeze on settlement
construction in November and is expected to discuss the
moratorium, peace talks and Iran with Obama. Palestinians, the
U.S. and the European Union consider the communities an obstacle
to a peace agreement that would establish an independent
Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.  
 Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has linked
participation in any peace talks to a freeze on construction in
the settlements. Netanyahu seeks to move from the current round
of U.S.-mediated indirect talks between Israelis and
Palestinians to face-to-face negotiations.  
 The growth rate of the population in the settlements in
2008 was almost three times greater than the growth rate of
Israel’s population, 5.1 percent compared with 1.8 percent, the
human rights group B’Tselem said in a report released today.  
 Some 300,000 Israelis live in West Bank settlements,
 B’Tselem  said, and municipal jurisdiction of the Jewish
settlements covers more than 42 percent of the West Bank. The
territory, home to 2.5 million Palestinians, is about 2,200
square miles, slightly smaller than the U.S. state of Delaware.  
 ‘Extensive Changes’  
 “The extensive geographic-spatial changes that Israel made
in the landscape of the West Bank undermine the negotiations
that Israel has conducted for 18 years with the Palestinians and
breach its international obligations,” B’Tselem said in its
report.  
 Defense Minister  Ehud Barak ’s spokesman, Barak Seri,
declined to comment on the report. The ministry is responsible
for the West Bank settlements.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        