-- Israeli Army Plans to Indict Officers, Soldiers for 2008 Gaza War Conduct
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-06T14:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/israeli-army-plans-to-indict-officers-soldiers-for-2008-gaza-war-conduct.html

          
          
             Israel’s military advocate general is
indicting “a number” of officers and soldiers for their
conduct during 22 days of fighting in the Hamas-controlled Gaza
Strip that started in December 2008, the army said today.  
 A lieutenant colonel was convicted at a disciplinary
hearing of breaking military directives on “the use of
civilians during operational activity,” and a staff sergeant
was indicted for manslaughter, the army said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The decisions by Major General Avichai Mendelblit are part
of an army inquiry into more than 150 incidents, including ones
raised by a United Nations panel led by former UN prosecutor and
South African judge  Richard Goldstone . Goldstone’s panel accused
Israel and Hamas of war crimes and called on them to investigate
the charges.  
 The staff sergeant’s indictment stemmed from an
investigation into a claim in the Goldstone report that two
Palestinian women, part of a group of civilians carrying white
flags, were killed, the army said.  
 While “gaps” in testimonies from soldiers and Palestinian
witnesses made it impossible to criminally connect those deaths
to the staff sergeant, he was indicted over the killing of a
person in the same location a day later, “deliberately
targeting an individual walking with a group of people waving a
white flag,” the army said.  
 Commander Warned  
 The lieutenant colonel, a battalion commander, was found
guilty of sending a Palestinian civilian into a combat
situation, and given a warning. The army said its investigation
found that the civilian had asked to be sent into a combat zone
in order to prevent the destruction of his house, which was
adjacent to a building the army suspected of “sheltering
terrorists,” and the commander approved the request.  
 In a separate incident, an investigation into a reported
strike against a mosque found that while the building itself was
not hit, soldiers targeted a “terror operative” in close
proximity to it, causing unintentional injury to the civilians
inside, the army said.  
 While disciplinary actions were taken against the officer
who ordered the attack, Mendelblit found that he did not violate
international laws of warfare because at the time of the
authorization “no possibility of harming civilians was
identified,” it said.  
 Rocket Fire  
 Israel launched the military operation in what it said was
a bid to stop rocket fire on its southern towns and cities.
About 3,200 rockets and mortars were fired from the territory in
2008, according to the army. More than 400 rockets and mortars
have been fired from Gaza into Israel since the operation,
killing one foreign worker last March.  
 In February, two Israeli officers were reprimanded by the
army for firing artillery shells into a populated area during
the fighting.  
 Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and the European Union. Hamas said 1,450 Palestinians were
killed during the offensive, while Israel put the number at
1,166. The army said 13 Israelis were killed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Israel to indict soldiers involved in Gaza fighting  
                       
                         
                           Fabrice Coffrini/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         South African judge Richard Goldstone’s panel accused Israel and Hamas of war crimes and called on them to investigate the charges. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     South African judge Richard Goldstone’s panel accused Israel and Hamas of war crimes and called on them to investigate the charges. Photographer: Fabrice Coffrini/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
