-- Japan Economic Index Falls for First Time in 14 Months as Recovery Slows
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-07-06T05:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/japan-economic-index-falls-for-first-time-in-14-months-as-recovery-slows.html

          
          
             Japan’s broadest indicator of
 economic health  dropped for the first time in 14 months,
signaling the recovery is losing momentum after rebounding from
the worst postwar recession.  
 The  coincident index , a composite of 11 indicators
including factory production and retail sales, fell to 101.2 in
May from 101.3, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo. The
result matched the median estimate of 16 economists surveyed.  
 The report adds to evidence that the world’s second-
largest economy is cooling after growing 5 percent in the first
quarter. Japanese stocks have tumbled in recent weeks, part of
a worldwide slump that reflects investor concern the global
recovery will falter.  
 “With production starting to slow, it’s hard to imagine
that the economy will sustain the pace of expansion seen at the
beginning of the year,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist
at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.6 percent at 2:05 p.m.
in Tokyo, reversing declines of as much as 1.9 percent. The
gauge has retreated 18 percent from this year’s peak on April 5,
exacerbated by gains in the yen that threaten to erode
exporters’ profits.  
 Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today that he’s
“closely” watching financial markets. National Strategy
Minister  Satoshi Arai  said the slump in equities doesn’t signal
that the Japanese recovery is faltering.  
 Slow to Spread  
 Shipments abroad have led Japan’s economic revival that
began in the second quarter of last year. Recent data suggest
the benefits are slow to spread to households, whose outlays
account for more than half of the economy.  
 The  jobless rate  reached a five-month high of 5.2 percent
in May, household spending retreated for a second month and
 factory output  slipped 0.1 percent from April, government
reports showed last week.  
 The  leading index , a composite of 12 indicators including
stock prices and consumer confidence, fell to 98.7 in May, the
second straight decline, today’s report showed. Economists
expect Japan’s annualized quarterly growth will be below 2
percent at least until the middle of next year, according to
median estimates.  
 Economic fragility isn’t confined to Japan and Europe. U.S.
President Barack Obama last week said there’s still a “great
deal” of work to do to repair the world’s largest economy.  
 In China, the largest destination for Japanese exports,
the property market is beginning a “collapse,” Kenneth Rogoff,
the Harvard University professor and former International
Monetary Fund chief economist, said in an interview today.  
 “Japan is entering a period when European sovereign debt
issues will reflect on the real economy,” said  Kyohei Morita ,
chief Japan economist at Barclays Capital in Tokyo. Economic
“fundamentals will need to be monitored with heightened
vigilance going forward.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
