-- Jihadi Groups Too Weak to Threaten Indonesian Stability, Crisis Group Say
-- Achmad Sukarsono
-- 2010-07-06T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/jihadi-groups-too-weak-to-threaten-indonesian-stability-crisis-group-say.html

          
          
             The Islamic jihadi movement behind
deadly attacks in Indonesia since the 2002 Bali bombings is weak
and divided,  the International Crisis Group  said, signaling the
country’s success in cracking down on terror groups.  
 The jihadi community “will undoubtedly regroup and produce
another hit squad, somewhere, somehow, that causes casualties
and generates a new wave of arrests, but without posing any
danger to Indonesian stability,” the group said today in its
latest report on terrorism in Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  
 Indonesia has increased anti-terror operations since the
July 17, 2009, bombings at Jakarta’s  JW Marriott  and  Ritz-
Carlton  hotels that killed nine people, including the two
attackers. They were the first terrorist attacks by Islamist
militants in almost four years in Indonesia, a secular republic
with the world’s biggest population of Muslims.  
 The incidents came nine days after elections in which
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  won a second five-year term,
partly on his perceived ability to contain terrorism. Within a
month after the incident, police uncovered a cell that
masterminded the operation.  
 The group was led by  Noordin Mohammad Top , a senior member
of the Southeast Asia militant network Jemaah Islamiyah, or JI,
suspected of involvement in anti-Western attacks in Indonesia
since 2002 that killed almost 300 people, the U.S. State
Department said in a  2008 report . Indonesian police killed
Noordin on Sept. 17, 2009.  
 Emerging Group  
 Police this year also killed 13 people and arrested 61 in
connection with a terrorist training camp in Aceh province,  Tito Karnavian , the head of anti-terror force Special Detachment 88
said last month. While the recent crackdown was a “big blow”
to the terrorist network, JI-linked groups “not only are
surviving but also collaborating,” he said.  
 The Crisis Group report highlighted the emergence of
 Jama’ah Ansharut Tauhid , or JAT, a group established in 2008 by
radical cleric  Abu Bakar Ba’asyir  that advocates full
application of Islamic laws in Indonesia. Police and prosecutors
accused Ba’asyir in 2003 of leading JI, a charge that was
dismissed in court.  
 JAT members were among the suspects arrested in a May 6
raid for raising funds for the Aceh camp, Crisis Group said.
While some JI members joined JAT, the new organization has
“exposed some of the rifts within JI” partly because it built
on Ba’asyir’s celebrity status, the Brussels-based group said.
“As time went on and JAT grew rapidly, JI leaders were adamant:
if you join JAT, you leave JI and vice versa,” the report said.  
 Police had a man wearing a sign saying Abu Bakar Ba’asyir
during a re-enactment of the raid, prompting speculation he may
be the next target, according to the Crisis Group. The cleric
denied any links to the raid and training camp, arguing that JAT
rejects the use of violence and the arrested members were acting
on their own,  Jawa Pos  newspaper reported May 14.  
 Old Faces  
 Ba’asyir has served two jail terms since 2003, neither on
terrorism charges as prosecutors failed to prove beyond doubt
his role in attacks using the country’s anti-terror laws.  
 “The rifts and shifting alignments so evident now in the
jihadi community are a reaction to” the failure of “the jihadi
project” in Indonesia, said the Crisis Group, which is led by
former United Nations human rights commissioner  Louise Arbour .
“There is no indication that violent extremism is gaining
ground. Instead, as with JAT’s formation, we are seeing the same
old faces finding new packages for old goods,” it said.  
 The bigger danger comes from the jihadi-influenced
preaching through certain Islamic schools that facilitate
recruitment and provide shelter to fugitives from law, the group
said. “Until the government finds an effective way of
addressing them, the saga of terrorism in Indonesia will
continue,” it said.  
 Islamic radicalism in Indonesia is a concern if not kept
under control, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. Executive
Chairman  Mark Mobius  said last month. “If the government is
unable to discourage radical forms of Islam, there may be
considerable risks to the political and economic aspects of the
country,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Achmad Sukarsono  in Jakarta at 
 asukarsono@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        