-- Job Growth Will Provide a Boost as Stimulus Ends, Greenlaw Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-06T17:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/job-growth-will-provide-a-boost-as-stimulus-ends-greenlaw-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             Job growth will sustain the U.S.
economic recovery even as government fiscal stimulus ends,
according to  David Greenlaw , Morgan Stanley’s chief fixed-income
economist in New York.  
 About 200,000 jobs will be added to the U.S. economy each
month during the second half of the year, increasing real
disposable income and spending by about 3 percent, enough to
generate a sustained recovery, Greenlaw said today during a
radio interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 Growth is lower than expected because of “other
headwinds” in the housing and credit markets, according to
Greenlaw. Increases in hiring and industrial production indicate
“modest pickups from depressed levels,” he said.  
 “A lot of people are tying a second-half slowdown in the
U.S. to the removal of fiscal stimulus,” Greenlaw said. “I
just don’t think that’s right.”  
 Morgan Stanley expects “moderate, sustainable growth, a
rebound in private credit demands, a bottoming in inflation and
a Fed that begins to implement its exit strategy,” analysts
including Greenlaw said in a research note on July 2. The yield
on 10-year Treasury note may rise to 3.5 percent by the end of
the year, the strategists wrote. The firm is one of 18 primary
dealers that trade directly with the Federal Reserve.  
 After-tax income, infrastructure spending and aid to state
and local governments have supported the economic recovery,
Greenlaw said in the interview.  
 Some analysts are too quick to conclude that the end of
fiscal stimulus will be bad for the economy, said  Erik Nielsen ,
chief European economist in London at the primary dealer Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., in a separate Bloomberg Surveillance
interview.  
 “The jury is still out,” Nielsen said. “Certainly in
Europe, where we have very high private savings ratios, I don’t
think one would want to add more stimulus to the story.”  
 The 10-year Treasury note  yield  dropped 0.03 percentage
point to 2.94 percent today after touching 2.8793 percent on
July 1, the lowest level since April 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        