-- TJX Officials Sued, Reach Accord With Investor Over Computer-Hacking Case
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-07-06T19:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/tjx-officials-sued-by-investor-seeking-damages-over-computer-hacking-loss.html

          
          
             TJX Cos. , owner of the T.J. Maxx and
Marshalls discount retail chains, was sued by an investor over
losses from a computer-hacking scheme, then settled the case
almost immediately for $595,000 in legal fees and enhanced
oversight of customer files.  
 The lawsuit, made public today in Delaware Chancery Court
in Wilmington, alleges that the TJX board failed to take proper
steps to protect company data and recover  costs  of “computer
intrusion” that occurred between 2005 and 2007.  
 “Criminals accessed the company’s computer system through
a wireless data network,” the Louisiana Municipal Police
Employees’ Retirement System said in court papers. The ring
stole card numbers of at least 45.7 million holders of credit
and debit cards, leading to card-replacement and investigative
costs and multimillion-dollar settlements with Visa Inc. and
MasterCard Inc., according to the complaint.  
 A Miami man was sentenced in March to 20 years in prison in
what prosecutors said was the largest identity-theft case in
U.S. history. In that case, Framingham, Massachusetts-based TJX
cited $200 million in losses.  
 The lawsuit sought an order requiring officials to beef up
security to prevent fraud. In settlement papers, TJX agreed to
continue “corporate governance changes” including a telephone
hot line for customers and heightened computer oversight.  
 “The settlement is subject to court approval” and “the
current and former directors deny all allegations of
wrongdoing,” a TJX spokeswoman, Debra McConnell, said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 TJX, with $20.3 billion in sales last fiscal year, fell
7 cents to $42.31 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
at 3:02 p.m.  
 The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System v. Alvarez, CA5620, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        