-- Kaczynski's 47% Support in Polish Election May Mean Slower Deficit Cuts
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-07-06T13:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/kaczynski-s-47-support-in-polish-election-may-mean-slower-deficit-cuts.html

          
          
             Jaroslaw Kaczynski ’s stronger-than-
expected performance in losing the July 4 presidential election
may revitalize the opposition, damping optimism for government
plans to reduce the budget deficit, political scientists said.  
 Bronislaw Komorowski  of the ruling Civic Platform party won
the election with 53 percent of the vote to Kaczynski’s 47
percent. While support for Komorowski, 58, was unchanged from
the start of the campaign, backing for opposition leader
Kaczynski, 61, almost doubled from opinion polls in April.  
 Kaczynski’s showing strengthens the position of his Law &
Justice Party going into local balloting later this year and
parliamentary elections that must be held in 2011. That may slow
the government’s drive to pass needed spending cuts as voters
around Europe elect new leaders following the worst global
economic crisis since the 1930s.  
 “The local or even general election campaigns have started
and this could be a serious challenge for the Platform,” said
Anna Sosnowska-Materska, a political scientist at Warsaw
University. “The presidential race proved there is a deep
division within Polish society, which makes it a Pyrrhic victory
Civic Platform.”  
 Komorowski’s win gives Civic Platform control of the
presidency and cabinet, ending divisions that arose under the
late President  Lech Kaczynski , who died in an April 10 plane
crash. The zloty gained 1.4 percent against the euro the past
two days on speculation that cooperation between the two highest
offices would make it easier for the government to cut a  deficit 
that widened to 7.1 percent of gross domestic product last year.  
 ‘Maintaining Support’  
 Poland’s political realities may damp that optimism, said
 Ernest Pytlarczyk  an economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw.  
 “The risk of growing support for Law & Justice is, for the
ruling party, an argument against quick spending cuts,”
Pytlarczyk said. “The new president will probably cooperate
with the government, but his support in the case of unpopular
fiscal cuts won’t solve the problem of maintaining support for
the ruling party.”  
 Civic Platform has 206 deputies in the 460-seat lower house
or parliament and relied on the 31 votes of the Peasants Party
to form a coalition government.  
 Prime Minister  Donald Tusk ’s government has proposed
limiting increases in discretionary spending to no more than 1
percent above inflation, saving an estimated  9 billion zloty 
($2.7 billion) a year by 2013. That will help narrow the deficit
to less than the European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP within
three years, the government estimates.  
 Coalition Partner  
 “Some of the changes we plan will still require support of
our coalition partner,” Tusk said after the presidential vote.
The government is counting on a period of calm “during which
the cabinet will be able to focus on its work in peace.”  
 The Peasants Party didn’t support Civic Platform’s
nomination of  Marek Belka  for central bank governor last month,
and party Chairman  Waldemar Pawlak , who is also economy
minister, refused to back Komorowski. Sixty percent of Peasants
Party supporters voted for Kaczynski, exit polls showed.  
 Kaczynski campaigned to raise benefits for older people and
increase the minimum salary, saying “Poland has to be fair to
every Pole.”  
 The Law & Justice leader is strongest in rural areas, where
unemployment rates are higher than the national average of  11.9
percent  and many people say they haven’t benefited from joining
the EU. Kaczynski won 59 percent of the rural vote, while
Komorowski took 64 percent in metropolitan areas with more than
500,000 inhabitants, according the State Election Commission.  
 ‘Enormous Power’  
 “The next elections are ahead of us, and our goal is to
use that huge number of supporters,” Kaczynski said after the
election results were announced. “We have to remain on guard,
we have to win.”  
 Civic Platform and Law & Justice have clashed since Lech
Kaczynski unexpectedly beat Tusk for the presidency in 2005. Two
years later, Tusk’s party took control of parliament after Law &
Justice lost its mandate. Since then, Civic Platform has said
its efforts to modernize Poland were blocked by Lech Kaczynski.  
 Poland’s president has a legislative veto that requires of
three-fifths majority in parliament to override.  
 “Kaczynski’s showing made me afraid of him,”  Grzegorz Schetyna , chairman of Civic Platform’s parliamentary group, said
today on Radio TOK FM. “He’s won huge support, and we will have
to really struggle to win next elections.”  
 Economy Slows  
 Poland’s economy expanded 1.7 percent last year, the
slowest pace in almost a decade. Unemployment peaked at 13
percent in February, compared with 8.8 percent in October 2008.  
 The U.K., Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have
elected new governments in the past six months. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party suffered its worst result since
World War II in regional elections in North Rhine-Westphalia,
costing her control of the upper house of parliament.  
 “The winner of the vote is Kaczynski and his party,” said
Wojciech Jablonski, a political scientist at Warsaw University.
“Kaczynski won enormous power, strengthening his leadership of
Law & Justice and boosting the position of the party” to lead a
coalition government after the next election, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jaroslaw Kaczynski, former prime minister of Poland, pauses during an interview at his office in Warsaw, on May 12, 2009. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
