-- KGB Successor May Get Power to Summon Russians Before They Commit Crimes
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-07-06T14:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/kgb-successor-may-get-power-to-summon-russians-before-they-commit-crimes.html

          
          
             Russia’s  Federal Security Service , or
FSB, the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, may get the power
to summon people it views as potential criminals before they
break the law, a move rights activists say might lead to abuses.  
 Russia’s lower house of parliament, the State Duma, will
hold a second vote July 9 on a  bill  that would allow the FSB to
issue warnings to people for actions that “create the
conditions for a crime,” and to “invite” them for a
“conversation” aimed at persuading them to mend their ways.  
 “There’s a lot of mistrust in society” toward the
security services, Vladimir Vasilyev, chairman of the Duma’s
Security Committee, told reporters in Moscow today. The bill
could help convince the public that “we have to fight together
against the threats we face.”  
 The proposed changes to the law that regulates the FSB come
as the government attempts to clamp down on terrorism following
two suicide-bomb attacks on the Moscow metro in March that
claimed 40 lives.  
 The draft law submitted to the Duma in April, which
included punishment for ignoring an FSB “invitation,” sparked
protests from human rights organizations. Vasilyev said this
provision was removed in a revised draft approved by his
committee today.  
 “No sanctions are included in the bill for missing a
‘preventive conversation,’” Vasilyev said. The intention is for
people to “think things over,” he said.  
 ‘A Second 1937’  
 Valentin Gefter, head of the Moscow-based  Human Rights
Institute , said the bill is too broad, and that punitive
measures could be added in procedural directives after its
adoption.  
 “This isn’t an attempt to legalize a second 1937,” Gefter
said, referring to the height of Stalin’s purges, “but it’s a
serious and unnecessary legal attack on our constitutional
rights.”  
 The FSB’s aim may be to work directly with the public to
prevent crime, “but we fear that for every good intention, 10
bad ones will follow.”  
 Gennady Gudkov , deputy head of the Duma Security Committee
and a former FSB officer, said the bill should state clearly
that it’s not directed against the media or the political
opposition.  
 “The wording is so loose that you could drag an elephant
through the holes,” Gudkov said. “Anyone could be targeted.
It’s not a full return to the U.S.S.R., but we are coming back
to its final years.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        