-- Korean Won Drops Most in a Week on Signs Services, Manufacturing Slowing
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-06T01:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/korean-won-drops-most-in-a-week-on-signs-services-manufacturing-slowing.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won fell by the most in
a week as cooling growth in the world’s biggest economies stoked
concern the pace of recovery is losing steam.  
 Europe’s services and manufacturing slowed for a second
month in June, according to a report from London-based Markit
Economics yesterday. U.S. service industries data out today will
show non-manufacturing businesses expanded at a slower pace in
June, a Bloomberg survey shows. The euro fell for a second day
after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
supported deficit-cutting measures by governments in the region.  
 “We’re seeing a normal post-crisis struggle in the won,”
said  Philip Wee , a senior currency economist from DBS Bank Ltd.
in Singapore. “The key thing is to see how we ride through this
weakness.”  
 The won slipped 0.6 percent to 1,230.75 per dollar as of
10:08 a.m. in Seoul, after the currency gained 0.5 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The  Kospi  share index fell to a three-week low after
overseas sold more local stocks than they bought for a fifth day,
capping this year’s total purchases at $4.6 billion.  
 “Markets will be taking a cue from stocks, as they are a
leading indicator of growth,” Wee said.  
 European equities dropped for a fifth day, the longest
streak in a year, after a composite  index  based on a survey of
euro-area purchasing managers in services and manufacturing
industries declined to 56 from 56.4 in May, yesterday’s report
said. U.S. stocks were closed for the Independence Day holiday.
Trading resumes today.  
 South Korea’s three-year bonds were little changed. The
yield on the 3.75 percent note maturing in June 2013 was 3.84
percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        