-- Krugman Says U.S. Should Do `Everything We Can' to Boost Jobs
-- Carol Massar
-- 2010-07-06T20:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/krugman-says-kitchen-sink-strategy-needed-to-stave-off-another-recession.html

          
          
             Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  said the U.S. should have a “kitchen-sink strategy”
that uses all fiscal and monetary policies possible to prevent
the economy from sliding back into a recession.  
 “We are looking at what could be a very long siege here,”
Krugman said in an interview today in Princeton, New Jersey,
with  Carol Massar  of Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.”
“We really are at a stage where we should have a kitchen-sink
strategy. We should be throwing everything we can get at this.”  
 At a time when European countries such as Germany are
calling for austerity measures to rein in budget deficits,
Krugman is calling for more stimulus to prevent a repeat in the
U.S. of Japan’s decade of economic malaise in the 1990s.  
 “The most effective things you can do, in terms of actual
bang for the buck, is actually having the federal government go
out and hire people,” he said. “We are deep in the hole here,
and you need to be unconventional to get out of it.”  
 He said too many policy makers and commentators are overly
concerned that the ballooning U.S. deficit would set off a
crisis of confidence similar to Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.
Krugman said he’s concerned U.S. policy makers would be unable
to agree to short-term stimulus for the economy along with long-
term measures to curtail the deficit.  
 “I worry about the politics,” he said. “I worry about
our ability to get a consensus to do the pretty straight-forward
things we need to do to balance our budget in the long run.”  
 Long-Term Deficits  
 The projected U.S.  budget gap  in 10 years can be brought
under control with a “combination of modest tax increases and
reasonable spending cuts,” particularly on health care, Krugman
said, adding it’s “extremely unlikely” the U.S. would ever
default on its debt.  
 “I’m not aware of any example of a country that got into
fiscal difficulty because it began a stimulus program and
couldn’t take away the stimulus program,” he said. “If you’re
serious about fiscal responsibility, you should not be saying,
‘let’s skimp on aid to the economy in the middle of a financial
crisis.’”  
 Krugman forecast the economy will grow at about a 1 percent
pace or slightly faster within six months, and that job growth
would be less than the rate of growth of the population. He said
in six months, the U.S. would be facing a “labor market that’s
getting worse not better.”  
 Job Gains  
 The U.S. Labor Department reported last week that
employment fell by 125,000 workers in June, the first jobs
decline this year, because of layoffs of temporary census
workers. Private companies added 83,000 people, a smaller-than-
forecast gain that capped a month of data indicating weakness in
industries from housing to manufacturing.  
 Other reports last month showed a plunge in home sales, a
slump in consumer confidence, cooler manufacturing and less
growth in the first quarter.  
 The lack of jobs will curtail consumer spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy,
and restrain sales at retailers including Barnes & Noble Inc.
The rebound from the worst recession since the 1930s faces risks
from the European debt crisis and slower growth in China at the
same time that fiscal stimulus measures fade.  
 “We are, I think, sliding into a situation where we’re
likely to see several bad years ahead,” Krugman said. “Given
what I see in the political process, the odds are against us
avoiding a really prolonged bad period.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ,
 Carol Massar  in New York at o
 cmassar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Paul Krugman, Nobel Prize-winning economist. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
    Paulsen, speaking from Minneapolis, also discusses his investment strategy for U.S. stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
