-- Netflix to Stream First-Run Films
-- Michael White
-- 2010-07-06T20:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/netflix-will-stream-relativity-s-first-run-films-ahead-of-pay-tv-services.html

          
          
             Netflix Inc. , the mail-order movie
rental service, will get exclusive online streaming rights to
first-run films produced by Relativity Media LLC under a deal
that bypasses pay-TV services such as HBO and Showtime.  
 The accord expands the inventory of recently issued films
that Netflix can provide online after their release on DVD or
Blu-ray in the U.S., the companies said today in a statement.
Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  
 Among the first movies to be offered online will be “The
Fighter” with  Christian Bale , scheduled to be distributed in
theaters by  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount Pictures, and “Skyline,”
which is being released by Universal Pictures and Relativity’s
Rogue Pictures, according to the statement. Relativity, based in
West Hollywood, California, produces features and arranges
financing for other studios’ films.  
 “The Relativity deal establishes a new business model but
is not likely to change the landscape as there are long-term
output deals in place between the major studios and pay TV
networks,”  Tony Wible , an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, wrote today in a note. Netflix “does not
have the capital to pursue these expensive contracts.”  
 After a period of pay-per-view exclusivity, Los Gatos,
California-based Netflix will be the only subscription service
with rights to the 12 to 15 films Relativity produces annually
on its own,  Ted Sarandos , Netflix’s chief content officer, said
in an interview.  
 “This is the first and only place where you’ll see these
films available for subscription services,” Sarandos said.  
 Number of Films  
 The number of movies under the agreement may increase to as
many as 30 films a year, according to the statement.  Ryan Kavanaugh , Relativity’s co-chief executive officer, said in an
interview the company keeps the right to sell digital downloads
through  Apple Inc. ’s iTunes store and  Amazon.com Inc.  when the
movies are streaming on Netflix.  
 Netflix has been expanding its online services by providing
access on more than 60 million Internet-connected televisions,
Blu-ray players and game consoles, according to Sarandos.  
 The Netflix “Watch Instantly” service has been largely
limited to older movies and television shows because HBO,
Showtime and other pay-TV providers have exclusive rights to
films deal for as long as nine years, Sarandos said.  
 The company does stream more recent releases from Walt
Disney Co. and Sony Pictures Entertainment through an agreement
with the Starz cable channel owned by Liberty Media Corp.  
 Wible, who  recommends  selling Netflix shares, said the
company may spend $20 million to $32 million a year on the films
and would need to add 1.2 million to 1.9 million new subscribers
to cover the expense.  
 Part of Service  
 Netflix gained 19 cents to $107.27 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have gained 95
percent this year before today. The company finished the first
quarter with 14 million subscribers, with more than half using
the streaming service, according to an April 21 statement.  
 The films will be available at no additional cost to
Netflix subscribers, spokesman  Steve Swasey  said.  
 Relativity said it has helped finance or produce more than
200 films, generating more than $13 billion in box office sales.
The films include “Robin Hood,” “Get Him to the Greek” and
“Grown Ups.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        