-- Netherlands Defeats Uruguay 3-2, Advances to World Cup Final
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-06T22:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/netherlands-defeats-uruguay-3-2-advances-to-world-cup-final.html

          
          
             The Netherlands reached the World Cup
final for the first time since 1978 by defeating Uruguay 3-2 in
Cape Town last night.  
 Giovanni van Bronckhorst ,  Wesley Sneijder  and  Arjen Robben 
scored as the Dutch advanced to play Germany or Spain in the
July 11 final in Johannesburg. The Netherlands lost to host
nations West Germany in 1974 and Argentina four years later in
their previous appearances in the championship match.  
 “A final is so special,” Sneijder, who won this year’s
Champions League with Inter Milan, said in a news conference.
“You must savor it because it’s not something that comes around
the corner very often.”  
 Diego Forlan  and Maxi Pereira scored for Uruguay, which was
trying to reach its first final since winning its second World
Cup title in 1950.  
 “I think it was a team that definitely deserved to be in
the semifinal of the World Cup,” Uruguay coach Oscar Tabarez
said at a news conference. “I’m very proud of my players, what
we achieved. We accept defeat, the opponent was better.”  
 The Netherlands has won all six of its games in South
Africa, after winning all eight in qualifying. It beat
tournament favorite Brazil 2-1 in the quarterfinals.  
 “We survived and we were just so relieved in the changing-
room,” Dutch coach  Bert van Marwijk  told reporters. “It’s
quite something what we’ve achieved after 32 years.”  
 Dutch Breakthrough  
 Dutch captain Van Bronckhorst put his team in front in the
18th minute with a shot from 25 yards that went over the hand of
diving goalkeeper Fernando Muslera and into the top corner.  
 Uruguay didn’t get a shot on target until the 36th minute
when Alvaro Pereira’s attempt was easily caught by  Maarten Stekelenburg .  
 Forlan, serving as captain in place of the injured Diego
Lugano, tied the game in the 41st minute when he fired in from
about 30 yards.  
 Van Bronckhorst headed Alvaro Pereira’s long shot clear
early in the second half after Stekelenburg was caught out of
position.  
 Stekelenburg dived to knock away Forlan’s free kick in the
67th minute. Then  Rafael van der Vaart  forced Muslera into a
diving save moments later, with Robben sending the rebound well
over the goal.  
 Sneijder broke the deadlock in the 70th minute with a shot
that took a deflection past Muslera for his fifth goal to tie
Spain’s  David Villa  for the tournament lead. Uruguay complained
that  Robin van Persie  was in an offside position when the ball
went past him into the net.  
 “The second goal was offside,” Tabarez said. It’s not the
first time it happens in the World Cup. It happened against us,
but there’s no point weeping or looking for excuses.’’  
 Curling Shot  
 The Dutch made it 3-1 three minutes later as  Dirk Kuyt  sent
a cross into the middle of the area and Robben headed in off a
post.  
 Maxi Pereira pulled a goal back for Uruguay with a curling
shot from the edge of the area in stoppage time. The South
Americans then pressured the Dutch goal in the closing seconds
but were unable to get a shot on target.  
 Germany and Spain meet in the second semifinal tonight in
Durban. Three-time champion Germany will be seeking a record
eighth appearance in the World Cup final, with European champion
Spain looking for its first.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        