-- Netherlands Defeats Uruguay 3-2, Advances to World Cup Final
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-06T23:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/netherlands-aims-for-first-world-cup-soccer-title-that-eluded-legends-.html

          
          
             Bert Van Marwijk , who coached the
Netherlands to its first World Cup final in 32 years, now has to
convince his players they can finally win the title after
decades of disappointments.  
 A 3-2 win over Uruguay last night means Van Marwijk’s team
has the chance to end the nation’s reputation of choking in the
final stages of sport’s most-watched event. The Netherlands
suffered successive defeats in the 1974 and 1978 championship
games.  
 “It’s quite something what we’ve achieved after 32
years,” the coach told reporters after the match at Green Point
Stadium in Cape Town. “I said if you want to achieve something,
you really have to believe it.”  
 The Netherlands, which won all six of its World Cup matches
in South Africa, was the 1988 European champion. Since then,
it’s reached the knockout stages of eight of the last nine major
tournaments it has entered, without reaching a championship
final. Van Marwijk attributed previous failures to a bad
attitude.  
 “Often once things works out and we start winning we
become overly confident and are sent home quickly,” he said.  
 The Netherlands’s opponents will be decided tonight when
European champion Spain meets three-time World Cup winner
Germany in Durban.  
 Generation Gap  
 Victory for Germany will set up a repeat of the 1974 World
Cup final when the Dutch led by  Johan Cruyff , one of soccer’s
best-ever players, was beaten 2-1 by the then West Germany in
Munich.  
 “The generation of ‘74 and ‘78, which were unbelievable’’
never won the World Cup, striker  Robin Van Persie  told
reporters. ‘‘They were legends. We have the chance to do it now.
If we can do it, it’s just unbelievable, because we did better
than them.’’  
 Against two-time champion Uruguay, playing in its first
semifinal for 40 years, the Netherlands had the backing of
thousands of orange-clad supporters. They were rejoicing after
16 minutes when captain  Giovanni Van Bronckhorst’s  shot from 35
yards flew into the top corner.  
 Van Bronckhorst, who’ll end a 17-year playing career in the
final, shut his eyes and stretched his arms out in celebration,
as  Crown Prince Willem Alexander  and his wife Maxima applauded
from the stands.  
 Uruguay struggled without striker Luis Suarez, who was
suspended after receiving a red card for handballing a goal-
bound header in the last minute of the quarterfinal victory over
Ghana. The South Americans barely threatened the Dutch goal
until captain  Diego Forlan  tied the match with a strike to rival
Van Bronckhorst’s five minutes before halftime.  
 ‘No Point Weeping’  
 The Atletico Madrid striker received the ball halfway
inside the Dutch half, pushed it onto his left foot and hit a
swerving shot that deceived goalkeeper  Maarten Stekelenburg  for
Forlan’s fourth championship goal.  
 The Netherlands got the advantage of a refereeing decision
when  Wesley Sneijder’s  deflected shot put them in front again,
even though Van Persie appeared to be offside.  
 “It happened against us but there’s no point weeping or
looking for excuses,” Uruguay’s coach Oscar Tabarez said.  
 Dutch victory seemed assured when  Arjen Robben  headed in
from  Dirk Kuyt’s  72nd minute cross. The Netherlands missed other
opportunities, and was left hanging on when Maximiliano Pereira
reduced the deficit in injury time.  
 “We survived and we were just so relieved in the changing
room,” Van Marwijk said.  
 Uruguay’s run to the last four sparked nationwide
celebration in a country of three million people, the least
populous country in the tournament after Slovenia.  
 Forlan Hopes  
 Without Suarez, Uruguay’s hopes rested on Forlan. The
former Manchester United striker suffered an injury, and was
forced to leave the field with seven minutes to go, with Uruguay
trailing 3-1.  
 “If I would have been better maybe in the game I would
have more chances to shoot,” he said. “It was a very important
moment for everyone, you know, being close to a final in the
World Cup, and that’s why we are disappointed. We missed a great
chance.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Cape Town through the London sports desk at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  Mike Cohen  in Cape
Town at   mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Netherlands' striker Arjen Robben, left, and Dirk Kuyt celebrate the team's victory at the end of the semi-final football match between Uruguay and Netherlands on July 6, 2010. Photographer: Roberto Schmidt/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
