-- NYC Broils in Record 103 as Heat Wave Bakes Northeast
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-06T20:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/new-york-city-northeast-states-to-bake-under-dangerous-heat-through-week.html

          
          
             New Yorkers were warned to stay in
the shade and check on relatives and neighbors today as the
temperature soared to a record 103 degrees Fahrenheit (39 
degrees Celsius), breaking the mark for the date of 101 
set in 1999.  
 The temperature in Newark, New Jersey, also hit 103, a
record for the day,  Richard Castro , a National Weather Service
meteorologist, said in an interview from Upton, New York.  
 Castro said the reading in New York’s Central Park peaked
at 3:11 p.m. It was the highest temperature in New York since
temperatures hit 103 on Aug. 9, 2001. The city’s record was 106
on July 9, 1936.  
 Temperatures were forecast to reach 100 or feel worse from
Virginia to Maine, putting stress on power agencies to supply
air conditioning. Consolidated Edison Co. urged customers to
conserve power during the day, according to an alert from New
York City’s emergency notification program.  
 “It will be so hot this afternoon that the weather  could
affect anyone  no matter their age or overall health,” according
to a weather service warning. “Please consider postponing any
strenuous activities or workouts. Keep your pets in a cool
location and provide them with plenty of water.”  
 The longest stretch of consecutive 100-plus  days on record 
at Central Park came in 1993, when it rose from 100 on July 8 to
102 on July 10.  
 Queen Elizabeth II  of the U.K. was among those braving the
heat today, as the 84-year-old monarch made her first visit to
New York since the 1976 bicentennial of U.S. independence from
Great Britain.  
 The weather service issued heat advisories for much of the
East and Northeast, meaning the high temperatures may have
serious health consequences.  
 Warnings Issued  
 An excessive heat warning was issued for eastern
Pennsylvania, including  Philadelphia , where it was 102 at 1:54
p.m.; parts of New Jersey, including Trenton; and northern
Delaware, according to the weather service. It hit 105 at
Baltimore-Washington International Airport and 102 at
Washington’s Dulles airport.  
 “There is a high pressure system that has been sitting
here and building a lot of hot weather for us and there is
nothing to push it out of the way,” said Lauren Nash, a weather
service meteorologist in Upton, New York.  
 New York City is forecast to remain at 90 or above until
the weekend. The normal temperature for today in Central Park is
83.  
 New York’s Consolidated Edison power company was preparing
for record demand today, said a spokeswoman,  Elizabeth Clark .  
 Washington was forecast to reach 102 degrees today and 101
degrees tomorrow, and remain at 90 or above until the weekend.  
 Air Quality  
 In addition to the heat,  air quality advisories  warn that
pollution and ground level ozone will be dangerous today,
especially for people with breathing problems, according to the
weather service.  
 Today’s air quality index value in New York was to peak at
120 today, the weather service said. The index was created to
give residents an easy way to determine the severity of
pollution, with the higher the number “the greater the health
concern.”  
 The heat in New York comes as the city just ended its
fourth-warmest June on record, the weather service reported. The
average temperature in Central Park was 74.6 degrees Fahrenheit
(23.6 Celsius) in June, according to the agency. The record was
set in June 1943, which posted an average temperature of 76.2
degrees.  
 A heat wave is defined as at least three days in a row of
temperatures of 90 or more, and temperatures in New York reached
the upper 90s the past two days. New York’s last weeklong heat
wave was in August 1998, while the longest was 12 days from Aug.
24 to Sept. 4, 1953, according to agency records.  
 Yesterday’s High  
 Yesterday’s high temperature in Central Park was 99, two
degrees shy of the record 101 set in 1999, according to the
weather service. The  cooling degree days  value for New York was
23, 12 higher than normal, according to the weather service.  
 Cooling degree days, calculated by subtracting a base of 65
degrees from the average daily temperature, is a value designed
to show energy demand, according to the weather service. The
higher the value, the warmer the weather, and thus the more
energy is probably consumed to cool homes and businesses.  
 Yesterday’s high in Newark was 102 degrees, one shy of the
daily record 103 set in 1999. The cooling degree day value in
Newark was 23, 11 above normal.  
 The value in Boston was 18, 10 above normal; 21 at
Washington’s Reagan National Airport, 7 above normal; and 21 in
Philadelphia or 9 above normal, according to the weather
service.  
 Elsewhere, air quality alerts have been issued for western
and central North Carolina, eastern Tennessee and western
Pennsylvania. Heat warnings have also been issued for parts of
Michigan and Kentucky, according to the weather service.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       New York, Northeast Broiling Under Dangerous Heat  
                       
                         
                           Alex Wong/Getty Images 
                         
                         People sit in a fountain at the World War II Memorial during the season's first heat wave. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     People sit in a fountain at the World War II Memorial during the season's first heat wave. Photographer: Alex Wong/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
