-- Nissan Explores Expanding Hybrid-Car Lineup Beyond Infiniti M Luxury Model
-- Makiko Kitamura
-- 2010-07-06T08:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/nissan-explores-expanding-hybrid-car-lineup-beyond-infiniti-m-luxury-model.html

          
          
             Nissan Motor Co. , preparing to
introduce its Leaf electric car later this year, is exploring
expanding its hybrid-car technology beyond a single luxury model.  
 The carmaker will start selling a gas-electric version of
its upscale Fuga sedan by December in Japan and next year in the
U.S., where it will be sold as the Infiniti M35. The car will
have a new one-motor, two-clutch system developed by Nissan.
Currently, the carmaker’s only hybrid model is the Altima, which
uses  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s hybrid system.  
 “We are exploring a wide application of this
technology,”  Shuichi Nishimura , a corporate vice president in
Nissan’s powertrain engineering division said today at a
presentation in Yokohama.  
 “We are looking into an expansion across the Infiniti
series,” Nishimura said. He declined to comment on whether the
company’s in-house hybrid technology will replace Toyota’s
system in the Nissan-brand Altima.  
 Nissan is researching various fuel-saving technologies
including improved gasoline engines, hydrogen-powered fuel-cell
cars and cleaner diesel engines alongside its push to become the
biggest seller of electric cars. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  is aiming to cut C02 emissions from its new cars by 90
percent from 2000 levels, the company said today.  
 The new hybrid car’s fuel efficiency will match that of a
gasoline-powered compact car, Nissan said in its presentation
today.  
 Nissan didn’t say how much the hybrid Fuga, or its Infiniti
version, will cost. Gasoline-only powered Fuga sedans are priced
from 3.99 million yen ($45,402) in Japan, while Infiniti M-
series models start at $46,250 in the U.S.  
 Honda, BMW  
 Honda will offer a “wide range” of hybrids across its
luxury Acura line, the company said in January.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG’s 5 Series, the automaker’s most profitable car,
may be offered in a hybrid version next year, the company said
in June.  
 Nissan’s hybrid system uses a lithium-ion battery supplied
by Automotive Energy Supply Corp., a joint venture between
Nissan and NEC Corp. that also makes the battery for the
carmaker’s Leaf electric car. Adding production volume by using
the batteries in more models may reduce manufacturing costs.  
 Hybrid systems similar to Nissan’s are being used in
Volkswagen AG’s first hybrid, a modified Touareg sport-utility
vehicle, Nishimura said.  Honda Motor Co.  is also planning to
introduce a hybrid version of its Civic compact using a lithium-
ion battery.  
 Toyota’s Prius, the world’s best-selling hybrid model, uses
a less expensive nickel-metal hydride battery.  
 Nissan previously sold the Tino hybrid, which had a limited
run of 100 units in 2000.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        