-- NMDC's Profit Increases 80% on Higher Iron Ore Prices, Steelmaker Demand
-- Abhishek Shanker
-- 2010-07-06T10:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/nmdc-s-profit-increases-80-on-higher-iron-ore-prices-steelmaker-demand.html

          
          
             NMDC Ltd. , Asia’s third-largest iron-
ore mining company, said first-quarter profit gained about 80
percent after higher demand from steelmakers led to an increase
in volumes and prices.  
 Sales rose 90 percent to 24 billion rupees ($513 million)
in the three months ended June 30, Chairman  Rana Som  said today
in New Delhi, without giving a specific profit number ahead of
the company’s earnings announcement this month. The company had
net income of 7.74 billion rupees on sales of 12.8 billion
rupees in the year-earlier quarter.  
 Iron ore prices  more than doubled in the first quarter
following a surge in steel demand. India’s steel consumption is
expected to increase as much as 9 percent to more than 61
million tons in the year ending March 31 as rising incomes spur
demand for cars and appliances.  
 NMDC is in talks with Nippon Steel Corp., which is
negotiating on behalf of some Japanese steel mills, to jointly
set up a factory with a 2 million metric ton capacity in the
southern state of Karnataka, Finance Director  Swaminathan Thiagarajan  said today in an interview. Talks are also on with
Kobe Steel Ltd. for a plant to produce iron ore nuggets from
fines using the Japanese company’s technology, he said.  
 Shares  of NMDC, based in the southern city of Hyderabad,
rose 0.3 percent to 262.90 rupees at close in Mumbai. They
gained as much as 2.8 percent in earlier trading. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s key Sensitive Index rose 1 percent.  
 NMDC  on May 31 said it doubled ore export prices to
Japanese and South Korean buyers, including Nippon Steel and
Posco. Last week, it raised prices for local mills by more than
80 percent to 2,950 rupees for the first quarter.  
 The company will build a 30 billion rupee, 12 million ton
pipeline to carry iron ore from its mines in Bailadila in the
east Indian state of Chhattisgarh. It would start the 11/B mine
by December, the company said today in a statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Saikat Chatterjee  in New Delhi at 
 schatterjee4@bloomberg.net ;
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        