-- Nomura Supports Shariah Push With First Sukuk in Malaysia: Islamic Finance
-- Soraya Permatasari
-- 2010-07-06T11:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/nomura-supports-shariah-push-with-first-sukuk-in-malaysia-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc.  plans the first
sale of dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in Malaysia by a
Japanese company, supporting its expansion in an industry with
$1 trillion of assets.  
 Japan’s largest brokerage will sell $100 million of Ijarah
sukuk that will mature in 2012, Nomura said in a statement in
Kuala Lumpur today. The securities will be priced to yield 160
basis points more than the London interbank offered rate, said
 Jamelah Jamaluddin , chief executive officer of Kuwait Finance
(Malaysia) Bhd., the sale arranger.  
 The notes complying with Shariah’s ban on interest will
allow Muslim investors to diversify, according to CIMB-Principal
Islamic Asset Management Bhd. and Amundi Islamic Malaysia Sdn.
Nomura set up a fund unit in Malaysia last year to offer
services to Muslim investors worldwide. Nomura won a stock
broking license in the Southeast Asian country in 2009 and has
banking operations in Qatar, Bahrain, Dubai and Saudi Arabia.  
 The brokerage “wants to be directly involved by going into
the market themselves instead of watching it from the outside,”
Noripah Kamso, who oversees $1.6 billion of Shariah assets as
chief executive officer in Kuala Lumpur at CIMB-Principal
Islamic, said in an interview yesterday.  
 Sukuk issued by international companies see “healthy”
demand as funds seek to invest in different industries and
geography, according to KFH Research Ltd., a unit of Kuwait
Finance House, the country’s biggest Islamic bank. The Islamic
finance industry’s assets may quadruple to $2.8 trillion by 2015
from about $700 billion in 2005, said the Kuala Lumpur-based
Islamic Financial Services Board, a standards-setting body.  
 Diversify Funding  
 The Ijarah note will allow Nomura to “diversify its
funding sources and tap the large and growing Islamic finance
market for the first time,”  Takumi Shibata , chief operating
officer of Nomura Holdings, said in the statement.  
 Ijarah is an agreement whereby the owner leases an asset or
equipment to its client at an agreed rental fee and for a
predetermined lease period. The ownership of the leased
equipment remains in the hand of the lender.  
 General Electric Capital Corp., the world’s biggest non-
bank finance company, sold $500 million of sukuk in Malaysia on
Nov. 19 to yield 1.75 percentage points more than similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries. The company offered a 1.55 points
spread when it raised $1.5 billion on Nov. 10 selling bonds of a
similar maturity that don’t meet Islamic standards.  
 “We view the sukuk product similar to other non-
conventional financial products, as a potential source of our
alternative-funding bucket,”  Aris Kekedjian , CEO of GE Capital
Middle East and Africa, wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  
 Malaysia Sukuk  
 The yield on GE’s 3.875 percent notes maturing in November
2014 has fallen nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
this year to 4.1 percent, according to prices from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group. The difference in yield with similar-maturity
Treasuries widened 90 basis points to 252, reflecting the rally
in U.S. debt.  
 Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015 fell 11
basis points in yield to 3.44 percent today, the lowest level
since the bonds were sold on May 27, according to prices from
HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 Shariah-compliant bonds returned 6.1 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while
debt in developing markets gained 5.5 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  
 The spread between the average yield for emerging-market
sukuk and Libor narrowed two basis points yesterday to 4.31
percentage points, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Index . That’s
down from 4.67 points at the end of last year.  
 Malaysia accounts for more than 60 percent of the $130
billion outstanding sukuk. The market has attracted issuers from
the Persian Gulf, including National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC, the
United Arab Emirates’ second-largest lender by assets, which
sold 500 million ringgit ($156 million) of Islamic bonds in its
first offering of debt in the country on June 22.  
 Global sales of Islamic notes have fallen 24 percent to
$6.5 billion this year as the financial crisis prompts companies
to delay projects. That has boosted appetite among investors for
new issues, said  Amirudin Abdul Hamid , assistant investment
manager in Kuala Lumpur at Amundi Islamic Malaysia.  
 “If you have a conventional structure and an Islamic
structure, the yield is usually similar in Malaysia, but sukuk
is better because there are so many conventional bonds in the
market and so little sukuk,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        