-- Nomura Must Pay Millions for Lehman Hires, Hogarth Davies Says at Trial
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-07-06T14:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/nomura-must-pay-millions-for-lehman-hires-hogarth-davies-says-at-trial.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc.  owes an
executive search firm millions of pounds for helping it recruit
hundreds of bankers from  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , a lawyer
for  Hogarth Davies Lloyd  told a London court.  
 Hogarth Davies should be paid a fee for each employee it
helped recruit following Lehman’s 2008 bankruptcy, instead of a
much lower project fee offered by Nomura,  Justin Fenwick , the
recruiting firm’s lawyer, said during opening arguments at the
High Court in London today.  
 Nomura acquired Lehman’s operations in Asia and Europe,
including about 8,000  former Lehman workers , after the New York
investment bank filed for bankruptcy. While Hogarth Davies is
asking Justice David Steel to assess how much it should be paid,
the firm sought as much as 35.1 million pounds ($53.3 million)
in a court filing earlier this year.  
 “Nothing was said by the defendants that Nomura intended
to contract on terms other than their existing staff support
agreement,” Fenwick said. If they had wanted to pay on a
project fee basis, they should have said so when they asked the
company to start its search, he said.  
 “Nomura is disappointed with HDL’s conduct in this
matter,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement. “Nomura has
always accepted that a reasonable fee is payable but maintains
that HDL’s claim is misconceived and that the fee sought is
commercially absurd,” the Tokyo-based bank said. The bank’s
lawyers will present their case later in the trial.  
 Nomura relied upon work done by Hogarth Davies to complete
the part of the deal relating to the bank’s European unit,
Fenwick said.  
 Executive Search  
 Under the terms of a 2007 contract signed between Nomura
and Hogarth Davies, the headhunters’ normal charge for
“executive search” is 30 percent of each hired employee’s
“compensation package” for their first year of work to a
maximum of 175,000 pounds, Fenwick said. The fee drops for team
members that a hire brings with them, he said.  
 In the investment banking department alone, the firm helped
Nomura recruit 242 people whose total first-year packages
amounted to 146 million pounds, he said. The fee for many of
those people would reach the 175,000-pound cap, he said.  
 An offer by Nomura to pay about 2 million pounds would only
compensate Hogarth Davies for a dozen hires, Fenwick said.  
 The case is: Hogarth Davies and Lloyd Ltd. v. Nomura
International Plc, 09-519, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division Commercial Court.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        