-- Novartis Salespeople Covered by Law Requiring Overtime, Appeals Court Says
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-06T15:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/novartis-salespeople-covered-by-law-requiring-overtime-appeals-court-says.html

          
          
             Novartis AG’s  sales representatives
are covered by federal wage-and-hour laws requiring payment of
overtime, a U.S. appeals court in New York ruled.  
 A three-judge panel of the  appeals court  today overturned a
lower-court finding that the sales representatives fell under
exceptions to the federal Fair Labor Standards Act for outside
sales people and administrative workers.  
 “The district court should have ruled that the reps are
not outside salesmen,” the appeals court said in its opinion
today.  
 The decision affects about 2,500 current and former sales
representatives employed by Novartis between March 23, 2000 and
April 7, 2007, who are suing for unpaid overtime, according to
the court’s decision. The law requires the payment of 1 1/2
times a worker’s hourly wage for more than 40 hours’ work in a
week.  
 In its decision today, the appeals court relied on U.S.
Labor Department  regulations  that define “outside salesman”
and “administrative” employees. The Labor Department submitted
a friend-of-the-court brief supporting the position of the sales
representatives on the appeal.  
 The court today agreed that sales representatives, who are
barred from making sales to doctors, aren’t outside sales
people. It also agreed that their jobs lack the “discretion and
independent judgment” required to classify them as
administrative employees under the statute.  
 In a related case, the appeals court today upheld a
district court ruling that a group of Schering Corp. sales
representatives aren’t outside salespeople. The FLSA overtime
requirement therefore applies to them, the court said.  
 Eric Althoff , a Novartis spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a voicemail message seeking comment.  
 The case is  Re Novartis Wage and Hour Litigation, 09-437,
2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in New York at 
4171 or  rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        