-- Banks Offer Loans to Help Win Bond Underwriting Deals
-- Kate Haywood
-- 2010-07-07T11:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/loans-required-to-win-bond-underwriting-spots-as-global-sales-decline-39-.html

          
          
             The world’s biggest banks are
offering loans to help them win places on companies’ bond deals
as a 39 percent drop in sales this year, the most since at least
1998, shrinks fees.  
 Citigroup Inc.  offered a loan with Credit Suisse Group AG
and 12 other lenders to join a bond sale by Virgin Media Inc.,
the U.K.’s second-largest pay-television company, said Treasurer
 Richard Martin . Citigroup also gave Spanish builder  Obrascon
Huarte Lain SA  50 million euros ($63 million) of loans to join a
700 million-euro bond issue, said four people familiar with the
matter, who declined to be identified as the talks were private.  
 Borrowers are obtaining credit from banks competing for a
pool of bond deals that dropped to $1.18 trillion in the first
half from $1.92 trillion a year earlier as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis pared sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The number of banks on each high-yield deal has
almost tripled since 2000, cutting fees by an average of 57
percent per firm.  
 “We’ve been very clear with our banking business partners
that we’ll take care of those who are good to us,” said Martin
of London-based Virgin, which enlisted a record 14 banks to sell
debt in January. “If you want to be in the bond, we need you to
give us your balance sheet as well.”  
 Martin included Credit Suisse, Citigroup, Barclays Capital
and HSBC Holdings Plc in Virgin Media’s bond offering, along
with 10 other managers, after they agreed to join a 1.925
billion-pound ($2.9 billion) credit facility. The four banks,
whose spokesmen declined to comment, ultimately weren’t needed
on the loan.  
 ‘Eggs in One Basket’  
 “Banks and corporate treasurers don’t want to put all
their eggs in one basket,” said  Tom Jenkins , a credit analyst
at Jefferies International Ltd. in London.  
 More than half of this year’s 321 high-yield bond offerings
were handled by three or more underwriters, compared with 32
percent in 2007 and 3 percent in 2000, Bloomberg data show.
About 20 percent of the issues were managed by a single bank,
compared with about 66 percent a decade ago. High-yield, or
junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 “The era of the sole-book-managed deal is long gone,”
said  Malcolm Stewart , the former head of European leveraged
capital markets at Merrill Lynch and Citigroup who’s now the
London-based managing partner at North Sea Partners LLC, a
closely held investment bank.  
 48 Hours  
 Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
provided Obrascon with a loan 48 hours before the bond sale was
announced and after managers Banco Santander SA, Credit Agricole
SA, RBS and Societe Generale SA had done six months of work,
said the people familiar with the financing. Citigroup convinced
the builder that the bond offering would be more successful with
a U.S. firm, according to the people involved in the deal.  
 Because of the financial crisis, “issuers of new bonds may
be more amenable to looking for a relationship with a strong
lender,” said  Kathleen Shanley , a senior bond analyst at
independent debt-research firm Gimme Credit LLC in Chicago.
“Before the credit crisis, many issuers may have thought they
could rely exclusively on the capital markets to cover financing
needs,” she said.  
 Obrascon’s bond issue in April “could have gone out with
two or three banks, but we decided to add two additional
banks,” said  Francisco Melia , deputy chief financial officer at
the Madrid-based company. “It’s more important than ever since
the credit crisis that banks support us with other operations
such as lending.”  
 Spokesmen at the banks declined to comment.  
 Lower Fees  
 The number of banks managing each high-yield bond averages
3.1, the highest ever, while the typical fee on so-called junk
bond sales fell to 1.82 percent this year from a six-year high
of 1.98 percent in 2009, according to Bloomberg data. That’s
0.59 percent for each underwriter, down from 0.71 percent in
2005 and 1.38 percent a decade ago.  
 Underwriters’ share of fees have dwindled along with high-
yield sales, which plunged in May to the least since March 2009.
Companies sold $10.5 billion of debt globally last month in 24
offerings, the fewest since April 2009, following 27 deals worth
$8.61 billion in May, according to Bloomberg data. That compares
with an average 68 bond sales totalling $32.4 billion in the
previous four months.  
 Syndicated loan borrowings in Europe and the U.S. rose to
$734.2 billion in the first half, from $528.7 billion a year
earlier, Bloomberg data show.  
 Virgin Media included the 14 underwriters when it sold $2.4
billion of bonds in dollars and pounds in January to boost
participation in the loan, Martin said.  
 “We decided to defer a portion of the bond fees until we
understood the participation in the bank loan,” he said.
“Ultimately, we didn’t need all 14 banks for the bank loan, we
only needed 10 to fill out the syndicate, but it helped create
competitive tension.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     London-based director of treasury of Virgin Media Inc. Rick Martin. Source: Virgin Media via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
