-- Obama Says Netanyahu Will Take `Risks for Peace'
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-06T18:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/obama-says-he-believes-netanyahu-will-take-risks-for-peace-in-mideast.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said today he
believes Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  will take
“risks for peace” with the Palestinians, as the two leaders
met at the White House in a sign of improved relations.  
 Obama told reporters Netanyahu had affirmed the goal of
moving toward the creation of a Palestinian state existing
alongside Israel and with “Israel’s security needs met.” The
president described U.S.-Israeli ties as an “unbreakable”
bond, in remarks in the Oval Office after a discussion with
Netanyahu that he called “excellent.”  
 “The U.S. will never ask Israel to take risks that would
undermine its security,” Obama said. Both leaders referred to
prospects for direct talks beginning between Israel and the
Palestinian Authority, and Obama said they should start before a
construction moratorium in the West Bank expires in September.  
 Obama has been trying to prod Netanyahu and Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  to engage in direct peace
negotiations following the indirect talks they have been
conducting through U.S. Middle East envoy  George Mitchell .  
 U.S. officials say that relations between the two countries
have grown closer since March, when Israel’s announcement of an
east Jerusalem housing plan in the midst of a visit by Vice
President  Joe Biden  drew criticism from Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton .  
 ‘Concrete Steps’  
 The Israeli prime minister told reporters today that he and
Obama “discussed concrete steps” and can be done immediately
and over coming days and weeks “to move the peace process
further along.”  Netanyahu didn’t offer specifics.  
 Obama referred to them as a “range” of confidence-
building measures that would lead to direct talks. “It’s high
time to begin direct talks,” Netanyahu said.  
 “Israelis are prepared to do a lot for peace but they want
to make sure” no threat emerges such as the 2007 seizure of the
Gaza Strip by Hamas, Netanyahu said after the meeting with
Obama. The Islamic movement rejects Israel’s right to exist and
fired about 3,200 rockets and mortars into Israel in 2008,
according to the Israeli army. The attacks prompted a military
offensive by Israel on Gaza in December 2008.  
 Hamas, classified as a terrorist group by the U.S. and
Israel, has kept up the barrage. The number of projectiles fired
from Gaza totaled 708 last year and about 160 so far this year,
the army said June 8.  
 Abbas Condition  
 Abbas, who visited Obama at the White House June 9, has
ruled out moving from the so-called proximity talks to direct
negotiations unless Israel halts all settlement construction in
the West Bank. A partial freeze that Netanyahu, 60, initiated
last November is set to expire September 26, and settler leaders
have vowed to start building again immediately.  
 Obama said today he wants direct talks to begin before the
moratorium runs out.  
 “My hope is that once direct talks have begun, well before
the moratorium has expired, that that will create a climate in
which everybody feels a greater investment in success,” Obama
said.  
 A top Israeli official ruled out an extension today.  
 Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said there was “no
chance” Israel will extend a partial freeze on West Bank
construction.  
 “It is important that direct talks resume and the
government supports this but will not agree to pay for this,”
Lieberman said in comments sent from Helsinki by text message.  
 Obama and Netanyahu also conferred on what they say is the
threat of a nuclear-armed Iran. Netanyahu praised sanctions that
Obama signed into law last week, targeting Iranian gasoline
imports and banking access, as measures that “bite.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net 
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Obama meets Netanyahu as end to settlement freeze nears  
                       
                         
                           Jim Hollander-Pool/Getty Images 
                         
                         Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Photographer: Jim Hollander-Pool/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
