-- Obama Says Netanyahu Will Take `Risks for Peace'
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-07T14:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/obama-says-netanyahu-will-take-risks-for-peace-talks-may-be-imminent.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said direct
Israel-Palestinian talks may get started within less than three
months, praising Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  as a
leader prepared to take “risks for peace.”  
 Obama and Netanyahu, speaking to reporters at the White
House yesterday after an 80-minute meeting, both said they
wanted to dispel concerns that the U.S. commitment to Israel has
been weakened by disputes over construction in West Bank
settlements and east Jerusalem. The two leaders ate lunch
together with advisers.  
 “I’ve trusted Prime Minister Netanyahu since I met him
before I was elected president,” Obama said, sitting opposite
the Israeli leader in the Oval Office. “I think that he is
dealing with a very complex situation in a very tough
neighborhood.”  
 Obama has been trying to persuade Netanyahu and Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  to move beyond the indirect
talks they have been conducting, through U.S. Middle East envoy
 George Mitchell , and hold face-to-face negotiations. The
president indicated that direct talks may take place before the
expiration of a Netanyahu’s temporary West Bank construction
freeze on Sept. 26.  
 “My hope is that once direct talks have begun -- well
before the moratorium has expired -- that that will create a
climate in which everybody feels a greater investment in
success,” Obama said.  
 Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman , speaking today
during a visit to Vilnius, Lithuania, said direct talks can
begin “in about September.”  
 More Progress  
 Abbas, who visited Obama at the White House on June 9, says
he wants to see more progress in the indirect talks before going
to the negotiating table with Netanyahu. He has ruled out moving
from the so-called proximity talks to direct negotiations unless
Israel halts all settlement construction in the West Bank.  
 Abbas said during a visit to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia today
that Palestinians are waiting for “a signal from the Israeli
government,” which must agree to stop building settlements and
show willingness to negotiate on a two-state solution, Zuhair
Alshun, the Palestinian ambassador in Ethiopia, said in a phone
interview.  
 The fact that the president suggested that direct talks are
imminent means “he knows something that we don’t,”  Aaron David Miller , a public policy scholar at the Wilson International
Center for Scholars in Washington, said in a telephone
interview.  
 ‘Helpful Atmosphere’  
 “What Obama now understands is that fighting with the
Israelis is inevitable and appropriate if it’s driven by a
strategy that can ultimately make the president, Israel and the
Arabs look good,” said Miller, who was a member of the U.S.
Middle East mediating team under former Presidents  Bill Clinton 
and  George H.W. Bush .  
 Netanyahu’s moratorium, though “riddled with holes,” has
still “created an atmosphere that has been helpful
diplomatically,”  Hussein Ibish , a senior fellow at the
Washington-based American Task Force on Palestine, a group that
advocates for a peaceful end to the Arab-Israeli conflict, said
in a telephone interview.  
 The president described U.S.-Israeli ties as an
“unbreakable” bond and said he had an “excellent” discussion
with Netanyahu.  
 “The U.S. will never ask Israel to take risks that would
undermine its security,” Obama said.  
 Biden Row  
 U.S. officials say that relations between the two countries
have grown closer since March, when Israel’s announcement of an
east Jerusalem housing plan in the midst of a visit by Vice
President  Joe Biden  drew criticism from Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton .  
 “I think we can say with some degree of encouragement that
the relationship between the United States and Israel is back on
track,” Democratic Senator  Joseph Lieberman  said at a press
conference today while visiting Jerusalem.  
 The Israeli prime minister told reporters that he and Obama
“discussed concrete steps” that can be taken immediately and
over the coming days and weeks “to move the peace process
further along.” Netanyahu didn’t offer specifics.  
 Obama referred to them as a “range” of confidence-
building measures that would lead to direct talks. “It’s high
time to begin direct talks,” Netanyahu said.  
 Gaza Operation  
 “Israelis are prepared to do a lot for peace but they want
to make sure” no threat emerges such as the 2007 seizure of the
Gaza Strip by Hamas, Netanyahu said after the meeting with
Obama. The Islamic movement rejects Israel’s right to exist and
fired about 3,200 rockets and mortars into Israel in 2008,
according to the Israeli army. Israel cited the attacks as the
reason for its military offensive in Gaza in December 2008,
which left more than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead.  
 Hamas, classified as a terrorist group by the U.S. and
Israel, continued to fire missiles after the operation. The
number of projectiles fired from Gaza totaled 708 last year and
about 160 so far this year, the army said June 8.  
 Obama and Netanyahu conferred on what they say is the
threat of a nuclear-armed Iran. Netanyahu praised sanctions that
Obama signed into law last week, targeting Iranian gasoline
imports and banking access, as measures that “bite.”  
 Obama also warned that he would fight efforts to focus on
Israel’s atomic program at a Middle East nuclear conference
planned for 2012.  
 “The president emphasized that the conference will only
take place if all countries feel confident that they can attend,
and that any efforts to single out Israel will make the
prospects of convening such a conference unlikely,” the White
House said in a statement issued after the meeting with
Netanyahu.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net 
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Barack Obama and Benjamin Netanyahu  
                       
                         
                           Mark Wilson/Getty Images 
                         
                         Obama has been trying to persuade Netanyahu and Mahmoud Abbas to move beyond the indirect talks they have been conducting through U.S. Middle East envoy George Mitchell and hold face-to-face negotiations. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Obama has been trying to persuade Netanyahu and Mahmoud Abbas to move beyond the indirect talks they have been conducting through U.S. Middle East envoy George Mitchell and hold face-to-face negotiations. Photographer: Mark Wilson/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
