-- Ocado IPO Price Range Gives Web Retailer Market Value of Up to $2 Billion
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-07-06T10:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/ocado-to-net-303-2-million-from-its-july-21-public-offering-company-says.html

          
          
             Ocado Ltd., the money-losing U.K.
online grocer, unveiled a price range for its initial public
offering that will give the company a market value of as much as
1.3 billion pounds ($2 billion).  
 The shares will be priced at 200 pence to 275 pence each,
giving a minimum market capitalization of 1 billion pounds,
according to a term sheet for the sale obtained by Bloomberg
News. The exact price will be determined “on or around” July
21, Hatfield, England-based Ocado said today in a statement.  
 The grocer, founded by three former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. bankers, plans to raise about 200 million pounds in the IPO
to cut debt and buy a new automated warehouse. Ocado hasn’t
reported an operating profit in its 10-year history and is
pressing ahead with the share sale after the postponement or
cancellation of at least 50 global IPOs since April.  
 “Even the bottom end of the IPO range seems pretty
ambitious to us,”  Justin Scarborough , an analyst at RBS, said
in a report. “It has a good model, which should be able to grow
sales, although the exact size and timing of earnings before
interest and tax is going to be under quite a big debate.”  
 Ocado will sell as many as 102.5 million new shares in the
IPO, while existing shareholders will sell up to 155.2 million.  
 At the mid-point of the price range, the company would be
eligible for inclusion in the U.K. FTSE 250 Index.  
 Low Confidence  
 Ocado is Britain’s fourth-largest online food and grocery
retailer after  Tesco Plc , J Sainsbury Plc and Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Asda, according to research company Verdict. The retailer
has said it controls about 14 percent of a market worth about 3
billion pounds a year. It reported a first-half operating loss
of 2.7 million pounds.  
 U.K. consumer confidence  fell to a six-month low in June as
Britons became more pessimistic about the economic outlook in
the face of planned government spending cuts, according to GfK
NOP. An index of consumer sentiment from Nationwide Building
Society fell the most since July 2008 in May.  
 Ocado said last month it sees “significant opportunity”
to expand in non-food products such as baby, health, beauty and
kitchen products and to replicate its business model overseas.  
 The grocer sells around 20,000 products to shoppers mainly
in the south east of the U.K., including ranges from Waitrose
Ltd., the employee-owned supermarket chain whose parent John
Lewis Partnership Plc holds an Ocado stake in its pension fund.  
 Institutional Investors  
 Ocado will offer shares to institutional investors,
employees and customers who have spent more than 300 pounds
shopping with the retailer between Jan. 1 and June 24.  
 The minimum valuation of 1 billion pounds “looks too
high,” even considering a “bull case scenario,” said  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Ambrian in London. “We consider a fair
market valuation to be no more than 500 million pounds.”  
 JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd., UBS AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
are managing Ocado’s share sale, along with Barclays Capital,
HSBC Holdings Plc, as well as Jefferies Group Inc., Lloyds
Banking Group Plc and Numis Securities Ltd.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        