-- Oil Spill, Financial Rules Give Democrats Election-Year Political Opening
-- James Rowley
-- 2010-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/oil-spill-financial-rules-give-democrats-election-year-political-opening.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama , criticizing
oversight of  BP Plc ’s deepwater oil drilling, is using the Gulf
of Mexico spill to help Democrats make an election-year case for
tougher government regulation of business.  
 Obama, seeking to persuade voters that his administration
is moving effectively to contain the spill and help victims, is
attacking Republicans for allowing oil companies to damage the
environment and Wall Street banks to hurt the economy.  
 “For decades, the oil industry has been able to essentially
write its own rules and safety regulations,” Obama said June 30
in Racine, Wisconsin. “On Wall Street, the financial industry
and its lobbyists spent years chipping away at rules and
safeguards that could have prevented the meltdown” of the
economy.  
 The spill and the congressional debate over financial
regulations give Democrats a chance to paint Republicans as too
cozy with big oil and bankers. Democrats want to channel voter
anger over the spill and the economic crunch to stem Republican
gains in the November elections. Republicans reject the notion
that Democrats can score political points from the spill.  
 “It happened on their watch,” said Senator  Judd Gregg  of
New Hampshire.  
 Obama called House Republican Leader  John Boehner  “out of
touch” for comparing financial regulatory legislation, which
passed the House last week, with using a nuclear weapon to
attack an ant.  
 ‘Job-Killing Agenda’  
 In reply, Boehner spokesman  Michael Steel  said Obama should
focus on cleaning up the oil spill and “scrapping his job-
killing agenda.”  
 Democrats are seizing on the oil spill to depict
Republicans as more interested in protecting business than
workers.  
 In Pennsylvania’s U.S. Senate race, Democratic
Representative  Joe Sestak , 58, accused Republican  Pat Toomey  of
advocating oil drilling in Lake Erie, which washes the shores of
the state’s northwest corner.  
 “Pat Toomey cares more about big oil,” the  video  says.
“Even after the BP catastrophe he still wants to put Erie at
risk. He even voted to allow drilling in our Great Lakes.”  
 Sestak is also trying to link Toomey, 49, to Wall Street’s
role in the financial crisis, citing his work as a banker for
Chemical Bank and Morgan, Grenfels from 1984 to 1990.  
 ‘Wall Street Culture’  
 “He was part of the same Wall Street culture that nearly
took down our economy,” said a Pennsylvania Democratic Party
 ad .  
 Toomey’s vote in 2001, when he was a House member, was
against a ban on underwater drilling in lakes and rivers
“across the country,” said campaign spokeswoman Nachama
Soloveichik. Nine other Republicans and Democrats from
Pennsylvania opposed it as well, she said in a telephone
interview.  
 When he was a banker “more than 20 years ago” he dealt
with derivatives “so common and so innocuous they are not even
covered in the current financial regulation bill,” she said.  
 In Kentucky, an ad for Democratic Senate candidate Jack
Conway, 41, featured images of the Gulf oil slick with a
voiceover of Republican candidate  Rand Paul  saying “we need to
restrain government.” Paul, 47, is also heard saying the nation
should “get rid of regulations” on the coal industry and small
business.  
 Changing Attitudes  
 Polls since the spill show environmental protection
overtaking economic growth as a priority for voters.  
 A May 24-25 Gallup  poll  found environmental protection
favored over economic development by 50-43 percent. That’s a
shift since March, when economic development was favored 53-28
percent. In a June 1-3 CBS/New York Times  survey , 51 percent of
voters said offshore drilling is too risky, compared to 40
percent who favored it. Last August, 62 percent of voters
favored offshore drilling to 28 percent.  
 Last month, Texas Republican  Joe Barton , 60, gave Democrats
an opening by apologizing to BP executives for being a victims
of what he called an Obama administration “shakedown” to
create a $20 billion oil-spill damage compensation fund.  
 Boehner, 60, and other House Republican leaders repudiated
Barton’s comment. Still, House Democratic Leader  Steny Hoyer 
said it reflected “a pattern of the Republican Party believing
that regulations and government requirements are not
appropriate.”  
 ‘Big Oil’  
 The  Democratic National Committee  produced an  ad  stating
that apologies like the one Barton made to “big oil” would be
“how Republicans would govern.”  
 Democrats “who want to make hay” over Barton’s comment
“are simply doing so to try and cover up their own failures,”
said Representative  Pete Sessions  of Texas, who chairs the House
Republican campaign effort.  
 The spill gives Democrats a chance to exploit “a distinct
difference” between the parties toward regulation, said
Virginia Democratic Representative  Gerald Connolly .  
 Republicans “lowered those standards, lessened that
protection and, in some cases, abandoned it altogether,” he
said.  
 Republican Representative  Mike Castle , running for Senate
in Delaware, said Democrats “can try to make an issue” of the
consequences of deregulation “but they may be stymied by the
fact that they were supportive as well.”  
 Not all Democrats say the strategy will work, either.  
 “Republicans are trying to use it to show Democratic
incompetence” and “Democrats clearly see this as an example
that big business has been trumping environmental policy and
fiscal policy for too long,” said New York Democrat  Anthony Weiner . “You can see either one of us overplaying our hand.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama is attacking Republicans for allowing oil companies to damage the environment. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Republican Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the outlook for passage of the U.S. financial-regulatory bill, approved by the House of Representatives yesterday.
     Sixty votes are needed in the Senate to move the merged bill toward final passage. Democrats need to retain votes from at least two of the four Republican senators who voted for the bill. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- David Boies, a partner at Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP, discusses the Obama administration's handling of BP Plc's oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico and the possibility that a drilling moratorium may be reinstated by the government. Boies talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Fred McCallister, a vice president at Allegiance Capital Corp., talks about the need to waive the Jones Act, a 90-year-old maritime law that bars foreign ships from transporting goods between U.S. ports, to help fight the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     McCallister speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
