-- Money Rate Climbs in China as Agricultural Bank Sells Shares to Investors
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-06T09:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/money-rate-climbs-in-china-as-agricultural-bank-sells-shares-to-investors.html

          
          
             China’s money-market rate climbed for
the first time in three days on speculation Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd.’s sale of shares will drain liquidity in the
financial system.  
 Agricultural Bank, the country’s largest lender by
customers, plans to raise as much as $20.1 billion by selling
stock in Shanghai and Hong Kong. It started offering shares
online to both individual and institutional investors today.
Industrial Securities Co. estimated in a report today as much as
500 billion yuan ($73.8 billion) will be locked up during the
online subscription period.  
 “The increasing demand for cash is caused by the online
subscription of AgriBank’s shares,” said  Chen Liang , a bond
analyst at Guohai Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “After investors
who fail to secure full allocations of stock receive their funds
back on July 9, the seven-day repo rate will drop to about 2.3
percent.”  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 19 basis points to 2.69 percent as of
the 4:30 p.m. close in Shanghai, according to the National
Interbank Funding Center. Yesterday’s close of 2.50 percent was
the lowest since June 10.  
 The  People’s Bank of China  kept the  yield  on one-year bills
at 2.0929 percent at a sale today, unchanged for a fourth week,
according to a statement on the central bank’s website. China
should focus on stable foreign trade growth to strengthen the
economy, Xinhua news agency cited Vice Premier Wang Qishan as
saying in a meeting yesterday.  
 “The stable bill yield shows the authorities are taking a
wait and see approach,” said Guohai’s Chen. “The rate may stay
stable till August.”  
 Weaker Yuan  
 The yuan weakened 0.06 percent to 6.7801 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It’s
appreciated 0.7 percent since a two-year currency peg was
relaxed on June 19. The central bank set the reference rate at
6.7790, 0.08 percent weaker than yesterday’s.  
 “The yuan’s spot rate is simply following the fixing
today,” said  Guan Jiaying , an analyst in Beijing at China Citic
Bank Co., a unit of China’s biggest state investment company.  
 Government bonds rose on optimism the central bank will
refrain from pulling money from the interbank market to sustain
expansion in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 Risks to Growth  
 Premier Wen Jiabao said over the weekend the government
faces increasing “dilemmas” as the impact of the global
financial crisis is more severe than expected. He pledged to
maintain continuity in setting policy amid “very complicated”
situations at home and abroad.  
 “The market believes the central bank will ensure ample
liquidity as economic growth faces risks of a slowdown,” said
 Tang Guohui , a bond analyst at Industrial Securities Co. in
Shanghai.  
 The yield on the 3.25 percent note due May 2020 declined
three basis points to 3.22 percent, and the price of the
security gained 0.25 per 100 yuan face amount to 100.29,
according to the China Interbank Bond Market. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
 -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan ,  Simon Harvey   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Andy Mantel, founder and managing director of Pacific Sun Investment Management Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
      Mantel, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering in Shanghai and Hong Kong, and the outlook for China's banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
