-- Hong Kong's Equities Rise; Developers Gain on Poly Sales, Chalco Advances
-- Ronnie Koo
-- 2010-07-06T08:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/hong-kong-stocks-fluctuate-electrical-power-generators-gain-hsbc-slides.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks  rose, halting four
days of losses, as Chinese developers gained after reporting
higher sales, and after Central Huijin Investment Ltd. agreed to
take up a Bank of China Ltd. rights offer.  
 China Resources Land Ltd. , a state-controlled developer,
advanced 3.5 percent. Poly (Hong Kong) Investment Ltd. surged
4.3 percent after the mainland developer said contracted sales
in the first half rose. Bank of China, the nation’s third-
largest bank by market value, climbed 1.8 percent.  Aluminum Corp.
of China Ltd.  jumped 4.9 percent after saying it extended the
deadline for a planned sale of yuan-denominated shares. The
stock’s 30 percent drop this year made it the second-worst
performer on the Hang Seng Index.  
 The  Hang Seng Index  climbed 1.2 percent to close at
20,084.12, rebounding from its longest losing streak in two
months. The gauge, which swung between gains and losses at least
11 times, declined as much as 0.3 percent today.  
 “For the longer term, valuations are cheaper with the
index down so much all this while,” said  Khiem Do , Hong Kong-
based head of multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management
(Asia) Ltd., which oversees $10 billion. “China is a growing
region, and its companies have balance sheets strong enough to
support stock prices eventually.”  
 Shares on the benchmark measure are priced at an average
 13.3 times  estimated earnings, down from 18 times on Nov. 16,
when the index hit its high for 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  
 The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares
of Chinese companies increased 2.4 percent to 11,456.42, halting
a nine-day, 7.8 percent drop.  
 Developers Rising  
 China Resources Land advanced 3.5 percent to HK$14.86,
halting a four-day, 7 percent slump.  China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd. , controlled by the nation’s construction
ministry, rose 3 percent to HK$14.92.  
 Poly  gained 4.3 percent to HK$8.07. The company said
yesterday contracted sales in the first half rose 24 percent
from a year earlier to 4.7 billion yuan ($694 million).  
 Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. , a developer with
properties from Shanghai to Harbin, climbed 1.8 percent to
HK$2.24. The company’s contracted sales rose 34 percent to 4.2
billion yuan in the first half, the Standard reported, citing
Chief Executive Officer Cheng Lixiong.  
 Bank of China  advanced 1.8 percent to HK$3.99. The bank
said its controlling shareholder, Central Huijin, will take up
its full entitlement in the forthcoming rights offer.  
 Chalco Placement  
 Chalco, as China’s biggest producer of aluminum is known,
advanced 4.9 percent to HK$5.99, the sharpest gain on the Hang
Seng Index. The deadline for the share sale in China would be
pushed back by a year from Aug. 23, the company said. Chalco had
earlier won approval from the China Securities Regulatory
Commission to sell as many as 1 billion shares.  
 Shares declined earlier as growth in Europe’s services and
manufacturing industries slowed, heightening concerns that a
global recovery may falter. The  Hang Seng Index  has dropped 8.2
percent this year as worries about budget deficits in Europe and
tighter monetary policy in China dented confidence in the
strength of the global economy.  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
lender by customers, will likely price shares today in an
initial public offering that may raise as much as $20.1 billion,
two people with knowledge of the matter said. The IPO could
potentially be the largest ever.  
 “Agricultural Bank of China’s IPO might have absorbed much
liquidity,” said  Danny Yan , a portfolio manager at Taifook
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $400 million.  
 Xtep International Holdings Ltd., a sportswear maker,
slumped 5.7 percent to HK$5.68 after UBS AG cut its rating on
the stock to “neutral” from “buy.”  
 Futures on the Hang Seng Index gained 1.3 percent to 20,028.
More than seven stocks advanced for each that fell among the
measure’s 43 constituents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        