-- Monsanto Loses EU Court Challenge Over Imports of Soy Meal From Argentina
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-06T17:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/monsanto-loses-eu-court-challenge-in-bid-to-halt-argentinean-soy-imports.html

          
          
             Monsanto Co. , the world’s biggest
seed company, can’t use a European patent on its Roundup Ready
soybeans to block Argentinean soy meal imports, the European
Union’s highest court said.  
 The ruling by the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg
follows Monsanto’s decision last month to withdraw a Dutch suit
that triggered the EU court case. Today’s decision is binding
across the 27 EU nations and can’t be appealed.  
 “Monsanto cannot prohibit the marketing in the EU of soy
meal containing, in a residual state, a DNA sequence,” it
patented, the EU court said today.  
 Monsanto said last week its decision to settle the Dutch
dispute was prompted by a preliminary opinion in March. The EU
court today agreed with the non-binding decision of its Advocate
General  Paolo Mengozzi  that the European  patent  for the trait
that makes soybeans resistant to the company’s Roundup herbicide
doesn’t extend to soy meal made from the patented seeds.  
 “This is another blow to Monsanto, which is the more
painful as it probably thought it was off the hook after having
settled the Dutch case,” said  Stijn Debaene , a partner at Field
Fisher Waterhouse LLP in Brussels. “Monsanto cannot invoke its
patent rights to enjoin someone from importing or using
materials containing residues of Monsanto’s patented genetic
information.”  
 43 Million Acres  
 Argentine growers planted about 43 million acres of
soybeans containing Monsanto’s Roundup Ready trait last year,
making the country the company’s second-biggest soybean market
after the U.S., according to a  Monsanto report . About 95 percent
of soybeans grown in Argentina contain Monsanto’s Roundup Ready
trait,  Jim Tobin , the company’s vice president of industry
affairs said in July.  
 “The case itself has already been settled between the two
parties and this move in no way affects the outcome,” St.
Louis-based Monsanto said in an e-mailed statement. “This
ruling has only a limited meaning for the patent involved.
Overall patent protection of Monsanto’s Roundup Ready Soybean is
not at issue.”  
 Monsanto said Argentina is “the correct place for a
resolution in these matters” and it will continue to work on a
fair solution.  
 Shares of the company  fell  $1.39, or 3 percent, to $45.15
at 12:57 p.m. New York time. The shares have fallen 45 percent
so far this year.  
 A Dutch court on June 23  granted  Monsanto’s request to
withdraw its lawsuit against Cefetra Ltd. and Alfred C. Toepfer
International. Toepfer is a unit of Archer Daniels Midland Co.  
 Cefetra’s Position  
 The decision “is exactly in line with the position as
advocated by Cefetra,” said John Allen, who represented Cefetra
before the EU court. “It takes into account the circumstances
of the case and still leaves room for a fair biotech patent
protection in Europe.”  
 During 2005 and 2006, Monsanto had shipments of soy meal
from Argentina impounded in Amsterdam. Tests showed they
contained some of the patented seed traits and Monsanto sued the
importers for infringement. A court in The Hague sought the EU
tribunal’s guidance on the case in 2008.  
 While Monsanto had argued the patented trait in the
soybeans remains under its protection after the beans have been
processed into meal, the importers argued the patent’s scope
isn’t that wide under EU  biotechnology  rules.  
 The EU court case is C-428/08 Monsanto Technology LLC v.
Cefetra BV, Cefetra Feed Service BV, Cefetra Futures BV and
State of Argentina and Monsanto Technology LLC v. Vopak Agencies
Rotterdam BV and Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        