-- Toronto Blackout Coincides With Extreme Heat Alert as Temperatures Soar
-- Colin McClelland
-- 2010-07-06T18:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/toronto-blackout-coincides-with-extreme-heat-alert-as-temperatures-soar.html

          
          
             Provincial engineers are
investigating a transformer fire that blacked out about a third
of Canada’s largest city for up to four hours yesterday as a
heat wave struck the U.S. Northeast and Canada.  
 The outage at about 4:45 p.m. in the city’s west end
darkened parts of  downtown  and west Toronto, affecting about
250,000 people, said Hydro One, the government agency that
oversees Ontario’s power distribution network.  
 Power was restored by 8:25 p.m. and an investigation to
determine the cause of the outage was underway, the agency said.  
 “Our engineers and our staff will investigate to see what
happened with our equipment,” said Daniele Gauvin, a spokeswoman
at Hydro One.  
 Gauvin couldn’t say whether hot weather, power demand or
aging equipment contributed to the blackout. Demand was not a
factor in the outage, according to Ontario’s Independent
Electricity System Operator (IESO).  
 “We’re not relying on imports to meet demand,” said
Alexandra Campbell, a spokeswoman for the system operator. “We
have enough generation in Ontario to meet demand every day
through this hot spell.”  
 Toronto’s Medical Officer of Health issued an extreme heat
 alert  yesterday when temperatures soared to 34 degrees Celsius
(93 degrees Fahrenheit), making it the hottest day in three
years. Temperatures were  forecast  to remain at about that level
until July 9, Environment Canada, the national weather agency,
reported.  
 Heat Alert  
 The alert is to stay in effect until further notice, the
city of Toronto said on its  website .  
 The blackout knocked out part of a west end subway line,
slowed road traffic without stoplights and darkened an event led
by the U.K. Prince Philip, who was visiting the city with Queen
Elizabeth, Canada’s ceremonial head of state.  
 Some high rises in the downtown financial district
switched to backup generators while elsewhere firefighters
rescued people stuck in 50 elevators, said Captain Mike Strapko
of Toronto  Fire  Services.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 mcclelland1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        