-- Pakistan Pays Price for Afghan War Cargo Amid Taliban Attacks
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-07-07T04:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/pakistan-pays-price-for-hauling-afghan-war-cargo-as-taliban-shuts-highway.html

          
          
             Hundreds of trucks and buses leave
the main highway in northwest Pakistan each evening at sunset to
wait out the overnight closure of a strategic tunnel. Taliban
attacks there are raising the cost of supplying U.S. troops in
Afghanistan and hurting the local economy.  
 As darkness falls, the drivers smoke, chat or doze on the
dusty earth of a roadside camp 70 kilometers (43 miles) from the
border. Since 2002, militants in Pakistan have killed about 120
local drivers hauling war supplies from the country’s main
seaport, Karachi, to bases in Afghanistan.  
 “I have seen my colleagues’ trucks burned,” said Bakhta
Gul Jan as he drove his flatbed truck from the Kohat Tunnel
toward the main border crossing at northwestern Pakistan’s
Khyber Pass. “Six months ago I received a flyer printed by
militants warning us to stop driving supplies for NATO because
they are the enemy of Islam.”  
 Jan declined to name his hometown for fear of being
identified by the Taliban, who have attacked the tunnel and
blown up bridges on the 1,250-kilometer  Indus Highway , the main
artery linking southern and northwestern Pakistan.  
 The militants’ war on supply convoys for U.S.-led  NATO 
forces has raised the military’s shipping costs, partly by
forcing the use of alternate routes through Central Asia at what
the U.S. military’s  Transportation Command  says is 2½ times the
cost of shipping through Pakistan.  
 War and Power  
 The violence and road closures -- which also affect
commercial shipments -- are the latest blow to a local economy
wracked by war and a national power shortage.  
 Almost 80 percent of factories in the ethnic Pashtun
northwest -- mostly stone processing plants and flour or textile
mills -- have closed during the eight-year war, said Riaz Arshad,
president of the  Sarhad Chamber of Commerce  in Peshawar, the
capital of  Khyber-Pakhtunwha  province.  
 While the U.S. government  has committed $750 million  in aid
to boost development in the northwest and undermine the Taliban,
“our industrial units are closing and moving,” Arshad said by
phone. “Two-thirds of our population is less than 24 years old,
which is normally a positive. But with no jobs here, it is as
dangerous for us as a nuclear bomb.”  
 The two-lane highway, which for most of the Afghan war
carried 75 percent of U.S. troops’ food, uniforms and vehicles,
was designed in the 1980s to pull investment and trade into a
region where isolation and poverty fuel extremist growth.  
 Rates Doubled  
 Drivers say rising violence and fuel costs since 2006 have
forced them to double the rates they charge for the run to
Afghanistan. That increase, plus the new Central Asian supply
lines and other logistical challenges, bring the war’s cost to
almost $1.2 million annually per soldier, 73 percent more than
the $685,000 cost of a soldier in Iraq, according to a June 29
 analysis  by the Washington-based  Center for Strategic and
Budgetary Assessments .  
 As the U.S. sends 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan this
year, military supply shipments have increased by 13 percent
over early 2009, according to figures e-mailed by  Transportation
Command  spokeswoman Cynthia Bauer at Scott Air Force Base in
Illinois.  
 Largely by using local Pashtun truckers, who dominate
Pakistan’s transport industry and come from the same ethnic
group as the Taliban, the U.S. military has kept its losses on
Pakistani roads to less than 1 percent of cargo, Bauer said.
Still, markets outside Peshawar offer U.S. Army uniforms,
binoculars and cots. In 2008, Taliban hijacked a U.S. convoy
that contained Army Humvees and paraded in the infantry vehicles
for Pakistani television.  
 ‘Lethal and Sensitive’  
 The Transportation Command flies 20 percent of war supplies,
including “all lethal and sensitive cargo,” directly to
Afghanistan, Bauer said. And it sends the equivalent of 28,000
standard shipping  containers  monthly, enough to fill two of the
world’s largest container ships, by sea and land.  
 Half of all war supplies to Afghanistan pass through
Pakistan, the Transportation Command says, at a rate of 580
truckloads per day, its figures show.  
 Truckers have raised their rates to $2,470 from $1,100 four
years ago for the 1,750-kilometer drive to Bagram air base north
of Kabul from Pakistan’s port of Karachi, said Himayat Shah,
general secretary of the All-Pakistan Combined Trucks and
Trailers Welfare Association.  
 Punjab Detour  
 Since the Pakistan  supply route  opened in 2002, militants
have killed between 120 and 150 truckers for hauling U.S.
military supplies, Shah said in an interview at his office in
Karachi, the Arabian Sea port to which the Defense Department
ships goods to be trucked to its Afghan bases.  
 “We have lost anywhere between 5,000 and 6,000 trucks and
oil tankers,” he said.  
 To avoid attacks, many drivers now detour hundreds of
kilometers around the Taliban-dominated Pashtun lands, driving
northeast through Punjab province instead. Last month, the
militants hit that route, too, killing eight people and
destroying at least 50 trucks with U.S. military shipping
containers that were stopped for the night at a depot outside
Islamabad, the capital.  
 Despite such dangers, Jan, the truck driver, says northwest
Pakistan’s unemployment keeps him hauling U.S. supplies.  
 “I have seven children, and this is the only good business
I can get to make the money to take care of them,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anwar Shakir  in Peshawar, Pakistan at 
 Ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Women in burquas pass in front of trucks carrying supplies to N.A.T.O. troops in Afghanistan on the Kohat-Peshawar road in Peshawar, Pakistan. Photographer: Asad Zaidi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pakistani truck drivers cover a military vehicle, destined for N.A.T.O. troops in Afghanistan. Photographer: Asad Zaidi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
