-- Patterson-UTI to Buy Key Energy Units to Add Capacity in Shale Formations
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-06T13:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/patterson-uti-to-buy-key-energy-units-to-add-capacity-in-shale-formations.html

          
          
             Patterson-UTI Energy Inc. , owner of
about 350 oil and gas rigs in the U.S., agreed to buy units from
Key Energy Services Inc. for $237.7 million in cash, more than
doubling its ability to get petroleum from shale.  
 The purchase, expected to close in September, includes
pumps and related equipment that will expand fracturing
capacity, including additions in the Barnett Shale, Permian
Basin and Eagle Ford in Texas, Patterson-UTI said today in a
statement. Both companies are based in Houston.  
 Hydraulic fracturing unlocks gas and oil deposits in shale
and other dense rock formations using water, sand and chemicals.
The method has driven gains in output and increased the amount
of U.S. gas that may be available, according to the Potential
Gas Committee.  
 “In addition to the geographic expansion, the acquired
businesses provide strong operating personnel, as well as high
quality equipment,” Patterson-UTI Chief Executive Officer
 Douglas J. Wall  said in the statement. The deal also includes a
so-called “wireline” business that inspects well holes.  
 Payment will be from cash on hand. The company also has a
$250 million bank line for the acquisition, available through
Oct. 30 and to be repaid within a year, Patterson-UTI said. It
is also considering long-term financing for the purchase.  
 Key, in a separate statement, said it will be reinvest cash
from the sale in businesses it’s keeping, such as coiled-tubing
service used in well drilling and maintenance.  
 Operating Income  
 Operating income from the units was $2.5 million on $50.9
million of revenue in the quarter ended March 31, Key said. The
units lost $72.9 million on $123 million of revenue last year.  
 Patterson-UTI rose 36 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $13.30 at
9:30 a.m. in Nasdaq trading. The shares have fallen 12 percent
this year.  
 Key Energy, which was advised by Tudor Pickering Holt &
Co., rose 19 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $9.32 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. It has risen 6.5 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        