-- Persimmon Jumps Most in Two Months as Higher Prices Lift Revenue, Margins
-- Tim Barwell
-- 2010-07-06T16:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/persimmon-shares-jump-as-higher-prices-lift-homebuilder-s-revenue-margins.html

          
          
             Persimmon Plc , the U.K.’s biggest
homebuilder by market value, rose the most in almost two months
in London trading after first-half sales jumped 26 percent and
its profit margin widened more than some analysts expected.  
 Persimmon climbed 6.2 percent to 370.2 pence, the biggest
gain since May 10. Taylor Wimpey Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest
homebuilder by volume, rose 6.7 percent and Barratt Developments
Plc gained 5.3 percent.  
 Revenue in the first six months rose to 785 million pounds
($1.2 billion), York, England-based Persimmon said in a
statement today, without giving the year-earlier figure. The
operating profit margin widened to 7.5 percent from 1.5 percent
before one-time gains and losses.  
 “Persimmon is in good shape,” said  Imran Akram , an
analyst at Collins Stewart in London with a “buy”
recommendation on the stock. “It has fixed its own debt
problems through cash generation, the balance sheet is
conservative and the shares are well off their highs. It looks
very attractive here.”  
 Britain’s housing market has recovered from a slump that
reduced values by a fifth. House prices rose for a fourth month
in June to a two-year high as the market showed “broad
stability,” Nationwide Building Society said June 30. Mortgage
approvals still remain at about half the level during the
housing boom in 2007 and prices are 8.6 percent below the peak.  
 Charlie Campbell , an analyst at Liberum Capital in London,
had expected a profit margin at Persimmon of 4.7 percent.  
 Less Debt  
 Persimmon’s debt amounted to about 122 million pounds as of
June 30, down from 494 million pounds a year earlier. The
average selling price increased 8 percent to 168,500 pounds,
mainly because the company sold more expensive houses.  
 “We’re very happy with our debt level, we’re getting good
cash flow from the business,” Chief Executive Officer  Mike Farley  said in an interview. Prices are unlikely to increase
during the rest of the year as the new coalition government
implements spending cuts to reduce Britain’s record budget
deficit, Farley said.  
 Persimmon bought about 4,000 plots of land in the period
and agreed to terms on a further 3,500. It will “wait and see”
before committing to further purchases, Farley said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Barwell  in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        