-- Petropavlovsk Said to Plan $500 Million Hong Kong IPO of Metals Business
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-07-06T16:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/petropavlovsk-said-to-plan-500-million-hong-kong-ipo-of-metals-business.html

          
          
             Petropavlovsk Plc , Russia’s third-
largest gold producer, plans to list its non-precious metals
unit in a Hong Kong stock sale that may raise about $500
million, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  
 The company hired Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch &
Co. and UBS AG to manage the initial public offering, the people
said, declining to be identified because the information is
private. The London-listed miner filed an application in Hong
Kong last month.  
 Petropavlovsk joins commodity producers including United
Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum maker, in seeking funds
in Hong Kong as Chinese raw-material demand jumps. Petropavlovsk
aims to boost the value of newly acquired iron-ore assets,
valued by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. at $1 billion in March.  
 The company is developing the Russian iron-ore deposits it
acquired in April 2009 as part of its 294.5 million-pound ($447
million) purchase of Aricom Plc. Petropavlovsk plans to sell its
iron ore to China, given the mines’ proximity to the Chinese
border and rising demand for the steelmaking ingredient in the
nation, Chief Investment Officer  Jay Hambro  said last month.  
 David Simonson, a London-based spokesman for Petropavlovsk,
declined to comment. UBS and Merrill Lynch also declined to
comment.  
 Petropavlovsk  rose 4.3 percent to close at 1,192 pence in
London trading, the biggest gain since May 26, giving the
company a market value of 2.2 billion pounds.  
 Rusal Share Sale  
 Rusal, based in Moscow, raised net proceeds of HK$16.7
billion ($2.1 billion) in January in Hong Kong to pare debt.
China is the world’s largest buyer of iron ore and metals.  
 Petropavlovsk agreed in March to a loan of about $400
million from Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. to fund
the first stage of its K&S  iron ore project  in Russia’s Amur
region. The mine will produce 3.2 million metric tons of iron-
ore concentrate a year starting in 2013.  
 Production from its Kuranakh mine will be sold to China’s
Jianlong Iron & Steel Group, Hambro has said. The company plans
to build a third mine at its Garinskoye deposit.  
 The Asia Resources Fund in Hong Kong is investing $60
million in Petropavlovsk’s iron ore operations, valuing the
division at $860 million, the miner said in June.  
 Petropavlovsk posted a sixfold increase in profit last year
on increased output and higher gold prices. Net income rose to
$143.2 million, from $22 million in 2008. It produced 486,800
ounces of gold last year and is targeting annual output of more
than 1 million ounces in 2013.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 Fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        