-- Peugeot Said to Consider Reviving Indian Factory Plan
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-07-07T17:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/peugeot-said-to-consider-revival-of-indian-plant-investment-on-car-demand.html

          
          
             PSA Peugeot Citroen , France’s
biggest automaker, may revive a plan to build a car plant in
India to tap surging  local demand , according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  
 Peugeot may spend about 700 million euros ($882 million)
on the factory with annual production capacity of 100,000 cars
in the southern state of  Andhra Pradesh , said the person, who
asked not be identified because the discussions are
confidential. Peugeot executives intend to meet this month to
decide on the project, before seeking approval from the Paris-
based  carmaker ’s board and starting negotiations with the state
government, the person said.  
 An investment, at a time when rising disposable incomes
are boosting demand for cars in the world’s third-fastest
growing major economy, would mark  Peugeot ’s re-entry to India
more than a decade after the carmaker exited a local venture.
Rival  Renault SA  will resume selling cars in India next year
from a factory it’s building in the southern city of Chennai.  
 “There is enough space for manufacturers to grow as the
Indian economy expands and aspirations rise,” said Ammar
Master, a Bangkok-based analyst at J.D. Power & Associates.
“It is a good thing if PSA enters the market, as it’s the last
major global automaker left to come to India.”  
 Nissan, Toyota  
 Peugeot is studying opportunities in India, said  Pierre- Olivier Salmon , a spokesman in Paris. There is no decision on
India and no timetable for a decision, he said. Busi Sam Bob,
an official in charge of the Andhra Pradesh government’s
industry  department , couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 Peugeot may raise funds for the project from French banks,
the person said.  
 Under Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Varin , Peugeot is
pushing to expand overseas and reduce dependence on western
Europe, which accounts for about three-quarters of revenue.  
 The share of Peugeot Citroen’s sales volume from outside
Europe rose to 36 percent in the first half from 34 percent a
year earlier, the company said today. Total deliveries jumped
17 percent in the period.  
 Peugeot has concluded talks on a planned joint venture
with China Changan Automotive Group Co., building on its
existing partnership in the country with Dongfeng Motor Group
Co., and will announce details on July 9, sales chief  Jean-Marc Gales  told reporters today in Paris.  
 Third Brand  
 The French carmaker may also make a low-cost model to its
global lineup and start a third brand under a strategy still
being discussed, Gales said. The inexpensive vehicle would go
on sale first in emerging markets before being extended to
Europe later, Gales said.  
 “If we introduce a vehicle that’s really low-cost it will
necessarily be with another brand and through another
distribution network,” he said.  
 Peugeot’s Indian expansion plan may intensify competition
in Asia’s third-largest passenger car market, where  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd.  dominates with a 50 percent share.  Toyota
Motor Corp.  and Nissan Motor Co. are introducing new models in
the nation as car sales expanded at the fastest pace in six
years in the 12 months ended in March.  
 Premier Automobile  
 Automakers including Toyota and  Volkswagen AG  announced
plans to spend more than $6 billion to expand in India, where
sales may reach 3 million units by 2015, according to a
forecast by the government. Toyota said yesterday that it will
spend 5 billion rupees ($106 million) on a facility at its
local unit to build engines and transmissions for the new Etios
model that will debut later this year.  
 Peugeot  rose  64 cents, or 3 percent, to 22.20 euros in
Paris trading, valuing the carmaker at about 5.2 billion euros.
That was the second-best performance today on the 11-stock
 Bloomberg EMEA Auto Manufacturers Index , which gained 1.2
percent.  
 Peugeot decided to exit its Indian venture in 1997 after
losses mounted and local partner Premier Automobile Ltd. linked
up with  Fiat SpA  of Italy. Peugeot and Premier had a 32 percent
stake each in the company, PAL-Peugeot Ltd., that built the 309
model. Renault pulled out of a partnership with Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd., India’s biggest sport-utility maker, in April
after sales of the Logan car plunged.  
 Peugeot Citroen Executive Vice President  Gregoire Olivier 
said on March 2 that the carmaker shelved its plans for India
as it held negotiations with Mitsubishi Motors Corp. about a
share swap. The talks were broken off later that month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Peugeot said to consider reviving Indian factory plan  
                       
                         
                           Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Under Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin, Peugeot is pushing to expand overseas and reduce dependence on Western Europe. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Under Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin, Peugeot is pushing to expand overseas and reduce dependence on Western Europe. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
