-- Philippine Inflation Slows, Giving Room to Keep Record-Low Interest Rates
-- Francisco Alcuaz Jr.
-- 2010-07-06T02:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/philippine-inflation-slows-giving-room-to-keep-record-low-interest-rates.html

          
          
             Philippine inflation slowed for a
second month in June, giving the central bank room to keep its
key interest rate at a record low to help President Benigno
Aquino boost economic growth.  
 Consumer prices rose 3.9 percent from a year earlier,
easing from 4.3 percent in May, National Statistics Office said
today in Manila. The  median estimate  of 12 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News was for a 4.3 percent gain.  
 The central bank has “flexibility” ahead of a monetary
policy meeting next week and inflation targets for 2010 and
2011 are “fairly safe,” Governor  Amando Tetangco  said after
the report. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has kept its  benchmark
rate  at 4 percent since July 2009.  
 “Fuel, food inflation was relatively moderate in the
month of June,”  Edward Teather , an economist at UBS AG in
Singapore, said before the figures were released. “There isn’t
a great deal of pressure on the central bank to really push
interest rates up. I think you may see one or two tentative
adjustments before the end of the year.”  
 The previous government predicted 5 percent to 6 percent
 growth  this year, from 1.1 percent in 2009, after reporting a
first-quarter expansion of 7.3 percent. Aquino, who took office
last week, has called the first-quarter pace a “flash in the
pan” while pledging to attract investment to reduce
unemployment.  
 Negative News Abates  
 “Negative news from Europe seems to have abated,
translating in reduced volatilities in the commodity and
foreign-exchange markets,” Tetangco said in a mobile phone
message today. “Nevertheless, we will have to be watchful of
demand conditions on the domestic front as well as official
action from the major central banks to see if any changes need
to be made on the current policy stance,” he said.  
 Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said last week that “it’s
not yet time” to raise the rate because the peso’s strength
and falling crude oil prices are helping keep inflation within
the bank’s 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent target.  
 Low rates would also make it cheaper for the government to
finance its budget  deficit , which the previous administration
said would be little changed from last year’s 298.5 billion
peso ($6.4 billion) record.  
 The government may sell an initial 20 billion pesos to 30
billion pesos of bonds targeted at individual investors this
quarter, Deputy Treasurer  Eduardo Mendiola  said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . in Manila at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net 
 Max Estayo  in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        