-- Porsche's New CEO Faces First Test With Smaller Boxster
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-07-07T16:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/porsche-new-ceo-mueller-faces-first-test-with-smaller-boxster-sports-cars.html

          
          
             Matthias Mueller , the new  Porsche AG 
chief executive officer tasked with reviving the luxury-car
maker’s vehicle lineup, faces his first test with the
introduction of a new line of smaller Boxster roadsters.  
 Mueller, 57, will replace  Michael Macht , who is promoted to
become  Volkswagen AG ’s production chief to succeed  Jochem Heizmann  starting Oct. 1, the carmakers said yesterday. Mueller
led product management at VW’s Audi luxury brand for four years
through 2007 before moving to the parent company.  
 Deliveries of the Boxster and Cayman mid-engine sports cars
fell 12 percent to 7,630 in the first nine months, or less than
half of Porsche’s best-selling Cayenne model. To arrest the
drop, Porsche in February introduced the 53,100-euro ($67,000)
 Boxster Spyder , which features a 3.4 liter-six-cylinder engine
and is designed to be driven with its textile roof down.  
 “We have to make progress with Porsche,” VW CEO  Martin Winterkorn  told reporters late yesterday at an event near
Munich. “Mueller is the right person to deliver it. He has
excellent ideas and a very clear concept of how new products
have to be brought in line.”  
 Mueller’s appointment also underscores Winterkorn’s push to
complete a merger with the sports-car maker next year.
 Volkswagen , which aims to surpass  Toyota Motor Corp.  in
deliveries and profitability by 2018, is taking over Stuttgart,
Germany-based Porsche SE’s carmaking operations as the companies
build on a partnership that includes sharing vehicle platforms.  
 New Cayenne  
 Porsche  wants to expand its four-model lineup to double
sales in the medium term to 150,000 cars and SUVs. Deliveries in
the nine months through April declined 0.1 percent to 53,605
vehicles. Full-year sales may still exceed the 75,238 deliveries
of fiscal 2009 as a new version of the Cayenne SUV, its best-
selling model, and a six-cylinder Panamera car reach showrooms,
the company said June 18.  
 The Cayenne shares its chassis and major parts with
 Volkswagen ’s Touareg and the Q7 SUV made by Audi. Volkswagen
also makes the Panamera’s body.  
 “Mueller was very successful at Audi, which entered new
niches when he was responsible for product strategy,” said
 Daniel Schwarz , an analyst in Frankfurt at Commerzbank AG with a
“hold” recommendation on  Porsche  and a “buy” on  Volkswagen .
“He can now apply that to Porsche.”  
 70 Models  
 Volkswagen’s preferred shares  fell  14 cents, or 0.2
percent, to 71.24 euros in Frankfurt trading. Porsche  added  93
cents, or 2.7 percent, to 35.88 euros.  
 VW, Europe’s largest carmaker, increased first-half sales
by 15 percent to more than 3.5 million cars and sport-utility
vehicles worldwide, Winterkorn said yesterday. Deliveries of VW
brand cars exceeded 2 million, he said.  
 By the end of 2010, VW group will have introduced 70 new
models, facelifts or revamps worldwide, including about 30 for
the VW brand, Winterkorn said.  
 “We will clearly perform better than the overall market,
which may grow about 5 percent this year and set another strong
record on sales,” he said. “We’re on a good growth path in
Brazil, China and India.”  
 The Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker will build its 10th
plant in China as part of a plan to double production capacity
in its biggest market to 3 million vehicles within four years.  
 Volkswagen plans to invest as much as $1 billion in Mexico
over the next three years, including a new engine factory,
Heizmann said yesterday at a VW plant near Puebla, Mexico.  
 U.S. Successor  
 VW is negotiating with U.S. chief  Stefan Jacoby  over terms
of his departure before he may take over as CEO at Volvo Cars,
people familiar with the matter said June 25.  
 “We have very surprisingly lost Stefan Jacoby,”
Winterkorn said. “Volkswagen of America is a very attractive
brand and we will present a successor in the nearest future.”  
 VW showed a new version of the Sharan family van at the
event in southern Germany yesterday. The model, the Sharan’s
first revamp since its introduction in 1995, will be longer and
have a wider wheelbase. The vehicle, priced starting at 28,875
euros, will reach showrooms on Sept. 3.  
 Frank Tuch, a former Porsche executive, will join VW as
group quality chief starting Aug. 1, Winterkorn said.  
 Macht, 49, spent a decade running Porsche’s production
before he was promoted to oversee the carmaking division when
CEO  Wendelin Wiedeking  quit following the collapse of plans to
take over VW. Winterkorn is now also CEO of Porsche SE, the
sports-car maker’s holding company. VW owns 49.9 percent of the
Porsche AG auto-manufacturing unit in a first step toward the
companies’ merger.  
 Capital Increase  
 Porsche SE will proceed with a planned capital increase in
the first half of 2011, Winterkorn said. VW still aims to
complete the integration next year in spite of legal challenges
by some hedge funds in the U.S., the CEO said.  
 Heizmann, 58, will run a new unit overseeing VW’s truck
holdings. He has been a member of Volkswagen’s executive board
since February 2007. His new role will be to tighten cooperation
between truckmakers  Scania AB  and  MAN SE , people familiar with
the matter said in April.  
 Volkswagen holds 71 percent of the voting rights in
Soedertaelje, Sweden-based Scania and is the biggest shareholder
in Munich-based  MAN  with a 29.9 percent stake.  
 “These are two very attractive brands. We also have a
timetable,” Winterkorn said, declining to give details. “We
have very concrete steps in mind on how to foster the
integration of MAN and Scania.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Porsche Boxster Spyder automobile. Source: Porsche SE via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Volkswagen AG have appointed Matthias Mueller as CEO of Porsche AG. Source: VW AG via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Porsche CEO Michael Macht who will succeed Jochem Heizmann as Volkswagen's production chief. Photographer: Adrian Moser/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
