-- Putin's Ruble Tax Breaks to Shrink Dollar Debt as Borrowing Costs Decline
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-07T14:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/putin-s-ruble-tax-breaks-to-shrink-dollar-debt-as-borrowing-costs-decline.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is
seeking to cut the amount of international loans owed by Russian
companies more than 50 percent with tax breaks that would
increase the allure of bank credit denominated in rubles.  
 The government aims to reduce foreign-currency debt to 20
percent of total corporate borrowing from 42 percent by doubling
the amount of ruble interest payments eligible for tax
deductions, said State Duma Deputy  Natalia Burykina  of Putin’s
 United Russia  party, who helped draft the plan. Companies have
$294 billion of international and 12.8 trillion rubles ($410.8
billion) of local loans, data compiled by the  central bank  show.  
 Overseas borrowing exacerbated Russia’s worst economic
crisis since the Soviet Union’s fall as a weaker exchange rate
increased the cost of repaying dollar loans last year and forced
more than 100 Russian corporate executives to seek government
aid. Tax incentives will reduce the cost advantage for companies
to borrow abroad, said  Giacomo Baizini , chief financial officer
at  Evraz Group SA , Russia’s second-largest steelmaker.  
 “More companies will be induced to issue debt in rubles,”
Moscow-based Baizini said in an e-mailed response to questions.
The current tax incentive is too low to spur ruble borrowing
because local interest rates are comparatively high, he said.  
 Costs  
 The annual cost for companies to borrow in rubles is the
 lowest  since July 2008 at an average  11.4 percent , compared with
 8.5 percent  on dollar loans, according to data from the central
bank in April. Non-deliverable forwards show the ruble 4.14
percent weaker in a year. Including the cost to hedge exchange-
rate risk through so-called NDFs, ruble borrowing is 1.2
percentage points cheaper than loans in dollars, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The ruble was 0.2 percent weaker at 31.1300 versus the
dollar at the close of trading in Moscow. NDFs, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements as they allow
foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a
specific level in the future, show the ruble at 31.3112 per
dollar in three months. The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due
in 2020 rose 3 basis points today to 5.424 percent.  
 Credit-default swaps linked to Russian debt climbed 3 basis
points to 194, snapping three days of decreases. The contracts,
which investors use to hedge against losses on debt or speculate
on creditworthiness, pay the buyer face value if a borrower
reneges on its obligations.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points to 2.79
percentage points today, according to JPMorgan EMBI+ Indexes.  
 Foreign Debt  
 The proposed law will go before the lower house of
parliament on July 9 in the second of three readings after
today’s vote was postponed, Viktor Sashichev, an official at the
Duma’s budget and tax committee, said by phone.  
 The law would increase the tax-deductible portion of
interest payments on ruble borrowing to 1.8 times the central
bank’s benchmark refinancing rate, currently 13.95 percent, from
1.1 times, Burykina said. The taxable portion of foreign-
currency loans will be set at 0.8 times the refinancing rate, or
6.2 percent, from a flat rate of 15 percent now, she said.  
 Russian companies more than tripled foreign debt in the
three years before the global financial crisis in 2008 as
borrowing costs fell to a record low. Rising repayment costs
after the ruble’s 35 percent tumble against the dollar between
August 2008 and January 2009 forced the government to provide
$11 billion in rescue funds.  
 ‘Paranoid’  
 Russia’s biggest property developers, including Moscow-
based  PIK Group  and  Sistema Hals , were forced to cede assets
after failing to meet debt commitments.  International Industrial
Bank , the lender controlled by lawmaker  Sergei Pugachyov , said
it defaulted on 200 million euros ($252 million) of bonds that
matured yesterday.  
 “The government is paranoid about repeating the mistakes
that led to the crisis of late 2008 when dozens of major
corporations had to be bailed out with state funds because they
had over-leveraged with foreign currency debt,” said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp., the Moscow-
based lender owned by billionaire  Nikolai Tsvetkov .  
 The ruble market has limitations in terms of issue size and
maturity, said Evraz’s Baizini.  
 Foreign-currency loans peaked in September 2008 at  $307
billion , according to data compiled by the central bank.
International borrowing by companies deepened Russia’s economic
slump, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said in December. Gross
domestic product fell 7.9 percent last year.  
 ‘Natural Holders’  
 “Any measure that boosts the demand to hold ruble debt
will obviously benefit natural holders of ruble bonds, such as
commercial banks,” said  Luis Costa , an emerging-market debt
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “Any measure in this
direction could significantly increase the allure towards
Russian assets.”  
 Bank Rossii has sought to encourage borrowing by cutting
its benchmark refinancing rate 14 times since April 2009 to a
record-low 7.75 percent. Inflation dropped to 5.8 percent in
June, the lowest level since July 1998. The government wants to
change the way corporate borrowing is structured in Russia as
“we live in the ruble zone, so the ruble should be the dominant
currency in corporate finance,” Burykina said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is seeking to cut the amount of international loans owed by Russian
companies. Photographer: Alexey Druzhinin/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
