-- Qatar National Bank Second-Quarter Profit Advances 36%, Beating Estimates
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-06T11:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/qatar-national-bank-second-quarter-profit-advances-36-beating-estimates.html

          
          
             Qatar National Bank  SAQ, the Persian
Gulf country’s biggest lender by assets, posted a 36 percent
rise in second-quarter profit, beating analysts’ forecasts.  
 Net income for the quarter ended June 30 advanced to 1.44
billion riyals ($395 million), or 3.7 riyals a share, from 1.06
billion riyals, or 2.7 riyals, the bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. The average estimate of  six analysts  was for a
profit of 1.31 billion riyals, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The results reflect the implementation of several business
objectives, including international expansion plans and an
“effective risk management framework that was vital in avoiding
the negative consequences of the international financial
crisis,”  Shareef Al Emadi , Qatar National’s group chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  
 As Qatari banks suffered from losses related to the global
economic slowdown, the country’s government last year bolstered
them by taking equity stakes and agreeing to buy the banks’
real-estate portfolios. Qatar Investment Authority, the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, owns a 62.5 percent stake in Qatar
National Bank, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “Qatar National Bank’s second quarter earnings are expected
to reflect a buoyant domestic economic backdrop, driven by
relentless government credit demand,” Dubai-based Shuaa Capital
PSC said in a report before the earnings were announced. “Asset
quality metrics and cost efficiency are also expected to remain
highly competitive, reflecting the bank’s low risk profile and
strong revenue.” Shuaa forecast a net income of 1.34 billion
riyals for the quarter.  
 The economy of Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of
liquefied natural gas, will grow 18 percent this year and
inflation will be about 1 percent, Central Bank Governor
 Abdullah al-Thani  said on June 28. The nation’s banks don’t have
“significant” loans to Dubai World, the state-owned company
restructuring $23.5 billion in debt, and the financial
industry’s non-performing loans are “very stable” at about 1.8
percent of all credit, he said.  
 Qatar National Bank said second-quarter net interest income
and income from financing activities rose 47 percent to 1.37
billion riyals, while provisions for loan losses fell to 97
million riyals from 107 million riyals a year ago.  
 Qatar National Bank  shares rose 0.2 percent to close at
134.4 riyals before the earnings were announced. The stock has
gained 17 percent this year, compared with a 4.9 percent
increase in the  QE Banking Sector Index .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        