-- Trafigura CEO Ruling Should be Re-examined in Ivory Coast Case, Court Says
-- Jurjen van de Pol
-- 2010-07-06T12:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/trafigura-ceo-ruling-on-ivory-coast-must-be-reviewed-dutch-top-court-says.html

          
          
             A Dutch court must re-examine whether
Trafigura Beheer BV Chief Executive Officer  Claude Dauphin 
should be prosecuted over the export of waste to Ivory Coast in
2006.  
 The Dutch Supreme Court said the Amsterdam Appeals Court
has to review its 2008 ruling, which barred the prosecution of
Dauphin, citing insufficient  evidence . The lower tribunal used a
“limited interpretation” of European Union rules against
exporting waste to countries including Ivory Coast, the court in
The Hague said in a ruling on its  website  today.  
 Residents of Abidjan claimed the dumped waste caused deaths
and illness. An Ivory Coast appeals court in 2008 dropped
criminal charges against Trafigura and a U.K. judge said that he
had “concerns” about media reporting on the case because
“experts” were “quite clear” that the dumping couldn’t have
caused the most serious health problems.  
 A ship hired by Trafigura, the Probo Koala, left Amsterdam
port in July 2006 after a waste-disposal company rejected the
ship’s waste. The waste was given to an Ivorian company,
Compagnie Tommy, which dumped the waste near the country’s
commercial capital, Abidjan.  
 “While disappointing, the decision provides Trafigura with
the opportunity to put across, in full, our consistently held
position that Mr. Dauphin simply has no case to answer,” the
Amsterdam-based commodity trading company said in an e-mailed
statement today.  
 Settlement  
 Trafigura, which denied responsibility for the dumping,
paid the Ivory Coast government $198.4 million in 2007 for the
removal of the waste and last year settled a lawsuit filed by
residents who claimed to have fallen ill. As part of the
settlement, lawyers for the residents withdrew claims from their
website that chemicals dumped caused deaths, miscarriages and
birth defects.  
 Trafigura is on trial before an Amsterdam court for
allegedly concealing the waste’s composition to the Dutch waste-
disposal company and for illegally exporting it to the Ivory
Coast after it was rejected. The city of  Amsterdam  is charged
with allowing the ship to leave after the waste was rejected.
The court is scheduled to rule on July 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        