-- Economic Recovery Boosts Corporate Paper From 13-Year Low: Canada Credit
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-07-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/recovery-boosts-canadian-corporate-paper-from-13-year-low-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Outstanding Canadian commercial paper
grew in April for the first time in a year, rebounding from an
almost 13-year low, as the economic recovery and increased
confidence in the ability to roll over debt led to more short-
term borrowing.  
 Total commercial paper outstanding rose 1.3 percent to
C$57.7 billion ($54.2 billion), according to the latest
available data from the  Bank of Canada . Commercial paper has
fallen 66 percent since peaking at C$172 billion in July 2007,
when Canada’s asset-backed commercial paper market froze amid
concerns the debt may have been tied to U.S. subprime mortgages.  
 “Companies feel more comfortable issuing short-term paper
and at the same time their level of business  activity  has
increased, so there’s a greater need for funding,” said  Robert Follis , head of corporate bond research at the Bank of Nova
Scotia in Toronto.  
 The Ottawa-based central bank’s report also showed that
total short-term business credit, which includes bank loans and
bankers’ acceptances, rose for the first time in 17 months to
C$322.9 billion in May. The bank  predicted  in April business
investment will contribute 0.2 percentage point to Canada’s 3.7
percent  growth  this year, after contributing more than 80
percent of last year’s 2.2 percent contraction.  
 Part of the drop in commercial paper issuance may have been
due to companies choosing to “term out” their borrowing by
selling bonds instead of short-term paper, according to Follis.  
 More Expensive  
 While more expensive for the issuing company, selling
longer-duration debt reduces the risk of not being able to roll
over the borrowing when it comes due. Outstanding corporate
bonds and debentures have risen 21 percent since July 2007 to
C$317.1 billion in May, according to the Bank of Canada.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own Canadian company debt rather than federal
government held steady at 149 basis points yesterday, according
to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The yield gap, or
spread, had been as narrow as 114 basis points on March 19.
Overall yields fell to 3.95 percent from 3.98 percent.  
 Traders are scaling back bets on how quickly the Bank of
Canada will raise interest rates. Yields on  six-month overnight
index swaps , which measure what investors expect the bank’s
policy rate will average over that period, declined to 0.764
percent yesterday from 0.775 percent on July 2. The rate had
been as high as 0.855 percent on June 22.  
 Canada Post Issuing  
 Canada Post Corp., the state-owned mail service, said it
would issue up to C$1 billion in long-term debt in two series of
bonds with durations up to 30 years. Bank of Montreal said it
was lowering some of its posted mortgage rates by 0.1 percentage
point.  
 DBRS Ltd. data shows corporate commercial paper outstanding
rose 9.4 percent to C$27.5 billion between December and April,
before dropping 0.2 percent in May. Paper issued by car and
parts manufacturers such as General Motors Acceptance Corp. of
Canada rose for four straight months to C$3.2 billion in May and
short-term debt from non-bank financial institutions such as
Manufacturers Life Insurance Co. gained for five straight months
to C$10.4 billion in May.  
 Companies may have locked in borrowing while the central
bank’s  interest rate  was a record-low 0.25 percent, Follis said.
In June, Governor  Mark Carney  became the first Group of Seven
central banker to raise interest rates, increasing the bank’s
target to 0.5 percent.  
 Biggest Restructuring  
 “We’re coming off a low base, but there’s definitely
growth that’s occurred,” said  Kent Wideman , DBRS chief credit
officer.  
 About C$32 billion of Canada’s asset-backed commercial
paper became insolvent in August 2007, leading to a court-
ordered plan in which the short-term debt was swapped for
longer-term notes in Canada’s biggest restructuring.  
 In the U.S., total outstanding  commercial paper  has fallen
51 percent to $1.1 trillion in June since peaking at $2.22
trillion in July 2007, according to U.S. Federal Reserve  data .
That matched 1998 levels.  
 The level of Canadian commercial paper is “still very
low, as many companies had termed out a lot of their short-term
paper when liquidity concerns were at their peak,” Follis said.
“That concern has declined materially.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        