-- Reliance Natural Resources Takeover to Stem Value Destruction, Karvy Says
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-07-06T06:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/reliance-natural-resources-takeover-to-stem-value-destruction-karvy-says.html

          
          
             Investors in  Reliance Natural
Resources Ltd. , the fuel supplier owned by billionaire  Anil Ambani  that was bought by his power utility at a 31 percent
discount, may have suffered an even bigger loss had the company
remained independent, Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. said.  
 Reliance Natural slumped 28 percent in Mumbai trading after
agreeing July 4 to merge with  Reliance Power Ltd.  The company
lost its ability to profit from trading natural gas after
India’s top court on May 7 overturned a supply accord between
Ambani and his brother and ordered Reliance Natural to pay
higher government-set prices for the fuel to be purchased from
Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd.  
 “We see it as a good deal for the minority shareholders,”
 Ambareesh Baliga , vice president of equities at Karvy in Mumbai,
said by telephone today. “The business model of Reliance
Natural loses its relevance” after the verdict, he said. “If
it had been left to be an independent entity, it could have
destroyed shareholder value.”  
 Reliance Power, which is building power plants in India,
offered one of its shares for every four of Reliance Natural,
valuing the fuel supplier at 43.825 rupees a share, compared
with 63.95 rupees on July 2. The deal is worth 71.6 billion
rupees ($1.53 billion), based on Reliance Natural’s 1.63 billion
shares outstanding.  
 Reliance Natural declined 1 percent to 45.85 rupees at
10:32 a.m. in Mumbai trading.  
 Reliance Natural and Reliance Industries said June 25 they
signed a revised gas contract to comply with the Supreme Court’s
ruling.  
 Reliance Natural’s assets in four coal-bed methane blocks
and capacity to transport 15 million metric tons of coal a year
aren’t significant enough to drive growth, said Baliga, who
doesn’t own shares in either company. Group company Karvy
Computershare Pvt. is the registrar for both companies.  
 Reliance Power has power generation assets of 1,000
megawatts, according to its  website . It plans to build a total
of 33,780 megawatts of capacity, Chief Executive Officer
 Jayarama Chalasani  said on Dec 29.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        