-- Rice Crop in Philippines, Biggest Importer, May Be Hurt by La Nina Floods
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-06T03:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/rice-crop-in-philippines-biggest-importer-may-be-hurt-by-la-nina-floods.html

          
          
             La Nina weather may cause flooding in
rice growing regions in the Philippines later this year,
damaging crops in the world’s biggest importer of the grain,
according to the nation’s weather bureau.  
 The Philippines may have as much as 60 percent more
rainfall in the fourth quarter than average, possibly causing
similar damage to crops as experienced in 2009, said Prisco Nilo,
administrator of the Philippine Atmospheric Geophysical and
Astronomical Services Administration.  
 Possible flooding threatens to widen the rice production
deficit, which forced the nation to boost imports of the milled
grain to a record 2.47 million metric tons this year. Futures
surged to last year’s high in December as the Philippines rushed
to secure imports after floods cut crops, and on speculation
India may become a net importer of the grain.  
 The full impact of rainfall from La Nina may not be felt
until the fourth quarter, Nilo said in an interview in Manila
yesterday. There is potential for losses in rice and corn
growing areas including the Cagayan Valley, Bicol, Eastern
Visayas and Surigao.  
 Cagayan Valley, the nation’s second-largest rice growing
region, and Bicol and Eastern Visayas accounted for 19 percent
of the nation’s fourth-quarter production in 2009, according to
data from the Bureau of Agricultural Statistics.  
 La Nina, characterized by colder-than-normal sea surface
temperatures in the Pacific Ocean, can cause wetter-than-usual
weather in Asia and below-average rainfall in parts of the U.S.,
Argentina and southern Brazil.  
 ‘Potential Damage’  
 “Even if it hits around the first quarter, there’s still
potential for damage,” Nilo said. The Philippines lost 1.38
million tons of rough rice after rains flooded crops and
warehouses between late September and October.  
 The potential threat to Philippine rice output comes after
the main harvest in Thailand was forecast by the United Nations
to drop to the lowest in eight years, tightening global supply.  
 Futures have fallen 34 percent this year as the Philippines
ended its import tenders and India drew down state stockpiles to
meet domestic demand, instead of seeking supplies from the
global market.  
 September-delivery contract rose 0.6 percent to $9.87 per
100 pounds in after-hours electronic trading in Chicago at 11:18
a.m. Singapore time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Manila at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        