-- Rio Tinto Sees More Mergers in Australian Iron Ore Sector as Funds Needed
-- Jason Scott
-- 2010-07-06T02:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/rio-tinto-sees-more-mergers-in-australian-iron-ore-sector-as-funds-needed.html

          
          
             Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, expects more mergers and acquisitions in
the Australian iron ore sector as China seeks to secure supplies
of the steelmaking material.  
 Australian companies can’t finance all the iron ore
projects by themselves and need external funds to develop,  Sam Walsh , Rio’s iron ore chief executive officer, said at a
briefing in Perth today.  
 The Australian government’s decision last week to cut a
planned tax on mining profits may trigger more takeovers of
resource companies. China, the world’s largest buyer of iron ore,
posted economic growth of 11.9 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest pace in almost three years.  
 “Merger and acquisition activity should now be more
viable as this move by the government should alleviate some of
the concerns about the longer term impact on investment by
overseas interests,” Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu partner Gordon
Thring said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Rio shares fell 1.8 percent in Sydney trading to A$64.05
at 11:47 a.m. on the Australian stock exchange.  
 Yesterday, Thailand’s Banpu Pcl agreed to buy the rest of
 Centennial Coal Co.  for A$2 billion ($1.7 billion), and
Singapore-based Wilmar International Ltd. said it will buy CSR
Ltd.’s sugar unit for A$1.75 billion.  
 Rio is studying expanding its iron ore production to 330
million metric tons a year, Walsh said. Demand is strong and
will continue growing driven by emerging nations, he said.  
 The London-based company is awaiting for approvals from
the European Union, China, Japan and Australia for its proposed
plan to combine its iron ore assets with BHP Billiton Ltd. in
Western Australia’s Pilbara region and is working through
regulatory processes, Walsh said.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for the story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        