-- Pugachyov's IIB is First Russian Bank to Default on Foreign Debt Since '99
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-07T14:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/russian-lender-iib-controlled-by-lawmaker-pugachyov-defaults-on-eurobond.html

          
          
             International Industrial Bank , the
Russian lender controlled by lawmaker  Sergei Pugachyov , became
the country’s first bank to renege on its foreign debt since
1999 after defaulting on $453 million of bonds.  
 IIB said it didn’t repay 200 million euros ($253 million)
of 9 percent notes due yesterday and sent a default notice on
$200 million of bonds maturing in 2013, according to a statement
yesterday. The bank proposed a one-year maturity extension on
the 9 percent notes and said holders who vote in favor of the
new maturity date by July 14 will get a payment amounting to 5
percent of the principal they’re owed, according to a 17-page
company report obtained by Bloomberg News today.  
 Russia’s biggest lenders survived a recession last year
that cut  economic output  by the most since the Soviet Union
collapsed in 1991 as President Dmitry Medvedev pledged more than
$200 billion to support banks and companies.  
 IIB’s cash shortage stems in part from its reliance on
central bank funding rather than retail deposits to finance new
lending, said  Yaroslav Sovgyra  of Moody’s Investors Service. IIB
made most of its loans to industrial companies controlled by
Pugachyov, according to Moscow-based Trust Investment Bank.  
 While a default by IIB may have a “short-term negative
effect” on investor confidence in Russian bank debt, the
lender’s problems aren’t indicative of the wider financial
system, Sovgyra, a senior credit officer at Moody’s in Moscow,
said yesterday before IIB’s announcement. “The vast majority of
investors understand that this is a pretty specific case which
should not be extended to other banks,” he said.  
 ‘Hot Market’  
 IIB’s 9 percent euro bonds were trading at 50.25 cents on
the euro as of June 30, the last day Bloomberg compiled prices
for the debt, plunging from 97.75 at the start of the June. The
11 percent dollar bonds due 2013 traded at 58.50 cents at 5:56
p.m. in Moscow, Bloomberg data show, down from 100 cents when
the notes were sold in February. Credit Suisse Group AG and VTB
Capital were joint lead managers of the February issue,
Bloomberg data show.  
 “February was a very hot market where investors seemed
already much less cautious on their buying, that is why this
kind of issue could be placed,” said  Sebastien De Prinsac ,
director of fixed-income international sales at Trust Investment
Bank. “Some investors probably didn’t realize that they were
buying not just a bank, but the risk of a complex industrial
group.”  
 ‘Irresponsible Behavior’  
 Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  told reporters in Moscow
today that he “hopes” IIB will resolve its problems without
losing its banking license.  
 The failure of some Russian banks today may be “healthy”
because the country still has too many lenders, according to
Ashmore Investment Management Ltd.’s  Jerome Booth . The number of
lenders in Russia has fallen to 1,039 as of June 1 from 1,058 at
the start of 2010, according to the central bank. Hundreds of
banks disappeared after Russia defaulted on $40 billion of ruble
debt in 1998 and devalued the currency.  
 “If they collapse, they collapse,” Booth, who helps
oversee $33 billion as Ashmore’s head of research, said at a
press conference in London yesterday. “You can’t say there
won’t be pain, but it will be healthy. You want to have a
banking system which unconditionally punishes irresponsible
behavior.”  
 Maturity Extension  
 Russia’s  Micex Index  dropped 1 percent today as shares of
OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, slipped 0.1 percent. The
bank’s 6.468 percent dollar bonds due 2013 rose, sending yields
down 13 basis points to 4.39 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. VTB Group’s 6.609 percent dollar bonds due 2012
also climbed, pushing the yield 9 basis points lower to 5.09
percent.  
 IIB asked noteholders to accept a new maturity date of July
6, 2011, according to the company report today. The bank will
hold a meeting with creditors in London on July 21. IIB
spokesman Dmitry Morochenko said he couldn’t comment on details
of the proposal.  
 Pugachyov is a member of the Russian Federation Council,
the upper chamber of parliament. His United Industrial Corp.,
the parent company of IIB, also has assets in mining and
shipbuilding. IIB has appointed  Credit Suisse  as an adviser.  
 “I’ve never been a big fan of their business model,
wholesale funding for effectively related party private equity
assets,” said  Ian McCall , a London-based director at Argo
Capital Management, which oversees about $500 million in
emerging-market debt and didn’t buy IIB’s February bond issue.
“It works fine until it stops working and then it goes horribly
wrong.”  
 VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest bank, said in a
statement yesterday it may lend $600 million to United
Industrial using the company’s Elegestskoe coal deposit as
collateral. VTB Capital may be mandated to sell the deposit as
part of the deal, according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        