-- Ryanair, Aer Lingus Lose Appeals in EU Court Over Blocked Hostile Takeover
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-06T13:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/ryanair-aer-lingus-both-lose-eu-court-appeals-over-blocked-takeover-bid.html

          
          
             Ryanair Holdings Plc , Europe’s
largest discount airline, lost a European Union court appeal of
its failed 1.48 billion-euro ($1.86 billion) hostile takeover
bid for  Aer Lingus Group Plc . In a related ruling, the court
allowed Ryanair to keep its 29.8 percent stake in the carrier.  
 The  EU’s General Court , the region’s second-highest court,
said the 2007 veto of the deal by European antitrust officials
was valid. The court also said EU regulators have no power to
decide on the shareholding “in the absence of effective control
by Ryanair over Aer Lingus.”  
 “It is not disputed that in the present case Ryanair’s
shareholding in Aer Lingus does not confer on Ryanair the power
to ‘control’ Aer Lingus,” the court  said .  
 The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, in
June 2007 halted Ryanair’s hostile takeover of Aer Lingus
because it said a combination of the two Dublin-based carriers
would create market dominance on some routes. The commission
four months later refused to force Ryanair to sell the shares it
acquired in Aer Lingus because the holding wasn’t a controlling
stake.  
 Ryanair rose 5.5 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 3.73 euros
at 2:17 p.m. in Dublin trading, while Aer Lingus climbed 1.1
cent, or 1.4 percent, to 82.1 cents.  
 Ryanair, whose  stake  in Aer Lingus has grown to almost 30
percent, in January 2009 withdrew a second attempt to take over
Aer Lingus after the Irish government said it would reject the
deal.  
 Future Offer  
 Today’s decision wouldn’t prevent the company making a
future offer for Aer Lingus,  Michael O’Leary , Ryanair’s chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement. “But
obviously any such offer will have to take account of the
court’s detailed ruling.”  
 O’Leary said Ryanair “has no immediate plans to make a
third offer for Aer Lingus, which in any event would be unlikely
to succeed unless” the Irish Government decides to sell its 25
percent stake.”  
 Ryanair, has the right to appeal today’s ruling at the
European Court of Justice, the EU’s highest court.  
 “It is regrettable that the court has not taken this
opportunity to take the further step necessary to address the
anti-competitive effects of Ryanair’s minority shareholding in
Aer Lingus,”  Colm Barrington , chairman of Aer Lingus, said in a
statement.  
 Aer Lingus said it will study “in detail” the court’s
decision on Ryanair’s shareholding before deciding whether to
appeal. The airline said it welcomed the court’s rejection of
Ryanair’s challenge to the merger veto.  
 “The combination of Ryanair and Aer Lingus would have
created a dominant position on 35 routes to the detriment of
more than 14 million EU passengers that travel to and from
Ireland each year,” EU Antitrust Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said today. “I am happy that the commission’s approach to
airline mergers which can hurt citizens has been confirmed by
the court.”  
 The cases are T-411/07 Aer Lingus Group v Commission; T-
342/07 Ryanair v Commission.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        