-- Sarkozy Denies Report He Got Cash From Bettencourt
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-07-06T18:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/sarkozy-s-office-denies-report-he-received-cash-from-liliane-bettencourt.html

          
          
             French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
denied a report by the  online news service  Mediapart that he
received cash from  L’Oreal SA  heiress  Liliane Bettencourt  before
his 2007 presidential campaign.  
 “This is totally untrue,” Sarkozy’s spokesman  Franck Louvrier  said in a telephone interview today.  
 Mediapart cited a former accountant for Bettencourt,
identified only as Claire T., as saying that the heiress and her
late husband Andre regularly provided money to Sarkozy, using
envelopes containing cash, before the 2007 election. The
accountant told Mediapart that Bettencourt gave money to other
politicians and that transactions were listed in her accounts.  
 The campaign-finance report came less than 48 hours after
two ministers quit amid complaints over their personal expenses,
compounding Sarkozy’s political handicaps. His popularity is at
its lowest since he took office as he seeks to cut the deficit
and tighten pension spending by raising the retirement age.  
 French regulations allow a maximum 7,500-euro donation from
non-party members to a party annually. Cash gifts are capped at
150 euros ($189). Individual contributions aren’t publicly
declared.  
 While Sarkozy was joined by Prime Minister  Francois Fillon 
in rejecting the claims, their allies called on the president to
speak out on the matter. Sarkozy called it “slander without any
relationship to reality,” while speaking today to health-care
workers near Paris.  
 ‘Very Quickly’  
 “It would be useful for the president to talk, and very
quickly,” former Prime Minister  Jean- Pierre Raffarin, a member
of the Union for a Popular Movement party, said today on  Europe
1 radio .  
 Sarkozy may speak to the nation on July 13th after the
Cabinet considers his retirement proposals, reported TF1,
France’s most-watched television station.  
 The disclosures stem from police questioning of Bettencourt
friends and staff as part of a probe into secret recordings made
by her former butler to establish the tapes’ authenticity. A
French judge ordered the recordings handed over on July 1 during
a hearing in a family dispute over 1 billion euros of gifts
given by Bettencourt to a friend.  
 Claire T. was questioned by police twice yesterday, her
lawyer, Antoine Gillot, said in a telephone interview today.
“She feels relieved to have said something that had been
weighing on her shoulders for so long,” he said.  
 Police Search  
 Police have also searched the accountant’s house. She is
accused by Bettencourt of stealing documents when she left the
heiress’s employment after 12 years in 2008.  
 The accountant also said 87-year-old Bettencourt gave
150,000 euros in cash to  Eric Woerth , then treasurer of
Sarkozy’s  Union for a Popular Movement  party. Part of the money
handed over to Woerth was withdrawn from a Geneva-based account
of Bettencourt, Claire T. told Mediapart.  
 Woerth today rejected having done anything wrong. “I
never, never received a single illegal euro,” Woerth said in an
interview on TF1. He said the reports were a “torrent of hate
and insults” and “a political conspiracy orchestrated by the
Socialist Party.”  
 Socialist spokesman  Benoit Hamon  called Sarkozy’s
administration “an incestuous mix of money, business and
politics” in a video posted on his party’s website.  
 Woerth was Sarkozy’s budget minister from 2007 until this
year and is currently labor minister in charge of Sarkozy’s
pension-overhaul proposal.  
 “The scandal threatens the position of Eric Woerth (in
charge of pension reform) within the government and he may be
forced to resign at some stage,”  Dominique Barbet , an economist
at BNP Paribas in Paris, said in an e-mailed note today. “The
position of the French government and President Sarkozy are
further weakened today.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     French president Nicolas Sarkozy. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
