-- Schonfeld to Fire 50 Proprietary Traders, Cites Rise of Electronic Trades
-- Laura Keeley
-- 2010-07-06T21:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/schonfeld-dismisses-50-traders-as-electronic-trading-takes-a-bigger-role.html

          
          
             Schonfeld Group Holdings LLC, the
firm founded in 1988 by  Steven Schonfeld , plans to fire 50
traders as competitors with computer-driven strategies and
linkages between asset prices wipe out potential profits.  
 The cuts represent 15 percent of the staff at the Jericho,
New York-based firm’s proprietary trading division, CNBC
reported today, citing an e-mail sent last week by Schonfeld.
 Darren Brandt , a spokesman for the firm, confirmed the e-mail
was authentic.  
 Schonfeld’s employees, who use the firm’s money to wager on
securities instead of managing money for clients, are facing
competition from companies using high-frequency trading
strategies that account for 65 percent of U.S. equities volume,
according to data compiled by Aite Group LLC. These computer-
driven firms measure order speed in millionths of a second.  
 “There is no doubt that manual point-and-click-type day
traders are at a disadvantage,” said  Paul Zubulake , a senior
analyst at Aite, a Boston-based research firm. “It just is that
if you are in a marketplace, especially arbitrage, if you are
not trading at a high speed, you cannot compete, you have no
chance. A few years ago you could maybe survive by seeing
something visual, but now the machine will take out the price
inconsistency very quickly.”  
 Record Correlations  
 Schonfeld gives traders money to invest and takes a cut of
the profits. Managers are also having trouble producing market-
beating results amid record correlations between asset prices.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10-year Treasury rates
posted a  correlation  coefficient of 0.8412 in the 60 trading
days through June 16, showing stock prices and bond yields were
the most linked in Bloomberg data going back to 1962.  
 Linkages among markets are so high because investors are
worried about a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis, which sent
U.S. equities, commodities and real estate prices to their worst
losses in half a century,  Barry Knapp , the New York-based head
of U.S. equity strategy for Barclays Plc, said last month.  
 The lockstep moves are hurting strategies designed to
smooth out  fluctuations  across equities, industries and assets.
Standard deviation, a measure of the variation in returns, for
mutual funds investing in the biggest U.S. companies that have
an average value  similar  to the S&P 500 fell to 5.8 percent in
the first quarter, based on data compiled by Lipper & Co. and
Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level in three years.  
 “It’s been impossible for stock pickers lately,”  Savita Subramanian , quantitative strategist at Bank of America Corp. in
New York, said in June. “It’s been less about stock selection,
less about fundamentals or company management, and it’s been all
about macro.”  
 Schonfeld, 51, founded the firm to exploit intraday swings
in stock prices. It has hired traders from larger Wall Street
firms since the financial crisis, and its founder made  $200
million  in 2008, the Wall Street Journal reported in August.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Keeley  in New York at 
 lkeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        