-- Sensex Index Gains for First Day in Four on Debt-Risk Outlook, Monsoon
-- Rajhkumar K Shaaw
-- 2010-07-06T11:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/sensex-index-gains-for-first-day-in-four-as-s-p-says-debt-risks-moderated.html

          
          
             India’s stocks advanced, reversing a
three-day drop, after Standard & Poor’s said the nation’s
sovereign debt risk is moderated by domestic demand for bonds
and as the monsoon spread across the country.  
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., a software services
provider, gained 2.7 percent. Puravankara Projects Ltd., a
property developer, advanced after JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised
its rating to “overweight.” Domestic bond purchases provide a
“strong mitigating” influence on risks, S&P said, while the
weather bureau said the monsoon covered all of India today, nine
days ahead of schedule.  
 “The S&P news will have a positive impact on investor
sentiment,” said  Swati Kulkarni , who manages the equivalent of
about $1.3 billion in equities at UTI Asset Management Co. in
Mumbai. “The initial reports of the monsoon are quite
heartening. This will help in reducing inflationary expectations.
If we have a normal monsoon then our gross domestic product
growth can cross 8.5 percent.”  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
gained 173.04, or 1 percent, to 17,614.48. The S&P CNX  Nifty 
Index on the National Stock Exchange rose 1 percent to 5,289.05.
The  BSE 200 Index  increased 0.9 percent to 2,243.03.  
 ‘Strong Position’  
 Tata Consultancy gained 2.7 percent to 759.15 rupees. The
base of domestic purchasers of government bonds in India
provides stability,  Elena Okorotchenko , a credit analyst at S&P
said at a conference in Hong Kong today, adding that Asian
nations are in a “strong position” should there be another
wave in the global financial crisis.  
 The monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
India’s annual rainfall, covered the entire country nine days
ahead of usual today, raising prospects for bigger harvests of
rice,  cotton , soybeans and sugar cane.  
 Rains  set over northwest India, including all of Rajasthan
and Uttar Pradesh, the nation’s biggest cane grower, Medha Kole,
a director at the India Meteorological Department, said by phone
from Pune. The monsoon typically blankets the nation by July 15.  
 India’s sowing of monsoon-planted crops such as rice,
oilseeds and lentils may be the highest in two years, Farm
Minister  Sharad Pawar  said yesterday. A drought last year helped
fan food-price inflation to the highest level in 11 years in
November.  
 Kotak Institutional Equities, a unit of Kotak Securities
Ltd., expects Sensex company-earnings growth of 24.1 percent in
the June quarter, compared with a year earlier. The brokerage
predicts automakers, industrial and metal-related companies to
“to lead robust earnings growth in the June quarter,” it said
in an e-mailed note to clients.  
 Best Performer  
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , India’s largest maker of sport-
utility vehicles and tractors, increased 2.8 percent to 627.05
rupees.  HDFC Bank Ltd. , the third-biggest lender, gained 2.6
percent to 1,964 rupees.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. , the biggest
aluminum producer, added 1.6 percent to 143.85 rupees.  
 The Sensex was the best performer among the world’s 20
largest equity markets in the second quarter. The gauge also
climbed 1 percent in the three months ended June, its longest
quarterly winning streak since at least September 1979,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Sensex has climbed
in every quarter since Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in May 2009
led the Congress party to its biggest electoral victory in two
decades, pledging to cut a fiscal deficit and boost growth.  
 ‘Positive Direction’  
 Second-half buying of stocks by overseas investors is
poised to surpass the first, said the nation’s biggest bank, as
the government predicts the economy will expand at the quickest
pace in three years.  
 “The positive direction in which India is moving is
undeniable,” said  Vikas Pershad , Chicago-based chief executive
officer of Veda Investments LLC. “You’ve already seen hints of
that in India’s recent relative outperformance.”  
 Puravankara Projects added 1.2 percent to 109.3 rupees
after it was raised to “overweight” from “neutral” by
 Saurabh Kumar , an analyst at JPMorgan, with a 12-month price
estimate of 155 rupees per share.  
 Sobha Developers Ltd., a property developer, rose 3.8
percent to 298.65 rupees after it was raised to “outperform”
from “neutral” by  Anand Agarwal , an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, with a price estimate of 375 rupees per share.  
 Overseas  funds  sold a net  2.32 billion rupees  ($49.7
million) of Indian equities on July 2, paring investments in the
stocks this year to 313.8 billion rupees, according to the
nation’s market regulator.  
 Inflows from overseas reached a record 834.2 billion rupees
in 2009, exceeding the high set two years ago in local currency
terms, as the biggest advance in 18 years lured foreign funds.
They sold a record 529.9 billion rupees of shares in 2008,
triggering a record annual decline.  
 The following were among the most active on the exchange:  
 Edserv Softsystems Ltd.  (EDSS IN), an online training
company, fell 3.4 percent to 210.8 rupees after saying the
minimum price of shares being sold to large investors was fixed
at 205 rupees each. EdServ said the sale will open on July 9,
according to a statement on the Bombay Stock Exchange today.  
 Network 18 Media & Investments Ltd.  (NETM IN), a media
holding company, climbed 2.4 percent to 160.25 rupees after
Viacom 18 Media Pvt. said it plans to buy shares of its Indian
Film Co. unit.  
 Polaris Software Lab Ltd.  (POL IN), a software services
provider, soared 4.4 percent to 192.65 rupees, a five-month high,
after saying its Laser Soft unit won a project from Andhra
Pradesh State Cooperative Bank Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        