-- ISM Non-Manufacturing Index in U.S. Fell to 53.8 in June
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-06T20:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/service-industries-in-u-s-grow-at-slower-pace-as-ism-index-falls-to-53-8.html

          
          
             Service industries in the U.S.
expanded in June at a slower pace than forecast, indicating the
economy was beginning to cool entering the second half.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s  index  of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to a four-month low of 53.8 from 55.4 in May. The
June figure was less than the median forecast of 55 in a
Bloomberg News survey. Readings above 50 signal expansion.
Orders slowed for a third month and employment declined.  
 Companies such as  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.  may find it harder
to boost sales without faster job growth as government stimulus
wanes. Private hiring last month rose less than forecast,
consumer confidence plunged and home purchases fell, indicating
the recovery from the worst recession since the 1930s is
vulnerable.  
 “The economy has entered a soft patch,” said  Richard DeKaser , chief economist at Woodley Park Research in Washington,
whose forecast of 53.9 was the closest to today’s reading among
economists in the Bloomberg survey. “Households are continuing
to soldier on, albeit without much vigor.”  
 Stocks gained, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rising
from a 10-month low, amid speculation earnings growth will help
equities rebound from the lowest valuations since the bull
market began in 2009. The S&P 500 rose 0.5 percent to 1,028.06
at 4 p.m. in New York.  
 Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey of 59 economists for the
Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s index ranged from 52 to 56.6.  
 New Orders, Employment  
 The group’s index of  new orders  for non-manufacturing
industries declined to 54.4 in June, the lowest this year, from
57.1 a month earlier. The  employment gauge  fell to 49.7 last
month from 50.4.  
 Export orders dropped to 48 in June, the lowest since
February, from 53.5. A gauge of prices-paid fell to 53.8 from
60.6.  
 The figures on services follow reports last week that
showed a slowdown in manufacturing and weakness in housing, at
the same time Europe grapples with a debt crisis and China tries
to slow its economy.  
 Employment at companies rose 83,000 last month, less than
the 110,000 increase forecast by economists in a Bloomberg
survey, Labor Department figures showed on July 2. Including
government, payrolls fell for the first time this year because
of a drop in federal census workers. The  jobless rate  dropped to
9.5 percent from 9.7 percent as the labor force shrank.  
 Consumer Confidence  
 The outlook for jobs is one reason consumer  confidence  sank
more than forecast in June, according to a Conference Board
report. It raises the risk household spending, which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, will falter.  
 Bed Bath & Beyond, a Union, New Jersey-based retailer, last
month forecast current-quarter and annual earnings that trailed
analysts’ estimates.  
 “It appears the consumer continues to face economic
challenges, and the pressures of the macroeconomic environment
still persist,”  Leonard Feinstein , the company’s co-chairman,
said on a conference call on June 23.  
 Concerns about unemployment and reluctance to make large
purchases were also reflected last week in lower-than-
anticipated auto sales in June for General Motors Co. and  Ford
Motor Co. , the two largest U.S. automakers.  
 The ISM services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care, housing and finance.  
 Housing Weakness  
 Housing, which helped trigger the recession, is showing
signs of renewed weakness following the end of a government tax
credit of as much as $8,000. The absence of faster job growth
and rising foreclosures are depressing property prices.  
 Economic data in recent weeks and Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis underscore why Federal Reserve policy makers renewed a
pledge last month to keep interest rates near a record low.
Central bankers said the recovery is “likely to be moderate for
a time,” according to their statement. Consumer spending still
“remains constrained” by joblessness and “tight credit,”
they said.  
 Services have been lagging behind manufacturing, which led
the economic recovery that began in the middle of 2009. The ISM
reported on July 1 that  factories  expanded in June at the
slowest pace this year as orders and exports cooled, adding to
concern financial-market turmoil sparked by Europe’s debt
problems will hurt global growth.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        