-- Soccer Stadiums, Filled During World Cup, Need Rugby to Survive
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-06T13:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/soccer-stadiums-filled-during-soccer-world-cup-may-need-rugby-to-survive.html

          
          
             The billions of dollars South Africa
has spent building and renovating 10 stadiums for the soccer
World Cup may end up benefiting another sport: rugby.  
 While the venues have been filled to near capacity during
the monthlong tournament, the country’s economic divide between
a mainly poor black majority and a predominantly white wealthy
elite may dictate their future use. Soccer is the most popular
sport in South Africa yet the white middle class supports rugby
and cricket.  
 “The problem with soccer in South Africa is that it is not
a high-paying spectator sport or a high sponsor-attracting
sport,”  Jean-Francois Mercier , an economist at Citigroup Inc.
in Johannesburg, said in an interview. “Rugby is. Using some of
these stadiums for rugby matches could help” cover running
costs.  
 That trend may start just over a month after the World Cup
ends with the South African Rugby Union set to announce tomorrow
that the Aug. 21 match between the Springboks, South Africa’s
national rugby team, and New Zealand’s All Blacks will take
place at Soccer City. The 3.5 billion rand ($452 million),
94,000 seat ground in Soweto was used for the opening match of
the World Cup and will host the July 11 final.  
 “We can create history by taking the All Blacks-Springboks
clash to Soweto,” Andre Homan, the commercial director of the
Golden Lions Rugby Union, which has the right to host matches in
Johannesburg, said in an interview, adding that a final decision
on the venue is yet to be made.  
 Viable Stadiums  
 The union could boost profit by moving the Tri-Nations Test
from 62,000-seat Ellis Park and help make the nation’s biggest
sports venue viable. Stadium capacity during the World Cup was
cut by the large section reserved for the media and the removal
of seats that obstructed views.  
 While tickets to a May 27 soccer friendly between South
Africa and Colombia at Soccer City sold for 40 rand, tickets for
a June 12 clash between the Springboks and France ranged between
100 rand and 400 rand.  
 Maintaining the 10 World Cup stadiums is likely to cost
between 350 million rand and 500 million rand a year, said Udesh
Pillay, co-author of “Development and Dreams: The Urban Legacy
of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.”  
 He estimates each venue has to host between 12 and 15
sellout events annually, with tickets being sold at an average
price of between 200 and 250 rand, to be sustainable. Government
estimates put the cost of the stadiums at more than 16 billion
rand.  
 Olympic Plans  
 “There are plans,” to utilize the stadiums after the
World Cup, President  Jacob Zuma  said in an address in Cape Town
today. “I don’t think anyone today would say no if South Africa
said let us have the Olympics, because they know we have got the
facilities. We might end up asking.”  
 Soccer matches from South Africa’s  Premier Soccer League 
are unlikely to fill grounds on a regular basis.  
 “All the stadiums will be difficult to use constantly,”
Kjetil Siem, the PSL’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview. “If we use them for some of the cup finals, clashes
between some of the top teams, now and then have them half-full,
I think we should be more than happy.”  
 The country’s best supported soccer teams -  Orlando
Pirates , Kaizer Chiefs and Mamelodi Sundowns - are all in
Gauteng, the province that includes Johannesburg and Pretoria.
Matches elsewhere are less well attended.  
 A Springboks Test in Soweto may be a first step toward
using the stadiums for both international rugby matches as well
as games from next year’s Super 15 tournament between provincial
sides from South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.  
 Super 15 Reluctance  
 Still, so far Rugby unions that own their own grounds have
shown little appetite to use new infrastructure including the
68,000-seat Green Point stadium in Cape Town. The 70,000-seat
Moses Mabhida ground in Durban lies next to the Absa Stadium,
which will be used in the Super 15 next year by the Sharks, who
finished ninth in this year’s final edition of the Super 14.  
 “We put a business plan together on what they gave us and
we couldn’t make it stand,” Theuns Roodman, chief executive
officer of the Western Province Rugby Football Union,  which
owns Cape Town’s Newlands stadium, said an interview. “We
couldn’t survive. The union’s got a house and it’s staying
there.”  
 Ellis Park, Loftus Versfeld in Pretoria and Free State in
Bloemfontein have already been used for Super 14 games. Stadiums
such as Mbombela in Nelspruit, Peter Mokaba in Polokwane, Nelson
Mandela in Port Elizabeth and Royal Bafokeng near Rustenburg are
not close to any Super 15 franchises.  
 “Several of the stadiums are white elephants,” Patrick
Bond, a political economist at the Durban-based Centre for Civil
Society, said in an interview. “How are they ever going to be
able to fill the stands after the last World Cup match?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Soccer City stadium, which resembles an African cooking pot, in Soweto just outside of Johannesburg. Photographer: Alexander Joe/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
