-- Southern Sudan's Voter Registration for Vote on Independence is Delayed
-- Alan Boswell
-- 2010-07-06T11:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/southern-sudan-s-voter-registration-for-vote-on-independence-is-delayed.html

          
          
             The registration of voters for
 Southern Sudan ’s referendum on independence is running behind
schedule and won’t start as expected on July 9, the region’s
information minister said.  
 “According to the timetable, at least some registration
should be starting on the 9th, but we are running a little bit
late,” Barnaba Marial Benjamin, the information minister in the
Southern Sudan government, told reporters today in Juba, the
region’s capital, without giving further details.  
 The  Sudan People’s Liberation Movement , which governs the
semi-autonomous region, has rejected putting off the vote, which
is scheduled for Jan. 9.  
 The referendum was the key concession the SPLM won in the
2005  peace agreement  to end the 21-year civil war between the
Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and traditional
religions dominate. As many as 2 million people died in the
conflict.  
 Sudan’s parliament in Khartoum, the capital, approved a
nine-member commission to organize the referendum on June 28.
The commission is due to deliver the initial voters’ roll by
Aug. 31, according to the referendum law. Registration may face
delays during the May-October rainy season that renders large
areas inaccessible by road.  
 The SPLM and President  Umar al-Bashir ’s ruling National
Congress Party agreed on June 23 to begin discussions this week
on the arrangements to follow the referendum, including issues
of oil revenue-sharing and pipeline usage for southern oil
fields, national debt, water rights, and citizenship.  
 Oil fields in Southern Sudan account for most of the
nation’s oil output, which, at 490,000 barrels a day, is the
third-biggest in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy .  
 Sudan’s northern and southern regions now split the
proceeds from oil pumped in the south. If the landlocked south
secedes, the north will remain its sole export route through a
pipeline ending in Port Sudan at the Red Sea.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba at  aboswell2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        