-- Spain World Cup Player Andres Iniesta Bets His Soccer Fortune on Winery
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-06T22:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/spain-world-cup-player-andres-iniesta-bets-his-soccer-fortune-on-winery.html

          
          
             Spain midfielder  Andres Iniesta  plans
to go global with his new winery. He first wants to get his team
into the World Cup final.  
 The 26-year-old, man of the match in Spain’s last game,
meets Germany tonight in a World Cup semifinal in Durban, South
Africa. He’s spending about 9 million euros ($11.3 million) on
vineyards and a winery a mile from his hometown in the Castilla
La Mancha region, said his father Jose Antonio, who is managing
the operation.  
 The Spanish economy is in a two-year slump, and the
government is trying to cut the third-largest deficit in the
euro region, while propping up savings banks. The winery, which
plans to export to Germany, the U.K. and Japan, initially aims
to make 200,000 euros of profit on annual revenue of 600,000
euros, Iniesta Sr. said.  
 “For every 10 euros he earns, I want him to get an
eleventh from this,” Iniesta Sr., a self-employed builder, said
as architects worked at the half-built winery under midday sun
last month. “I’m not out to make myself a millionaire too.”  
 Iniesta is bucking a trend among millionaire soccer players
in Spain who rarely start their own companies and put most of
their riches in “very conservative” Spanish bank funds,
according to Julio Senn, a Madrid lawyer with law firm Garrigues
who advises athletes on investments.  
 The midfielder, who helped  Barcelona  and Spain win the
Champions League and European Championship in the last two
years, gets most of his income from his club contract and an
endorsement deal with Nike Inc., his father said, adding that
his son also has some real estate investments. Iniesta wasn’t
made available to comment on his plans.  
 Exports  
 Soccer players in Spain typically invested about one-third
of their money in real estate before its decade-long housing
boom collapsed in 2007, Senn said.  
 The winery will make 700,000 bottles of red, white and rose
wine a year and put the Bodega Iniesta brand on the labels,
Iniesta said. Bodega means winery in Spanish. Production will
start in September and in the first year some wine will be
exported to the U.K. and Germany, where it could sell for as
much as 40 euros a bottle at a restaurant, he added.  
 While Iniesta’s fame may help sales, it could take decades
for the brand to become established in a crowded market,
according to Felix Yanez, general manager of the publicly owned
 Vineyard and Wine Institute , which oversees winemaking in
Castilla La Mancha.  
 “For Andres Iniesta it will be a good business,” Yanez
said. “For his grandchildren it will be a very, very, very good
business.”  
 Champions League  
 Iniesta is also up against a wine glut in Europe that’s
forcing down prices, Yanez said, adding that some growers in
Castilla La Mancha are being forced to sell grapes for less than
it costs to produce them.  
 Iniesta Sr. says cutting-edge technology will help the
quality of his son’s wine stand out.  
 “This is the Champions League,” he said, comparing the
wine business with the elite European soccer club competition.
“If you don’t produce the best wine, you’re dead.”  
 Castilla La Mancha produces about half of Spain’s wine,
Yanez said. In Fuentealbilla, where Iniesta is from, about half
of the town’s 2,000 residents pool resources in a wine-making
cooperative, although even as a group they don’t have the
technology that the soccer player can afford, Angel Salmeron,
the town’s mayor, said in an interview.  
 ‘Just as Good’  
 Iniesta said on  his website  he feels “attached” to his
homeland through winemaking. He is only able to visit
occasionally because of soccer commitments like the World Cup in
South Africa. He’s mostly lived in Barcelona since age 13, when
he joined the Spanish champion’s youth academy.  
 He’s scored one goal in South Africa, and played 90 minutes
in each of the team’s last three games. He was man of the match
in Spain’s 1-0 quarterfinal victory over Paraguay.  
 His competitive instinct on the field may help the
business, as he seeks to compete with better-known wine from the
northern Spanish region of La Rioja.  
 “We can make just as good wine here,” Iniesta Sr. said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Andres Iniesta plans spend on vineyards  
                       
                         
                           Doug Pensinger/Getty Images 
                         
                         Andres Iniesta of Spain controls the ball during the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa Quarter Final match between Paraguay and Spain at Ellis Park Stadium on July 3, 2010 in Johannesburg, South Africa. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Andres Iniesta of Spain controls the ball during the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa Quarter Final match between Paraguay and Spain at Ellis Park Stadium on July 3, 2010 in Johannesburg, South Africa.  Photographer: Doug Pensinger/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
