-- Spice Founder Says Cinven Proposal `Good Increase,' Should Be Considered
-- Hannah Roberts
-- 2010-07-06T15:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/spice-founder-says-cinven-proposal-good-increase-should-be-considered.html

          
          
             Spice Plc  founder and former chief
executive officer  Simon Rigby  said an improved possible offer
from private equity firm Cinven Ltd. was “a good increase” and
should be considered by the board.  
 The board of Spice, the U.K.’s biggest reader of water
meters, said today the proposal of 62 to 65 pence a share
“undervalues” the company and it hasn’t entered into talks
with Cinven. The new approach would value Spice at between 218
million pounds ($331 million) and 229 million pounds. The
company rejected an initial possible offer of 56 pence a share
from Cinven in May.  
 “This is a good increase on their previous offer,” said
Rigby, who controls about 9 percent of the company, in a
telephone interview. “They’ve got to be getting closer to a
price that the board would be willing to consider.”  
 Spice rose 6.5 percent to close at 57.5 pence in London
trading, giving it a market value of 202.5 million pounds.  
 “What’s in front of us still undervalues Spice,” said
Chief Executive Officer  Martin Towers  in a phone interview
today. Towers, who replaced Rigby as interim chief executive in
February, set out a turnaround plan that included selling
unprofitable and non-core assets to help reduce debt.  
 ‘Too Low’  
 Geoff Allum , an analyst at Arden Partners Ltd. in London,
said the proposal was still too low. “The offer is too low and
too conditional,” he said in a telephone interview. “At 75
pence that is when the board would start talking to them.”  
 The sale of its telecom and gas units in April and June has
put Spice in a better position, Allum said. The company now
generates almost all of its revenue from utilities, one of the
few growth areas in the economy, he said.  
 The last of its non-core businesses, a facilities
management company that services coffee-shop operator Starbucks
Corp., is also for sale, said Towers.  
 In a separate statement, Spice reported a net loss of 56.2
million pounds for the year ended April 30, compared with a
profit of 17.2 million pounds a year earlier. Spice said it
suffered from contract delays in the public sector caused by
pressure on spending and bad winter weather.  
 Revenue increased 11 percent over the same period to 310.7
million pounds, said the Leeds, England-based company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah Roberts  at   hroberts9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        