-- Standard Chartered Plans to Hire More Staff for Its South African Business
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-06T07:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/standard-chartered-to-hire-more-staff-for-south-african-wholesale-business.html

          
          
             Standard Chartered Plc , the British
lender that generates the majority of its earnings in Asia,
plans to hire about 50 people in South Africa by the end of the
year to grow its wholesale banking services.  
 “We had a very good year last year,” Ebenezer Essoka,
chief executive officer of the bank’s South African unit, said
in an interview in Cape Town yesterday. “We continue to trade
well. Growth will continue.”  
 There are opportunities in corporate advisory services,
project finance, commodity trading services and private equity
transaction funding, he said. The bank currently employs about
200 people in South Africa, 50 more than 18 months ago.  
 Essoka declined to comment on whether Standard Chartered
would consider entering South Africa’s retail market or make an
acquisition to do.  Old Mutual Plc  on June 2 denied reports that
it was in talks to sell its 54 percent stake in  Nedbank Group
Ltd. , South Africa’s fourth largest bank, to Standard Chartered.  
 “In consumer banking in South Africa if you are not ready
to spend the money the big boys are spending, it’s a
graveyard,” Essoka said. “We have got a lot of respect for our
competitors.”  
 Standard Chartered operates 160 branches in 14 African
countries and has more than 6,000 employees on the continent,
which contributed 9 percent of its pretax profit last year. The
London-based bank agreed to buy the custody business of Barclays
Plc in Africa in April to serve corporate banking clients.  
 Standard Chartered sees South Africa, Nigeria, Angola,
Ghana and Uganda as the African markets with the greatest
opportunities for expansion, Essoka said.  
 “There are untapped opportunities in Ivory Coast and
Cameroon,” he said. “Ethiopia has hardly been touched.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        