-- Moguls' Sun Valley Summer Camp to Focus on Web, Not Mega-Deals
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-07-09T19:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/sun-valley-mogul-camp-to-focus-on-small-internet-screens-not-mega-mergers.html

          
          
             (Corrects sixth paragraph of story that ran July 6 to say
Anderson declined to discuss Sun Valley plans.)  
 Media moguls at Allen & Co.’s annual
conference, usually on the prowl for the next big deal, are
paying more attention to small screens as they confront rapidly
shifting consumer tastes.  
 With more customers catching a TV show on a mobile phone or
tablet computer, officials and analysts say Rupert Murdoch, 
News Corp.’s chairman and chief executive officer, Google Inc.
CEO Eric Schmidt and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Choi Gee Sung are
eyeing small buyouts and partnerships as they gather today in
Sun Valley, Idaho.  
 Shrinking DVD sales and dwindling audiences for traditional
TV have media executives looking to the Web for ways to reach
viewers. Choi, head of the world’s largest TV maker, is seeking
agreements with sports leagues and entertainment companies for
programs he can put on a variety of devices.  
 “This is a tremendous time in the transformation of the
media business,” said Dave Goldberg, CEO of Web polling company
SurveyMonkey.com LLC and a first-time Sun Valley attendee. “It
seems crazy to think about someone talking about the iPad saving
the magazine business. It didn’t exist four months ago.”  
 Samsung plans to send three executives to the conference,
including Choi, according to a list of anticipated attendees
obtained by Bloomberg.  
 Eric Anderson, a vice president at Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung’s U.S. unit, declined to discuss the company’s plans for
Sun Valley. In coming months, “we’ll be looking for high-
definition types of delivery, or 3-D delivery,” he said.  
 Mobile devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPad are expanding
online entertainment options, growth reflected in Walt Disney
Co.’s purchase last week of Tapulous Inc., a maker of music-
related mobile games, and Hulu LLC’s introduction of a $9.99 a
month online subscription to current and archived TV shows.  
 Lost Audiences  
 Traditional audiences are shrinking. The 2009-2010 U.S. TV
season marked the first time in history that no regularly
scheduled show averaged more than 25 million viewers, according
to Brad Adgate, with the advertising company Horizon Media Inc.  
 Executives at the conference, dubbed “summer camp” for
moguls by author and guest Ken Auletta, attend presentations on
ideas shaping business. Afternoon activities include yoga, golf,
tennis, trap and skeet shooting, fly fishing and family relay
races, according to the agenda. In past years, deals including
Disney’s $19.5 billion purchase of Capital Cities/ABC were
hatched at the conference.  
 No Bargains  
 Apple CEO Steve Jobs is on the RSVP list in Sun Valley for
the first time in five years. Apple, which sold 3 million iPad
tablet computers in three months, wants to sell magazine and
newspaper subscriptions on its iTunes store.  
 Global economic turmoil may also mute merger-and-
acquisition talk this year around the resort’s duck pond, a
well-known spot for dealmaking, said Hal Vogel, an independent
media analyst in New York.  
 Agreements have been tougher to reach, Barry Diller,
Chairman and CEO of IAC/InterActiveCorp, said in a June 17
interview. IAC, the New York-based owner of the Ask.com search
site and Match.com dating service, has sought candidates for the
past two years and held talks on 20 deals, with valuations a
frequent sticking point, he said.  
 Allen & Co., the boutique New York investment bank, invites
executives from start-ups in media and technology to mingle with
bankers and moguls. The mixture, along with presentations
trumpeting their new business models, can lead to acquisitions
or investments.  
 Goldberg of SurveyMonkey.com said he’s looking forward to
frank discussions with traditional media and Internet executives
about how to adapt after the recession accelerated change in
their businesses.  
 Past Startups  
 Goldberg is no stranger to start-up acquisitions. In 2001
he sold his Launch Media Inc. music-and-video website to Yahoo!
Inc. for about $12 million. Allen & Co. was an investor in
Launch, he said.  
 SurveyMonkey, based in Menlo Park, California, may follow a
similar path. While Goldberg said there are no plans to recruit
investors or buyers in Sun Valley this year, the site will
either go public or be sold “at some point in time.”  
 Andrew Mason, CEO of Groupon Inc., which offers a daily
bargain to shoppers through its website, said he is attending
the conference to talk with companies about local partnerships,
such as one he reached last week to supply content to the
websites of newspaper publisher McClatchy Co.  
 Local Advertising  
 Mason, attending for the first time, is scheduled to give a
presentation on the lessons Groupon, started in November 2008,
has learned about local advertising and e-commerce.  
 “We’re anxious to work with a lot of these media
companies,” Mason said in an interview. “We think there are a
lot of interesting partnership opportunities with the bigger
media companies where we can help them figure out local.”  
 Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig, National
Basketball Association Commissioner David Stern and National
Football League Commissioner Roger Goodell are all on the Sun
Valley RSVP list. MLB this year began providing a pay service
for all broadcasts of games outside a customer’s home market on
devices including Sony Corp.’s PlayStation 3 video-game console.  
 “Everyone is trying to figure out how to make their
business models work better,” said analyst Vogel. “The
Internet and the digital social-networking factors and mobile
phones, it’s all changed the way media is distributed or enjoyed
or used.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     News Corp.'s Rupert Murdoch during the Allen & Co. Media and Technology Conference in Sun Valley last year. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- David Joyce, an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the outlook for Allen & Co.’s annual media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, beginning today.
     Shrinking DVD sales and dwindling audiences for traditional TV have media executives looking to the Web for ways to reach viewers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
