-- Swap Forwards Overprice Korean Interest-Rate Outlook, Morgan Stanley Says
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-07-06T02:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/swap-forwards-overprice-korean-interest-rate-outlook-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             Interest-rate swap traders are
overestimating how much borrowing costs will increase in South
Korea over the next 12 months and investors should use forward
contracts to profit from this, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 The U.S. bank recommends receiving the one-year swap rate
starting in one year following a 19 basis points advance to 4.04
percent since the Bank of Korea’s last policy meeting on June 10,
at which the benchmark interest rate was kept at a record-low 2
percent for a 16th month. The rate for the similar-maturity spot
contract increased 13 basis points to 3.11 percent over the same
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The curve is still overpricing future policy
tightening,”  Pieter Van Der Schaft , Morgan Stanley’s Hong Kong-
based head of Asian interest-rate strategy, said in a phone
interview late yesterday. “We don’t think the Bank of Korea
will hike rates as much as implied by the forward curve.”  
 The Bank of Korea will leave its seven-day  repurchase rate 
at 2 percent at the next policy meeting on July 9, according to
10 of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Four predicted an
increase to 2.25 percent, the most calls for a rate change in
such a survey this year. Still, the lack of confidence in near-
term financial market stability means a move in August is more
likely, JP Morgan Chase & Co. said in a report yesterday.  
 The  three-month  certificate of deposit rate, the floating
leg of Korea’s swap contracts, was 2.46 percent late yesterday.
The 46 basis point spread over the policy rate is “generous”
and may narrow to 35 basis points, the  average  during the
previous monetary policy tightening between 2005 and 2008,
because there is still ample liquidity in the financial system,
Morgan Stanley said.  
 Europe, U.S.  
 European countries including Germany, the U.K. and Spain
are reining in government spending to help trim budget deficits,
threatening the recovery from a global recession. A July 2
report showed U.S. employment fell 125,000 in June, the first
drop this year.  
 Even so, policy tightening in Asian economies will kick off
or resume in the second half as concerns about Europe and the
U.S. slipping back into recessions are misplaced, Morgan Stanley
said. Asian economies are decoupling from the rest of the world,
powered by growth in China and India, it said.  
 Premier Wen Jiabao on July 3 pledged China will sustain
“relatively fast” economic growth, supporting regional trade.
India’s economy, Asia’s third-largest, will expand by 8 percent
to 9 percent annually, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, deputy chairman
of the state planning commission, said in New Delhi yesterday.  
 Rate Outlook  
 Morgan Stanley predicts the Bank of Korea will raise its
benchmark rate by 25 basis points, or a quarter of a percentage
point, in both the third and fourth quarters of this year. The
median prediction of economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for
increases of that size each quarter through mid-2011.  
 Governor Kim after last month’s meeting said the bank will
focus more on “price stability,” signaling interest rates may
be raised to keep inflation in check as the domestic economy
improves. The government on June 24 raised its 2010 growth
forecast to 5.8 percent, from a December projection of 5 percent,
and reported July 1 that  inflation  slowed to 2.6 percent in June
from 2.7 percent the previous month.  
 Central banks in India, Taiwan and Malaysia have already
raised interest rates this year, with the Reserve Bank of India
having announced an unscheduled third increase on July 2. Bank
Negara Malaysia will announce its third rate rise of 2010 at a
July 8 policy meeting, according to 10 of 17 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The rest forecast no change.  
 Malaysia Swaps  
 Malaysia’s one-year swap rate starting in one-year was at
3.32 percent late yesterday in Malaysia, according to Bloomberg
data, little changed from May 13 when the last policy meeting
was held. The similar-maturity spot contract climbed to 2.91
percent from 2.84 percent over the same period.  
 While expectations for higher interest rates in Malaysia
are “already adequately priced in,” the swap forward curve
offers “very little cushion” against any unexpected policy
tightening, Van Der Schaft said in the interview.  
 In swap contracts, two parties exchange a fixed rate for a
floating payment that varies in accordance with a benchmark
interest rate. In forward swap contracts, investors agree to
start exchanging the rates after a certain period, for a set
number of months or years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor Kim after last month’s meeting said the bank will focus more on “price stability,” signaling interest rates may be raised to keep inflation in check as the domestic economy improves. Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
