-- Swiss Stocks Gain as Petroplus, Adecco, Swatch Shares Advance in Zurich
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-06T13:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/swiss-stocks-gain-as-petroplus-adecco-swatch-shares-advance-in-zurich.html

          
          
             Stocks in Switzerland gained, ending
a five-day decline for the benchmark Swiss Market Index, as
 Petroplus Holdings AG  and luxury-goods companies rallied.  
 Petroplus jumped 6.5 percent as Europe’s largest
independent refiner was rated “short-term trading buy” at
Credit Suisse Group AG.  Swatch Group AG  rose 3.5 percent as
Kepler Capital Markets said current prices offer “an attractive
entry point.”  Adecco SA  increased 4 after UBS AG lifted its
recommendation on the stock.  Bossard Holding AG  surged 7.8
percent after saying its first-half profit “clearly” exceeded
last year’s full-year result.  
 The  SMI  rose 118.2, or 2 percent, to 6,060.45 as of 3:23
p.m. in Zurich. The SMI has retreated 13 percent from this
year’s high on April 15 amid speculation that Europe’s debt
crisis may derail the economic recovery and concern that Chinese
authorities are cooling the nation’s growth. The broader  Swiss
Performance Index  gained 1.9 percent today.  
 “What we are seeing today is a technical rebound coupled
with a ‘relief rally’ as fears were a little overdone and a lot
of pessimism is already in the market,” said  Philipp Jaeggle ,
an analyst at ZKB in Zurich. “Cyclical names, which are most
exposed to upturns and downturns in the economy, are leading the
SMI.”  
 Petroplus surged 6.5 percent to 16.02 Swiss francs. Credit
Suisse suggested investors buy the shares ahead of the company’s
second-quarter results, due Aug. 5.  
 ‘Leveraged Play’  
 “The stock should be the most leveraged play to a recovery
in refining margins,” the brokerage said in a note. Credit
Suisse lifted its price estimate to 21.5 francs from 20 francs.  
 Swatch advanced 3.5 percent to 306.8 francs. The maker of
Omega and Breguet timepieces agreed to take over Swiss watch
movement assembler Tanzarella SA and buy its plant from
Credit Suisse.  
 “Swatch Group has been under pressure in the last few
sessions amid concerns about China, its biggest market, the
strong franc and in the wake of the death of chairman  Nicolas Hayek ,” Kepler Capital Markets said in a note. “Current
weakness creates an attractive entry point.”  
 Cie. Financiere Richemont SA , the world’s biggest jewelry
maker, rose 4 percent to 38.57 francs.  
 Banks Advance  
 UBS  and  Credit Suisse , the nation’s biggest banks, rose 3.3
percent to 14.5 francs and 3.4 percent to 41.92 francs,
respectively.  Swiss Reinsurance Co. , the world’s second-largest
reinsurer, increased 3.6 percent to 45.34 francs.  
 ABB Ltd. , the world’s largest builder of electricity
networks, advanced 3.5 percent to 19.07 francs.  
  Adecco  rose 4 percent to 51.5 francs. UBS lifted its
recommendation on the world’s largest supplier of temporary
workers to “neutral” from “sell.”  
 Bossard climbed 7.8 percent to 80.95 francs. Switzerland’s
largest screw vendor said its first-half profit “clearly”
exceeded last year’s full-year result of 15.3 million Swiss
francs, as sales advanced 18.5 percent.  
 “The recovery in demand still shows no signs of abating
and the company is now clearly benefiting from the successfully
reduced cost base,” Vontobel AG said in a note.  
 Temenos Group AG  advanced 5.5 percent to 26.75 francs.
Piper Jaffray & Co. upgraded the software company to “neutral”
from “underweight,” citing the stock’s recent
underperformance. The brokerage also noted that “demand
conditions in the core banking software market are stabilizing,
albeit not yet actively accelerating.”  
 Holcim Ltd.  increased 2.9 percent to 71.6 francs. The
world’s second-biggest cement maker may use a planned new plant
in New Zealand to supply Australia and other Pacific markets,
bolstering the business case for the project.  
 Increasing the capacity to generate exports may justify the
investment in the plant near Oamaru, on the nation’s South
Island, Holcim New Zealand Ltd. said. The plan hasn’t yet been
approved by its Swiss parent.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        