-- U.S. Banks Risk `Untold Problem' as Muni Debt Swells
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-06T18:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/u-s-banks-risk-untold-problem-as-muni-holdings-climb-to-25-year-high.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc. ,  State Street Corp. 
and U.S. Bancorp are among U.S. banks whose municipal bond
holdings have reached a 25-year high just as state budget
deficits swell to $140 billion, the most since the start of the
recession.  
 Commercial lenders added more than $84 billion to their
 holdings  since 2003, according to the Federal Reserve, pushing
total investments to $216.2 billion at the end of the first
quarter. Bank regulators and ratings companies are ramping up
scrutiny of banks most at risk of being forced to raise more
capital should  debt  prices slide.  
 “There is a huge untold problem here,” said  Walter J. Mix III , a former commissioner of the California  Department of
Financial Institutions  who closed 30 banks during the last
banking crisis in the 1990s. “The economics lead to the
conclusion that there will be downward pressure on these
bonds.”  
 At  Cullen/Frost Bankers Inc. , the biggest Texas lender,
holdings of municipal debt exceeded Tier 1 capital, a key
measure of a bank’s ability to absorb losses, by $491 million at
the end of the first quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
For State Street, based in Boston, the holdings make up 50
percent of Tier 1 capital. U.S. Bancorp, the Minneapolis lender,
has a ratio of 28 percent. It’s 11 percent at Citigroup, the
data show.  
 Municipal Bond Yields  
 Default speculation and a move by investors to the safest
securities drove municipal bond yields to a  13-month high 
relative to U.S. Treasuries in the first half of the year. Now,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has asked analysts to look
into the issue, according to spokeswoman Michele Heller.  
 The 9.5 percent U.S.  unemployment rate  and slump in
property prices have slashed local governments’ ability to pay
bills. Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , speaking at a June 2
hearing of the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  in New York,
predicted a “terrible problem” for municipal bonds. Buffett
has said a U.S. state facing default may need a federal rescue.  
 Analysts and investors remain divided about the level of
risk. Lenders hold just 8 percent of the $2.8 trillion state and
local government debt market, and municipal bonds are only about
2 percent of total bank assets, according to the Fed.  
 ‘Train Wreck’  
 “The open issue is whether it’s a slowly emerging train
wreck,” said  Jeff Davis , an analyst at Guggenheim Securities
LLC, a unit of Guggenheim Partners LLC, whose executive chairman
is former Bear Stearns Cos. Chief Executive Officer  Alan D. Schwartz . “It’s hard to paint all general obligation and all
revenue bonds with the same brush. The portfolios won’t go to
zero.”  
 Municipal defaults are a slender risk, according to Moody’s
Investors Service, which said in a February report that the
investment-grade rate during the past four decades was 0.03
percent, compared with 0.97 percent for similar corporate
issues. Investors eventually recoup an average of 67 cents on
the dollar for defaulted municipal bonds.  
 While the historical default-rate risk for municipal debt
is below corporate obligations, sudden declines in prices have
already created losses at some banks.  
 Citigroup had an unrealized loss of $1.8 billion in the
third quarter of 2008, when the municipal market sank 3.8
percent, the biggest quarterly decline since 1994,  company
filings  and Bank of America Merrill Indexes show. The loss was
deducted from the firm’s equity.  
 Citigroup  
 “Citi’s exposure to the municipal market is of the highest
quality,”  Danielle Romero-Apsilos , a spokeswoman for the New
York-based firm, said in a statement. “We conduct rigorous
stress tests under a variety of scenarios and are comfortable
with our position.”  
 Citigroup  had the largest municipal holdings among the
biggest banks as of March 31, with $13.4 billion of state and
local government bonds, according to FDIC call reports. That’s
down from $13.8 billion at the end of last year.  Bank of America
Corp.  held $8.5 billion, Wells Fargo & Co. owned $7.6 billion
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. held $4.5 billion. Each accounted for
less than 8 percent of Tier 1 capital, according to the FDIC.  
 Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, has
made “significant progress” boosting capital and reducing
risk-weighted assets, spokesman  Jerry Dubrowski  said. The lender
trimmed its municipal investments by more than $800 million in
the first quarter. JPMorgan spokeswoman  Jennifer Zuccarelli 
didn’t return a call for comment.  
 Wells Fargo  
 Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, boosted its municipal
holdings by more than $2 billion in the first quarter, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The investments are in
municipalities “we know very well,” Chief Financial Officer
 Howard Atkins  said on May 13.  
 State Street, the second-largest independent  custody bank ,
owned $6.2 billion of state and local government debt at the end
of March, the data show. State Street is “very comfortable”
with its portfolio and has had no material credit issues,
spokeswoman  Carolyn Cichon  said. At Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp, which owned $6.6 billion of municipal bonds,
spokeswoman  Jennifer Wendt  also declined comment.  
 Cullen/Frost, which says it’s the only one of the 10
biggest Texas banks to survive the 1980s savings-and-loan
crisis, is “extremely comfortable” with the municipal
investments, CFO  Phillip Green  said in a July 1 interview.  
 $1 Billion in Bonds  
 The 142-year-old lender, based in San Antonio, bought $1
billion of municipal bonds in the 12 months through February,
Green said that month. Most were issued by Texas school
districts and insured by the state’s Permanent School Fund
guarantee program, he said in last week’s interview.  
 Municipal debt gained 2 percent in the second quarter
underperforming Treasuries by 2.7 percentage points, according
to Bank of America Merrill indexes. In 2009, state and local
government debt rose 14.5 percent.  
 U.S. states are likely to face $140 billion in cumulative
budget gaps in the coming year, according to the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities . Last year, 187 tax-exempt issuers
defaulted on $6.4 billion of securities, the most since 1992,
according to data from Distressed Debt Securities in Miami
Lakes, Florida.  
 “It’s a market where it’s clear that the underlying
fundamentals are lousy,” said  Michael Aronstein , chief
investment strategist at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., a New York-
based brokerage. “People can say fundamentals don’t matter but
I’ve been doing this for 32 years. They do.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Billionaire investor Warren Buffett, speaking at a June 2 hearing of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in New York, predicted a “terrible problem” for municipal bonds. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Alexandra Lebenthal, president and chief executive officer of Lebenthal & Co., discusses the outlook for municipal bonds. 
     Lebenthal calls the U.S. municipal market "attractive" amid concerns over state finances. She talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
