-- U.S. Is Set to Double Exports in Five Years, Led by Farm Goods, Locke Says
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-07-06T15:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/u-s-is-set-to-double-exports-in-five-years-led-by-farm-goods-locke-says.html

          
          
             The top U.S. trade officials said the
country is on track to meet President  Barack Obama ’s goal of
doubling exports in five years, led by a 19 percent increase in
agricultural exports in this year’s first quarter.  
 “We’re very bullish on agricultural exports,” Agriculture
Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said today at the White House after
export-promotion officials met with the president. Vilsack said
that with the 19 percent increase, he expects the U.S. will have
its second-best year of agricultural exports since his agency
began keeping track.  
 Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke , joined by U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk , said the U.S. can “easily” meet Obama’s
goal of doubling exports in five years.  
 Obama made the pledge in his State of the Union address. He
also promised to expand trade with Colombia, Panama and South
Korea. The White House is seeking to highlight progress on
exports this week ahead of the president’s trip to an electric
vehicle plant in Kansas City, Missouri, and remarks on the
economy in Las Vegas later this week.  
 “The president really believes that we can do better, we
can do more because most advanced countries have a much more
significant portion of their GDP coming from exports,” Locke
said, referring to gross domestic product.  
 Kirk gave no time estimate on completing agreements with
Colombia and Panama. “We continue to make good progress” in
talks with those countries, he said.  
 The president pledged June 26 at the Group of 20 summit in
Toronto to revive the stalled free-trade talks with South Korea
with a goal of finishing a deal in November during his planned
visit to Seoul. The aim is to submit a free-trade deal to
Congress in succeeding months, he said.  
 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce released a study in May
showing that free-trade agreements boost economic growth by more
than $300 billion a year, led by sales of U.S. products to
Canada and Mexico, the top U.S. trading partners.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        