-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Speculation Earnings Will Trigger Rebound
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-07-06T20:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/u-s-index-futures-rise-as-valuations-reach-16-month-low-goldman-advances.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks gained, with the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  rising from a 10-month low, amid speculation
earnings growth will help equities rebound from their lowest
valuations since the bull market began in 2009.  
 Alcoa Inc. , which unofficially will start the second-
quarter earnings season when it reports results next week,
jumped 2.1 percent as metal prices gained in London. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. climbed after JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded the
shares to “overweight.” Equities briefly erased gains in
afternoon trading after a slowdown in service industry growth
added to concern the economic recovery is weakening.  
 The  S&P 500  climbed 0.5 percent to 1,028.06 at 4 p.m. in
New York after jumping 2 percent in the first hour of trading.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 57.14 points, or 0.6
percent, to 9,743.62 to snap a seven-day losing streak, its
longest since the financial crisis in 2008.  
 “Stocks are pretty oversold and pessimism is getting
pretty fixed and that could inspire a short-term rally,” said
 Bruce Bittles , chief investment strategist at Milwaukee-based
Robert W. Baird & Co., which oversees more than $85 billion in
client assets. “Second-quarter earnings are expected to be
good.”  
 The S&P 500 plunged 5 percent last week after reports
showed a slowdown in the manufacturing expansion, a bigger-than-
forecast drop in pending home sales and slower-than-estimated
growth in jobs, fanning concern that the economy may stall. The
decline pushed the benchmark gauge to 12.5 times estimated
earnings, the cheapest since March 2009 when the measure began
an 80 percent rally.  
 Dent Growth  
 The index tumbled 16 percent from this year’s high on April
23 through July 2 on concern a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe
and China’s moves to slow the world’s largest emerging economy
will dent global growth.  
 The retreat came even as analysts raise earnings estimates
for U.S. companies at the fastest rate since at least 2004.
Profit for S&P 500 companies will jump 34 percent in 2010,
compared with a projected gain of 27 percent on March 29,
according to more than 8,000 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Service industries in the U.S. expanded in June at a slower
pace, indicating the economy started to cool entering the second
half. The Institute for Supply Management’s  index  of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 53.8 from 55.4 in May. The median forecast of
59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a decline to
55. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  
 Alcoa rallied 2.1 percent to $10.21 as aluminum rose 3
percent to lead industrial metals higher in London. The largest
U.S. aluminum company will report results on July 12, the first
company in the Dow average to release earnings.  
 “The real theme I see is the macroeconomic argument, which
is negative, versus the microeconomic argument, which is
oversold,” said  Sean Kraus , who oversees $2.2 billion as chief
investment officer at Citizens Business Bank in Pasadena,
California. “You’re seeing it today with the up and down moves.”
He added, “when earnings season begins, you’re going to get a
lot of company management teams that are cautious.”  
 Goldman Sachs  gained 0.9 percent to $132.26. JPMorgan
upgraded the stock from “neutral” as it analyzed the effect of
potential changes to capital regulation. Goldman Sachs is “best
in class” in allocating capital per unit and managing risk,
JPMorgan wrote in a report.  
 GE Gains  
 General Electric Co.  advanced 0.7 percent to $13.97. The
world’s biggest maker of jet engines, power-generation equipment
and locomotives said it received contracts of about $300 million
to provide five gas turbines and signed a 15-year service
agreement for a power plant in Salalah, southwest Oman.  
 Micron Technology Inc.  rose 1.6 percent to $8.35 and Intel
Corp. climbed 1.5 percent to $19.48. The chipmakers gained after
the Semiconductor Industry Association said global sales climbed
4.5 percent in May from the previous month, helped by higher
demand for chips used in computers and mobile phones.  
 Broadwind Energy Inc.  surged 16 percent, the most in the
Russell 2000 Index, to $3.23. The maker of wind towers said it
will supply Gamesa Corporación Tecnológica, a Spain-based
manufacturer of wind turbine generators, at its U.S. sites.  
 Hospital shares advanced after Barclays Plc said the
industry’s slump since May was “overdone” and now is the time
to “become more aggressive” on the group since the companies
will be able to cut costs to offset lower volumes.  
 Tenet Healthcare Corp.  rose the most in the S&P 500,
gaining 4.1 percent to $4.32. Community Health Systems Inc.
advanced 2.4 percent to $32.21 and Health Management Associates
Inc. rallied 0.4 percent to $7.35.  
 ‘Consumer Hangover’  
 Shares of consumer-discretionary companies fell 0.1
percent, the only group out of 10 on the S&P 500 to end lower.
U.S. retailers will suffer from a “consumer hangover” that
lasts through the holiday shopping season, according to  Deborah L. Weinswig , an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  Office Depot Inc.  and
 Sears Holdings Corp.  fell at least 4 percent.  
 Weinswig cut earnings estimates for  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,
the world’s largest retailer, as well as  Home Depot Inc. , J.C.
Penney Co., Kohl’s Corp., Lowe’s Cos., Macy’s Inc., Nordstrom
Inc., Saks Inc. and Target Corp. through January 2013 and
lowered stock-price projections for each company. Home Depot
dropped the most in the Dow, slumping 1.5 percent to $27.34.  
 Tesla Motors Inc.  tumbled 16 percent to $16.11. The first
U.S. automaker to complete an initial public offering in more
than a half century retreated for a fourth straight day to fall
below its IPO price of $17 a share. The Palo Alto, California-
based company has slid 33 percent since rallying 41 percent on
June 29, its first day of trading.  
 Cliffs Natural Resources Inc.  fell 5.1 percent to $44.49.
North America’s largest iron-ore producer agreed to pay $757
million for the West Virginia coal operations of closely held
INR Energy LLC.  
 Monsanto Co.  slumped 3.1 percent to $45.12. The world’s
biggest seed company can’t use a European patent on its Roundup
Ready soybeans to block Argentinean soy meal imports, the
European Union’s highest court said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks gained, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rising from a 10-month low, amid speculation earnings growth will help equities rebound from their lowest valuations since the bull market began in 2009. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Joseph Battipaglia, an investment strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Battipaglia also discusses his investment strategy and the outlook for stocks. Battipaglia talks with Matt Miller, Carol Massar and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Tommy Huie, president and chief investment officer of M&I Investment Management Corporation, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the outlook for the U.S. economy and corporate earnings, and M&I's equity investment strategy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Jeremy Zirin, senior equity strategist at UBS Wealth Management, talks about the outlook for U.S. corporate earnings, stocks and the economy, and his equity investment strategy.
     Zirin speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Demos, a portfolio manager with Fifth Third Asset management, talks about the outlook for the U.S. stock market and investment strategy.
     Demos, speaking with Betty Liu, Jon Erlichman and Sheila Dharmarajan on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses corporate earnings and risks in the bond market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
    Paulsen, speaking from Minneapolis, also discusses his investment strategy for U.S. stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
