-- U.S. Postal Service Proposes 2-Cent Rise for First-Class Mail
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-07-07T14:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/u-s-postal-service-seeks-46-cents-for-first-class-stamp-to-narrow-deficit.html

          
          
             (Corrects to show 1863 as start for six-day mail delivery
in fourth paragraph of story published July 6.)  
 The U.S. Postal Service proposed
raising first-class stamp prices by 2 cents, to 46 cents, while
rates increase 8 percent for periodicals and 23 percent for some
parcels to narrow a deficit projected at $7 billion this year.  
 The increases would generate $2.3 billion in the first nine
months of 2011, the service said today in a statement before
filing with the Postal Regulatory Commission. The proposal was
challenged by a group that represents publisher Time Inc. and
mail-order pharmacy supplier and Medco Health Solutions Inc.  
 “This filing is unlawful,” James Cregan, executive vice
president of government affairs for the Magazine Publishers of
America, said on a conference call. “It’s bad economics, and
it’s bad public policy.”  
 The commission has 90 days to rule on the proposal, one of
several steps the Postal Service is considering to cope with a
decline in mail volume and revenue. The service also is seeking
approval from Congress to end Saturday delivery for the first
time since six-day service began in 1863. The higher rates are
the first for the service in two years, the agency said.  
 Postal customers are prepared to fight the increase, Cregan
said on the call arranged by the Affordable Mail Alliance that
lists as members Time Warner Inc.’s Time, Medco, publisher
Meredith Corp., direct mailer Harte-Hanks Inc. and printer R.R.
Donnelley & Sons Co.  
 ‘Exceptional, Extraordinary’  
 The Postal Service invoked a legal provision that lets it
propose increases greater than the rate of inflation in
“exceptional or extraordinary” circumstances, said Stephen
Kearney, a senior vice president with the Postal Service. The
recession has reduced mail volume and devastated customers such
as credit-card and real-estate companies, he said.  
 The average increase would be 5.6 percent, compared with
inflation of 0.6 percent, Kearney said.  
 “We’re doing this because the Postal Service really faces
a serious risk of financial insolvency,” Kearney said.  
 The emergency powers are being abused, Cregan said. The
Postal Service needs to cut costs and improve procedures that
result in employees being underworked or sitting idly, the
alliance said on its website.  
 The postal commission, an independent agency in Washington,
will decide whether there is an emergency that would justify
increases that exceed inflation, Chairman Ruth Goldway said in
an interview. Lacking an emergency, the commission can’t approve
the increase, Goldway said.  
 ‘No Precedent’  
 “The mailers have already told us they’re going to
challenge that concept: that this economic recession is not an
emergency,” Goldway said. “There is no precedent for deciding
that.”  
 Express mail and priority mail, such as the flat-rate boxes
advertised by the Postal Service, are excluded from the current
proposal, and higher prices for those offerings will be
announced in October, the agency said.  
 A 23 percent increase would apply to parcels under 1 pound,
said Maura Robinson, Postal Service vice president for pricing.
Heavier packages typically used to ship books, videos and
merchandise face an average increase of 7 percent, she said.  
 The Postal Service’s parcel charges “will remain
competitive, which shows how underpriced they are now,” Kearney
said.  
 The Postal Service lost $1.6 billion in its recent quarter
as customers continued to use the Internet to pay monthly bills
and read publications that previously were delivered by mail.
The service projects a deficit of $238 billion through 2020.  
 Declining Volume  
 Mail volume dropped 6.3 percent from Oct. 1 through March
31, the service said May 6. Profitable types of mail are falling
faster than less-profitable categories, which include bulk
advertising mail, Chief Financial Officer Joseph Corbett said.  
 The agency also has asked Congress for permission to delay
a required retiree health benefits payment and for more
flexibility to close facilities.  
 Congress shows little inclination to reduce days of
service, Cregan said.  
 Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, publishes
Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets magazines.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 Tshields3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     John Potter, U.S. postmaster general. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- The U.S. Postal Service proposed raising the price of first-class stamps by 2 cents, to 46 cents. Bloomberg's Lori Rothman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
