-- Huge HIV Virus Made of Glass Puts Plague in Your Face (Update1)
-- Katya Kazakina
-- 2010-07-06T12:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/huge-hiv-flu-virus-made-of-glass-put-world-plague-in-your-face.html

          
          
             A swine flu virus, looking like a
Faberge egg, is one of the giant bugs in “Infectious Beauty,”
an unusual exhibition at  Heller Gallery  in New York’s
Meatpacking District.  
 Enlarged a million times their original size, the nasty
viruses are made from blown glass and shimmer like Baccarat
crystal on their mirrored pedestals. HIV is as round as a ball.
An E. coli bacterium resembles a spiky amoeba.  
 Created by  Luke Jerram , a 35-year-old artist based in
Bristol, England, these transparent, fragile-looking spheres
exude a strange tension that propels them beyond the merely
decorative.  
 “I make them to contemplate the global implication of each
virus,” said Jerram when we recently met at the gallery. “You
are drawn in by the beauty of these objects and repelled by what
they represent.”  
 Jerram also produced the “Play Me, I’m Yours” art project
that brought 60 pianos to the streets of New York.  
 For “Infectious Beauty,” he said he was inspired by the
colorful images of viruses in newspapers and magazines. He felt
suspicious of the visual representation, he said.  
 ‘Very Fuzzy’  
 “You can’t see them with your naked eye,” he said. “When
you look at them through the electron microscope they look very
fuzzy. You can just about make out the shape.”  
 The printed images he saw reflect scientists’ decisions on
what things look like and how to present them visually to the
public, he said.  
 In reality, viruses are transparent, which is why he had
them made of glass, he said. Their surfaces are dotted with
spikes, worms and suction cups, representing proteins. Inside,
milky glass forms in shapes that bring to mind coral reefs or a
DNA chain.  
 “The genetic material is coiled up on the inside and the
proteins are on the outside,” said Jerram. “They act as keys
to unlock the surface of a cell so that the virus can go in and
replicate.”  
 Smallpox is the deadliest of the viruses in the show, which
also includes SARS and avian flu.  
 “It’s an absolutely horrible disease,” Jerram said.
“But it’s also something to be celebrated because this year
marks the 30th anniversary of the global eradication of
smallpox.”  
 The artist worked with a virologist, poring over medical
and chemical diagrams to come up with the most accurate images.
When the virologist signed off on the design, Jerram asked the
glassblower to turn the squishy-textured virus into hard-
surfaced sculpture.  
 Colorblind Artist  
 “These are as accurate as I can make them,” said Jerram,
whose colorblindness prompted his exploration of perception in
art and science. “We are right at the edge of what scientific
technology allows us to see. We also want to be at the edge of
what glassblowing is capable of.”  
 Prices range from $3,000 to $22,000 for the glass works,
which come in editions of five. Color photographs of the works
are available for $450.  
 “Infectious Beauty” runs through July 31 at Heller
Gallery, 420 W. 14th St. Information: +1-212-414-4014;
 http://www.hellergallery.com   
 ( Katya Kazakina  is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "Swine Flu" a glass sculpture by British artist Luke Jerram. The work is part of "Infectious Beauty" an exhibition at Heller Gallery in New York's Meatpacking District. Photographer: Luke Jerram/Heller Gallery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Large HIV" a glass sculpture by British artist Luke Jerram. The work is part of "Infectious Beauty,'' an exhibition at Heller Gallery in New York's Meatpacking District. Photographer: Luke Jerram/Heller Gallery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "E.coli" a glass sculpture by British artist Luke Jerram. It is part of "Infectious Beauty,'' an exhibition at Heller Gallery in New York's Meatpacking District. Photographer: Luke Jerram/Heller Gallery via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
