-- Ukraine's Credit Ratings Raised by Fitch After $14.9 Billion IMF Loan Deal
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-07-06T15:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/ukraine-s-credit-ratings-raised-by-fitch-after-14-9-billion-imf-loan-deal.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s credit grade was raised at
Fitch Ratings after the country reached an agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund ’s mission on a $14.9 billion loan to
help the former Soviet state rebuild its economy.  
 Fitch upgraded Ukraine’s sovereign long-term foreign and
local currency issuer default ratings by one step to B from B-,
it said in a statement today. The outlooks are stable, it said.
The upgrade puts Fitch’s rating in line with Standard & Poor’s
and Moody’s Investors Service rankings on the sovereign, five
levels below investment grade.  
 The IMF agreed the two-and-a-half year stand-by arrangement
to help the eastern European country “entrench fiscal and
financial stability, advance structural reforms and put Ukraine
on a path of sustainable and balanced growth,” the fund said on
July 3. Credit default swaps on the country’s five-year debt
eased 18 basis points today to 633, according to CMA DataVision
in London, as investors scaled back bets of a default.  
 The IMF loan “supports confidence in the policy and
financing outlook, reduces the risk of macroeconomic and
financial instability and is positive for the country’s
creditworthiness,” said Fitch analyst  David Heslam . “  
 Ukraine’s bonds due 2016 gained 0.55 cents, lowering the
yield to 8.3 percent from 8.4 percent, according to prices on
Bloomberg.  
 ‘Somewhat Delayed’  
 “The ratings upgrade is somewhat delayed, as most ratings
changes typically are,” said  David Spegel , global head of
emerging markets strategy at ING Groep NV in New York. “Mostly
it reflects the significant decline in political risks.”  
 The IMF’s Executive Board will make a final decision by
late July, following “approval of legislative changes relating
to the budget and financial sector,” the fund said in its July
3 statement. The IMF wants Ukraine’s government to keep its
deficit at 5.5 percent of gross domestic product this year and
3.5 percent of GDP next year.  
 Ukraine’s fiscal outlook also improved after President
 Viktor Yanukovych  secured gas subsidies from his Russian
counterpart  Dmitry Medvedev  in an agreement that is likely to
bring to an end regular gas price disputes that had hampered
supplies to Europe.  
 Policy Consistency  
 “A credible and consistent program to reduce the budget
deficit and place the government debt ratio on a downward trend,
combined with reforms to reduce Ukraine’s vulnerability to
shocks, has the potential to further improve creditworthiness
over time,” said Heslam. “However, a track record of policy
consistency has yet to be established in Ukraine.”  
 Fitch cut Ukraine’s ratings three times between October
2008 and November 2009 after the global financial crisis
undermined investment in the country and left about 20 banks in
need of state aid. Today’s upgrade comes one day before Ukraine
embarks on a road show for its first Eurobond sale since 2007.
The government wants to raise $1.3 billion through the bond
sales.  
 Ukraine’s  economy  shrank 15.1 percent last year, the
deepest decline since 1994, as demands for its exports slid.
Fitch expects the economy to expand 4.5 percent in 2010 and 4.7
percent in 2011, driven by stronger external demand and an
improvement in Ukraine’s terms of trade  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tasneem Brogger  in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        