-- Lula Falters in Bid to Cut Floating-Rate Debt as Rates Increase
-- Arnaldo Galvao
-- 2010-07-06T22:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/lula-efforts-to-cut-floating-rate-debt-legacy-of-hyperinflation-falter.html

          
          
             Brazil’s bid to wean itself off
floating-rate debt, a legacy of 1990s hyperinflation, is
faltering as the central bank boosts benchmark borrowing costs
from a record low.  
 The percentage of the government’s 1.59 trillion reais
($894 billion) of debt that was issued at yields tied to the
 overnight lending rate , known as Selic, climbed to 33.6 percent
in May from a record low of 30.7 percent in 2007, according to
the Treasury. The increase snaps a decade-long decline that cut
the percentage from 62 percent in 1998 and helped the country
win investment-grade credit ratings.  
 The rise in floating-rate debt, which became popular two
decades ago when annual  inflation  climbed above 1,000 percent,
may slow Brazil’s efforts to win further rating increases, said
 Mauro Leos , who heads the Latin America sovereign ratings group
at Moody’s Investors Service.  
 “There’s a reversal, it’s clear,” Leos said in a
telephone interview from New York. The question is “when will
they be able to push it below 30 percent,” he said.  
 Moody’s raised Brazil’s rating to Baa3, the lowest
investment-grade ranking, in September, matching moves that
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings made a year earlier. Moody’s
and Fitch have positive outlooks on the rating.  
 Rising Rates  
 “Small increases in the debt linked to Selic don’t
jeopardize rating upgrades,” Otavio Ladeira de Medeiros,
Brazil’s debt strategic planning coordinator, said in a
telephone interview from Brasilia yesterday. “The rating
agencies look at the whole debt composition and recognize that
there was a lot of progress made.”  
 Demand for floating-rate bonds, known as LFTs, is picking
up as central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  raises the
benchmark overnight rate to cool the fastest  economic expansion 
in 15 years. Meirelles lifted the target rate to 10.25 percent
from a record low of 8.75 percent in April. Traders expect it
will reach about 12 percent by year-end, according to futures
contracts.  
 “The problem is that they’re seeing a lot of demand,”
said  Henry Stipp , an emerging-market fund manager at
Threadneedle Asset Management in London, which has $98 billion
of assets under management. “If interest rates are going to
rise, investor demand for floating-rate bonds is going to
increase.”  
 ‘Lost Momentum’  
 Brazil is more vulnerable to rising rates than its regional
peers. In Mexico, Latin America’s second-biggest economy after
Brazil, floating-rate securities represent about 8 percent of
government debt. Mexico is rated Baa1 by Moody’s, or two levels
above Brazil. In neighboring Colombia, which is rated Ba1, or
one step below Brazil, floating-rate notes account for about 4
percent of debt.  
 The improvement in Brazil’s debt mix “has lost momentum,”
 Luis Fernando Lopes , who helps manage 1.1 billion reais as a
partner at Patria Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “Credit-rating companies are going to be
cautious because it’s going to take more time,” he said.  
 Leos said that Brazilian officials would have to cut
floating-rate debt to less than 30 percent to have a
“significant impact on improving their credit profile.” He
said Moody’s is looking for improvement in the government’s debt
ratios and is monitoring how it manages the increase in tax
revenue as growth quickens.  
 Third-Highest  
 Shelly Shetty , a Fitch analyst in New York, said it would
be “desirable” for Brazil to reduce the amount of debt linked
to the overnight rate. Fitch is more focused on whether Brazil
can prevent its economy from overheating and if the next
administration will maintain policies that “ensure fiscal
restraint,” she said.  
 Brazilians will elect a replacement for President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva in October.  Dilma Rousseff , Lula’s former
cabinet chief, and  Jose Serra , ex-governor of Sao Paulo, lead
opinion polls.  
 The high percentage of floating-rate debt is one of the
“fiscal issues” that Brazil confronts, said  Sebastian Briozzo ,
an S&P analyst in Buenos Aires.  
 “Investors continue to demand this floating paper,”
Briozzo said in a telephone interview. “The structural issue
that needs to change in Brazil is high interest rates.”  
 Brazil’s overnight rate amounts to 5 percent after
adjusting for inflation, making it the third-highest among 53
economies tracked by Bloomberg behind Croatia and Latvia.  
 Default Swaps  
 The 10.25 percent overnight rate on floating-rate debt
compares with a 12.26 percent yield on government bonds due in
2021, the longest fixed-rate maturity in Brazil. The yield on
the 2021 bonds rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
today.  
 The cost of credit-default swaps to protect against a
default on Brazilian debt for five years was unchanged at 139,
according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The real fell 0.1 percent to 1.7796 per dollar at 5:32 p.m.
in New York, extending its loss this year to 2 percent.  
 Lula’s push to move investors into fixed-rate and
inflation-linked bonds has also been weakened by the global
financial crisis. As the crisis deepened in 2008, foreign
investors pulled out of Brazilian fixed-rate bonds, Lopes said.  
 ‘No Buyers’  
 “There was a significant capital outflow,” Lopes said in
a telephone interview. “So when the Treasury had to roll over
this debt again, they couldn’t. There were no buyers of long-
term, fixed-rate bonds.”  
 Fixed-rate securities accounted for 31.7 percent of
government debt in April, down from 35.1 percent in 2007,
according to the Treasury. The government has struggled to sell
fixed-rate bonds since the European debt crisis emerged in
April. Officials canceled three auctions of bonds due in 2021 in
the past two months.  
 S&P’s Briozzo said many local investors have too much of a
“short horizon” to buy long-term bonds. International
investors held 61 percent of the fixed-rate bonds due in 2017
and 49 percent of securities due in 2021 as of April.  
 Brazilians learned during hyperinflation, which peaked in
April 1990 when the annual rate reached 6,821 percent, that
buying debt with interest rates that re-set daily was the “way
to make money,” said  Paulo Vieira da Cunha , a former central
bank director who is a partner at Tandem Global Partners LLC in
New York. Inflation was 5.2 percent in May.  
 “There’s a legacy there,” da Cunha said in a telephone
interview. “It’s diminishing, but there’s always demand” for
floating-rate debt, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Brazilians will elect a replacement for President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in October. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
