-- Tullow Gets Conditional Approval for Purchase of Heritage Assets in Uganda
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-07-06T16:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/tullow-says-uganda-approval-for-its-heritage-oil-investment-is-imminent-.html

          
          
             Tullow Oil Plc , the U.K. explorer
with the most licenses in Africa, said the Ugandan government
gave conditional approval to its delayed purchase of assets from
 Heritage Oil Plc .  
 “It has been approved conditionally” on the basis that
Heritage pays taxes related to the transaction, Brian Glover,
Tullow’s country manager for Uganda, said by phone.  
 The deal paves the way for Tullow to bring in China
National Offshore Oil Corp. and  Total SA  to help develop the
Lake Albert basin. The fields may pump more than 200,000 barrels
of oil a day in 2014 or 2015, the London-based company said in a
statement earlier today.  
 Shares of Tullow  rose  4 percent to 1,083 pence in London.
Heritage, based in St. Helier, Jersey, jumped 9.5 percent to 414
pence.  
 Tullow agreed earlier this year to buy Heritage’s interest
in two Ugandan blocks for as much as $1.5 billion after
derailing a rival bid from Italy’s  Eni SpA . Although Heritage
had originally expected the sale to be cleared in the first
quarter, approval had been held up by tax issues.  
 Tullow, which expects to produce its first oil in Ghana
later this year, plans to drill 15 “high-impact” wells to
explore its fields in Ghana and Uganda. In addition, seven
exploration wells are earmarked for Sierra Leone, Liberia,
Mauritania, Guyana and French Guiana. Capital expenditure will
total $1.5 billion through the year.  
 Tullow  today announced the Shekhan-1 gas discovery in
Pakistan, taking the company’s success rate to 73 percent in the
first half of the year, according to Exploration Director  Angus McCoss . “It’s going to be a busy second half of the year,” he
said.  
 The U.K. company pumped an average of 55,800 barrels a day
in the first half. Full-year production is expected to average
between 56,000 and 57,000 barrels a day.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        