-- Tullow to Expand Jubilee Oil Project Drilling Off Ghanaian Coast, CFO Says
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-07-06T09:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/tullow-to-expand-jubilee-oil-project-drilling-off-ghanaian-coast-cfo-says.html

          
          
             Tullow Oil Plc , the U.K. explorer
that plans to produce its first oil in Ghana this year, may
expand drilling off the African country’s coast.  
 Together with Anadarko Petroleum Corp., Kosmos Energy LLC
and Ghana National Petroleum Corp., Tullow is investing about
$3.35 billion to develop the Jubilee field and pump 60,000
barrels a day in November or December, the London-based company
said today in a statement. Output will double in the following
three to six months.  
 “We are now beginning to build up thinking in terms of the
size and scope and scale” for  further phases  at Jubilee, Chief
Financial Officer  Ian Springett  said today by phone. Jubilee’s
first phase consists of 350 million barrels of reserves, while
the whole field holds as much as 1 billion barrels of resources.
“That gives you the sense of the scope” of the field, he said.  
 Tullow would also be interested in examining assets that BP
Plc may offer for sale to meet liabilities and costs to clean up
the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, Springett said.  
 “We are always looking further afield and we look at all
opportunities as they come along,” he said. “A lot of people
will be interested in BP assets.”  
 “It depends of course for us where it is and if fits in
our portfolio, if it makes sense to us.”  
 There have been no delays in Tullow’s joint projects with
Anadarko, the Texas oil company that owns 25 percent of the
damaged well in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Anadarko remains “very committed to West Africa as we
are” said Springett. “Things are moving fine on the
operational level.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        