-- Hungarian Parliament Approves Measure That Loosens Rules Governing Budget
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-07-06T07:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/hungarian-parliament-approves-measure-that-loosens-rules-governing-budget.html

          
          
             Hungarian lawmakers approved a bill
loosening budget rules, ignoring objections from the independent
Fiscal Council that the measures will “erode” the country’s
fiscal credibility.  
 The  bill , written by a ruling party lawmaker, takes out of
the budget the results of majority state-owned companies and
widens the scope for the government to forego supplementary
budgets in case of overspending. The bill was approved late
yesterday by a vote of 304 to 60 with one abstention, according
to Parliament’s website. It is now awaiting the president’s
signature to become law.  
 Hungary’s Cabinet is trying to convince investors, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union that it is
committed to budget discipline. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  last
month backtracked from election pledges to put pro-growth
measures ahead of fiscal consolidation after the forint plunged
on investor concern about Hungary’s fiscal health.  
 The budget changes are “a step backward for fiscal
responsibility,”  Gyorgy Kopits , chairman of the Fiscal Council,
a state body that reviews budget policy, said on June 28. The
changes “can’t be reconciled with transparent and sustainable
budget policies,” the council said in a  statement .  
 Officials from the IMF and the EU, which gave the bulk of a
20 billion-euro ($25 billion) bailout to Hungary, today begin a
regular, two-week review of budget policies. The country needs
to reduce the  deficit  to 3.8 percent of gross domestic product
this year from 4 percent of GDP last year to qualify for the
loan, which expires in October.  
 The budget shortfall jumped to 119 percent of the full-year
target in the first six months, up from 85 percent in the
January to May period, the Economy Ministry said in a statement
yesterday.  
 Hungary is seeking to extend the bailout through the rest
of this year and sign a two-year precautionary loan agreement of
as much as 20 billion euros starting next year, Economy and  
Finance Minister Gyorgy Matolscy said on July 2.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        