-- Turkish Politics May Encourage Looser Fiscal Stand, Citigroup's Lubin Says
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-07-06T08:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/turkish-politics-may-encourage-looser-fiscal-stand-citigroup-s-lubin-says.html

          
          
             Turkey’s government may loosen fiscal
policy to help counter rising support for its main challenger,
swelling an already-expanding  current account deficit , said
 David Lubin , Citigroup Inc.’s chief emerging markets economist.  
 With the opposition “revitalized by a change in
leadership, and where opinion polls suggest that the AKP’s
popularity has been waning a little bit, it’s possible to
imagine that there might be incentives for a fiscal stimulus,”
Lubin said in an interview in London yesterday. With record-low
interest rates, that could lead to “much worse trends in the
current account deficit” in the second half of this year.  
 Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government has
pledged to rein in a budget deficit that widened to 5.5 percent
of economic output last year. Erdogan’s government said in March
that it no longer needs International Monetary Fund assistance
to manage its public finances, and parliament is debating
legislation to impose a cap on the deficit.  
 Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party or AKP, which must
call elections within a year, was backed by 39 percent of voters
according to a May poll by research company Genar, down from the
47 percent in 2007 elections. The main opposition Republican
People’s Party, which elected  Kemal Kilicdaroglu  as its new
leader in May, was on 26 percent.  
 Turkey’s budget surplus before interest payments in the
first five months of 2010 was more than double the target for
the whole year, leaving the government room to relax fiscal
policy without jeopardizing budget goals.  
 Lubin said he expects Turkey’s economy to expand more than
6 percent this year, “which is a really impressive rate.” He
said measures to strengthen Turkish banks, taken after a series
of collapses a decade ago, helped the country rebound from the
global crisis of the past two years.  
 ‘Strong Balance Sheets’  
 “Turkish banks went into the crisis with strong balance
sheets, and this gave the Turkish central bank a lot of
flexibility to support the economy by cutting interest rates,”
he said.  
 Turkey’s gross domestic product grew an annual 11.7 percent
in the first quarter, recouping most of the output lost in last
year’s slump. The country’s current account deficit has been
widening since November, and the April shortfall of $4.4 billion
was the largest for almost two years, as the recovery spurred
demand for imported goods among consumers and companies.  
 Lubin said Turkey’s real interest rates are “very low by
historical standards,” meaning that “investors are not being
hugely compensated for the risk.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        