-- Vampire Movies, From Lugosi to Cage, Deliver Bloody Delights
-- Peter Rainer
-- 2010-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/vampire-films-from-lugosi-to-cage-deliver-bloody-delights-rainer-file.html

          
          
             Popular culture is in the grip of
vampire mania. With “ The Vampire Diaries ,” “ True Blood ” and
“ The Gates ” on television and the latest chapter of “The
Twilight Saga” in movie theaters, it’s a wonder there’s enough
hemoglobin to go around.  
 But what about the great vampire movies, the ones you can
really sink your teeth into?  
 Perhaps the greatest and most lyrical of vampire movies is
“ Vampyr ” (1932), which Criterion brought out a while back on
DVD in a marvelous restoration.  
 Made four years after his masterpiece “The Passion of Joan
of Arc,” it was the first sound film by the great Danish
director Carl Theodor Dreyer. The imagery is thick with
specters, shadows and ravenous revenants.  Ingmar Bergman  was
greatly influenced by this film. The famous shot of the hero
looking at himself in a coffin was lifted directly by Bergman
for the early dream sequence in “Wild Strawberries.”  
 Dreyer was only able to get the film financed with the
assistance of the Baron Nicolas de Gunzburg, a Russian-
Brazilian-Polish cinephile who also plays the lead under the
pseudonym Julian West. The Baron, playing an innocent voyager in
the creepy countryside, looks even more zonked than the living
dead. There’s also a mad doctor who looks like a cross between
 Mark Twain  and Professor Irwin Corey.  
 Lugosi’s ‘Dracula’  
 But absurdities such as these are not uncommon in great
horror films. Sometimes, they’re actually the reason we have
such affection for them.  
 Tod Browning’s “ Dracula ” (1931) with Bela Lugosi is
probably the most famous Hollywood movie featuring the Fanged
One. As his career wore on Lugosi became a camp caricature, but
in this film he’s startlingly scary. You may want to laugh him
off but, like  Boris Karloff  in “The Mummy,” this guy gets into
your dreams.  
 F. W. Murnau’s wonderful “ Nosferatu ” (1922) boasts
perhaps the creepiest of all bloodsuckers. He’s played by the
perfectly named Max Schreck (schreck means fright or terror in
German.) His Count Orlok is more rat than bat. His bald pate,
pointed ears and splayed, elongated fingers are the stuff
nightmares are made of. When Orlok says to the poor soul who has
ventured into his castle, “Your wife has a beautiful neck,”
you may reach up to cover up your own.  
 Porcelain Neck  
 Werner Herzog ’s “ Nosferatu: Phantom of the Night ” (1979)
stars bug-eyed Klaus Kinski, who often looked like a vampire
even when he wasn’t playing one. His performance, as is also
true of the movie, celebrates Murnau and Schreck. But it has its
own terrors, including the moment when Nosferatu applies his
dental work to the porcelain-smooth neck of the luscious heroine
played by  Isabelle Adjani . Herzog’s film, more than any other,
mines the everpresent carnality of the genre.  
 Vampire movies used to be suggestively scary but, for the
past couple of decades, the horrors are much more up front.
 Kathryn Bigelow ’s first mainstream film, “ Near Dark ” (1987),
is a prime example of how blood-soaked these movies can get. Her
scurvy, van-riding outlaws are perpetually thirsty.  
 Mercifully, a few good vampire movies are funny-scary
rather than scary-funny or scary-scary.  George Hamilton  never
showed off his tan to better advantage than in “ Love at First
Bite ” (1979). His Count has to leave Transylvania because the
Romanian government has converted his castle into a gymnastic
clinic.  
 In “ Vampire’s Kiss ” (1988),  Nicolas Cage  plays a New York
literary agent -- a modern-day vampire. It’s the most over-the-
top performance Cage has ever given, which is saying something.
He even gets to eat a live cockroach.  
 I’d like to see the “Twilight” wimps try that.  
 ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  
 To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Vampyr"  
                       
                         
                           Criterion Collection via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover art for the movie "Vampyr." The film is directed by Carl Theodore Dreyer. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover art for the movie "Vampyr." The film is directed by Carl Theodore Dreyer. Source: Criterion Collection via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Baron Nicolas de Gunzburg as Allan Gray in the movie "Vampyr." The film, directed by Carl Theodor Dreyer, is one of the most lyrical and haunting vampire movies ever made. Source: Criterion Collection via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Actress Sybille Schmitz in a scene from the movie "Vampyr." The film, directed by Carl Theodor Dreyer, is one of the most lyrical and haunting vampire movies ever made. Source: Criterion Collection via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
