-- Venus Williams Adds Title of Author to Tennis, Design Careers With Book
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-07-06T16:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/venus-williams-adds-title-of-author-to-tennis-design-careers-with-book.html

          
          
             Venus Williams ’s new book might ease
her through an early Wimbledon exit.  
 The WTA Tour’s No. 4 ranked tennis player spoke with
leaders from the worlds of politics, business, arts, medicine
and athletics, collecting life and business lessons provided by
sports. The result was “ Come to Win ,” which went on sale June
29, the same day Williams lost in straight sets to unseeded
Bulgarian Tsvetana Pironkova in the Wimbledon quarterfinals, her
earliest exit in four years.  
 “The reality is that we have to learn from the successes
and the losses,” Williams said in an interview with Bloomberg
Radio, citing one of the themes of her book. “That’s what makes
life interesting, facing the challenges and finding a way to get
through them.”  
 The 354-page book, co-written by Kelly E. Carter, is
published by HarperCollins. It includes contributions from
former U.S. President  Bill Clinton ,  Nike Inc . founder  Phil Knight , actor  Denzel Washington , fashion designer  Vera Wang  and
other public figures.  
 “A lot of them credit sports with helping them get to
where they are today,” Williams said.  
 Williams, 30, is a 43-time WTA Tour singles champion who’s
won Wimbledon five times and the U.S. Open twice, earning $27.3
million since turning professional in 1995.  
 She’s made $2.2 million this year, with two February
singles titles: one on hardcourts in Dubai and another on clay
in Acapulco, Mexico.  
 Doubles Sweep  
 When she and her sister  Serena Williams  won the French Open
doubles title in June, they became the third pair to hold all
four Grand Slam women’s doubles trophies at the same time. They
lost in the quarterfinals of Wimbledon, falling in three sets to
Russia’s  Elena Vesnina  and  Vera Zvonareva .  
 Venus Williams is also an  entrepreneur , holding a degree in
fashion design from the Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale in
Florida. She launched her clothing line, EleVen, in 2007, and
said she also has interest in commercial interior design.
They’re not her main priority yet, though.  
 “Right now, I’m at the top of the world in my game so my
focus isn’t on when I’m going to end,” she said. “My focus is
on playing the best tennis that I can, and there is no end to
that.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        