-- Visteon Creditors Seek Permission to Investigate Debt Investors' Claims
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-12T12:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/visteon-creditor-group-says-it-has-enough-votes-to-defeat-reorganization.html

          
          
             Visteon Corp. ’s official creditor
committee accused distressed-debt investors of “chicanery” and
asked a judge for permission to investigate their actions in the
auto-parts maker’s bankruptcy.  
 The committee said in court papers that debt investors are
interfering with a vote on Visteon’s reorganization plan by
creditors. The debt investors claimed that so many general
unsecured creditors oppose Visteon’s reorganization plan that
the company’s bankruptcy exit is threatened.  
 If the debt-investors’ claim is false, then they “violate
bankruptcy code solicitation and voting provisions and the
sanctity of the voting process,” committee attorney Robert
Stark said in court papers filed July 9 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 Visteon, based in Van Buren Township, Michigan, was spun
off from  Ford Motor Co.  in 2000. Since filing for bankruptcy
last year, Visteon’s creditors have fought among themselves for
control of the company, with different groups forming alliances.  
 The committee represents unsecured creditors in the case,
including suppliers and bondholders who seek to take over
Visteon. The debt investors are funds affiliated with Fulcrum
Capital Holdings LLC, based in Austin, Texas;  Hain Capital Group
LLC  of Rutherford, New Jersey; and  Liquidity Solutions Inc.  of
Hackensack, New Jersey, according to court records.  
 Paul N. Silverstein, an attorney for the funds, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  
 Visteon creditors have until July 30 to vote on a plan that
would give bondholders control of the company and pay trade
claims  -- like those held by the debt investors -- about 50
percent.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher S. Sontchi  in Wilmington
is required to consider the votes of all creditors when deciding
whether Visteon’s plan complies with bankruptcy law.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        