-- Volkswagen Names Mueller to Revive Porsche as Macht to Be Production Chief
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-07-06T15:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/volkswagen-names-mueller-to-revive-porsche-as-macht-to-be-production-chief.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG  appointed  Matthias Mueller , its top car-model strategist, as chief executive
officer of  Porsche AG  to revive the division’s lineup of luxury
vehicles in an integration with Europe’s largest automaker.  
 Mueller, 57, will replace Porsche CEO  Michael Macht , who
will succeed  Jochem Heizmann  as Volkswagen’s production chief,
Volkswagen and Porsche said today in separate statements.
Heizmann will run a new unit overseeing VW’s truck holdings. The
changes take effect on Oct. 1.  
 Volkswagen , which aims to surpass  Toyota Motor Corp.  in
deliveries and profitability by 2018, is taking over Stuttgart,
Germany-based  Porsche  SE’s carmaking operations as the companies
build on a partnership that includes sharing vehicle platforms.
Porsche wants to expand its four-model lineup to double sales in
the medium term to 150,000 cars and sport-utility vehicles.  
 “Mueller was very successful at VW’s Audi unit, which
entered new niches when he was responsible for product
strategy,” said  Daniel Schwarz , an analyst in Frankfurt at
Commerzbank AG with a “hold” recommendation on  Porsche  and a
“buy” on  Volkswagen . “He can now apply that to Porsche.”  
 Volkswagen preferred shares  rose  1.38 euros, or 2 percent,
to 71.38 euros in Frankfurt trading. Porsche  gained  1.22 euros,
or 3.6 percent, to 34.96 euros. The increases were the biggest
since June 21 for both companies.  
 Sales Target  
 Porsche’s deliveries in the nine months through April
declined 0.1 percent to 53,605 vehicles. Full-year sales may
still exceed the 75,238 deliveries of fiscal 2009 as a new
version of the Cayenne SUV, its best-selling model, and a six-
cylinder Panamera car reach showrooms, the company said June 18.  
 The Cayenne shares its chassis and major parts with
 Volkswagen ’s Touareg and the Q7 SUV made by Audi. Volkswagen
also makes the Panamera’s body.  
 VW made the announcement in advance of a press event in
southern Germany to show a new version of the Sharan family van.
The model, the Sharan’s first revamp since its introduction in
1995, will be longer and have a wider wheelbase than the current
van. The vehicle, priced starting at 28,875 euros ($36,500),
will reach showrooms on Sept. 3.  
 Mueller led product management at the Audi luxury brand for
four years through 2007 before shifting to Volkswagen. His
experience “will help guarantee that Porsche can build upon its
leading position as a global brand,” the sports-car
manufacturer said.  
 VW Role  
 Macht, 49, spent a decade running Porsche’s production
before he was promoted to oversee the carmaking division when
CEO  Wendelin Wiedeking  quit following the collapse of plans to
take over VW. Volkswagen CEO  Martin Winterkorn  is now also chief
executive officer of Porsche SE, the sports-car maker’s holding
company. VW owns 49.9 percent of the Porsche AG auto-
manufacturing unit in a first step toward the companies’ merger.  
 “Mueller is extremely well connected within the VW group”
in contrast to Macht’s ties to Porsche under Wiedeking, said
 Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG with “outperform” recommendations on both Porsche and VW.
“He seems perfectly placed to help integrate Porsche into a 10-
brand structure in the best possible way.”  
 Heizmann, 58, has been a member of Volkswagen’s executive
board since February 2007. His new role will be to tighten
cooperation between truckmakers  Scania AB  and  MAN SE , people
familiar with the matter said in April. Volkswagen holds 71
percent of the voting rights in Soedertaelje, Sweden-based
Scania and is the biggest shareholder in Munich-based  MAN  with a
29.9 percent stake.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Volkswagen AG have appointed Matthias Mueller as CEO of Porsche AG. Source: VW AG via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Porsche CEO Michael Macht who will succeed Jochem Heizmann as Volkswagen's production chief. Photographer: Adrian Moser/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
