-- Volvo, Chico's, Formula One, Speed Drinks, Muvico: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-06T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/volvo-chico-s-formula-one-speed-drinks-muvico-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Innovative Global Systems LLC, the
patent holder that settled a patent-infringement case with
 WebTech Wireless Inc.  of Vancouver, sued another group of
defendants for infringing the same patents at issue against
WebTech.  
 The Rock Hill, South Carolina-based company sued two  Volvo
AB  units,  Komatsu Ltd. ,  Caterpillar Inc. ,  Hyundai Motor Co. ,
 Navistar International Corp.  and seven companies involved with
electronic communications and positioning systems.  
 Like the two previous suits, the new complaint was filed in
federal court in Tyler, Texas. Innovative Global’s court filing
notes that the other two suits are still pending, and argues
that the court “is the most judicially economic and efficient
venue” for the 3rd case.  
 The five disputed patents, which were issued from August
2003 to November 2008, relate to communication between vehicles,
specifically to products used for “vehicle fleets, other heavy-
duty trucking fleets and heavy equipment.”  
 Innovative Global seeks a court order barring future
infringement of its patents, money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs. In its agreement ending its dispute with
WebTech, no settlement payments or royalties were part of the
agreement, the Vancouver-based company said June 30 in a
statement.  
 In the newest case, Innovative Global is represented by
 Jonathan T. Suder , Todd Ian Blumenfeld and  Michael T. Cooke  of
 Friedman Suder & Cooke  of Ft. Worth, Texas;  Keith A. Rutherford ,
 R. Scott Reese  and  Sarah R. Cabello  of  Wong, Cabello, Lutsch,
Rutherford & Brucculeri LLP , and  Eric M. Albritton  of  Eric M.
Albritton P.C.  of Longview, Texas. These same firms represented
Innovative Global in the previous two cases as well.  
 The case is Innovative Global Systems LLC v. Volvo
Construction Equipment North America Inc., 6:10-cv-00327-LED,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  
 Apple Gets Patent on Method of Cooling Electronic Devices  
 Apple Inc. , maker of the iPhone and the iPad, received a
patent on a method of cooling an electronic device by using
hinge assemblies that can conduct heat.  
 Patent 7,746,631, which was issued June 29, covers the use
of a variety of cooling components within a hinge assembly.
According to the patent, these could include fans, heat sinks,
heat spreaders, heat pipes, vents or openings in the housing of
the electronic device.  
 Heat dissipation is important because the faster an
electronic device processes data, the more power is consumed and
the more heat results. Electronic components can fail or damage
the device if the heat builds up to a high temperature.  
 Apple envisions this technology be useable for a wide range
of electronic devices including music players, mobile
telephones, cameras, domestic appliances, television sets,
medical equipment and stereo equipment.  
 The Cupertino, California-based technology company applied
for the patent in September 2009 with the assistance of New
York’s  Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP .  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Chico’s Sues Cache, Claims Fashion Trade Secrets Misappropriated  
 Chico’s FAS Inc. , a retailer of private-label casual
clothing for women, sued competitor  Cache Inc.  for trade-secret
misappropriation.  
 New York-based Cache and two former employees of Chico’s
White House/Black Market unit are accused of using confidential
information from Chico’s spring, summer and fall fashion lines.  
 Within five months of the two former members of Chico’s
senior merchant management team’s joining Cache, the retailer
produced “at an unprecedented speed” season lines that
“directly mirror” White House/Black Market products, Chico’s
said in the complaint filed June 30 in New York state court.  
 Chico’s said the color palettes for the clothing lines were
identical and both featured black and white animal print designs
with pink floral prints. The same similarities exist between the
two stores’ summer 2010 season lines, according to court papers.  
 Fort Myers, Florida-based Chico’s said that Cache even
hired as its lead model for its spring and summer 2010 catalogs
the same fashion model it had featured in recent catalogs.
Additionally, Cache changed the font of its mailers, website and
in-store signage “to more closely resemble” those used by
White House/Black Market, according to court papers.  
 Chico’s asked the court to bar Cache’s use of its trade
secrets and for an order recalling all garments released in the
New York retailer’s spring and summer 2010 line that are
allegedly derived from its proprietary information.  
 It also seeks an order for destruction of all documents,
materials, garments, designs, sketched and promotional materials
that infringe, and for an award of money damages, litigation
costs and attorney fees.  
 Cache didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. The company told the  Naples, Florida “News”  that the
allegations were false and the company would “vigorously”
defend itself.  
 Chico’s is represented by  Matthew L. Levine  and  Kristen
McCallion  of Boston’s  Fish & Richardson PC .  
 The case is White House/Black Market v. Cache Inc., 650774-
2010, New York Supreme Court, New York County.  
 Trademark  
 Formula One Gets Singapore’s Speed to Stop Selling ‘F1’ Drink  
 Formula One settled its dispute with  Speed Drinks Pte  after
the beverage distributor agreed to stop selling its F1 Racing
Energy Drink in Singapore, host of the first night race of the
world’s most-watched motor sport.  
 Formula One Holdings Ltd.’s Formula One Licensing unit
agreed to withdraw its lawsuit against Speed Drinks if the
distributor retracts its challenge stating that the ‘F1’
trademark was indistinctive or generic, according to court
papers filed after a closed door Singapore High Court hearing
July 1.  
 “This is a victory for Formula One,” its lawyer Arthur
Loke said in a phone interview. “We’re very pleased.”  
 Speed Drinks, which acknowledged that Formula One is the
owner of the “F1” trademarks in Singapore, must also hand over
65,000 cans of the beverage to be destroyed and end its contract
with their Dutch supplier. No payment to Formula One is
required, Loke said.  
 The motor sport owner, controlled by Bernie Ecclestone, had
sued seeking damages, claiming that Speed Drinks caused
“irreparable damage to the reputation and goodwill of the
brand.”  
 Speed Drinks’ lawyer  Kelvyn Oo  from  Arfat Selvam Alliance
LLC  didn’t return messages left at his office. The beverage
distributor’s director Ashok Murthy didn’t pick up calls made to
his mobile phone.  
 Formula One had accused Speed Drinks of passing off the
beverage, which has a circled checkered “F1” logo and the
slogan “Start Your Engine,” as licensed by it, according to
court papers.  
 Formula One had said Speed Drinks’ actions, including
directing users to the official F1 website, would hinder its
future attempts to license the use of the “F1” mark on
beverages.  
 The beverage was first sold in Singapore during Formula
One’s grand prix last year and was the official drink at
concerts including one by Welsh rock band Stereophonics, Murthy
said in his court filing.  
 The motor sport owner has mounted several challenges to
protect its trademark. In 2007, the group failed to win
exclusive rights to the F1 abbreviation after the U.K. Trademark
Registry said the public associated Formula One with a sport
rather than a brand name.  
 A year earlier, Formula One won a fight in a Beijing court
to stop eight Chinese fashion companies from selling apparel
with the “F1 Jeans” trademark.  
 The case is Formula One Licensing BV v. Speed Drinks Pte
Ltd. S314/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Judge Orders Plaintiffs to Tell Defendants Their Rights  
 In one of the copyright-infringement lawsuits against more
than 14,000 defendants for allegedly illegally downloading
films, a federal judge has ordered they be sent a notice to
educate them about their legal rights.  
 The suits relate to downloading of several independent
films, including “Far Cry” and “The Hurt Locker.” According
to the complaints, filed in federal court in Washington from
March to May, the alleged infringers have used the BitTorrent
protocol.  
 This technology makes it possible for even small computers
with low bandwidth capability to participate in large data
transfers across a peer-to-peer network. BitTorrent “leads to a
rapid viral spreading of a file,” according to court papers.  
 During a June 30 hearing, U.S. District Judge Rosemary M.
Collyer told the content-owner plaintiffs, together with the
rights groups that filed friend-of-the-court briefs, and  Time
Warner Inc. ’s Time Warner Cable unit to draft a notice to be
sent to people who have been sued.  
 The notice would inform the defendants about their legal
options, including the right to challenge the court’s
jurisdiction.  
 She didn’t adapt the rights groups’ recommendation that all
defendants but the first one be dropped from the case. In an
order filed July 2, she said the proposed joint notice must be
filed with the court no later than July 15,  
 The friend-of-the-court rights groups are San Francisco’s
Electronic Frontier Foundation, Washington-based Public Citizen,
and the American Civil Liberties of the Nation’s Capital.  
 The case is Achte/Neunte Boll Kino Beteiligungs GmbH v.
Does, 1:10-cv-00453-RMC, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  
 Muvico Sued by Woman Who was Arrested for Videotaping in Theater  
 A Chicago-area woman who was arrested for bringing a video
camera to a screening of Summit Entertainment LLC’s “The
Twilight Saga: New Moon,” turned around and sued the theater
June 28 for false arrest.  
 Samantha Tumpach, who was arrested in Rosemont, Illinois,
on Nov. 28 sued closely held  Muvico Entertainment LLC  of Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, in state court in Cook County for false
arrest. She is seeking $50,000 in damages.  
 She said she brought the camera to the theater to document
her sister’s birthday party, and had no intention of pirating
the film.  
 The case is Tumpach Samantha V. Muvico Entertainment LLC,
2010-L-007495, Illinois Circuit Court, Cook County, Law
Division.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        