-- VR Capital Hedge Fund Asks Dragon to Close 2 Vietnam Funds as Returns Lag
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-07-06T08:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/vr-capital-hedge-fund-asks-dragon-to-close-2-vietnam-funds-as-returns-lag.html

          
          
             Dragon Capital Group Ltd. , Vietnam’s
second-biggest investment firm, has been asked by a shareholder
to close two funds valued at $654 million because of “very poor
performance.”  
 VR Capital Group Ltd., a Moscow-based hedge fund, on June
17 wrote to shareholders in Dragon Capital’s Vietnam Enterprise
Investments Ltd. calling for the fund to be liquidated at its
annual general meeting next week. The fund is closed-end, which
means that new shares are rarely issued after the fund is
established and investors are locked in until it closes.  
 The State Securities Commission of Vietnam, the market
regulator, is working on regulations to include instructions on
establishing and managing open-ended funds, which usually allow
for the creation of new shares or redemptions.  
 “They started these funds 15 years ago, when there wasn’t
any equity market in Vietnam and they had to be a closed-end
structure because there was no liquidity,” said  Richard Deitz ,
president of VR Capital. “Vietnam now is more or less a normal
market with a reasonable amount of liquidity and there is no
reason really investors should be in a closed-end fund.”  
 There are currently  246 companies  listed on the Ho Chi Minh
City Stock Exchange, with a market value of 465 trillion dong
($24 billion). At the end of 2000, when Vietnam opened its stock
exchange, only five companies were listed with a capitalization
of 1.05 trillion dong.  
 Liquidation  
 VR Capital also wrote to shareholders in Dragon Capital’s
Vietnam Growth Fund Ltd. on April 6, asking for that fund to be
liquidated.  
 A vote on winding up Vietnam Enterprise Investments, which
is provided by the constitution, will be held at the fund’s
annual meeting in Ho Chi Minh City on July 12, Beat Schuerch, a
director of Dragon Capital, said yesterday by e-mail. At least
three-quarters of votes cast would have to be in favor of
closing the fund, Schuerch said.  
 The board of Vietnam Enterprise Investments opposes closing
the fund, as “now is not the time to exit investments in
Vietnam,” according to a letter sent to shareholders on June 22.  
 “It’s entirely up to shareholders what they want to do,”
said  Dominic Scriven , Ho Chi Minh City-based chief executive
officer of Dragon Capital, “People on balance probably don’t
want to take their money off the table, given that Vietnam has a
fairly strong outlook” for economic growth.  
 The government is targeting economic growth of as much as 8
percent annually through 2020.  Gross domestic product  rose 6.2
percent in the first half from the same period the year before.  
 Indochina Fund  
 Other investment firms have wound up funds in Vietnam in
recent years.  Indochina Capital Advisors Ltd.  last year decided
to liquidate a London-listed Vietnam equity fund that had lost
50 percent of its value. In November, San Francisco-based hedge
fund company Passport Capital LLC demanded the return of
uninvested cash from a JSM Indochina fund that bought Vietnamese
and Cambodian property.  
 The  VN Index  has declined more than 59 percent from a
record high of 1,170.67 on March 12, 2007. The measure was as
low as 434.87 on Dec. 17, 2009, rebounding 15.2 percent to close
at 500.82 today.  
 Detailed regulations on open-ended funds currently do not
exist, said  Samantha Campbell , Ho Chi Minh City-based head of
Vietnam banking and finance at law firm Gide Loyrette Nouel. The
SSC’s draft circular “should permit greater flexibility in the
investment market,” she said.  
 Vietnam Enterprise Investments, which is listed on the
Irish Stock Exchange, has fallen about 14.5 percent in the past
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In U.S. dollar
terms, the VN Index has gained 2.8 percent in that period. The
fund’s largest holding as of May 27 was Asia Commercial Bank,
the third-biggest listed bank in Vietnam.  
 Tiberon Investment  
 The biggest investment of the  Vietnam Growth Fund , as of
May 27, is  Vietnam Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co. , the Southeast
Asian nation’s second-most valuable company. The fund has
declined 3.3 percent in the past year.  
 Some investors in the funds have made losses, Deitz said.
“This is due to both the funds’ very poor performance as well
as the substantial discounts” to net asset value at which they
trade. Net asset value refers to the portfolio value of assets
in the fund, minus liabilities, divided by the number of
outstanding shares.  
 Losses at the funds have been partly due to the closed-end
structure, and partly because of Dragon Capital’s investment in
Tiberon Minerals Ltd., VR Capital’s Deitz said.  
 In its April 6 letter to shareholders, VR Capital said that
Dragon Capital should sell a stake in Tiberon, a tungsten mining
venture in northern Vietnam, because “the market attributes no
value to this holding,” according to the text of the letter.  
 Dragon Capital in April sold the Tiberon holding to Masan
Group Corp. for about $130 million. The investment firm paid an
initial $225 million for the stake in March 2007, according to
Scriven.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        