-- Wheat Rises to Four-Month High on Heat Concerns in Russia, France, German
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-06T19:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/wheat-rises-to-four-month-high-on-heat-concerns-in-russia-france-german.html

          
          
             Wheat futures rose to a four-month
high on mounting concern that adverse weather across Europe will
reduce production.  
 Russia will harvest 85 million metric tons this year, 5.6
percent less than forecast, because of heat and drought, the
farm ministry said yesterday. Dryness in France, Germany and the
U.K. also may also hurt output, Martell Crop Projections said.
Some speculators unwound bets on falling prices.  
 “This is mostly short-covering,” said  Jamey Kohake , a
broker at Paragon Investments in Silver Lake, Kansas. “There
isn’t a lot of out-and-out buying.”  
 Wheat futures for September delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $5.075 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Earlier, the most-active contracted reached $5.26, the highest
level since March 1. The price has jumped four straight
sessions, gaining 11 percent since June 29.  
 Net-short positions, or bets on falling prices, have
outnumbered long positions since June 2009. In the week ended
June 29, net-shorts dropped 3.6 percent to 47,119 contracts from
a week earlier, government data show. In February, net-shorts
reached a record 60,547 contracts as global grain inventories
climbed.  
 “We’re seeing continuation of some good technical
buying,” said  Tom Leffler , the owner of Leffler Commodities LLC
in Augusta, Kansas. “The funds are covering their shorts.”  
 Rally Opportunity  
 The rally is a good chance for farmers to sell wheat to
elevators, and a chance for investors who had bet prices would
rise to liquidate positions, Leffler said.  
 “I’d say they need to be careful about getting too
greedy,” Leffler said. “I told them they’ve got to take
advantage of this. This rally is offering some opportunity
because the appreciation in futures pulls their cash price up.”  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        