-- Yanukovych Submits Law to Strengthen Ukraine's Central Bank Independence
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-07-06T13:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/yanukovych-submits-law-to-strengthen-ukraine-s-central-bank-independence.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s President  Viktor Yanukovych 
submitted to the Parliament a draft law he says will strengthen
central bank independence and help the country qualify for
 International Monetary Fund  and World Bank loans.  
 Yanukovych wants to extend the governor’s term of office to
seven years from five to avoid a changeover coinciding with
parliamentary and presidential elections, according to the
draft, posted today on the  website  of the Kiev-based assembly.
The governor, his deputies and the bank’s board must also
suspend any party memberships and cannot hold shares of any
commercial lender.  
 Ukraine reached an agreement with the IMF on July 3 for a
new $14.9 billion loan after a fund mission approved economic
policies aimed at narrowing the budget deficit. The lender’s
Executive Board will make a final decision by late July
following “approval of legislative changes relating to the
budget and financial sector,” the IMF said.  
 The World Bank said it is also ready to give Ukraine a loan
to cover the deficit and to stabilize the financial industry
after the IMF resumes lending and after the country adopts some
laws,  Martin Raiser , the lender’s director for Ukraine, Belarus
and Moldova, said on July 1.  
 The central bank’s priorities are to ensure stability of
the hryvnia and consumer prices, according to the draft. The
bank is also banned from giving loans to the government,
including financing the deficit.  
 Yanukovych wants to increase the number of deputy governors
to six from four. The bank’s council should not have a right to
veto board decisions, the draft says.  
 The governor, his deputies, members of the board and
members of the council are also forbidden to take the post of
chief executive officer at a commercial lender during the first
year after they resign from the central bank, the law states.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        