-- Yen Will Strengthen on U.S. Economic Outlook, Demand for Haven, UBS Says
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-07-06T17:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/yen-will-strengthen-on-u-s-economic-outlook-demand-for-haven-ubs-says.html

          
          
             The yen will strengthen over the next
month as ebbing odds for U.S. interest-rate increases any time
soon and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis encourage investors to
buy the currency as a haven, according to UBS AG.  
 UBS, the world’s second-biggest currency trader, adjusted
its one-month forecast yesterday for the yen versus the dollar
to 90 from 95 after a weaker-than-expected June U.S. payrolls
report last week dimmed the outlook for the economic recovery.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch also raised its forecasts for the
yen versus the dollar.  
 “As long as market sentiment stays on a relatively uneasy
footing, then people will be wary of going short yen,”  Geoffrey Yu , a UBS currency strategist in London, said today in a
telephone interview. “We shifted our yen forecast also because
rate differentials have moved against the U.S. dollar and euro
as growth has not been as strong as anticipated.” A short
position is a bet a currency will weaken.  
 The yen appreciated 0.4 percent today to 87.44 per dollar.
It touched 86.97 on July 1, the strongest level since December.
The Japanese currency has gained 13 percent this year, the
biggest advance among its 10 developed-world counterparts,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indices.  
 Gains by the yen toward 85 per dollar are “no longer out
of the question for the short term,” a team of UBS strategists
wrote in a client note. UBS economists now expect the Federal
Reserve won’t raise interest rates until June 2011, the note
said, a revision they made after last week’s payrolls report.
The firm held its three-month and one-year forecasts for the yen
at 95 per dollar.  
 Drop in Payrolls  
 The Labor Department reported July 2 that U.S. net nonfarm
payrolls fell by 125,000 in June, the first drop since December.  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a note the yen will
finish the third quarter at 89 per dollar, compared with a
previous forecast of 94, and trade at 90 at the end of the year,
revised from an earlier forecast of 97. The New York-based firm
forecast the Fed will likely raise rates in March 2012, compared
with its earlier projection of August 2011.  
 The yen will outperform the dollar “if the Fed remains on
hold for the foreseeable future, which the market is
increasingly pricing,” a team of strategists led by London-
based  Bilal Hafeez  wrote in a client note dated July 1.  
 Fed policy makers after their meeting last month reiterated
they intend to keep borrowing costs low for an “extended
period.” The benchmark rate has been a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        