-- Dollar Falls to Six-Week Low Versus Euro on Slower U.S. Growth in Services
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-06T20:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-06/yen-drops-to-one-week-low-versus-euro-as-stock-gain-reduces-safety-demand.html

          
          
             The dollar fell to a six-week low
against the euro and slid to within half a yen of its weakest
level in seven months versus Japan’s currency after a report
showed slower growth in U.S. service industries.  
 The greenback fell against almost all of its major
counterparts on speculation the economy is too fragile for the
Federal Reserve to start raising borrowing costs. Australia’s
dollar rose versus the yen after the nation’s central bank said
business investment is poised to expand. The euro advanced
versus the dollar as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index outpaced the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 “The dollar is likely to remain under pressure as long as
data continue to point to a slowing U.S. economy,” said  Joe Manimbo , an analyst in Washington at Travelex Global Business
Payments, a currency-exchange network. “That would push back
the timetable for any further Fed interest rate hike, and that
is stopping the dollar from regaining its upward momentum.”  
 The dollar slid as much as 1 percent to $1.2662 per euro,
the weakest level since May 21, before changing hands at $1.2620
at 4:11 p.m. in New York. The yen depreciated 0.3 percent to
110.40 against the shared European currency and touched 110.85,
the weakest level since June 25. The yen advanced as much as 0.5
percent to 87.35 per dollar, approaching the 86.97 level that
was the strongest in seven months.  
 New Zealand’s dollar climbed 0.4 percent to 60.64 yen and
South Africa’s rand appreciated 1 percent to 7.67 versus the
dollar as a rally in global equities encouraged investors to
purchase higher-yielding assets.  
 Stock Gains  
 European stocks strengthened as analysts raised earnings
estimates for U.S. companies at the fastest rate since at least
2004, adding to optimism their growth would support the global
recovery. Profit for S&P 500 Index companies will jump 34
percent in 2010, compared with estimates on March 29 for a 27
percent increase, according data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 2.6 percent, compared
with the S&P’s 0.5 percent advance. The  MSCI World Index  of
stocks dropped 4 percent last week on evidence of a slowed
economic recovery in the U.S. and China.  
 Australia’s currency appreciated 1.4 percent to 85.12 U.S.
cents, after dropping to 83.16 cents on July 1, the lowest since
June 10. The Aussie gained 1.1 percent to 74.47 yen.  
 Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers led by Governor
 Glenn Stevens  held the overnight cash rate target at 4.5
percent, saying output growth is likely to be at about trend.  
 Support for Aussie  
 “The market had built in a bit more bearishness than the
RBA delivered,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. “They don’t seem as
concerned about the global economy as the market, and that
should support the Aussie dollar.”  
 The rally in assets linked to economic growth may be
tempered by concern the economic recovery in the U.S. will slow
as unemployment holds within a percentage point of the 26-year
high set in October. The yen rallied against the dollar,
reversing a previous decline, after a report showed service
industries in the U.S. expanded at a slower pace.  
 “A black cloud is coming close to the U.S. economy in the
third quarter,” said  Hidetoshi Yanagihara , a senior currency
trader at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York. “As a safe
haven, the Japanese currency should be the most favored one in
the world.”  
 The yen has climbed 13 percent against its global peers
this year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indices. Japan’s currency may trade as high as 86 per dollar in
the “near term,” Mizuho’s Yanagihara said.  
 U.S. Services  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which make up about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 53.8 in June, from 55.4 in the prior month,
signaling a slower expansion.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a 17 percent
chance of the Federal Reserve raising its target lending rate
for overnight lending between banks by at least a quarter-
percentage point by the December meeting, compared with 31
percent odds a month ago.  
 The most accurate foreign-exchange forecaster said the euro
will resume its decline and may approach parity with the dollar
as the European Central Bank buys more government bonds to
support the region’s economy.  
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at TD Securities
Inc. in Toronto, said the euro will depreciate to $1.13 in the
third quarter, $1.08 by year-end and may near $1 in 2011 before
recovering. Osborne’s predictions were within 4.1 percent of the
mark on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The euro weakened 15 percent against the dollar in the
first half on speculation record budget deficits from Ireland to
Portugal to Greece will force governments to cut spending and
reduce economic growth.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        