-- Bank of America mulls scrapping sale of brokerage
-- 
-- Sun Mar 30, 2008 8:54pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/31/businesspro-bankofamerica-dc-idUSN3034513820080331

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Bank of America ( BAC.N ) is considering 
scrapping the sale of its equities prime brokerage unit after 
receiving lukewarm interest from potential bidders, the 
Financial Times reported on its Website on Sunday. 

  Citing people close to the situation, the newspaper said no 
final decision on the prime brokerage unit, which has been up 
for sale for more than three months, had been made.  Competition for the prime brokerage unit, which is believed 
to have had revenue of more than $180 million last year, 
weakened this month after JPMorgan Chase's & Co's ( JPM.N ) 
cut-price acquisition of Bear Stearns Cos Inc BSC.N, the FT 
said.  JPMorgan had been seen as an early front-runner for BofA's 
business but its need for a prime brokerage unit was filled by 
the purchase of Bear, which has a highly regarded and 
profitable prime brokerage unit, the report said.  British investment bank Barclays Capital and France's BNP 
Paribas SA ( BNPP.PA ) are believed to retain an interest in 
BofA's business because of its strong presence in the U.S. 
market, the paper said.  People close to the situation said that the indicative 
offers tabled by potential bidders had not matched BofA's 
expectations, the paper added.  A Bank of America spokeswoman declined comment.  Prime brokers typically provide trading, lending, cash 
management and other services to hedge funds.  Bank of America said in January it would eliminate 650 
corporate and investment banking jobs and sell its prime 
brokerage unit, as the second-largest U.S. bank retrenches in 
the face of difficult credit market conditions.  The bank's decision to sell its equities prime brokerage 
followed a review announced in October last year, when Chief 
Executive Kenneth Lewis said, "I've had all of the fun I can 
stand in investment banking."  At the time, the bank said it would trim operations in 
structured products such as mortgage and asset-backed 
securities and collateralized debt obligations, but that the 
job cuts would not affect its prime brokerage unit.