-- Dated Brent Falls as Forties Offers Slide; Urals at 2-Month Low
-- Alexander Kwiatkowski
-- 2007-11-30T17:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-30/dated-brent-falls-as-forties-offers-slide-urals-at-2-month-low.html

          
          
             Dated Brent fell for the first time
in a week relative to the cost of January oil as sellers of
North Sea cargoes including Chevron Corp. failed to attract
buyers.  Russia 's Urals fell to a 2-month low.  
 Dated Brent for loading in 10 to 21 days was at a premium of
35 cents to January oil today, compared with a 75-cent premium
yesterday, according to PVM Oil Associates Ltd. Physical crude
for January delivery was at $88.85 a barrel at 12:45 p.m. London
time.  
 The cost of a cargo of Urals crude for delivery in
northwest Europe was at a discount of $3.35 to Dated Brent
today, compared with a discount of $3.18 yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That's the biggest discount since
Sept. 28.  
 Dated Brent, a price benchmark for about two-thirds of the
world's oil, from Europe,  Africa  and Russia, is set by the
cheapest of four crude grades: Shell's Brent blend, the BP Plc-operated Forties, StatoilHydro ASA's Oseberg and
 ConocoPhillips (COP) 's Ekofisk blend. Forties is the cheapest grade.  
 The price of Forties fell, causing the drop in Dated Brent,
after companies including Chevron Corp. reduced offers for
cargoes without attracting buyers. Chevron offered a shipment
loading between Dec. 11 and Dec. 13 at a premium of 25 cents to
a forward price for oil, the company said. Two other cargoes
were offered by unconfirmed sellers.  
 As a result, the so-called Forties differential, the spread
between the cost of a Forties cargo loading in 10 to 21 days and
a forward price for Dated Brent, was at a premium of 27 cents,
compared with a premium of 55 cents yesterday. The Brent blend
differential, the next cheapest grade, was unchanged at a
premium of 60 cents.  
 The price of Urals in northwestern  Europe  has weakened
before a scheduled rise in the supply of cargoes in December.
Preliminary loading programs showed last week that Urals
shipments will rise 4.3 percent next month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in London at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        