-- Monolines May Need $3-7 Billion to Insure CDO Debt
-- Hamish Risk
-- 2007-11-30T16:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-30/monolines-may-need-3-7-billion-to-insure-cdo-debt-update1-.html

          
          
             Bond insurers including  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and
 Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  may need to raise $3 billion to $7
billion to cover losses linked to collateralized debt obligations
with subprime debt, according to Citigroup Inc. analysts.  
 Citigroup based its estimate on the effect of credit-rating
downgrades for the securities insured by New York-based Ambac.
The second-biggest bond insurer said it would need an additional
$650 million of reserves to cover the increased risk of defaults
triggered by downgrades of its CDO portfolio by an average of
three levels, Ratul Roy and Eduard Trampolsky wrote in a report.  
 ``Insurers may be required to post an additional $3 billion
to $7 billion of capital'' over the next two to three years, the
New York-based analysts wrote in the note published yesterday.  
 Ambac, MBIA in Armonk, New York, and Berumda-based Security
Capital Assurance Ltd. are among at least eight bond insurers
seeking to ward off potential credit-rating downgrades by Moody's
Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings. The
ratings companies are reviewing the insurance of mortgage-backed
CDOs, many of which have been downgraded in the past four months.  
 MBIA, the biggest so-called monoline, and Ambac, which
covered 25 percent of the CDOs insured by monolines in 2006 to
2007, said this week they may raise capital through reinsurance
or sales of debt or stock to maintain their AAA ratings.  
 Highest Rankings  
 Ambac, which  pioneered  municipal-bond insurance in 1971, has
been rated AAA since 1979. When backing debt, monolines agree to
make principal and interest payments if an issuer can't, allowing
the debt insured to get the highest rankings.  
 CDOs are created by packaging bonds, loans or credit-default
swaps and using their income to pay investors. The securities are
divided into different portions of varying risk, which can offer
higher returns than the debt they are based on.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. said last week the insurers faced
implied market losses of $29 billion on CDOs. Citigroup estimates
the mark-to-market loss on the guarantors' portfolios is $26.6
billion in a worst-case scenario. Monolines aren't required to
mark-to-market their losses.  
 Ambac rose $4.875, or 21 percent, to $28.29 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 68
percent this year. MBIA increased $4.76, or 15 percent, to $35.52
and SCA rose $1.36, or 19.8 percent, to $8.22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamish Risk in London 
 hrisk@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        