-- Vallourec Profit Rises 4.2% on Steel-Tube Demand
-- Tara Patel
-- 2007-11-14T19:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-14/vallourec-profit-rises-4-2-on-steel-tube-demand-update2-.html

          
          
             Vallourec SA (VK) , the world's second-biggest maker of steel tubes to carry oil and gas, said third-quarter profit advanced 4.2 percent and increased its forecast
for second-half sales growth.  
 Net income  rose to 248 million euros ($364 million) from
238 million euros a year earlier,  Boulogne Billancourt , France-based  Vallourec  said today in a statement. That's higher than
the median  estimate  of 234 million euros in a Bloomberg News
survey of five analysts. Sales climbed 8.3 percent to 1.5
billion euros.  
 ``They have done well defending their margins against the
strength of currency headwinds,'' said Charlie Dove-Edwin, an
analyst at MF Global Securities in  London . ``There could be some
worries in 2008 on raw materials costs.''  
 Record crude prices this year have encouraged  oil companies 
to probe deeper reserves, increasing sales of seamless pipes
made by Vallourec and rivals including  Tenaris SA. (TS)  Vallourec has
been the subject of takeover speculation, including by
ArcelorMittal, the world's biggest steelmaker, and OAO Gazprom,
the biggest natural-gas producer.  
 Vallourec closed 2.2 percent higher at 190.69 euros in
Paris, before the announcement. The stock has declined 12
percent this year, valuing the company at 10.1 billion euros.
That compares with a 6.7 percent advance in the 77-member BBG
European Industrials Index.  
 Orders  
 ``We continue to be very confident in the robustness of the
fundamentals of the energy markets,'' Chairman Pierre Verluca
said in the statement. Excluding the U.S., the company has full
order books for the next eight months.  
 Vallourec raised its second-half sales growth forecast to
at least 10 percent, from the 7 to 10 percent range given in
July. The ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization to sales in the second half should be similar
to the first half, the company said. The third-quarter ratio was
28.1 percent, from 29.2 percent a year earlier.  
 For next year, ``the fall in the  U.S. dollar  will have a
negative impact on the export margins of our European plants,''
the company said in a presentation on its Web site.  
 Weak Dollar  
 ``We are studying what kind of measures we can take under a
scenario of a permanent weak dollar,'' Chief Financial Officer
Bertrand Cantegrit said in a conference call.  
 The manufacturer said Oct. 30 it would buy three units from
U.S. competitor Grant Prideco Inc. for $800 million to expand
its business in  North America .  
 Customer inventories in the U.S. are enough for about five
months while the levels stocked by customers in the  Middle East ,
including  Saudi Aramco , the world's largest state-owned oil
company, extend to as long as 14 months, Vallourec executives
including Cantegrit said on the conference call.  
 They declined to comment on how much of the increase in raw
materials prices will be passed on to customers next year.  
 ``In the U.S. we haven't been able to pass along price
increases,'' Cantegrit said. ``For the time being in the  steel
industry  we don't see an environment to be able to raise
prices.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        