-- PMI Falls on Expected Loss From Borrower Defaults
-- Erik Holm
-- 2007-10-18T21:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-18/pmi-falls-on-expected-loss-from-borrower-defaults-update3-.html

          
          
             PMI Group Inc., the second-largest
U.S. mortgage insurer, fell the most in 12 years in New York
trading, after saying it will have a surprise third-quarter  loss 
as borrower defaults ``significantly worsened'' in September.  
 The insurer said today it will lose about $1.05 a share in
the period and withdrew earnings forecasts for the year, one day
after  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) , the largest mortgage insurer, said
it won't be profitable in the fourth quarter or 2008. MGIC said
losses are increasing as housing markets worsen in parts of
California and  Florida .  
 ``PMI has the largest Florida exposure of the `big three'
mortgage insurers,'' said Seth Glasser, a credit analyst at
Barclays Capital Inc., in a note to investors. ``Loss severity
in that state must be accelerating quickly.''  
 The cost of paying claims to mortgage lenders is expected
to increase fivefold from the same period a year earlier to
about $350 million, Walnut Creek, California-based PMI said in a
statement today. Stagnant  home prices  make it harder for banks
to recover when loans go bad.  
 PMI  dropped  $3.44, or 13 percent, to $23.21 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest  fall  since the
company went public in 1995. The company has declined 51 percent
this year amid the worst U.S. housing slump in 16 years.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 MGIC, which posted its first quarterly loss yesterday since
it went public in 1991, dropped $2.21, or 8.5 percent, to
$23.95. The Milwaukee-based company has lost 62 percent since
Dec. 31. Philadelphia-based Radian Group Inc., the third-largest
mortgage insurer, fell $1.20, or 6.9 percent, to $16.16 and is
 down  70 percent this year. Triad Guaranty Inc. is down 83
percent this year. Shares in the Winston-Salem-based insurer
fell $3.28, or 26 percent, to $9.29.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to PMI climbed 40 basis points to
197 basis points, a two-month high, according to CMA Datavision
in  London . The price of the contracts, used to speculate on the
company's ability to repay its debt, means it costs $195,000 to
protect $10 million in PMI bonds from default for five years.  
 ``September fell off a cliff in terms of defaults and
severity of actual losses,'' said Geoffrey Dunn, an analyst at
KBW Inc. in Hartford Connecticut, who cut the shares to
``neutral'' last week. ``It's definitely going to hit earnings
and all the mortgage insurers are feeling that pressure.''  
 More to Come  
 Analysts had forecast PMI would report 78 cents a share
profit in the third quarter. The company's estimate includes a
32 cent-a-share loss from the value of PMI's stake in FGIC
Corp., Financial Guaranty Insurance Co.'s parent. FGIC said
today it lost about $65 million in the third quarter after
reducing the value of its insured credit derivative portfolio.  
 ``When combined with the downturn in the housing mortgage
sector, we believe the volatility at FGIC suggests PMI is in for
a prolonged period of stressed financial results,''  Kathleen Shanley , a bond analyst with Gimmie Credit LLC in  Chicago , said
in a note to investors. Shanley cut her  credit rating  to
``deteriorating'' today.  
 Transactions tied to credit-default swaps produced an
unrealized loss of approximately $206 million before taxes, New
York-based FGIC said in a separate statement.  
 PMI spokeswoman Beth Haiken had no comment. The company
will release full financial results for the third quarter before
markets open on Oct. 30, it said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Holm in New York at 
 eholm2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        