-- Former BDO Tax Partner Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2009-07-09T23:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-07-09/former-bdo-tax-partner-pleads-guilty-to-conspiracy-update1-.html

          
          
             BDO Seidman LLP former tax partner
Robert Greisman pleaded guilty to three counts of conspiracy to
defraud the U.S. in connection with tax shelter transactions
involving the defunct law firm  Jenkens & Gilchrist .  
 Greisman, 58, of Deerfield,  Illinois , pleaded guilty today
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan to tax evasion, conspiracy
to defraud the Internal Revenue Service and one count of
endeavoring to obstruct and impede internal revenue laws, said
Janice Oh, a spokeswoman for Lev Dassin, acting U.S. Attorney
for the Southern District of New York.  
 He faces as long as five years in prison on the conspiracy
and tax evasion charges and as many as three years on the
obstruction and impeding charge, Oh said.  
 Greisman is the fourth BDO Seidman tax partner to plead
guilty in connection with the investigation being conducted by
the U.S. Attorney’s office.  
 On June 3, former BDO Seidman Vice Chairman Charles Bee
pleaded guilty to federal charges that he helped clients evade
more than $200 million in taxes through illegal shelters. His
plea followed that of two other BDO Seidman officials, former
Vice Chairman Adrian Dicker and ex-principal Michael Kerekes.  
 Denis Field, the former Chief Executive Officer at BDO
Seidman, and Paul Daugerdas, a former Jenkens attorney, were
among seven defendants indicted last month for allegedly
marketing fraudulent tax shelters from 1994 through 2004.
Prosecutors are seeking $180 million in forfeiture from the
defendants, who have pleaded not guilty to the charges and are
awaiting trial.  
 Tax Solutions Group  
 According to an indictment and statements today before U.S.
District Court Judge William Pauley in  Manhattan , Greismann said
that he was a partner and accountant at BDO Seidman’s Chicago
office from 1998 through 2008.  
 From 1998 to 2004, Greisman headed the firm’s “Tax
Solutions Group” devoted to designing, marketing and
implementing high-fee tax strategies and tax shelters,
prosecutors said. Greisman said that together with other Tax
Solutions Group partners, including Kerekes, Dicker and Bee, he
designed, marketed and implemented different tax shelters with
Jenkens’ Chicago office.  
 Greisman said he and his co-conspirators approved the use
of opinion letters issued by Jenkens that contained “false and
fraudulent representations” purportedly made by clients about
their motives for entering into the transactions.  
 Client Fees  
 Greisman said he also developed a consulting agreement
containing false and fraudulent statements to disguise the fact
that the fees the clients would be charged by BDO Seidman were
solely for the tax shelters. He also assisted certain clients
with providing false testimony to the IRS, when those clients
were audited or questioned by the agency, he said in his guilty
plea.  
 He admitted criminal responsibility for the sale by BDO of
a tax shelter known as the “short option” by one client who
was charged about $513,000 in fees by BDO Seidman and $230,000
by Jenkens.  
 The tax shelter purportedly generated losses sufficient to
offset the taxes due on $9 million of income that client had
received. In fact, prosecutors said, the transaction had only to
net a profit of $90,000, thus resulting in no potential profit
for the client, who later filed a fraudulent tax returns with
the IRS.  
 Greisman is scheduled to be sentenced October 23 by Pauley.
Dassin said the government’s investigation is continuing.  
 Wider Probe  
 The case stems from a wider U.S. probe of illegal tax
shelters. The defendants used shelters named Short Sales, Short
Options Strategy, Swaps and Homer to generate more than
$7.32 billion in fraudulent tax losses for at least 931 wealthy
individuals, prosecutors alleged.  
 Jenkens avoided prosecution in March 2007 by admitting it
developed and marketed tax shelters that generated more than
$1 billion in phony losses. In January 2005, Jenkens agreed to
pay $81.6 million to clients who had sued over its tax-shelter
advice.  
 Jenkens closed after reaching the non-prosecution
agreement, which didn’t apply to lawyers at the Dallas-based
firm. The firm blamed its demise on its lawyers in  Chicago ,
where Daugerdas ran the office.  
 The case is U.S. v. Greisman, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        