-- Africa Bucks Global Rate Trend as Bumper Crops Curb Inflation: Week Ahead
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-04-26T12:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/africa-bucks-global-rate-trend-as-bumper-crops-curb-inflation-week-ahead.html

          
          
             Inflation is slowing across sub-
Saharan Africa’s leading economies as bumper crops and stronger
currencies help curb prices, enabling South Africa, Nigeria,
Kenya and Ghana to extend interest rate cuts into this year.  
 A report on April 28 will show that South Africa’s
inflation rate fell to a three-and-a-half-year low of 5.2
percent in March, according to the median estimate of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Kenyan inflation, which slowed
to 4 percent last month from 5.2 percent in April, will be
reported on May 3.  
 Weaker inflation has allowed African nations to ease
monetary policy this year, helping their economies rebound from
the global recession, even as the rest of the world is beginning
to withdraw stimulus measures. Policy makers at the U.S. Federal
Reserve, European Central Bank and the Bank of England haven’t
cut rates since May 2009, while India, Australia and Israel have
raised rates this year.  
 “With a disinflation trend comfortably in place in most
countries in Africa, it is make-up time now,” said Razia Khan,
head of Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in
London. “In no major African economy is there any suggestion of
imminent tightening.”  
 South Africa’s Reserve Bank cut its benchmark interest rate
by half a percentage point to 6.5 percent on March 25, the
seventh reduction since December 2008. Kenya lowered its key
rate by a quarter point to 6.75 percent on March 23, while Ghana
has dropped its main rate by 3 points to 15 percent this year.  
 Rand and Corn  
 Countries across Africa are benefiting from a rally in
their currencies as investors return to emerging markets after
shunning riskier assets during the global credit crunch.  
 The rand reached a 20-month high against the dollar this
month, helping to keep inflation within the central bank’s 3
percent to 6 percent target range. The currency was trading at
7.3565 against the dollar as of 92:05 p.m. in Johannesburg
compared with 7.4184 late on April 23.  
 “The recent rand strength has resulted in an improved
inflation outlook, which in turn gave room for a further rate
reduction,” Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said on April 22.  
 A bumper harvest is also helping. South Africa expects to
reap its biggest corn crop in 28 years, curbing food prices that
account for 14 percent of the consumer price index. Grain SA,
representing corn producers, forecasts a surplus of about 4
million metric tons this season, double what South Africa
typically exports.  
 The price of white corn, a staple food, has plunged 34
percent to 1,109 rand a ton on the South African Futures
Exchange this year.  
 Drought  
 Kenya, the world’s largest exporter of black tea and a
major supplier of horticulture products to Europe, is benefiting
from a good start to the March-May rainy season that ended a
two-year drought.  
 “Inflation in Kenya has been very susceptible to food
prices,” said Yvette Babb, an economist at Johannesburg-based
Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender. “We are
seeing East African countries trying to drive economic growth.
Given that inflation is low, they won’t be inclined to tighten
monetary policy.”  
 Kenya’s statistics office overhauled the consumer-price
index in February, reducing the weighting of food to 40.3
percent from 50.5 percent.  
 In Ghana, the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer, the
cedi’s recovery from a 15 percent drop against the dollar in the
first half of 2009, helped ease inflation to 13.3 percent in
March from 20.7 percent in June last year. Inflation will end
the year at between 9.2 percent and 9.5 percent, Governor Kwesi
Amissah-Arthur said on March 31.  
 In the Pipeline  
 “In Ghana, there’s other interest rate cuts in the
pipeline,” said Samir Gadio, vice president of macro research
and strategy at Renaissance Capital in Lagos, Nigeria’s
commercial capital.  
 Interest rates have also been cut in Africa’s leading
economies to boost lending and stimulate domestic demand.  
 The Central Bank of Nigeria halved the borrowing rate to
commercial banks to 1 percent on March 2 to spur credit growth,
which slowed to 18 percent in February from 27 percent in
December. It was growing at a rate of almost 100 percent in
December 2007.  
 “While exit strategies and even outright tightening are
the focus elsewhere, Africa still distinguishes itself by being
different,” Khan said.  

 
Event                                             Date
Consumer-price inflation                          April 28
Reserve Bank financial stability review           April 28
ArcelorMittal South African Ltd. quarterly profit April 29
Producer-price inflation                          April 29
M3, private sector credit data                    April 30
Trade data                                        April 30
Budget data                                       April 30
 
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gill Marcus, governor of South African's central bank  
                       
                         
                           South African Government via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A handout photo shows Gill Marcus, governor of South African's central bank, during a press conference on July 19, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A handout photo shows Gill Marcus, governor of South African's central bank, during a press conference on July 19, 2009. Source: South African Government via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
