-- Thai Protesters Ask Backers to Block Police as Crackdown Looms
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-04-26T05:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/thai-protesters-brace-for-crackdown-after-abhisit-rejects-election-offer.html

          
          
             Thai protesters bracing for a
military offensive on their Bangkok encampment called on rural
supporters to stop soldiers and police from entering the capital,
potentially broadening their standoff with the government.  
 Sympathizers in the country’s northern, northeastern and
central provinces should block authorities from trying to enter
the city, leader Nattawut Saikuar said today in Bangkok. The
red-shirted movement has occupied a central business district
for 23 days, shutting down businesses, hotels and bank branches.  
 “We will fight back against the government by using
peaceful tactics,” Nattawut said from the group’s main stage.  
 The development may risk skirmishes such as one on April 21,
when protesters blocked a train in the northeast carrying
soldiers. Thailand’s SET Index is down 2.7 percent this month.  
 Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva called off peace talks and
pledged to disperse demonstrators yesterday in a nationally
televised address with army chief Anupong Paojinda at his side.
Abhisit two days ago dismissed the protest group’s offer to hold
an election three months from now, a change from their demand
for an immediate nationwide vote.  
 About 80,000 police and soldiers were preparing to retake
the site this morning, the protest group said in a text message.  
 Net Selling  
 Foreigners on April 23 sold a net 2.33 billion baht ($72.3
million) of stock, the most net selling in five months. A
grenade attack the previous night on an elevated train line
killed one and injured at least 78 people. On April 10, a failed
attempt to disperse the group claimed 25 lives. The government
and protesters blame each other for the deaths.  
 “Concern the protests will be prolonged has increased
speculation that foreign investors will pull funds out of
Thailand, dragging down stocks and the baht,” said Tohru
Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in Tokyo. “Investors will worry more about the impact on the
domestic economy as the chaotic situation continues.”  
 The SET Index gained 1.5 percent as of 12:10 p.m. in
Bangkok, tracking gains in other Asian benchmarks.  
 Government agencies may revise their economic forecasts as
tourists cancel trips and foreign companies delay investments,
Abhisit said yesterday. Japanese investors, Thailand’s biggest
source of foreign direct investment, have delayed plans to
expand factories and plants in Thailand, Amata Corp. Pcl, the
nation’s largest industrial developer, said last week.  
 Bamboo Barricades  
 The demonstrators, who largely support fugitive ex-leader
Thaksin Shinawatra, reinforced bamboo barricades with seven-high
stacks of rubber tires that were covered in small strips of
cloth. Several oil canisters sat behind one of the walls, which
block off an area roughly the size of New York’s Central Park.  
 Demonstration leaders told supporters to stop wearing the
red shirts that have symbolized their protests to avoid being
stopped at police checkpoints. Protesters in provincial areas
blocked several roads to prevent security forces from reaching
the capital, state-run news agency MCOT reported.  
 A crackdown on protesters that carries a high death toll
may lead to a civil war, protest leader Weng Tojirakarn said in
an interview yesterday. The group has no weapons and isn’t
affiliated with sympathizers who may use violence, he said.  
 “This time maybe 76 provinces all over the country, they
will do guerrilla warfare or civil war” if protesters are
dispersed, Weng said. The situation would be similar to the
Muslim separatist violence in Thailand’s southernmost provinces
that has killed more than 4,000 people since 2004, he said.  
 ‘Very Clear’  
 “Our proposal was very clear cut that we would like to
stop more loss, death or injuries,” Weng said. “So when
Abhisit rejected that it immediately implied that the government
would like to start killing again.”  
 A rival group that took over Bangkok’s airports in 2008 to
elevate Abhisit to power will meet today. The People’s Alliance
for Democracy aims to pressure the premier into reshuffling
military or police officials if they are not responding to
orders, spokesman Parnthep Pourpongpan said by phone yesterday.  
 “We want the protesters to know that there are so many
people against them,” he said.  
 Army chief Anupong said yesterday the army remains unified
and would follow government policy. Ex-soldiers within the
protest group may be responsible for the violent clashes earlier
this month, he said.  
 Troops remain near the protest site at Silom Road, a
commercial artery. Buildings near the protest area hold offices
for Wells Fargo & Co., HSBC Holdings and Rolls-Royce Group Plc.  
 Thousands of protesters walked through the site yesterday,
dancing to music, listening to speeches, playing carnival games
and watching videos featuring Thaksin, whose ouster in a 2006
coup led to the current instability. Demonstrators hung clothes
outside the Grand Hyatt Erawan hotel and raw sewage leaked from
portable toilets set up near the Four Seasons.  
 Pro-Thaksin parties have won the past four elections on a
platform of improved health care and cheap loans. Abhisit took
power in a December 2008 parliamentary vote after a court
disbanded the ruling party for election fraud. His Democrat
party hasn’t won a nationwide vote since 1992.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Thai pro-government supporter holds a placard against ousted ex-premier Thaksin Shinawatra during a demonstration to counter anti-government 'Red Shirt' protests at Victory monument in Bangkok on April 25, 2010. Photographer: Pornchai Kittiwongsakul/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Ramsay, an analyst at Control Risks Group in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about political unrest in Thailand, and its impact on the nation's economy and financial market.
     Thai protesters readied themselves for a military offensive on the Bangkok business district they have shut down for 23 days after Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva called off peace talks and pledged to disperse them. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
