-- TCI-Backed Algebris Plans Singapore Office as Asia Lures Hedge-Fund Firms
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-04-26T13:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/algebris-plans-to-open-office-in-singapore-as-asia-lures-hedge-fund-firms.html

          
          
             Algebris Investments LLP, a $1.5
billion global financial hedge-fund manager, plans to open an
office in Singapore as Asia’s growth draws investors.  
 The London-based firm registered its Asian office in
Singapore as Algebris Investments (Asia) Pte, according to the
Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority, which regulates
businesses in the city-state. Maria Gabriela Bianchini,
Algebris’s London-based chief operating officer, couldn’t be
reached for comment.  
 About 45 percent of investors in a Deutsche Bank AG survey
released in March said they would add investments in hedge funds
focusing on Asia outside of Japan this year, compared with 18
percent in 2009. The region is leading a recovery from the
deepest global recession since World War II.  
 “Hedge-fund managers are coming to Asia to take advantage
of two major opportunities: long-term secular growth trends
driven by the rise of the urban middle-class, and short-term
trading opportunities that are still available in less efficient
emerging markets,” said Frank Brochin, managing director at New
York-based StoneWater Capital LLC, which invests about $130
million in Asian hedge funds.  
 Algebris’s Asian business was incorporated in Singapore in
March, according to a filing with ACRA. Its registered office
address is at PWC Building on Cross Street, in the city-state’s
central business district, the filing shows.  
 Long/Short Equity  
 The firm, set up by Davide Serra and Eric Halet in 2006,
manages the Algebris Global Financials Master Fund and makes
long-term investments in companies worldwide, according to its
Web site. The fund is a global financials long/short equity fund
focused on banks, insurance, diversified financials and real
estate, according to a biography of co-founder Halet.  
 “Algebris may take an active role in certain situations to
promote sound governance and increase shareholder value,” it
said. Halet was previously global industry analyst at Wellington
Management Co., a Boston-based investment firm.  
 Algebris campaigned for changes at Trieste, Italy-based
Assicurazioni Generali SpA in 2007, pressuring Europe’s third-
biggest insurer to improve its performance and governance. The
firm sold most of its shares in Generali after failing to sway
management on the insurer’s strategy, La Repubblica reported in
April 2009, citing an interview with co-founder Serra.  
 Serra is a former head of equity research for European
banks at Morgan Stanley.  
 Soros Fund, GLG  
 Asia’s economic growth is luring alternative asset managers
to set up offices in the region. Soros Fund Management LLC and
GLG Partners Inc. are among those planning a Hong Kong office,
people familiar with their plans said in January.  
 “We expect the Asian hedge-fund industry to grow
significantly in the coming years, both in terms of number of
managers and assets under management,” StoneWater Capital’s
Brochin said.  
 The arrivals will mark a reversal of the trend in the last
two years when international hedge-fund managers including
Ramius LLC, Citadel Investment Group LLC, Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC and Deephaven Capital Management LLC closed
down or downsized offices in Asia amid investment losses and
redemptions globally.  
 “Lots of money left Asia in the market events of 2008,
lots of shops or competitors have downsized or exited,” said
Ruey L. Goh, Singapore-based senior research analyst at fund-of-
hedge-funds firm EIM SA. “With less competition and also more
inefficiency, Asia is attractive.”  
 Singapore is reviewing rules for its investment management
industry, including hedge-fund managers, for the first time
since it introduced incentives to lure alternative asset
managers in 2002. The Monetary Authority of Singapore will start
a public consultation within two weeks on proposals to ensure
regulations remain “sound and responsive to the changing needs
of the various stakeholders in the fund management industry,”
it said in an e-mailed statement on April 21.  
 “It is good for long term growth,” EIM’s Goh said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        