-- Bond Returns Accelerate as Profits Outweigh Sovereign Risk: Credit Markets
-- Kate Haywood
-- 2010-04-26T16:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/bond-returns-accelerate-as-profits-outweigh-sovereign-risk-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Corporate bonds are returning the
most in three months as optimism for profit growth outweighs the
risk of contagion from worsening government finances.  
 The debt has returned 0.66 percent this month, the biggest
gain since January, led by insurers and real-estate companies,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. That compares with a 0.01 percent return from
government bonds.  
 Of the 178 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
that reported first-quarter earnings, 80 percent exceeded
analysts’ estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show, bolstering
confidence that borrowers will meet debt payments. The
International Monetary Fund and World Bank boosted their
estimates of global economic growth as the European Union races
to fix Greece’s budget crisis before the nation defaults.  
 “The economy is picking up and everyone is focusing on
corporate debt,” said Andrew Wilmont, a London-based money
manager with Axa Investment Managers U.K. Ltd. who helps oversee
$5 billion of speculative-grade debt. “Markets don’t like
uncertainty and investors need to see a signed deal with Greece
and the EU and IMF and the money in the bank for sovereigns to
look like a better bet.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own company debt
instead of Treasuries was unchanged last week at 143 basis
points, or 1.43 percentage points, about the narrowest spread
since November 2007 and down from 176 basis points at the end of
2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Based on
the 8,495 bonds worldwide in the index, yields rose to an
average of 3.949 percent, from 3.904 percent on April 16.  
 Greek Crisis  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of insuring against a
default on Greece’s government debt rose as concern persisted
about the state of the nation’s finances, even after Prime
Minister George Papandreou asked last week for a 45 billion-euro
($60 billion) aid package to be activated.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Greece climbed as much as 98.5
basis points to a record 713, according to CMA DataVision. That
means it costs $713,000 annually to insure against default on
$10 million of debt for five years.  
 The cost to protect Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bonds climbed
to the highest in 10 months before executives and traders from
the most profitable Wall Street firm in history are questioned
tomorrow by a Congressional panel about trading in the U.S.
mortgage market.  
 Goldman Sachs  
      Five-year credit-default swaps on New York-based Goldman
Sachs rose 22 basis points to 166 basis points as of 12:12 p.m.
in New York, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. The
swaps have jumped 75 basis points since April 15, the day before
the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission sued Goldman Sachs for
fraud related to its trades in collateralized debt obligations
linked to home loans.  
 A benchmark indicator of U.S. corporate credit risk rose to
the highest in two months. Credit-default swaps on the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series 14, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 1.1 basis point to a mid-
price of 89.96 basis points as of 12:40 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a company
or country fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt, and an increase in the price of the contracts
signals a deterioration in investor perceptions of credit
quality. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 Accelerating Returns  
 Corporate bond returns are accelerating after gains of 0.62
percent last month and 0.37 percent in February, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The index returned
1.83 percent in January.  
 Bonds sold by insurers have returned 1.24 percent in April,
while real-estate debt gained 1.22 percent, according to the
index. London-based Barclays Plc is the best-performer in the
index, with its bonds gaining 1.55 percent this month.  
 Sales of corporate bonds fell 28 percent last week
globally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. strategists say investors should be “underweight”
investment-grade corporate while staying “overweight” junk
bonds. Prices of high-yield, or leveraged, loans fell for the
first time since the week ended Feb. 15.  
 Issuance dropped to $43.5 billion from $60.4 billion in the
period ended April 16, Bloomberg data show.  
 “The corporate bond market, whilst not immune from the
volatility in the sovereign space, is showing an impressive
level of resilience,” said Wayne Hiley, head of European
corporate bond syndicate at Barclays Capital in London.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Haywood in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A shopper in Seoul  
                       
                         
                           Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A shopper looks at baseball caps displayed in Seoul, on April 12, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A shopper looks at baseball caps displayed in Seoul, on April 12, 2010. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
