-- Carnivores' Dilemma Widens as Pork Signals Record Meat Prices
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-04-26T14:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/carnivores-dilemma-widens-as-pork-signals-record-meat-prices.html

          
          
             U.S. meat prices may rise to
records this summer after farmers reduced hog and cattle herds
to the smallest sizes in decades, the result of surging feed
costs linked to demands for more ethanol.  
 Wholesale pork jumped as much as 25 percent this month to
90.68 cents a pound last week, the highest since August 2008,
U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Beef climbed 22
percent this year to $1.6896 a pound on April 23, the most
expensive since July 2008. Chicken’s gain in March was the most
in 20 months.  
 Demand for pork chops, steaks and chicken breasts is rising
as the economy improves, backyard barbecues resume and China and
Russia allow more U.S. imports. Domestic supplies may drop to a
13-year low because of culls to stem losses caused by corn
prices that doubled after former President George W. Bush set
targets to increase ethanol use.  
 “Ethanol-induced prices in meat are just now getting to
the marketplace,” said Steve Meyer, the president of Paragon
Economics, a meat industry consultant in Des Moines, Iowa.
“Consumers are going to see the highest prices they’ve ever
paid in meat and poultry because of the decisions made to make
corn into ethanol.”  
 Hog futures have almost doubled from a low in August to
85.175 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on April
23. The price may reach $1 by June, said Tom Cawthorne, director
of hog marketing at broker R.J. O’Brien & Associates in Chicago.
CME cattle jumped 14 percent in the past year.  
 Meat-Price Outlook  
 Retail prices may hit records in the next 90 days as U.S.
demand peaks during summer grilling season, said John Nalivka, a
former USDA economist and the president of meat consultant
Sterling Marketing Inc. in Vale, Oregon. The previous records
were in 2008 for pork at $3.026 a pound in September, based on
monthly averages tracked by the USDA since 1970, and for beef at
$4.526 a pound in August. Chicken’s peak was $1.857 a pound in
May 2009.  
 More expensive pork and beef may revive food inflation that
dropped last year for the first time since 1961. Meat prices
tracked by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
are up 5 percent this year, even as food costs fell 5.8 percent.  
 The rally also means a boost for livestock producers
including Smithfield Foods Inc., the world’s largest pork
processor. The Smithfield, Virginia-based company said April 21
that its hog-rearing unit will be profitable in the fiscal year
that begins in May, its first period without a loss since 2007.  
 Consumers May Balk  
 Prices may be peaking, if futures markets are a guide. Hogs
for settlement in May through August are trading between 85
cents and 87.4 cents a pound, a narrow range that may signal
prices are near their top, said Ron Plain, a livestock economist
at the University of Missouri in Columbia.  
 Consumers may choose cheaper food with the unemployment
rate in March at 9.7 percent, near a 26-year high.  
 “The key question is if the U.S. economy is strong enough
to sustain higher grocery store prices for meat,” Plain said.
“We had been expecting a late summer peak, but I’m afraid we
may end up with a late spring peak.”  
 Supermarkets have been “holding the line” on consumer
costs, Paragon’s Meyer said. In March, retail beef on average
was little changed from a year earlier, 4.8 percent below its
record high, USDA data show. Pork was 1 percent lower than the
same month in 2009 and 3.7 percent from its peak, while chicken
was 9.6 percent below the record high set last year.  
 ‘Cycle Has Turned’  
 Producers are optimistic for the first time in more than
two years because output is falling as demand accelerates.  
 “The cycle in hog production has turned,” Smithfield
Chief Executive Officer C. Larry Pope said on a March 26
conference call with analysts. “We have been through a long
period of prolonged losses in the live-production side of the
business. We’ve been talking about that for a long, long time.
We are seeing a period in which our costs are going down and our
hog prices are moving up.”  
 Smithfield cut its hog-breeding herd by 13 percent since
early 2008. As of March 1, the total U.S. sow herd shrank by 7.1
percent in two years to 5.76 million animals, the fewest in at
least 47 years, USDA data show. Cattle farmers slashed herds in
January to the smallest in 51 years, and the government
estimates that supplies may not rebound until 2013.  
 Elaine Johnson, an analyst at CattleHedging.com LLC in
Westminster, Colorado, estimates that U.S. per-capita supplies
of beef, pork and poultry will be the smallest since 1997. It
takes 10 or 11 months to raise a hog from conception to
slaughter weight and about three years for cattle.  
 ‘Mighty Good’ Price  
 “Pork prices will continue to gradually creep up,” said
Zack McCullen III, the vice president of swine production at
Prestage Farms Inc., the fifth-largest U.S. hog farm. “If you
look at futures this week, they look mighty good. I think
they’ll definitely hold up for a while.”  
 Clinton, North Carolina-based Prestage, which produces
about 650 million pounds of pork annually, cut its sows 10
percent last year, McCullen said. “Ethanol was the main driver
in corn prices going up to historical levels,” he said.
“Ethanol was the pork producers’ biggest problem.”  
 The hog industry lost about $6.2 billion from October 2007
until last month on rising feed costs and lower export demand
caused by swine flu, Missouri’s Plain said. Profits returned as
corn futures on the Chicago Board of Trade dropped from a record
$7.9925 a bushel in June 2008 to $3.61 on April 22.  
 Ethanol refiners are using more of the U.S. harvest than
ever. An estimated 4.3 billion bushels, or 33 percent, of last
year’s crop will be used for fuel, compared with 3.049 billion
bushels, or 23 percent, in 2008, USDA data show.  
 Ethanol Mandate  
 Bush signed the Energy Independence and Security Act in
2007, increasing the ethanol mandate to 15 billion gallons a
year by 2015 from about 10.5 billion in 2009, in a bid to cut
dependence on foreign fuel and curb emissions.  
 Ethanol producers say their industry is unfairly blamed for
the record feed costs of 2008. The surge reflected “wild
speculation in the markets and the surge of index funds” rather
than the jump in corn use for fuel, said Chris Thorne, a
spokesman for Growth Energy, a Washington-based ethanol trade
group. “Grain producers in this country will more than meet all
expected demand for export, for food, for livestock feed and
certainly for fuel.”  
 The USDA estimates farmers harvested a record 13.131
billion bushels of corn last year.  
 Bullish Speculators  
 Speculators remain bullish. Hedge funds and commodity index
funds held record positions in cattle futures on April 20, while
reducing net-long positions in hogs by 0.6 percent from a record
on April 13, government data show. In September, speculators had
a record bet against hogs, after prices reached a six-year low
in August.  
 Even with lower feed costs in 2010, hog farmers may not
expand herds for another two years, partly because banks
tightened lending requirements during the recession, said Neil
Strother, whose farm in Wilson, North Carolina, owns about 5,000
sows. Strother said he liquidated 15 percent of his herd last
year.  
 “From the largest producer to the smallest producer, none
of us want to see production ramp up right now,” he said.  
 Dwindling Inventories  
 Rising overseas demand may erode inventories for pork that
in March were the lowest for that month since 2007, the
government said on April 22. Beef stockpiles in March were the
lowest for any month since July 2005, and the USDA forecasts
exports will jump 9.7 percent this year.  
 Brett Stuart, managing partner at Global AgriTrends, a
consulting company in Denver, expects pork exports to China,
including Hong Kong, to climb 22 percent this year from 2009.
The government predicts total U.S. pork exports will increase
5.7 percent this year. In March, China lifted a ban on U.S. pork
put in place after the swine-flu outbreak last year.  
 “We’ve been living a little on borrowed time as
consumers,” said Bill Lapp, a former chief economist for
ConAgra Foods Inc. who is the president of consultant Advanced
Economic Solutions in Omaha, Nebraska. “The confluence of
reduced production and improving export markets are supporting
wholesale prices and eventually that’s going to turn into higher
consumer prices.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo of sows on the farm of Don Wasserbeck near Essex, Ohio. Photographer: Chris Kasson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
