-- Clegg Says Brown Can't Stay as Premier After Third-Place Finish by Labour
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-04-26T05:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/clegg-says-brown-can-t-stay-as-premier-after-third-place-finish-by-labour.html

          
          
             Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg
said it would be “preposterous” for Gordon Brown to stay as
prime minister if his Labour Party comes in third in the
popular vote in the May 6 U.K. election, highlighting the
obstacles to Brown remaining in power.  
 “There are now indications Labour might come third in
terms of people voting for the different parties,” Clegg told
BBC 1 television’s Andrew Marr program yesterday. “It is just
preposterous, the idea that if a party comes third in terms of
the number of votes it still somehow has the right to carry on
squatting in No. 10,” the premier’s Downing Street office,
“and continue to lay claim to having the prime minister.”  
 Out of 27 polls completed since Clegg’s breakthrough
performance in the first televised leaders’ debate on April 15,
21 have put Labour in third place in popular support, according
to the U.K. Polling Report Web site. The electoral system means
Labour might still win the largest number of seats in Parliament
even if it finishes third in vote share.  
 Clegg said the recent rise in support for the Liberal
Democrats meant changes to the voting system would be
“unavoidable” after the election, signaling that would be an
important element in deciding whether to support one of the
other parties in a hung Parliament in which no party has an
outright majority.  
 Latest Poll  
 A YouGov Plc poll of 1,466 people in today’s Sun newspaper
put David Cameron’s Conservatives at 34 percent, the Liberal
Democrats at 30 percent and Labour at 28 percent. No margin of
error was given.  
 According to British Broadcasting Corp. calculations, such
a result would give Labour 264 seats out of 650 in Parliament,
the Conservatives 259 and the Liberal Democrats 98. The uneven
distribution of party support across the country means the
Conservatives need at least a 10 percentage-point lead over
Labour to be sure of gaining a majority of seats.  
 A hung Parliament may roil markets because a divided
government would be too weak to fix Britain’s finances, some
economists say. The pound slumped 1 percent in the two days
after the first debate. It has fallen 4.8 percent against the
dollar this year.  
 ‘Clear Mandate’  
 A survey of 300 businesses by the British Chambers of
Commerce published today found 65 percent “concerned” or
“very concerned” at the prospect of a hung Parliament.
“Instinctively, companies prefer a clear mandate to lead and
govern,” BCC Director General David Frost said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The momentum gained by Clegg after two leaders’ debates may
prevent the Conservatives from winning swing seats held by
Labour and the Liberal Democrats that Cameron’s party needs to
take power. The Conservatives responded to Clegg’s surge by
arguing that a vote for him could see Brown returned to office.  
 The Liberal Democrat leader “has to protect himself from
the ‘Vote Clegg, Get Brown,’ tag,” said Steven Fielding,
director of the Centre for British Politics at Nottingham
University. “He wants to retain the idea that he’s the change.
The idea that he’d prop up a third-placed Brown would completely
undermine that.”  
 First Past the Post  
 Electoral-system changes are vital to the Liberal Democrats
because the first-past-the-post rule hurts smaller parties. In
2005, Liberal Democrats won 22 percent of the vote but fewer
than 10 percent of the seats. If there is a hung Parliament,
Clegg’s party may be able to demand change as a price for its
support.  
 “It’s about trying to seize the initiative in negotiations,
trying to show they have terms and conditions,” said Andrew
Russell, co-author of “Neither Left Nor Right,” a history of
the Liberal Democrats.  
 As well as voting change, the Liberal Democrats are also
seeking to clamp down on bonus payments to bankers and to
relieve 3.6 million low earners of the need to pay income tax.  
 In an interview with yesterday’s Observer newspaper,
Cameron refused to rule out the possibility of a coalition with
the Liberal Democrats, although he emphasized he prefers to keep
the electoral system in its current form to enable voters “to
throw a government out of office.”  
 ‘Clean Break’  
 Cameron will today attempt to win back voters who’ve swung
to the Liberal Democrats, saying his party offers the best
prospect of real change.
    “Whether you’ve been a Lib Dem voter or a Labour voter or a
Green voter,” he will say, according to extracts of a speech
released in advance by his office. “If you care about the
environment, if you want action to improve your quality of life,
if you care about civil liberties, if you care about people
power, if you want a clean break from the past -- vote
Conservative.”  
 Brown used a speech in London yesterday to warn that a
Conservative government would cut spending in areas that rely on
it most. “They have already marked out the regions to be hit
first and hardest,” he said.  
 A report by the Centre for Economic and Business Research
today shows that in two regions, Wales and Northern Ireland,
public spending accounts for 70 percent of gross domestic
product, twice what it does in London. For the U.K. as a whole,
government spending has risen to 48 percent of GDP in the
current fiscal year from 37 percent in 1998-99.  
 ‘Flirting’ With Clegg  
 Business Secretary Peter Mandelson, acknowledging his party
is trailing in the polls, said in a Sunday Mirror newspaper
interview that some former Labour voters are considering
“looking elsewhere.” He said his message to them was that a
vote for the Liberal Democrats risked a Conservative government.  
 “You might start flirting with Nick Clegg, but that way
you will end up marrying David Cameron,” Mandelson said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nick Clegg, leader of the U.K. Liberal Democrat party, speaks during the launch of the party's election manifesto in London, on April 14, 2010. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
