-- DAX Benchmark Advances, Led by Shares of Commerzbank, HeidelbergCement
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-04-26T15:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/commerzbank-metro-shares-may-rise-or-fall-german-equity-market-preview.html

          
          
             German stocks rose for a second
day, as a contract award boosted Siemens AG and analysts
recommended shares of HeidelbergCement AG while Credit
Suisse Group AG said the country’s growth has room to
surprise.  
 Siemens surged 4 percent after winning a contract to
supply a nuclear reactor control-command system in Slovakia.
HeidelbergCement rose 1.6 percent as Exane BNP Paribas
lifted its recommendation on the world’s third-largest
cement maker. ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s largest steelmaker,
gained 1.5 percent as higher commodity prices boosted raw-
material producers.  
 The DAX Index increased 1.2 percent to 6,332.1 in
Frankfurt, extending gains of 1.5 percent on April 23. The
gauge has risen 6.3 percent this year on signs the global
economy is rebounding from the worst recession since World
War II. The broader HDAX Index advanced 1.2 percent today.  
 “Germany will end up reflating more than expected,”
Credit Suisse strategists, led by London-based Andrew
Garthwaite, wrote in a note. “All along we have argued that
Germany growth will surprise as it has the least leveraged
private-sector balance sheet in the G10, the most
undervalued housing market, a cyclically adjusted budget
deficit of just 1.4 percent of GDP, and, finally, unit labor
costs that are 10 percent too low relative to the rest of
Europe.”  
 Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank  
 Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-largest lender,
climbed 2.5 percent to 6.278 euros. Deutsche Bank AG,
Germany’s largest bank, rose 2.9 percent to 55.35 euros.
Deutsche Postbank AG, the consumer lender partly owned by
Deutsche Bank, gained 3.3 percent to 27.265 euros.  
 Siemens surged 4 percent to 75.72 euros. The German
engineering company and Areva SA will supply digital
supervision, protection and control systems for units 3 & 4
of the Mochovce nuclear power plant in Slovakia.  
 HeidelbergCement climbed 1.6 percent to 48.78 euros.
Exane upgraded the world’s third-largest cement maker to
“outperform” from “neutral.”  
 ThyssenKrupp increased 1.5 percent to 25.325 euros.
Metal prices rose as Greece moved toward securing an
emergency aid package, reducing investor concern that the
nation’s fiscal crisis may derail the European recovery
while boosting prospects for a weaker dollar.  
 Arcandor AG sank 7.3 percent to 15.2 cents, after Die
Welt reported in its Welt Kompakt edition that Triton, the
only bidder for German retailer Arcandor’s Karstadt
department-store chain, has made enquiries about the
possibility of receiving state support.  
 Q-Cells SE slid 2.2 percent to 7.417 euros as Barclays
Capital cut its recommendation on Germany’s third-largest
listed solar company to “underweight” from “equal
weight.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        