-- Deutsche Bank May Struggle to Reach Earnings Targets Amid New Regulation
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-04-26T11:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/deutsche-bank-may-struggle-to-reach-earnings-targets-amid-new-regulation.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive
Officer Josef Ackermann is struggling to convince investors he
will meet his pledge to double pretax profit by 2011, and
planned banking regulations may make his task even harder.  
 Germany’s largest bank is likely to reach 7.6 billion euros
($10.1 billion) in pretax profit next year, based on the median
estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That would fall
short of Deutsche Bank’s December forecast that pretax profit
from its operating units will rise to 10 billion euros from 5
billion euros in 2009.  
 Calls for stricter regulation have gained momentum since
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced a fraud
suit tied to collateralized debt obligations against Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. on April 16. New rules may cut Deutsche Bank’s
earnings by more than at rivals UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group
AG because of a greater dependence on fixed-income trading and
larger assets, according to estimates from Citigroup Inc.  
 “Regulation is the sword of Damocles hanging over Deutsche
Bank’s head,” said Olaf Kayser, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Mainz, Germany, who has a “buy” rating on the
stock. “New rules such as on over-the-counter derivatives,
proprietary trading and capital requirements could have a huge
impact on revenue and margins.”  
 Deutsche Bank spokesman Michael Golden declined to comment.
CEO Ackermann, who has been at the forefront of the banking
industry calling for the gradual implementation of tighter
regulation, said on March 24 that he’s optimistic the bank can
meet regulatory requirements and reiterated the 2011 targets.  
 Tighter Regulation  
 Governments have pushed for more oversight of derivatives,
curbs on riskier activities such as proprietary trading and
higher capital requirements to avoid a repeat of the credit
crisis. New rules and a planned levy to finance bank rescues may
cut Deutsche Bank’s net income by 13 percent, Citigroup analyst
Kinner Lakhani wrote in a report on April 20. That compares with
an estimated 9 percent at Credit Suisse and 6 percent at UBS.  
 Concern the SEC’s suit against Goldman Sachs may lead to
further probes of CDOs and stricter rules for banks sent
Deutsche Bank shares to a two-day decline of almost 10 percent
on April 16 and April 19. Goldman Sachs denies any wrongdoing.  
 As many as 20 banks arranged $418 billion of CDOs in 2007,
when the U.S. housing market began to collapse, UBS analysts
said, citing data that ranked Deutsche Bank third. The firm was
No. 11 in a Credit Suisse “litigation risk” list after
offering $5.25 billion of CDOs from 2005 to 2008, similar to the
one that drew the suit against Goldman Sachs. Deutsche Bank
wasn’t on the list for 2007 only, according to Credit Suisse.  
 Basel Committee  
 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which sets
minimum standards for banks in 27 countries and territories, in
December proposed lenders increase the number and quality of
capital buffers, boost liquidity reserves and adhere to stricter
leverage ratios. The group asked banks to quantify the effect
the proposals will have on them by the end of April and will
formulate final rules by the end of 2010.  
 Deutsche Bank, in an April 16 response to the proposals,
said increases in capital and liquidity requirements would
require banks to “vastly increase common equity in an extremely
short period,” which may have a “significant impact” on
lending, businesses, economic growth and employment.  
 When the firm releases first-quarter 2010 results on April
27, investors will be looking for clues if Ackermann is keeping
his pledge to boost revenue faster than costs. Deutsche Bank may
report pretax profit of 2.02 billion euros for the period,
buoyed by fixed-income sales, after Bank of America Corp.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs posted record revenue
from debt trading, according to eight analysts’ estimates.  
 ‘Important Step’  
 “In order for Deutsche Bank to show progress, it needs to
show lower cost growth than revenue growth,” Patrick Lemmens,
who helps manage about $13 billion including Deutsche Bank
shares at Robeco Group in Amsterdam, said by phone April 21.
“First-quarter numbers will be an important step to reaching
the 2011 targets.”  
 Deutsche Bank advanced 1.7 percent to 54.68 euros as of
12:59 p.m. in Frankfurt, bringing the company’s market value to
about 34 billion euros. The shares have risen 11 percent this
year, compared with a 2.6 percent gain in the 52-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  
 Ackermann aims to lower the bank’s cost-income ratio, a
gauge of expenses as a proportion of revenue, to 65 by the end
of next year, which would be the lowest level in at least eight
years. The company seeks to save 1 billion euros in so-called
infrastructure costs, with steps including creating a single
information-technology platform and moving technology and
services business to cheaper locations.  
 ‘Blue-Sky Scenario’  
 Deutsche Bank also plans to boost earnings at its
investment bank and expand in Asia. The 2011 pretax profit
forecast assumes no financial crisis or significant writedowns,
stable economic growth and asset values, a widening fee pool and
market-share gains.  
 “This is a blue-sky scenario,” said LBBW’s Kayser. “A
strong first quarter may close the gap between expectations and
the target, but it’ll remain short of 10 billion euros.”  
 The global markets trading unit, led by Anshu Jain, will
continue to generate the largest share of earnings through 2011,
according to Deutsche Bank’s forecast. The overall investment
bank, which includes the corporate finance unit led by Michael
Cohrs, aims for 6.3 billion euros in 2011 pretax profit.  
 Return on Equity  
 Deutsche Bank’s return on equity, a gauge of profitability,
at the investment bank may decline to 11.7 percent in 2011 from
previous estimate of 18.5 percent because of regulatory changes,
according to an investor note on April 20 from JPMorgan analyst
Kian Abouhossein in London.  
 Ackermann seeks to reduce dependence on investment banking
by making acquisitions for wealth management, commercial banking
and retail banking. Deutsche Bank completed the purchase of Sal.
Oppenheim Group, Germany’s biggest independent private bank, and
parts of ABN Amro Bank NV’s commercial banking activities in the
Netherlands this year. It also bought a stake in retail lender
Deutsche Postbank AG and has an option to raise the holding.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Josef Ackermann, chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Josef Ackermann, chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG, arrives for a news conference in Frankfurt, on Feb. 4, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Josef Ackermann, chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG, arrives for a news conference in Frankfurt, on Feb. 4, 2010. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
