-- Dollar Strength Grows as Carry Trade Profits Shrink
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-04-26T12:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/dollar-strength-grows-as-carry-trade-profits-evaporate-without-high-rates.html

          
          
             Foreign-exchange profits from carry
trades are disappearing as differences in central bank interest
rates fail to increase fast enough to compensate for swings in
currency rates.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s index tracking the strategy of
tapping cash where borrowing costs are low and investing where
rates are higher, rose 0.57 percent in the first quarter, the
smallest amount in a year, and down from 9.8 percent in all of
2009. Morgan Stanley strategists said in an April 15 research
report that the only “functionally attractive” currency to
target in carry trades is  Australia ’s dollar.  
 Falling demand for carry trades may help the dollar -- a
favorite for funding the trades because of record low U.S. rates
-- extend a rally that drove it 11 percent higher versus the
euro the past six months. Gains of about 25 percent in  Brazil ’s
real and New Zealand’s dollar in the past 12 months and 18
percent for  South Africa ’s rand suggest they already reflect the
prospect of higher rates as central bankers begin to shift
monetary policy.  
 “There is no easy money left in the carry trade,” said
Henrik Pedersen, the London-based chief investment officer at
Pareto Investment Management Ltd., which oversees $45 billion in
currency assets.  
 “Most of the high-yielding currencies are overvalued and
the low-yielders are undervalued,” he said. “The gains you can
make on the interest-rate differentials are not going to make
you 20 percent a year, it’s probably only going to make you
about 2 or 3 percent.”  
 Central Bank Rates  
 The dollar rose to the highest in three weeks versus the
yen today after reports last week showed orders for U.S. durable
goods excluding transportation items surged 2.8 percent in March
and sales of new homes jumped 26.9 percent, the most in five
decades. The greenback strengthened 0.2 percent to 94.14 yen and
gained 0.4 percent to $1.3335 per euro at 8 a.m. in New York
today.  
 Measured by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
indexes, the dollar has gained 1.9 percent this year.  
 A stronger currency is important to the U.S. because it
entices foreign investors to Treasury debt that finances the
nation’s record budget deficit. The downside is that it may
restrain profit growth at companies with international sales by
making U.S. exports more expensive.  
 Euro Predictions  
   United Technologies Corp ., the Hartford-based maker of
Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Black Hawk helicopters, and
Providence, Rhode Island-based  Textron Inc ., which produces
Cessna planes, predicted the euro would trade at $1.41 or higher
this year.  
 “The global convergence in yields has basically sidelined
the demand for carry,” said Mike Moran, a New York-based senior
currency strategist at Standard Chartered Plc. “What has
happened over the last 18 months has really leveled the playing
field in carry trades. It has driven a convergence in the two
most important factors in the carry trade, yields and
volatility.”  
 Carry trades, which flourish most when interest-rate
spreads are wide and swings in exchange rates muted, lost 31.5
percent in 2008 as the global financial crisis led to a
compression of central bank borrowing costs, before rebounding
last year, RBS index data shows.  
 Coordinated Effort  
 The  Federal Reserve ,  European Central Bank  and four other
central banks lowered rates in October 2008 in an unprecedented
coordinated effort to ease the effects of the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  
 Central bankers are now preparing rate increases as the
global economy recovers. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia boosted
its overnight cash rate to 4.25 percent this month from 3
percent in October. New Zealand’s benchmark rate is 2.5 percent,
compared with 0.1 percent in Japan and a range of zero to 0.25
percent in the U.S.  
 In January 2007, rates were 0.25 percent in Japan, 5.25
percent in the U.S., 6.25 percent in Australia and 7.25 percent
in  New Zealand .  
 Investors who took advantage of global rate differentials
averaged annual returns of 16 percent from 2000 to 2005,
according to the RBS index. The best gains of the decade were in
2002, when the strategy returned 29.3 percent.  
 At 10.1 percent, three-month implied option volatility for
emerging economies is about one percentage point less than for
currencies of major industrialized nations, a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. index show. In October 2008, emerging volatility was 13
percentage points more.  
 ‘Not Very Attractive’  
 Higher volatility reduces the allure of carry trades by
increasing the probability that swings in exchange rates will
erode gains. The JPMorgan option index measuring swings in
industrialized nation currencies averaged 7.7 percent in the two
years before the subprime-mortgage market collapsed in August
2007.  
 “The carry trade is not very attractive now, broadly
speaking,” said Ronald Leven, a senior currency strategist at
Morgan Stanley in  New York . “There also is some shifting away
from the dollar as a funding currency.”  
 Leven forecasts the dollar will appreciate to 109 yen and
$1.24 per euro by December. Federal fund futures traded on CME
Group Inc.’s Chicago Mercantile Exchange show traders place a 56
percent chance the U.S. central bank will lift its target for
overnight loans between banks by November.  
   Greece , Portugal  
 The dollar has benefitted at the expense of the euro, which
has been plagued by concern about the ability of Greece and
other European countries such as Portugal and  Spain  to meet
their debt obligations.  
 Greece asked the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  on April 23 to activate a lifeline of as much as 45 billion
euros ($60.2 billion) in an unprecedented test of the euro’s
stability and European political cohesion.  
 “The alleviating of financing stress in  Europe  should
reduce the risk aversion bid for the dollar that emerged last
December and lead markets to return to dollar funding of carry
and risk trades,” strategists at Zurich-based Credit Suisse
Group AG wrote in an April 13 report.  
 The company forecast the dollar will weaken to $1.43 per
euro and to 92 yen in three months.  
 The Aussie gained 28 percent against the  U.S. dollar  and 25
percent versus the Japanese yen in the past 12 months as the RBA
began raising rates in October.  
 Bank of  Canada   
 The  Bank of Canada  signaled last week it may be the first
Group of Seven nation to boost borrowing costs.  India  raised
rates for the second time in a month last week and  Sweden ’s
Riksbank reiterated a forecast to boost its seven-day repurchase
rate by the end of the third quarter.  
 “Regardless of when exactly the Fed raises rates, there is
already a waterfall going on in movements of U.S. rates above
those in other nations,” said  Marc Chandler , head of currency
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. Investors
“have been paid for being short the U.S. dollar, but that
incentive structure is changing,” he said.  
 The cost of borrowing in yen for three months between banks
fell below the dollar rate on March 4 for the first time since
August, lessening the appeal of the greenback as a funding
currency.  
 The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-
month yen loans was 8.375 basis points less than the dollar rate
last week, the most since July. The dollar rate moved below its
yen counterpart last year for the first time.  
 “Ten years ago it was basically the carry trade as a free
lunch,” said Maxime Tessier, chief of foreign exchange at
Montreal-based Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada’s
biggest pension fund manager, with $131.6 billion in assets.
“If we are in an environment where risk appetite remains
subdued, and questions remain about what will happen with
economies and central banks going forward, and if the fiscal
crisis we are now seeing will broaden, then this is not the
ideal environment for carry.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo of euro notes and U.S. dollar bills arranged in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
