-- Meirelles Pledges `Vigorous Action' Against Risk of Inflation in Brazil
-- Andre Soliani
-- 2010-04-26T14:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/meirelles-says-brazilian-central-bank-to-act-vigorously-against-inflation.html

          
          
             Brazilian policy makers will take
“vigorous action” against inflation to ensure that Latin
America’s biggest economy doesn’t overheat, central bank
President Henrique Meirelles said  
 All 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect policy
makers meeting this week to raise the benchmark interest rate
for the first time since September 2008 to slow inflation that’s
exceeded their target since January.  
 “In situations like this one, we need a program of
vigorous action,” Meirelles, 64, said in an interview yesterday
in Washington, on the sidelines of the International Monetary
Fund’s spring meetings. Brazil’s economy “is heated and there’s
a risk of overheating, but we certainly won’t allow that to
happen given that the central bank is ready to take the
necessary measures.”  
 The central bank has kept the overnight rate at a record
low 8.75 percent since July to foster economic growth that may
now quicken to the fastest pace in more than two decades.
Inflation though mid-April accelerated to an 11-month high as an
expansionary monetary stance spurred credit growth and domestic
demand.  
 Traders are pricing in a 72 basis-point increase on April
28, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate
futures. Given that the central bank raises rates in increments
of 25 basis points, futures show that most traders expect a 75
basis-point increase on April 28.  
 Yields on Brazilian interest rate future contracts rose,
with the contract due January 2011 increasing 10 basis points to
10.83 percent, the highest since March 2009, at 10:35 a.m. New
York time. The yield on that contract has gained 0.43 percentage
point this month as inflation expectations accelerated.  
 50 or 75 Points  
 Meirelles’ comments “signal that the central bank may
increase rates by more than 50 basis points,” Zeina Latif, ING
Bank NV’s chief economist in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview.  
 The last time the central bank started increasing rates, in
April 2008, it surprised 34 of 46 economists by opting for a
bigger-than-expected increase.  
 The bank said at the time it was frontloading the rate
increases in a bid to “reduce the scope” of the total
adjustment. The bank went on to raise the overnight rate four
times from 11.25 percent to 13.75 percent in September 2008.  
 Analysts are split over the size of the interest rate
increase they see policy makers implementing at the end of their
two-day meeting this week, the Bloomberg survey of economists
shows. While 21 economists expect a half-point increase in the
Selic to 9.25 percent, 17 expect an increase of three quarters
of a percentage point and one sees a full-point increase.  
 ‘Brazil’s Challenge’  
 Inflation quickened to 5.2 percent in the 12 months through
mid-April, and will rise 5.41 percent by year-end, according to
a central bank survey of about 100 analysts taken April 23 and
published today. The same weekly survey showed analysts expect
consumer prices to increase 5.80 in 2011, exceeding the
government’s target of 4.5 percent as well.  
 “Brazil’s challenge in the next 12 months is to keep
inflation in line with targets,” Meirelles said.  
 After slipping into a recession in 2009, Brazil’s $1.8
trillion economy may expand this year at the fastest pace in
more than two decades, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc,
which is forecasting a 6.4 percent expansion. Morgan Stanley
today raised its forecast for Brazil to grow to 6.8 percent,
faster than a previously estimated 5.8 percent.  
 ‘Imperative’  
 Meirelles, the former head of global banking at FleetBoston
Corp., said the economy is recovering at the pace policy makers
had expected and that the timeline laid out in December for
phasing out anti-crisis stimulus measures remains adequate.  
 The central bank’s decision to leave the benchmark Selic
rate unchanged last month surprised 30 of 57 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey who were predicting a 50 basis-point increase.  
 Alexandre Schwartsman, chief economist at Banco Santander
SA in Sao Paulo and a former central bank board member under
Meirelles, said that he had “difficulties” understanding the
decision, given that policy makers in their minutes said a
“tightening cycle is an imperative.”  
 ‘Falling Trend’  
 Meirelles, Brazil’s longest serving central bank president,
said real interest rates after inflation will continue in a
“downward trend” in the coming years.  
 “A formally independent central bank could speed up the
pace” at which interest rates fall, Meirelles said.
“Especially if it was done at the beginning of the next
government.”  
 Meirelles said that real interest rates have dropped from
about 14 percent to 6 percent since he was appointed in 2002.  
 Brazil, which defaulted on its foreign debt twice in the
past 25 years, received its first investment grade rating from
Standard & Poor’s in 2008. The real has more than doubled in
relation to the U.S. dollar since President Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva took office in 2003 and stocks have gained more than 1,000
percent in dollar terms.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani Costa in Washington at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Henrique Meirelles, president of the central bank of Brazil, speaks at a news conference in Brasilia on March 31, 2010. Photographer: Adriano Machado/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
