-- El Bulli, Fat Duck Face Challenge: Richard Vines (Update1)
-- Editors: [bn:PRSN=1] Mark Beech []
-- 2010-04-26T10:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/el-bulli-fat-duck-face-danish-challenge-for-top-restaurant-richard-vines.html

          
          
             Ferran Adria  from El Bulli,  Heston Blumenthal  of the Fat Duck and  Thomas Keller  from the French
Laundry are among chefs expected to attend the S. Pellegrino
 World’s 50 Best Restaurants  at the Guildhall in London tonight.  
 El Bulli and the Fat Duck have hogged the top two places
for the past five years. This year, interest centers on Noma,
chef  Rene Redzepi’s  Copenhagen restaurant, which placed third
in 2009, having entered the list at No. 33 in 2006.  Daniel Boulud  of Daniel, in New York, will host a lunch for the chefs
tomorrow at his yet-to-open eatery in the Mandarin Oriental
hotel.  
 The award ceremony almost lost some of its culinary stars
to the flight ban caused by the Icelandic eruption. Blumenthal
was on an Italian skiing holiday with his family in Cervinia
and had to cross Europe overland before catching the Eurostar.  
 Caprice Group owner  Richard Caring  says his plans for a
restaurant on the site of the Theatre Museum in Covent Garden
center on “a new U.K. concept.” Speculation in the business
is that it’s an outpost of Balthazar, a New York brasserie
owned by the restaurateur Keith McNally. Andrew Murray-Watson
of Mission public relations declined to comment. He said Caring
was unavailable and referred to a statement Caprice released on
April 23, confirming the group is submitting plans for the
site, on which the owners of the Wolseley had intended to open
a brasserie. A call to Balthazar went straight to voicemail.  
 If you would like to dine in some of the restaurants, the
charity  Action Against Hunger  will auction 40 special dining
experiences on eBay, starting tomorrow. Many of the meals on
offer will include extras such as private kitchen tours. The
link will be  http://myworld.ebay.co.uk/actionagainsthungeruk .  
 Chris Corbin  and  Jeremy King , owners of the Wolseley, plan
to open a 75-room hotel, with restaurant, on Balderton Street,
in Mayfair.  
 The JW Steakhouse opens next month at the Grosvenor House
on Park Lane, replacing Bord’Eaux. The restaurant will feature
USDA prime corn-fed Kansas beef, and the signature steak will
be a 32-ounce, on-the-bone rib eye named “The Tomahawk.” With
Goodman, Hawksmoor, Maze Grill and Palm all packing in the
punters, plus plans for a second Hawksmoor and a branch of
 Wolfgang Puck’s  Cut at 45 Park Lane, steak houses look to be
the current big thing in London dining. The chef at JW will be
Paul Hallett, an alumnus of the Dorchester Grill and  Tom Aikens .  
 Harrods is joining forces with the Thai embassy next month
to celebrate that country’s cuisine. The Food Halls will offer
a range of Thai ingredients, while Patara and Blue Elephant
will offer special menus in the department store’s restaurants.
There will also be dancing and demonstrations to whet your
appetite. When I say demonstrations, I’m thinking of things
like fruit carving, by the way, not protesters in red shirts.  
 The Anthologist, an all-day bar and kitchen in the City,
has opened on Gresham Street. It’s the third venue of Drake &
Morgan, the company behind the Parlour, in Canary Wharf, and
the Refinery, in Southwark. For information, click on
 http://www.theanthologistbar.co.uk/home.php .  
 A restaurant will open on May 10 at Les Ambassadeurs club
on Park Lane. The Milroy will be open to non-members for lunch.
For more on the club, click  http://www.lesambassadeurs.com/ .  
 Waitrose will introduce five regional pizzas in June,
including the Piemonte, with truffled salsa bianca and porcini
mushrooms; Lombardia, with Brianza salami, blue cheese and pear
puree; and Calabria, with spicy salami, red onion and fig.  
 The  British Academy of Film and Television Arts  has
dropped foie gras from its menu following representations from
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, the lobbying group
said. Bafta’s decision follows a similar move by the BRIT
awards, PETA spokesman Martin Mallon said.  
 The Boxwood Cafe closed on Saturday, six years after it
opened amid excitement about  Gordon Ramsay’s  first casual-
dining venue. It was in the Berkeley, one of three Maybourne
hotels that hosted Ramsay. Petrus has gone from the Berkeley
and  Angela Hartnett  from the Connaught, temporarily leaving
Gordon Ramsay at Claridges as a reminder of the group’s
flirtation with the chef.  
 Chef Tom Aikens is taking over the site of the Admiralty,
at Somerset House, and turning it into a Tom’s Kitchen in a
venture with Compass Group Plc.  
 ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Bloomberg
News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:
Top arts and lifestyle stories: MUSE <GO>.
London dining reviews: TNI LONDON RES <GO>.
Reviews by Richard Vines: NI VINES <GO>.
Dine & Deal reviews: BDD <GO>.
Restaurant search: DINE <GO>.
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chef Rene Redzepi outside his restaurant Noma in Copenhagen. The Danish chef will visit London next month to promote his book about the restaurant. Photographer: Richard Vines/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Richard Vines talks about the S. Pellegrino World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards ceremony at the Guildhall in London tonight.
      Ferran Adria's El Bulli and Heston Blumenthal's Fat Duck have hogged the top two places for the past five years. This year, interest centers on Noma, chef Rene Redzepi’s Copenhagen restaurant, which placed third in 2009, having entered the list at No. 33 in 2006. Vines spoke with Bloomberg's Andrea Catherwood on April 23. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Chef Heston Blumenthal at Selfridges, on Oxford Street, in London. Blumenthal's Fat Duck restaurant was named at the No. 3 Best Restaurant in the S. Pellegrino World’s 50 Best Restaurants at the Guildhall in London. Photographer: Robert Gunning/Selfridges via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ferran Adria, the chef at the Michelin starred El Bulli restaurant. The eatery lost its top slot in the World's 50 Best Restaurants awards. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
