-- Tired Italians May `Accept Anything' to Unload Argentina's Defaulted Bonds
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-04-26T20:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/tired-italians-may-accept-anything-to-unload-argentina-s-defaulted-bonds.html

          
          
             Most Italians who own Argentine
defaulted bonds are likely to take an offer from the South
American country to swap $20 billion of the securities for new
debt, said a Rome-based lawyer and adviser to small investors.  
 “At this point they could accept anything,” said Lucio
Golino, who works with Adusbef, a consumer protection group in
the Italian capital. “A lot of people are tired and have had
enough.”  
 Italians hold about $6 billion of the bonds that Argentina
defaulted on in 2001 and were held out of a restructuring four
years later, according to Task Force Argentina, a Rome-based
group that says it represents 180,000 creditors who own $4.3
billion worth of the securities.  
 Argentine Economy Minister Amado Boudou unveiled an
exchange offer on April 15 that he said is worth about 52 cents
on the dollar. A successful restructuring -- Boudou said he
expects at least 60 percent of holders to agree to the offer --
would allow Argentina to tap international credit markets for
the first time since its record $95 billion default, and reduce
financing costs for companies in South America’s second-largest
economy, Boudou said in an April 14 interview in Buenos Aires.  
 “We are convinced that we have to mark a lower interest
rate than we have now and that is the most important goal that
we seek with this swap,” Boudou said.  
 Biggest Buyers  
 Argentine bonds rose today, with the yield on Argentina’s 7
percent dollar bonds due 2015 dropping 28 basis points, or 0.28
percentage point, to 11.50 percent at 4:30 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg pricing data. The price climbed 1.01
cents to 82.68 cents on the dollar. The peso was little changed
at 3.872 per dollar.  
 Italians, seeking to take advantage of yields that averaged
6.5 percentage points more than U.S. Treasuries, were among the
biggest buyers of Argentine bonds in the 1990s. Before the
default, banks in Italy bought $14 billion worth of the
securities and then sold them to more than 450,000 retirees and
small investors, according to Task Force Argentina.  
 Adusbef recommends that individual investors reject the
offer and proposes instead that Italian banks accept it on
behalf of their clients and reimburse them, said Golino, 45, in
an April 23 telephone interview.  
 Task Force Argentina, created by Italian banks including
UniCredit SpA and Banca Intesa SpA in 2002 to gather mandates to
negotiate on behalf of retail investors, said in an April 22
statement that it will evaluate the exchange after Italy’s
securities regulator, known as Consob, discloses its findings.  
 Arbitration  
 In 2006, TFA asked the Washington-based International
Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes to arbitrate its
case. The group said in the statement that it’s still “firmly
committed” to the arbitration.  
 A positive outcome for TFA would enable creditors to seize
Argentine assets in 150 countries, the group said in a June 2009
statement.  
 Giannandrea Leonardi, whose family inherited 115,000 euros
worth of bonds that his father bought in 1998, said he may enter
the restructuring because efforts by TFA, in which he is a
participant, have been fruitless so far.  
 “We still haven’t obtained anything,” Leonardi, 38, said
in an April 20 telephone interview from Rome. “We’ll consider
the new offer. We don’t have any hope anymore. These situations
make you tired in the end.”  
 Egidio Rolich, 59, who bought about 40,000 euros of
Argentine bonds in 1998 with the proceeds from the sale of an
apartment and his wife’s severance pay, said he won’t take up
Boudou’s offer.  
 Third Time  
 “Investors were shafted the first time with the default,
the second time with the 2005 swap and this time is going to be
the third,” said Rolich, a former clothing retailer and real-
estate adviser, in an April 19 telephone interview from Turin.
“If God hears me, the acceptance will be low. If banks’
advisers push people to accept, acceptance could be high.”  
 Rolich said that he’s taken legal action against the bank
that advised him, which he declined to name, in a bid to recoup
his losses. He’s also set up a legal assistance group called
“Tangobond” to help fellow creditors do the same.  
 Rolich said he didn’t give a mandate to the TFA, whose
actions “will lead to nothing.”  
 U.S. and European investment funds, including Elliott
Management Corp. and Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, also own the
defaulted bonds. Prices of the debt fell to as low as 11 cents
on the dollar after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008, according to Amir Zada, a New York-based
director at Exotix Ltd., a brokerage that specializes in
distressed securities.  
 Swap Value  
 Argentina’s offer -- as measured in net-present value terms
-- is worth 52.3 cents on the dollar for institutional
investors, RBS Securities Inc. said. The value of the first
exchange, excluding interest on interest, was 59.63 cents on the
dollar, Credit Suisse AG said.  
 Aberdeen is “favorably disposed” to take up the offer,
said Edwin Gutierrez, an Aberdeen fund manager, in an April 23
telephone interview from London. Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman
for New York-based Elliott, declined to comment on the offer.  
 Boudou, 47, said on April 19 that he will formally open the
offer once it has been approved by Consob. Bondholders will then
have 21 days to enter the exchange. The regulator will likely
make its decision this week, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Benson in Buenos Aires at 
 Abenson9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Amado Boudou, economy minister of Argentina, right, talks to Roberto Feletti, vice-president of Banco de la Nacion SA, during the Development Committee meeting of the IMF-World Bank spring meetings in Washington on April 25, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  Terms of Offer from Boudou's April 15 Announcement 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
