-- Oil Contango Soars as Oklahoma Brims With Crude: Energy Markets
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-04-26T11:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/oil-contango-soars-as-oklahoma-tank-farms-brim-with-crude-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Oil storage costs are soaring to
the highest level in four months as tanks in  Oklahoma  brim with
near-record crude inventories.  
 Oil for delivery in June cost $1.95 a barrel less than the
July contract as of April 21, the biggest gap since Dec. 15 on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The premium for further-out
delivery, or contango, mirrors the expense of stockpiling. It
emerged after inventories jumped 5.8 percent in the week ended
April 16 to 34.1 million barrels in Cushing, Oklahoma, where
traders make deliveries for futures, government data show.  
 Inventories are near the record 35.7 million barrels on
Jan. 1 as Canadian imports rise refineries shut for maintenance.
Supplies are so plentiful that West Texas Intermediate, or WTI,
oil costs less than Brent crude in  Europe , a lower quality
crude. Brent cost more than WTI three times in the past year.  
 “The problem is you cannot get a lot of crude out of the
region, it’s landlocked,” said  Lawrence Eagles , head of
commodities research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . “It
points to being a very local issue.”  
 New York crude oil for June delivery rose 22 cents to
$85.34 a barrel today, $1.87 less than July. The June contract
has traded in a range between $72 and $88 so far this year on
the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 While the oversupply weighs on the front-month contract for
WTI, European benchmark  Brent crude  traded today near the
highest price since Oct. 7, 2008 on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Brent for June delivery increased as much as 0.6
percent to $87.75, and the contango against the July contract
was at 72 cents.  
 About 16 million barrels of unused storage capacity remains
around Cushing,  Barclays Capital  estimates. Should that site
reach capacity, producers will need to halt operations because
there will be no place to put it. A wider contango means traders
can potentially earn more from storing crude, and in turn means
tank terminal owners can charge them more for the service.  
 Gulf Coast Connection  
 Cushing was  used  to connect Gulf Coast companies with
refiners in  Chicago  and the Midwest. Declining onshore
production means the hub is now also being used to store
additional barrels from  Alberta ,  Canada , according to the Energy
Department.  
 In other energy markets, gasoline prices last week reached
their highest since October 2008 as refinery maintenance curbs
production. Nymex gasoline dropped 0.1 percent to $2.352 a
gallon today.  
 Refineries are running at 85.9 percent of capacity, below
the 10-year average of about 88 percent for this time of year,
according to the Energy Department.  
 The refinery restrictions are making existing operations
more profitable. The gasoline crack spread, or the difference
between fuel and crude oil based on June contracts, widened
about 11 cents to $14.08 a barrel today. The June gasoline crack
spread is up 26 percent in three months.  
 Handling Canadian Crude  
 Refiners in the Midwest have added equipment such as coking
units to handle more Canadian crude, which is heavier and
cheaper than WTI, according to BNP Paribas SA.  
 “In periods of weak refining activity, either due to
maintenance or weak oil demand, you have greater chance for the
more expensive, lighter crudes to back up in storage at
Cushing,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity
derivatives research at BNP Paribas in  London .  
 Total U.S. fuel demand, averaged over four weeks, fell 1.1
percent to 18.9 million barrels, the biggest decline since the
week ended Jan. 8, the government reported April 21.  
 Storing at Sea  
 Vitol Group of Cos. is among companies that can profit from
holding oil when the difference between near-term and future
delivery exceeds the cost of storage. A record contango last
year coupled with low freight rates made it possible for traders
from Royal Dutch Shell Plc to BP Plc to store as many as 150
million barrels on ships anchored at sea.  
 Ed Morse, the head of commodities research at Credit Suisse
Group AG, called WTI a poor indicator of global  oil prices  last
year because of its link to stockpile levels in Oklahoma, rather
than world supply and demand. In October,  Saudi Arabia ’s state
oil company dropped WTI as its U.S. pricing benchmark in favor
of another grade that is priced at the  Gulf Coast .  
 The contango may unwind as U.S. refineries whittle down
inventories at Cushing when they bolster operating rates to make
gasoline in time for the peak summer driving season,  David Greely , a New York-based commodity analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said in an April 20 report.  
 The bank, Wall Street’s biggest commodity broker, said
growth in Cushing inventories is “likely temporary,” and
recommended buying WTI and selling Brent contracts to profit
when the difference between the two narrows.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        