-- Toyota, VW, Nissan Growth in China Risks Overcapacity
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-26T06:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/toyota-vw-nissan-unsustainable-growth-in-china-risks-auto-overcapacity.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp., Volkswagen AG
and Nissan Motor Co. are raising production capacity and sales
forecasts in China, betting vehicle demand will continue to grow
even if the government scraps car-buying incentives.  
 Volkswagen, the biggest foreign carmaker in China, will
invest 4.4 billion euros ($5.9 billion) in plants and new models
by 2012, while Nissan aims to boost capacity in the nation
almost 70 percent, the companies said April 23 at the Beijing
Auto Show. Toyota and Hyundai Motor Co. are also building new
factories in China, the world’s largest vehicle market.  
 The automakers are competing for market share as Volkswagen
estimates the growing wealth of China’s 1.37 billion people may
raise the nation’s auto demand as much as 20 percent this year.
Nissan predicts growth may slow next year as China has signaled
it may end a tax break for small cars, and industry consultants
JD Power & Associates and IHS Global Insight say carmakers risk
building too many plants.  
 “China’s motorization is reaching the masses,” said
Takanobu Ito, Chief Executive Officer of Honda Motor Co.,
Japan’s second-largest carmaker. “Even after the tax break ends,
demand shouldn’t drop very much.”  
 China’s vehicle sales growth this year will exceed Honda’s
original estimate of 10 percent, Ito said at the auto show. Xu
Changming, a research director at China’s State Information
Center, said last week demand may rise about 17 percent to 16
million vehicles, down from 46 percent last year.  
 Tax Break  
 The government is likely to raise consumption tax to 10
percent next year for cars with engines no larger than 1.6
liters, after cutting the rate to 5 percent in 2009 and raising
it to 7.5 percent this year, Xu said. Last year’s reduction,
which helped Chinese auto demand surge past the U.S. for the
first time, resulted in “unsustainable” growth, he said.  
 Even if the tax break is phased out, “there is a fear that
amid all of this investment and stellar growth, the vehicle
market could start to overheat,” Paul Newton, a London-based
auto analyst at IHS Global Insight, wrote in a research note
last week. “The carmakers vying for market share in China may
not want to admit it, but this risk is becoming a very real
concern.”  
 GM, Toyota  
 General Motors Co., the largest automaker in China, plans
to increase sales in the nation to 3 million vehicles by 2015
from an estimated 2 million this year. The company and its local
partners sold 1.83 million units in China last year.  
 “Every time the government changes their policy, it will
have some impact,” Kevin Wale, president of Detroit-based GM’s
China business, said at the auto show. “But the underlying
demand is increasing at a very fast rate.”  
 At the moment, “we don’t have enough cars and we can’t
build enough cars,” he said.  
 Government policy changes are too unpredictable to be
reflected in planning, Toyota’s Executive Vice President Takeshi
Uchiyamada said at the show.  
 “The speed of changes to government policies is faster
than our development of new engines and new cars,” Uchiyamada
said. The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, is basing its
strategy on “significantly high” demand for small-engine
compact cars, he said.  
 Ghosn’s Expansion  
 Toyota’s 2010 sales in China may exceed an 800,000-unit
target, said Masahiro Kato, president of the company’s local
unit.  
 A new Toyota plant in Changchun, Jilin province, will start
production in late 2011 or early 2012 and have a yearly
production capacity of 100,000 vehicles, he said. The new plant
will likely build Corolla vehicles and the automaker may also
introduce a new low-cost car in China, Kato said.  
 Toyota rose 3.4 percent to close at 3,690 yen in Tokyo
trading today, gaining the most in seven weeks after Nikkei
English News reported on April 24 that the company may post a
full-year operating profit.  
 Nissan, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, aims to raise
output capacity in China to 900,000 vehicles a year by 2012 from
535,000 now, Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn said at the
show. The company is planning further increases even as Ghosn
said industrywide sales growth in the nation may slow to between
10 percent and 15 percent next year.  
 “Nissan is going the right way,” said Takeshi Miyao, an
analyst at auto consulting company Carnorama in Tokyo. “It’s
important for each automaker to gain share now. Later is too
late.”  
 Volkswagen, BMW  
 The Yokohama-based automaker, which will begin selling its
Leaf electric car in China next year, aims to boost sales in the
nation 12 percent this year to 850,000 vehicles.  
 Winfried Vahland, head of Wolfsburg, Germany-based
Volkswagen’s China operations, estimates the Chinese auto market
may grow between 15 percent and 20 percent this year, compared
with the company’s previous estimate of 10 percent to 15 percent.  
 “We’re a bit more optimistic now” than at the beginning
of the year, Vahland said.  
 The company, which plans to add production capacity at its
Nanjing and Chengdu plants in China, aims to match or exceed
market growth this year, Vahland said. It will reach a sales
rate of 2 million vehicles a year in the nation “far earlier”
than its 2018 goal, he said.  
 Norbert Reithofer, Chief Executive Officer of Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG, said an end to tax breaks for small cars won’t
affect local growth plans for the Munich-based company, the
world’s biggest luxury-vehicle maker.  
 “We will expand very dynamically in China even if the
government takes that action,” Reithofer said. Capacity
expansion “will always” lag behind sales growth, he said.  
 Hyundai Motor  
 BMW intends to deliver 120,000 BMW, Mini, and Rolls-Royce
vehicles in China in 2010, a 33 percent increase from last year
and 20 percent more than a previous projection, he said at the
Beijing auto show. The company and its rival Daimler AG, which
aims to raise local sales by around 40 percent to at least
100,000 vehicles this year, are rolling out sedans developed
exclusively for Chinese buyers.  
 Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest carmaker, is
adding a third plant in China that will increase its local
capacity by 50 percent to 900,000 vehicles a year by 2012.  
 The foreign automakers’ expansion plans are matched by
their local counterparts. Beijing Automotive Industry Holding
Co., the carmaker that bought technology from Saab Automobile,
is building three passenger-vehicle plants, two commercial-
vehicle factories and one engine factory, adding 1.3 million
units of production capacity to ease a shortage, President Wang
Dazong said in an April 22 interview in Beijing.  
 Geely  
 Beijing Auto expects to boost sales 21 percent this year to
1.5 million vehicles, Wang said. The company’s deliveries surged
61 percent to 1.24 million last year.  
 Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., which bought Sweden’s
Volvo Cars last month, aims to build a Volvo factory in China,
according to the company.  
 Even if the tax break is phased out, “there is a fear that
amid all of this investment and stellar growth, the vehicle
market could start to overheat,” Paul Newton, a London-based
auto analyst at IHS Global Insight, wrote in a research note
last week. “The carmakers vying for market share in China may
not want to admit it, but this risk is becoming a very real
concern.”  
 GM, Toyota  
 Fears that automakers’ investments would lead to too much
production capacity in China have been proven wrong before.
Nissan’s Ghosn and Volkswagen both said in 2003 that
overcapacity in the nation was a concern. At the time, Honda
predicted China’s auto sales might exceed 10 million in 2010.  
 Still, excess inventories may force carmakers to offer
incentives to buyers as early as this year, and the companies
may suffer from overcapacity within five years, according to JD
Power & Associates.  
 With the surge in factory investment, JD Power estimates
local plants may produce at 66 percent of capacity by 2015. An
80 percent level is traditionally required to cover fixed costs,
according to the company.  
 Carmakers will offer incentives, eroding their profit, as
vehicle sales growth in the nation may slow this year to about
12 percent, Finbarr O’Neill, president of JD Power, said in an
April 20 interview in Beijing. Industrywide sales may total 14.5
million vehicles this year, he said.  
 “We see a pile-up of inventory at dealerships and actually
a decline in transaction prices,” he said. “When you have too
much inventory on the ground, you have to put cash in the
trunk.”  
 For More News and Information:
Auto statistics: {ATSL <GO>}
Auto-show coverage worldwide: {TNI AUT SHOW <GO>}
Top transport stories: {TRNT <GO>}  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Winfried Vahland  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Winfried Vahland, president and chief executive officer of Volkswagen Group China, speaks during a news conference at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, China, on April 23, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Winfried Vahland, president and chief executive officer of Volkswagen Group China, speaks during a news conference at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, China, on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Kevin Wale, president of General Motors Co.’s China business, talked with Bloomberg's Stephen Engle at the Beijing Auto Show on April 23 about the outlook for vehicle sales.
     GM, the largest automaker in China, plans to increase sales in the nation to 3 million vehicles by 2015 from an estimated 2 million this year. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn talked with Bloomberg's Stephen Engle on April 23 at the Beijing Auto Show about the company's business strategy for China and electric vehicles.
     Nissan, Japan’s third-biggest carmaker, will raise production capacity by almost 70 percent in China even as it expects sales growth to slow. Ghosn said the automaker aims to have the capacity to make to 900,000 vehicles a year in China by 2012 and plans further increases after that. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Carlos Ghosn, chief executive officer of Renault SA and Nissan Motor Co., poses for a photograph following an interview at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Norbert Reithofer, chief executive officer of Bayerischen Motoren Werke (BMW) AG, speaks at an event prior to the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Takanobu Ito, of Honda Motor Co.  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Takanobu Ito, chief executive officer of Honda Motor Co., poses for a portrait at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 23, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Takanobu Ito, chief executive officer of Honda Motor Co., poses for a portrait at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Takeshi Uchiyamada, vice president of Toyota Motor Corp., speaks during a news conference at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
