-- Greece Nears Getting Aid, Warns Against Default Bets
-- Flavia Krause-Jackson
-- 2010-04-26T09:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/papaconstantinou-says-don-t-bet-against-greece-as-aid-likely-by-mid-may.html

          
          
             Greece moved toward getting an
emergency aid package before debt payments come due in mid-May
as Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou warned investors
they will “lose their shirts” if they bet the cash-strapped
nation will default.  
 Speaking to reporters in Washington yesterday as he
negotiated a three-year loan plan with the International
Monetary Fund and European governments, Papaconstantinou said
money will be available “rather soon” and his country wouldn’t
restructure its debt. The comments failed to stop the yield on
the Greek two-year bond surging 169 basis points to 12.62
percent today.  
 With 8.5 billion euros ($11.3 billion) of Greece’s bonds
maturing May 19, any delay in assistance may trigger another
sell-off in its assets and hurt global markets. Debt totaling
115 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 and a budget gap
of almost 14 percent have some investors concerned Greece can’t
fund itself, forcing it to seek a lifeline of as much as 45
billion euros for this year alone.  
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the IMF’s managing director, said
talks will end “in time to meet Greece’s needs.”  
 Greece’s fiscal crisis dominated the weekend meetings in
Washington of finance ministers and central bankers from around
the world. Those from the Group of 20 pledged “credible”
strategies to withdraw economic stimulus as the global recovery
beats expectations. They failed to narrow a split over whether
to tax banks to pay for rescues and chose not to intensify
pressure on China to let its yuan gain.  
 Greek Eclipse  
 “Greece has eclipsed everything,” said Sophia Drossos,
co-head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in
New York. “It’s a fluid and fast-moving situation that has
captured the attention of markets not least because it has the
potential to be a systemic threat.”  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds over their German counterparts jumped 49 basis points to
607 points today. The euro, which has dropped 7 percent against
the dollar this year, slipped 0.4 percent to $1.3334.  
 Even with the first bailout of a euro-area member
approaching, markets are signaling concern Greece’s fiscal woes
may still not be over as the country tries to return its deficit
beneath the European Union’s 3 percent limit by 2012. A rebound
in Greek bonds petered out on April 23 after the government’s
request for support.  
 Bridge Loans  
 Left unsaid at the weekend was what assistance Greece may
receive beyond this year and what further austerity measures it
will have to sign up to in return for aid. Germany’s government,
which would be the biggest euro-area donor to the package, must
also overcome domestic skepticism and pass legislation before it
can provide cash.  
 “Neither the EU nor the government has made a decision
yet,” German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told the Bild-
am-Sonntag newspaper. “Under these circumstances, a decision
can still turn out positive or negative.”  
 Papaconstantinou said bridge loans may be possible if
countries can’t secure an accord in time. Italian Finance
Minister Giulio Tremonti warned Germany against dragging its
feet, saying “if your neighbor’s house catches fire, it’s not
to your advantage to sit back.”  
 “The whole thing is moving terribly close to the wire,”
Erik Nielsen, chief European economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in a report to clients yesterday from Washington. A
deal is needed by around May 6 so aid can be delivered before
debt payments come due, he said.  
 No Restructuring  
 While Nielsen said he sees an “overwhelming probability”
that the government may cut or delay payments to bond investors,
Papaconstantinou said a restructuring is “off the table.”  
 Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty told reporters that
some in the G-20 worry the plan now being crafted is “not
enough” and want to ensure any rescue is a “one-time event.”  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou must also navigate
opposition at home after unions and political rivals slammed him
for turning to the IMF, criticized in the past by Asian and
Latin American nations for demanding too many cuts. Strauss-Kahn
said Greek citizens “shouldn’t fear” the lender.  
 In a statement released after talks on April 23, G-20
policy makers vowed to explain how they will pare the measures
they implemented to combat the recession as the economic rebound
proves “better than previously expected.”  
 Bank Levy  
 “What we’re seeing with Greece, and we’ve been seeing in
the last few weeks, are the indications of the limits with
fiscal stimulus,” Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said.  
 “We’re not talking about Greece going bust,” the IMF’s
No. 2 official, John Lipsky, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  
 An IMF recommendation that future bank bailouts be paid for
through a levy on financial companies split the group, which
asked for more research before leaders meet in June. The G-20
maintained a year-end deadline for outlining a plan to raise the
quality and quantity of capital held by banks to protect
themselves against future shocks, yet members are still at odds
over the exact details.  
 The G-20 statement made no joint comment on exchange rates
and officials said they weren’t discussed, handing China relief
from recent demands to let the yuan to rise. U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said “it’s in their interest”
for the Chinese to allow an appreciation.  
 European Central Bank officials in Washington played down
speculation that Greece’s woes could spill over to other high-
deficit countries. Former IMF Chief Economist Kenneth Rogoff
said in an interview that Greece is unlikely to be the last euro
nation to need IMF help, with Ireland, Spain and Portugal
“conspicuously vulnerable.”  
 “There is no economic cause for a contagion discussion,”
ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said in an interview.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papaconstantinou, Greece's finance minister, pauses ahead of a news conference following the meeting of European Union finance ministers, at the EU headquarters in Brussels, on March 16, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Steven Major, global head of fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks about Greece's emergency aid package and demand for the country's bonds.
     He speaks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat and Maryam Nemazee in London. (Excerpt: Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Julian Callow, chief European economist at Barclays Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about Greece's formal request for aid from the International Monetary Fund and European Union.
     Greece asked to activate the funding mechanism agreed by euro-area nations on April 23 worth as much as 45 billion euros ($60 billion). (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     George Papaconstantinou, Greece's finance minister, speaks during a news conference at the IMF-World Bank spring meetings in Washington on April 25, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Dominique Strauss-Kahn, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, listens during a news conference of the IMF-World Bank spring meetings  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
