-- Papandreou's Embrace of IMF Rescue Unites Greek Opposition, Angers Voters
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-04-26T12:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/papandreou-s-embrace-of-imf-rescue-unites-greek-opposition-angers-voters.html

          
          
             Greek Prime Minister George
Papandreou’s handling of the country’s fiscal crisis has angered
voters, weakening his government as the European Union and
International Monetary Fund prepare to impose budget cuts.  
 Polls this weekend showed two-thirds of voters are
dissatisfied with his crisis management as they fret about the
austerity measures that the IMF and EU will demand in return for
45 billion euros ($60 billion) of rescue funds. Sixty-five
percent of those polled by researcher Alco for the Proto Thema
newspaper said the government should reject any measures that
lead to more reductions in wages and pensions.  
 “It’s going to get harder and harder to keep people on
side,” said Colin Ellis, European economist at Daiwa Capital
Europe Ltd. in London. “On the one hand, he’s got the markets
baying for blood and the EU and IMF are going to ask for even
tougher cuts. On the other hand, he’s facing more and more
resistance to reforms at home.”  
 Papandreou triggered the bailout on April 23 after failing
to convince investors that his government could pare its surging
budget deficit. Hours after the announcement, demonstrators in
Athens scuffled with police and attacked stores and banks. Civil
servants, whose wages and benefits have already been reduced
this year, will rally tomorrow after a six-hour walkout by
transport workers.  
 Greece’s biggest union had already threatened a “social
storm” over pension changes before the rescue was requested.  
 IMF Angst  
 “It’s the IMF, no Greek can be happy about that,”
Christos Hatzianastasiou, 40, a university employee, said
yesterday. “We could have avoided the IMF, but the handling
should’ve been different. Pasok said it had a plan and we see
that they still don’t have a plan.”  
 Papandreou’s socialist Pasok party won elections in October
by promising to raise wages and step up spending. Within weeks,
the new administration revised the 2009 budget deficit to 12.7
percent of gross domestic product, more than twice the shortfall
the defeated New Democracy government had revealed. The EU last
week revised the deficit to 13.6 percent.  
 Papandreou inherited “a deficit crisis just like in any
other European country, and in the space of a few months created
a borrowing crisis that is unparalleled,” Antonis Samaras, the
new leader of center-right New Democracy, said yesterday.  
 Market Rout  
 The budget revisions sparked a bond-market rout and forced
Papandreou to abandon his election platform by raising taxes and
cutting salaries, sparking a wave of national strikes. The
number of respondents who trust Papandreou’s handling of the
crisis has fallen to 47 percent from 55 percent in February,
according to a survey of 540 people by Public Issue for Skai
radio released on April 23.  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
government bonds over their German counterparts has surged more
than 400 basis points since October. Bonds tumbled anew today on
concern the package will face hurdles as donor countries begin
ratification. The Greek 10-year note yield rose to 9.2 percent.  
 Two-thirds of the 1,001 voters polled by the Rass company
for To Paron newspaper said the government contributed to the
crisis of confidence in the Greek economy and the need to bring
in the IMF.  
 Greeks fear the EU and IMF package will deepen the
country’s first recession since 1993. German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, who is trying to win an election in North Rhine-
Westphalia next month in the face of voter opposition to a Greek
bailout, said on April 23 that Greece must satisfy “very
stringent conditions.”  
 No Fear  
 The economy may shrink 2 percent this year, more than twice
the latest government forecast, as austerity measures take hold,
the Greek central bank said last month.  
 IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who said this
weekend that Greeks “shouldn’t fear the IMF,” expects bailout
talks to finish “in time” to meet the nation’s needs. Greece
has 8.5 billion euros of bonds maturing May 19.  
 For now, support for Papandreou’s Pasok party is still
stronger than for the opposition New Democracy. The To Paron
poll, which was carried out from April 20-22, showed its support
at 31 percent, down from 33 percent in March, compared with 23
percent for New Democracy.  
 Papandreou argues that he had no choice but to ask for a
rescue in the face of what he calls a speculative attack by
investors, comparing Greece’s fate with that of a sinking ship.  
 Gaining Time  
 “The moment has come for us to gain time that markets
wouldn’t give us,” he said on April 23. “It is a need, an
imperative and national need.”  
 Former conservative Economy Minister Stefanos Manos said in
a Bloomberg Television interview in Athens today that Papandreou
is moving too slowly and isn’t making a concerted effort to cut
spending and waste. Papandreou should ditch his three-year plan
and draft a five-year program that includes sweeping state-asset
sales and changes to the pension system and labor markets to
revive economic growth, Alekos Papadopoulos, a socialist finance
minister in the 1990s, said in a speech yesterday.  
 The IMF’s most recent involvement in Europe nevertheless
highlights the political risks facing Papandreou. In Hungary,
the first EU member to turn to the IMF, voters this month ousted
the ruling Socialist party two years after they accepted a
bailout. Fiscal conditions attached to the $27 billion loan
exacerbated the country’s recession as unemployment soared to a
record, souring support for the government.  
 ‘Enormous Boulder’  
 Papandreou’s assertion that “speculators and tax evasion”
are to blame for the surge in borrowing costs was backed by just
28 percent of people in the Proto Thema poll. Sixty-five percent
of the 1,000 respondents said politicians and the state were
responsible for the Greek economy’s condition.  
 The same proportion think Papandreou was aware of Greece’s
true economic condition before the October election, compared
with 26 percent who said he wasn’t, according to Proto Thema.  
 “He’s not so much stuck between a rock and a hard place,
as an enormous boulder and a wall of impenetrable steel,” said
Ellis.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks at a press conference following the European Union Summit in Brussels, on March 26, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Nicole Itano reports from Athens on the public reaction to the Greek debt crisis and its willingness to accept tougher austerity measures from Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
