-- Greece May Not Be Last IMF Bailout, Rogoff Says
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-04-26T09:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/rogoff-says-pretty-likely-greece-won-t-be-last-imf-rescue-in-euro-region.html

          
          
             Greece is unlikely to be the last
euro nation to need an International Monetary Fund bailout, with
Ireland, Spain and Portugal “conspicuously vulnerable,” said
Harvard Professor Kenneth Rogoff.  
 “It’s more likely than not that we’ll need an IMF program
in at least one more country in the euro area over the next two
to three years,” Rogoff, a former IMF chief economist who has
co-authored studies of financial and sovereign debt crises, said
in a telephone interview. “The budget cuts needed in Europe in
many countries are profound.”  
 Portuguese, Spanish and Irish bond yields jumped last week
as investors questioned their ability to reduce budget deficits
and avoid Greece’s fate. Greece on April 23 triggered a 45
billion-euro ($60 billion) rescue package from the IMF and the
euro region after its soaring deficit sent borrowing costs
surging and sparked concern about a default.  
 At 14.3 percent of gross domestic product, Ireland had the
euro region’s largest deficit last year. Greece’s was 13.6
percent, Spain’s was 11.2 percent and Portugal’s 9.4 percent.  
 The likelihood is “better than 50-50” that others in the
16-nation euro area will end up requiring help from the
Washington-based lender, said Rogoff, 56. He expects the IMF
will eventually dispatch more loans to Greece than the as-much-
as 15 billion euro it’s currently offering.  
 High Stakes  
 “The stakes are very high for Europe as it wants to avoid
contagion,” said Rogoff, who in 2008 predicted the failure of
some large U.S. banks prior to the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  
 Any Spanish bailout would dwarf that for Greece as its
economy is four times bigger. Although Spanish debt as a share
of GDP is 53.2 percent compared with Greece’s 115.1 percent,
it’s still worth 560 billion euros, more than double Greece’s
burden. Ireland has debt of 105 billion euros, or 64 percent of
GDP, and Portugal has 126 billion euros, equivalent to 76.8
percent of GDP.  
 Investors are expressing their concern by charging
countries with large deficits increasingly more to borrow for 10
years than they do Germany, the euro-area’s largest economy and
issuer of its benchmark debt.  
 The gap between German and Greek bonds widened 76 basis
points to 635 basis points as of 10:41 a.m. in London today.
That’s the highest since at least March 1998, when Bloomberg
began compiling the generic prices.  
 Portugal was charged 213 basis points more to borrow than
Germany, and Spain was 99 points. The spread for Ireland widened
to 182 points, the most since the country’s 2010 budget was
published on Dec. 9.  
 ‘Political Will’  
 “I wouldn’t say they have to have an IMF program, but it’s
possible,” said Rogoff of Spain, Portugal and Ireland. “It’s
hard to say, as so much depends on political will and the
numbers.”  
 He spoke before Greek officials led by Finance Minister
George Papaconstantinou spent the weekend negotiating with IMF
and European officials in Washington. Investors betting against
Greece now will “lose their shirts,” Papaconstantinou said
yesterday. IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said the
talks will be completed in time to meet the nation’s needs.
Greece has 8.5 billion euros of bonds maturing on May 19.  
 Contagion Risk  
 Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty, also in Washington
for the spring meetings of the IMF and World Bank, said Group of
20 nations, including some in Europe, are worried the aid plan
is “not enough” and want to ensure any rescue is a “one-time
event.”  
 “The IMF has the capacity to lend more and we’ll
eventually see the IMF give more,” Rogoff said.  
 IMF and European officials played down the risk that euro-
area nations other than Greece will require outside aid.
Strauss-Kahn said April 22 he doesn’t “see a need these days to
focus on any other countries but Greece.”  
 European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny
said in an April 24 interview that Spain and Portugal’s
“numbers” are “not to be compared with those of Greece.”
French counterpart Christian Noyer dismissed such speculation as
“sport in the markets.”  
 ‘Bogeyman’  
 Rogoff said the “basic game plan” of European policy
makers is to hope their economic recoveries strengthen enough to
enable governments to cut their debt. The IMF last week
predicted the euro-area economy will expand 1 percent this year
compared with 3.1 percent growth in the U.S.  
 “Recovery will mitigate the debt problems,” Rogoff said.
“It’s very hard for Europe to get a sustained recovery.”  
 Governments call in the IMF when they need a “bogeyman”
to act as a focus for voters’ anger when budget cuts are
unavoidable, Rogoff said. Greek unions and opposition parties
have already slammed Prime Minister George Papandreou’s appeal
to the lender because it will likely result in tougher austerity
measures.  
 Strauss-Kahn said April 24 that Greeks ‘shouldn’t fear the
IMF” and that “we are there to try and help them.”  
 “A lot of countries have to consolidate their budgets and
some may have to turn to the IMF for someone to blame,” Rogoff
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kenneth Rogoff, professor of economics at Harvard University, speaks during the American Economic Association (AEA) annual meeting in Atlanta, on Jan. 3, 2010. Photographer: Chris Rank/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Employee Ricardo Lobo counts euros and U.S. dollar notes in a currency exchange store in Lisbon, Portugal, on Feb. 9, 2010. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians browse a shop window which displays a sign reading, 'Liquidation due to closure' in Almeria, Spain, on March 6, 2010. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
