-- Shell, Total Shift Production to Gas as Access to Oil Reserves Declines
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-04-26T15:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/shell-total-step-up-reliance-on-gas-as-access-to-oil-reserves-declines.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA
are among energy producers shifting the balance of their
production toward natural gas as oil-rich countries clamp down
on access and deposits become easier to tap.  
 BP Plc is also moving more resources to gas even after
purchasing $7 billion of mainly oil assets from Devon Energy
Corp. last month. Exxon Mobil Corp. blazed the trail into gas
with its $30 billion acquisition of XTO Energy Inc. in December.  
 Although oil prices have risen 69 percent in the last year
compared with a 29 percent gain for gas, companies are betting
that the need for gas will grow. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries is limiting oil supplies, the global
economic recovery is stoking energy demand and governments are
debating how to curb carbon dioxide emissions, increasing the
appeal of the cleaner-burning fuel.  
 “Increased resource nationalism in recent years has made
access to oil projects, particularly in OPEC countries, more
difficult,” said Neill Morton, an analyst at MF Global U.K.
Ltd. in London. “That has coincided with technological advances
in gas shale and significant gas discoveries.”  
 BP reports first-quarter earnings tomorrow at 7 a.m. in
London. The Hague-based Shell releases its results April 28, and
Total follows on April 30.  
 Shell was little changed at 1,989.5 pence in London. BP
fell 2 percent to 626.80 pence. Total gained 0.2 percent to
42.68 euros in Paris.  
 Rising Share  
 Shell expects its share of gas in total output to rise to
52 percent in 2012, Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser said in
March. Gas currently makes up two-thirds of its reserves,
according to Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry.  
 Total’s share of gas output has increased, led by projects
in Qatar and Yemen, according to Yves-Louis Darricarrere, head
of exploration and production at the Paris-based company.  
 “About three or four years ago we were at 37 percent and
now at 40 percent and maybe even 41 percent this year,” he said
last week at an oil conference. Total’s shift into gas will be
tempered in part by higher oil-sands production in Canada.  
 “Every oil company, if they would be absolutely honest,
would say they still prefer to find oil,” said Jason Kenney,
head of oil and gas research at ING Commercial Banking in
Edinburgh. At the same time, “with the return of energy demand
growth, there is every reason that gas is going to provide a
good earnings stream for the companies.”  
 Qatar Projects  
 Shell is focusing investment in Australia, U.S. gas that’s
found in hard-to-reach rock formations, and Russia. It expects
to start two gas ventures in Qatar this year that cost $21
billion.  
 Total in January accelerated its expansion into gas with
the $2.25 billion purchase of U.S. assets from Chesapeake Energy
Corp. In March, it agreed to spend about $3.7 billion to develop
the Laggan/Tormore natural-gas fields off the U.K. Shetland
Islands in the North Sea. The company is investing in output of
liquefied natural gas in Angola after startups in Yemen and
Qatar last year.  
 Total’s share of oil output as a proportion of total
production shrank to 60 percent last year from 65 percent in
2005. London-based BP’s share was little changed at 63 percent
over the period.  
 Stable Regions  
 “The shift in the gas market is reflecting the
availability of vast new resources in the U.S. and other
politically-stable regions,” said Ivor Pether, who helps manage
$9.2 billion of assets at Royal London Asset Management. That
coincides with a lack of opportunities to access new oil
reserves, he said.  
 The Middle East, which holds about 60 percent of the
world’s crude reserves, along with some Latin American states
and Russia and Kazakhstan are limiting access to international
oil companies in favor of so-called national champions.  
 Some new oil contracts, such as those awarded in last
year’s Iraqi tenders, restrict the companies to providing field
services and management.  
 Besides oil, other competitors to natural gas may become
more expensive if governments agree on new limits for carbon
dioxide emissions. More than 190 countries are discussing curbs
on greenhouse gases for when current internationally binding
targets set by the Kyoto Protocol treaty expire in 2012.  
 Rising Demand  
 “The move to greener fuels is part and parcel of rising
demand for gas,” said Peter Hitchens, an analyst at Panmure
Gordon & Co. in London. “There will be a huge need for power
generation, and most of that is coming through gas.”  
 Producers are ramping up gas output even as spot gas
prices, which averaged only about 35 percent of the equivalent
barrel of crude oil in the first quarter, are expected to stay
depressed, according to industry forecasts.  
 “Producing crude oil is much more profitable than natural
gas now,” Gianna Bern, a former BP crude-oil trader who runs
Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc., said in an interview.
Although “natural gas reserves are more accessible than crude
oil, you don’t want to be overly weighted in natural gas.”  
 Crude prices averaged $78.88 a barrel in New York in the
first quarter, about 82 percent higher than an average of $43.32
a barrel last year.  
 “I don’t see we want to be particularly any more in gas
than we are currently, because the oil opportunities we’ve got
are very high quality,” BP Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward
said April 15.  
 Gas Output  
 Before buying Devon’s assets, BP forecast in February that
proportion of gas output would have risen to 45 percent from
about 40 percent. Analysts expect BP earnings to beat Shell and
Total in the first quarter, in part because the company relies
less on gas.  
 BP is likely to report that profit, excluding one-time
items and inventory changes, jumped 88 percent to $4.84 billion
from a year ago, based on the median estimate of 14 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. Shell may say earnings rose 36 percent to
$4.03 billion on the same basis, another survey of 14 analysts
showed.  
 Total may say April 30 that earnings adjusted for its stake
in drugmaker Sanofi-Aventis SA increased by 12 percent to 2.36
billion euros ($3.1 billion) from last year, based on the median
estimate of 15 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net 
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        