-- Shiseido Taps Bare Escentuals to Take Natural Look, Makeup Vans to Japan
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2010-04-26T08:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/shiseido-taps-bare-escentuals-to-take-natural-look-makeup-vans-to-japan.html

          
          
             Leslie Blodgett, head of San
Francisco’s Bare Escentuals, has hawked the company’s cosmetics
everywhere from QVC to street-corner makeup stands. Now she has
her sights set on conquering Asia.  
 The company is starting a new life as a division of Japan’s
Shiseido Co., a nearly 140-year-old cosmetics giant. Shiseido
acquired Bare Escentuals last month for $1.7 billion, San
Francisco’s biggest merger this year.  
 Bare Escentuals’ less-is-more approach to cosmetics may be
a harder sell in Japan, where many consumers favor more
traditional cosmetics and skin-lightening makeup. The success of
the acquisition hinges on whether the company’s natural-beauty
pitch will translate to Shiseido’s customers around the world,
especially in Asia.  
 “Going into Japan is a challenge,” said Blodgett, 47.
“We want to introduce to them a natural approach to makeup. And
we have already seen that women are embracing that. It always
starts small and through word-of-mouth.”  
 Shiseido rose 1 percent to 1,946 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange today, the biggest gain in three weeks. The stock has
climbed 9.3 percent this year.  
 “Overseas is the only bright spot for the Japanese
companies like Shiseido, as their home market will shrink
further,” said Mitsuo Shimizu, an analyst at Cosmo Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “Bare can make up for Shiseido’s weakness and
beef up its brands abroad.”  
 Estee Lauder, L’Oreal  
 Shiseido and Bare Escentuals are counting on each other to
maintain growth and ward off competition from global cosmetics
companies, including Estee Lauder Cos., L’Oreal SA and Procter &
Gamble Co. In Japan, Shiseido also competes with Kao Corp., a
Tokyo-based household-product company.  
 Bare Escentuals posted sales of $557.5 million in 2009,
little changed from a year earlier. Profit, at $98.1 million,
also remained about the same as in 2008.  
 Blodgett, who became chief executive officer in 1994, built
up the company by making regular appearances on Liberty Media
Corp.’s QVC home-shopping channel. By 2001, Bare Escentuals was
QVC’s best-selling brand. After the merger, Blodgett stayed on
as executive chairman of the company.  
 Bare Escentuals is already appearing on Japan’s QVC, and
the Shiseido retail shops will give the brand an additional
boost. The Japanese company’s research centers, located in China,
France, Japan and the U.S., also will help create new skincare
products for the Bare Escentuals line, says Shinzo Maeda,
Shiseido’s president and CEO.  
 Broader Trend  
 The key will be persuading Asian shoppers that they’re part
of a broader trend, Maeda says.  
 If consumers feel like “they are at the forefront of a
wave that will wash over society as a whole, they are much more
willing to accept a product,” he said, speaking through an
interpreter.  
 For Shiseido, the acquisition is part of its own overseas
expansion. Declining wages and an aging population have made it
harder to keep growing in Japan.  
 Even so, companies from outside Japan have managed to find
growth in the country. Estee Lauder is outpacing the rest of the
industry there, says John Demsey, a group president at that
company. “Asia-Pacific in general is one of the major driving
forces of our performance,” he said from Tokyo this month.  
 ‘Thinking Creatively’  
 L’Occitane International SA, a French maker of beauty
products, said yesterday it plans to spend two-thirds of the
proceeds from a Hong Kong initial public offering of as much as
HK$5.49 billion ($707 million) to open new stores. L’Occitane,
whose biggest market is Japan, will use the money to expand in
Asia, as it bets increased consumer demand and booming economies
like those of China and India will provide growth. L’Occitane
made 107.2 million euros, or 23 percent of sales, in Japan in
the nine months ended December.  
 Shiseido expects Asia overall to be the biggest cosmetics
market by 2013, bolstered by a growing middle class. Bare
Escentuals currently gets almost all its sales from the U.S.  
 “By Bare Escentuals being able to access Shiseido’s retail
infrastructure, the growth potential for Bare Escentuals outside
of North America is huge,” said Maeda, 63.  
 The industry as a whole is seeking out acquisitions, says
Estee Lauder’s Demsey, who called the Bare Escentuals takeover a
“bold move” for Shiseido. “People are thinking creatively
about the business, thinking about the business more from a
global consumer base,” he said.  
 Back to Roots  
 In a way, the acquisition is a return to Shiseido’s roots.
The company was founded by Arinobu Fukuhara, a naval pharmacist
who established a Tokyo pharmacy in 1872. Fukuhara wanted to
combine an Eastern philosophy of treatment with Western medicine,
according to the company, and that’s reflected in the name
Shiseido, which means “Oriental style, Western learning.”  
 Blodgett will help give a lesson in direct marketing. In
addition to the infomercials, she’s used “quickie vans” to set
up makeover counters on street corners in various cities.  
 The approach of “going into cities and taking them over
and shaking it up” can be applied globally, she says.  
 “We have an immature direct-to-consumer business, and Bare
Escentuals is very strong here,” Maeda said. “We have acquired
an opportunity to learn.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Leslie Blodgett and Shinzo Maeda  
                       
                         
                           Kim White/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Leslie Blodgett, chairman of Bare Escentuals Inc., left, stands with Shinzo Maeda, president and chief executive officer of Shiseido Co., for a portrait in San Francisco, California, on April 15, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Leslie Blodgett, chairman of Bare Escentuals Inc., left, stands with Shinzo Maeda, president and chief executive officer of Shiseido Co., for a portrait in San Francisco, California, on April 15, 2010. Photographer: Kim White/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
