-- U.K. House Prices Rise at Slowest Pace in Three Months as Supply Increases
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-04-26T09:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/u-k-house-prices-rise-at-slowest-pace-in-three-months-as-supply-increases.html

          
          
             U.K. house prices rose in April at
the slowest pace in three months as the supply of homes for sale
picked up, Hometrack Ltd. said.  
 The average cost of a home in England and Wales increased
0.2 percent from March to 158,400 pounds ($243,000), the London-
based property researcher said in an e-mailed statement today.
Prices rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier.  
 The property market’s momentum is waning as more Britons
lose their jobs in the aftermath of the worst recession on
record. Political campaigning before the May 6 election is also
undermining confidence as squabbles on how to tackle the widest
budget deficit since World War II unsettles homebuyers,
according to Hometrack.  
 “Rising unemployment, lack of mortgage funding, public
spending cuts and the prospect of tax rises post-election,
continue to act as a back-drop to a fragile and increasingly
polarised housing market,” Richard Donnell, director of
research at Hometrack, said in the statement.  
 New buyers registering with real-estate agents to browse
properties rose 1 percent this month, down from a 3.3 percent
gain in March. At the same time, the supply of homes for sale
rose by 3.7 percent.  
 The 0.6 percent increase in London home values to an
average of 284,900 pounds in April was the fastest of the 10
regions recorded by Hometrack.  
 Housing Market  
 A separate report today by Rightmove Plc, the U.K.’s
biggest property Web site, showed some Britons lost confidence
in the outlook for the housing market. Half of consumers
surveyed this month forecast prices to be higher in a year’s
time, down from 53 percent in January, Rightmove said in a
statement.  
 Redrow Plc, the U.K. homebuilder that saw founder Steve
Morgan rejoin management last March, said today that prices have
been “stable” since the start of the year with sales per
development ahead of the same period in 2009. The housing market
will “remain challenging” in 2010 due to uncertainty about the
outcome of the election, and the outlook for the economy and
mortgage availability, the company said.  
 House prices will fall by as much as 5 percent during 2011
as interest rates begin rising from the end of this year, after
a similar gain in home values this year due to improving credit
conditions, George Buckley, chief U.K. economist at Deutsche
Bank AG in London, wrote in a note dated April 23.  
 The U.K. economy expanded 0.2 percent in the first quarter,
half of the pace forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey, as a cold snap in January and higher taxes weighed on
growth. Unemployment rose to a 16-year high in February.  
 Britain’s main political parties are in the final two weeks
of a campaign centered on plans to tame the public finances.
Prime Minister Gordon Brown has said the recovery is too fragile
to withstand spending cuts now, while Conservative leader David
Cameron wants to curb the budget deficit sooner.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        