-- Hungary's Orban Wins Constitutional Majority in Return to Power as Premier
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-04-26T08:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/hungary-s-fidesz-gains-constitutional-majority-in-landslide-election-win.html

          
          
             Hungarians returned Viktor Orban to
power after eight years in opposition, giving the Fidesz leader
a two-thirds majority in parliament, allowing him to change the
recession-hit country’s Constitution.  
 “Hungarians brought down a regime and founded a new one,”
Orban said in front of supporters in a televised speech from
central Budapest late yesterday. “They founded the regime of
national cooperation instead of the reign of oligarchs.”  
 Fidesz won 57 of 121 parliamentary seats contested
yesterday for a total of 263 seats in the 386-strong parliament,
according to results on the election bureau’s Web site with 98
percent of precincts reporting. The Socialist Party, ousted
after eight years in power, won 59 seats, the radical
nationalist Jobbik party gained 47 and Lehet Mas a Politika, a
green group, got 16. One independent candidate won a seat.  
 Orban pledged tax cuts to jumpstart growth after the worst
recession in 18 years in the first European Union member to
obtain an international bailout to avert a default in 2008.
Fiscal conditions attached to the loan exacerbated the recession
as unemployment rose to a record. Fidesz now has enough power to
overhaul state administration, analysts said.  
 ‘No Obstacles’  
 “Initially the election results should please the
markets,” Zoltan Torok, an economist at Raiffeisen
International Bank-Holding AG in Budapest, wrote in a note to
clients today. “The symbolic meaning of the qualified majority
is that with such an authority there are no obstacles ahead of
much needed structural reforms.”  
 The forint traded at 263.07 per euro at 10:34 a.m., having
gained 19 percent against the euro since hitting its weakest
level in March 2009, the second-best performer among the 25
emerging-European currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
Polish zloty. The cost to protect against a Hungarian default
fell to the lowest since October 2008 and the benchmark BUX
Index more than doubled over the past year, suggesting rising
confidence in an economic recovery.  
 Fidesz plans to focus on jumpstarting growth instead of
meeting an IMF-dictated budget deficit goal of 3.8 percent of
GDP for this year. The commission estimates this year’s
shortfall at 4.2 percent of GDP. The party has accused the
government of lying about the size of the gap.  
 Generating growth is a pre-requisite for fiscal
consolidation and may help limit the support for radicals, who
posted their biggest electoral gains since communism fell in
1990, Orban said on April 12.  
 Renegotiate IMF  
 The next Cabinet wants to renegotiate and extend Hungary’s
$27 billion emergency loan agreement with the International
Monetary Fund, the European Union and the World Bank, which
expires in October. The aim is to win permission to raise the
budget deficit target for this year to between 4.5 percent and
6.5 percent of GDP, former Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy told
Hir TV last month.  
 “The biggest question is whether Fidesz can strike a deal
with the IMF,” Gyorgy Barcza, an economist at KBC Groep NV in
Budapest, said in a phone interview. “If Fidesz pledges to
overhaul the economy, the IMF in exchange may allow bigger tax
cuts.”  
 Fidesz pledged to use its unprecedented mandate to halve
the number of representatives in parliament and local councils
and create private jobs to lead the economy out of a recession
after GDP shrank 6.3 percent last year, the most since 1991. The
IMF expects output to continue shrinking this year.  
 Orban’s two-thirds majority is the biggest mandate for any
party in Europe, according to Nezopont Intezet in Budapest. It
will also allow the party to change laws governing elections,
referenda, citizenship and media, and name members of the
Constitutional Court.  
 Lost Edge  
 Hungary, once a frontrunner in the transition to a free-
market economy from communism, lost its edge as successive
governments racked up debt to fund higher spending. The European
Commission estimates government debt will reach 80 percent of
gross domestic product this year, the highest among the EU’s
eastern members, while employment is the bloc’s second-lowest
after Malta.  
 The nation is undergoing its fifth year of austerity to
narrow a deficit that was the European Union’s widest in 2006
and was 4 percent of gross domestic product last year.  
 Fidesz, which governed with Orban as premier from 1998 to
2002, gained support as voters punished a Socialist-led
government that raised taxes and cut spending.  
 Former Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany, who defeated Orban
four years ago, stepped down during last year’s recession. His
support was eroded in 2006 by spending cuts and a leaked
admission that he lied about the state of the economy to win the
elections that year. The news sparked Budapest’s worst street
violence in 50 years.  
 Unemployment Climbs  
 Further spending cuts by his successor, Gordon Bajnai,
stabilized the country’s finances even as the economy lurched
into its worst recession since 1991 and unemployment soared.
Output fell 6.3 percent last year and the government sees a 0.2
percent drop this year before growth returns in 2011. Socialist
Party Chairwoman Ildiko Lendvai resigned after the results were
published, she said in a speech broadcast by state television.  
 Jobbik, a radical nationalist party founded in 2003 which
wants to drop free-market reforms, has also tapped into voter
resentment during the recession and posted the best showing by
an extremist party since the end of communism.  
 The party wants to revive the gendarmerie, disbanded after
World War II for its role in deported Jews to Nazi concentration
camps, to police the country’s gypsy minority.  
 Fidesz already won an absolute majority in parliament in
the first round of voting two weeks ago. The runoff yesterday
decided the fate of 57 districts where no candidate reached 50
percent in the first round as well as 64 seats that were
distributed as compensation for votes for losing candidates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Viktor Orban, gives a press conference in Budapest, on April 12, 2010. Photographer:Attila Kisbenedek/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
