-- Venezuelan President Chavez Threatens to Nationalize Gold Mine Concessions
-- Abhishek Shankar
-- 2010-04-26T08:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/venezuelan-president-chavez-threatens-to-nationalize-gold-mine-concessions.html

          
          
             Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez
threatened to nationalize gold mining concessions, adding them
to the oil, utility and metal assets he’s taken control of in
the South American country.  
 The government may end the grants because of “capitalist
mafias” comprising national and multinational companies that
destroy the environment and exploit workers, the president said
on state television yesterday.  
 “There is no adverse impact on production as Venezuela is
only a minor producer of the metal and whatever shortfall that
takes place will be made up by an increase in output from
other producing countries,” said Reena Walia Nair, senior
research analyst at Angel Commodities Broking Pvt. in Mumbai.
“The chances are the gold concessions would be nationalized
considering the country took over the foreign oil and metal
assets earlier.”  
 Chavez has nationalized parts of the country’s oil, cement,
metals and utilities industries as he extends the role of the
state in the economy to create what he calls “21st century
socialism.” U.S. oil companies Exxon Mobil Corp. and
ConocoPhillips, whose assets were taken in 2007, are in
arbitration proceedings against the South American country.  
 “If we are going to exploit gold, we would have to
nationalize all that, recover and end the concessions,” Chavez
said.  
 Gold Reserve Inc., a Washington-based company, in October
filed for international arbitration against the government of
Venezuela for the alleged expropriation of its gold mining
projects. The company had spent $300 million on the projects.  
 Bond Sales  
 Venezuela’s central bank is considering selling a bond
backed by future gold production, former Mining Minister Rodolfo
Sanz said March 31.  
 The South American country is seeking partners to develop
the Las Cristinas gold deposit, one of the world’s biggest
undeveloped deposit, Sanz said. Toronto-based Crystallex
International Corp., which has a license to mine part of the
site, may be a potential partner, he said. Chavez said last year
a venture between Rusoro Mining Ltd. and the government would
develop the site.  
 The central bank will increase its gold reserves this year
and will buy more than half the estimated 20 metric tons of
domestic production, former bank director Jose Khan said March 5.
Khan is the new mining minister.  
 ValGold Resources Ltd. is also exploring for gold in the
country.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        