-- Volkswagen China CEO Prepares to Leave as GM, Hyundai Crank Up Competition
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-04-26T07:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-25/volkswagen-china-ceo-prepares-to-leave-as-gm-hyundai-crank-up-competition.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG’s new head of China
will have a tough act to follow: current chief Winfried Vahland
brought home a $1 billion profit for the German carmaker last
year after reversing losses and a slumping market share.  
 Vahland, who has overseen the China division for five
years, is leaving in the second half to return to the Czech
Skoda unit and replace Reinhard Jung. Former Continental AG
Chief Executive Officer Karl-Thomas Neumann, hired by VW last
November, is a candidate to replace Vahland, a person familiar
with the matter said earlier this month.  
 The task for Vahland’s successor will be to claw onto his
market share gains as Hyundai Motor Co. and General Motors Co.
speed up the development of new cars for an increasingly finicky
public. VW needs to update aging products as GM introduces 25
new or refreshed models in China by the end of next year,
according to IHS Global Insight’s Lin Huaibin.  
 “VW needs to get a better understanding of what the local
Chinese customers want,” said Lin, a Shanghai-based auto
analyst at Global Insight. Local buyers are showing “greater
demand for modern cars, fuel efficiency and safety provisions.”  
 Volkswagen, the biggest overseas maker of passenger cars in
China and the first to enter the market three decades ago, is
relying on two “very old-fashioned” 1980s vehicles, the
Santana and Jetta sedans, Lin said. The models together
accounted for almost a third of VW’s 1.4 million deliveries to
Chinese customers last year, he said.  
 Chevrolet Volt  
 Detroit-based GM announced plans April 12 to add hybrids,
plug-ins and electric vehicles, including the Chevrolet Volt
plug-in car, within the next five years in China, which passed
the U.S. as the No. 1 automobile market last year. Hyundai,
South Korea’s biggest carmaker, intends to build a new model at
its third Chinese plant, it said last week in Beijing.  
 VW plans to invest more than 4 billion euros by 2012 on new
models and plant expansions in China, its largest market. VW,
which rolled out the Passat CC sedan at the Beijing Auto Show,
plans seven new introductions in China this year, Vahland said
in an interview in Beijing.  
 A Tiguan sports-utility vehicle introduced earlier this
year has attracted more than 90,000 advanced orders, and VW
expects a new Phaeton luxury sedan unveiled in Beijing last week
to help double the model’s deliveries this year to more than
3,000 cars, Vahland said.  
 “There’s a seemingly endless lust for mobility in China
and VW is right at the center of this astonishing development,”
Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn said at the Beijing Auto Show.
“China has become a second home market for VW.”  
 Slumping Share  
 VW’s Chinese market share grew to 16.6 percent last year
from 15.1 percent in 2005, according to estimates from IHS
Global Insight. Before Vahland’s arrival, the market share had
plunged to 15.1 percent in 2005 from 47 percent in 2000. Last
year, Hyundai accounted for 10.1 percent of Chinese car sales,
while GM had 9.1 percent, according the Lexington,
Massachusetts-based research company.  
 Vahland, who was chief financial officer of Skoda before
being named to the China position, slashed expenses 40 percent,
boosted production and reduced the number of model platforms.
The result: Volkswagen China last year posted an operating
profit of 774 million euros ($1 billion).  
 Vahland succeeded by coordinating sales, purchasing and
local technology projects to resolve a feud between VW’s two
joint ventures, which previously saw each other as “key
competitors,” said Global Insight’s Frankfurt-based analyst
Christoph Stuermer. “If he hadn’t done that, they might have
lost touch and fallen behind.”  
 Lingyu, Lavida  
 Volkswagen’s preferred shares have gained 14 percent this
year. The Bloomberg EMEA Auto Manufacturers Index rose 4.8
percent in the period. VW added 73 cents, or 1 percent, to 74.20
euros at 9:53 a.m. in Frankfurt.  
 VW in 2009 introduced the Passat New Lingyu, developed at
its joint venture in Shanghai, as part of a plan to create
vehicles specifically for China and reach a target of selling 2
million cars in the country by 2018.  
 The company also plans to start producing battery-powered
cars in China as soon as 2013. VW presented the E-Lavida in
Beijing. An electric version of the Golf and the Lavida will be
tested in China as preparation for a broader market launch. The
E-Up! city car is due to go on sale in China in 2013.  
 Still, VW needs smaller and cheaper models developed for
the Chinese market to lure buyers once government incentives
introduced to boost purchases come to an end, said Christian
Aust, an analyst at UniCredit SpA in Munich.  
 “Volkswagen has recognized its weakness in that field and
is seeking to counteract that by stepping up spending,” said
Aust, who has a “hold” rating on VW shares.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Beijing via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Winfried Vahland  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Winfried Vahland, president and chief executive officer of Volkswagen Group China, speaks during a news conference at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, China, on April 23, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Winfried Vahland, president and chief executive officer of Volkswagen Group China, speaks during a news conference at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, China, on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Karl-Thomas Neumann at a news conference in Hannover  
                       
                         
                           Ralf Decker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A file photo shows Karl-Thomas Neumann at a news conference in Hannover, Germany, in 2007. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A file photo shows Karl-Thomas Neumann at a news conference in Hannover, Germany, in 2007. Photographer: Ralf Decker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
