-- GM CEO touts progress at annual meeting
-- By  Jui Chakravorty
-- Tue Jun 5, 2007 3:55pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/05/businesspro-gm-wagoner-1-dc-idUSN0526995520070605

 

 WILMINGTON, Delaware  (Reuters) - General Motors Corp. 
( GM.N ) is making progress in its turnaround effort, the 
automaker's chief executive said on Tuesday at its annual 
meeting, where all 10 shareholder proposals were rejected. 

  Speaking to investors CEO Rick Wagoner said GM, which lost 
more than $12 billion in the past two years, had made "major 
progress" in its restructuring -- a plan that includes slashing 
more than 34,000 jobs and closing 12 plants.  GM cut structural costs by $6.8 billion in 2006 and Wagoner 
told shareholders the automaker is on track to reach its target 
of cutting those costs by an additional $2.2 billion this year.  He said this year's priorities included concluding a deal 
to allow former parts subsidiary Delphi Corp DPHIQ.PK to 
emerge from bankruptcy and cutting its own health-care costs, 
which he said were "a staggering $4.8 billion" in 2006.  Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Wagoner said he 
was optimistic that a settlement with Delphi could happen 
sooner rather than later. "My sense is it's kind of coming 
together," he said. "The number of issues is narrowing. It's in 
everyone's interest to get it done as soon as we can."  GM has been in negotiations with Delphi and the United Auto 
Workers union since late 2005 over a range of issues centered 
on contractual terms for the unionized work force of the parts 
supplier as it emerges from bankruptcy.  A work stoppage at Delphi has been seen as a lingering risk 
to GM because it could shut down GM plants and force the 
automaker to burn through billions of dollars a week.  GM's shares, which lost 50 percent of their value in 2005, 
rose 58 percent last year, the highest rise in the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average.  Investors gained confidence in the automaker's turnaround 
as its annual net loss narrowed to $2 billion from $10.4 
billion in 2005. Shares are up about 2.4 percent so far this 
year. "For 2007, we're building on and accelerating our 
progress," Wagoner said.  In response to a question, he said GM had no plans of going 
private like smaller rival Chrysler Group, which in May 
accepted a $7.4 billion takeover offer from Cerberus Capital 
Management.  However, Wagoner did indicate in response to another 
question that a partnership between GMAC, GM's former finance 
arm, and Chrysler's finance unit was a possibility.  "There haven't been any extensive conversations at this 
point...," he said. "It is a possibility but not a certainty."  Cerberus also owns a 51 percent stake in GMAC, with GM 
retaining 49 percent.
  SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS REJECTED  GM investors rejected all 10 shareholder proposals at the 
meeting, including one that would have allowed investors with 
more than 10 percent of GM stock to call special shareholder 
meetings. That proposal received the most preliminary votes, 
about 41 percent.  A proposal to allow investors to multiply the number of 
shares they own by the number of board candidates and cast that 
greater number for just one person garnered only about 26 
percent of preliminary votes this year.  That proposal received more than 50 percent of votes last 
year.  A proposal that called for management bonuses to be 
recouped when the company restates financial results downward 
received only about 11 percent of preliminary votes.  The preliminary tally represented 82 percent of the 
eligible votes, GM said.  (Additional reporting by  Kevin Krolicki )