-- Coke vows to reduce water used in drink production
-- By  Ben Blanchard
-- Tue Jun 5, 2007 6:25pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/05/businesspro-coke-water-dc-idUSNSP28630420070605

 

 BEIJING  (Reuters) - Coca-Cola Co. ( KO.N ) faces a long-term 
threat to its future from falling global water resources and 
will reduce the amount of water that goes into making its 
drinks, its chief executive said on Tuesday. 

  The world's top beverage company will also put more effort 
into recycling the water it uses in manufacturing and spend $20 
million protecting seven major watersheds around the world with 
the World Wildlife Fund, said Chief Executive E. Neville 
Isdell, at a news conference on World Environment Day.  "I don't see in the short-, or even in the medium-term, 
that it's going to threaten our business, but in the long-term 
it is," Isdell told Reuters after making the announcement, 
referring to water shortages.  "And if we don't get on with solving it now, then when the 
long-term arrives people are going to look over their shoulder 
and ask who didn't solve the problem at the right time when it 
was solvable," he said.  "It isn't a serious risk in terms of the sustainability of 
the business today," added Isdell, who joined Coke in 1966 in 
Zambia.  Drought, rising populations and overuse by industry and 
agriculture means that by 2025 two-thirds of the world could 
face a serious lack of water, according to the WWF. More than 
one billion people have no access to safe water today.  Coke, which along with its bottlers used 290 billion litres 
of water for beverage production last year, has itself been 
accused in the southern Indian state of Kerala of helping to 
suck the water table dry.  That plant has not operated for at least two years, and 
Isdell said Coke had been found not responsible for depleting 
the water table by the Indian government.  "If you're not welcome in a community, then you will 
suspend your operations, which we've done," he told the news 
conference. The Irish native said that while their new water 
initiative would cut costs, there was another fundamental 
business reason for doing it -- you can't work somewhere if the 
community thinks you are hurting the environment and hates you 
for it.  "If the communities around us do not flourish, and are not 
sustainable, our business will not be sustainable in the 
future," Isdell said. "If we do not act responsibly, that 
society will not give us the social license in that broader 
context to continue to operate."  More than half the water Coke used in 2006 was dedicated to 
processes like rinsing, cleaning, heating and cooling, rather 
than going into the drinks themselves.  The company has already made some improvements, and it now 
only takes 2.54 litres of water to make one liter of Coke, 
compared with 3.14 litres five years ago, Isdell said.  Rival PepsiCo Inc. ( PEP.N ) has also made improvements.  Pepsi's Gatorade unit has started rinsing with highly 
compressed air instead of water, reducing its water consumption 
by about 20 percent, according to spokeswoman Elaine Palmer. 
Its Tropicana unit also saves about 500,000 gallons of water a 
day, Palmer said, by reusing water from washing oranges to wash 
equipment.  Coke's new measures include setting water efficiency 
targets for global operations by next year, and aligning its 
manufacturing system to return all water used in manufacturing 
to the environment.  The Atlanta-based company will also expand support of local 
water preservation efforts, like harvesting rain water, 
reforestation, improving water efficiency in farming, Coke and 
the WWF said in a statement.  (Additional reporting by Nick Zieminski and Martinne Geller 
in New York)