-- Kuwait Finance Mulls Stake in Rashid Hussain, Banks
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2006-12-01T06:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-01/kuwait-finance-mulls-stake-in-rashid-hussain-banks-update2-.html

          
          
             Kuwait Finance House, the  Persian
Gulf 's largest Islamic investment bank, said it's considering
buying a stake in Rashid Hussain Bhd. and other Malaysian
banking groups, the latest overseas suitor to size up lenders in
the Asian nation.  
 ``We actually look at both organic and MNA as an
opportunity for us and with the recent relaxation in the rules,
we are talking to various people, not just RHB, for us to
acquire a stake or actually increase our stake,'' Jamelah Jamaluddin, deputy chief executive officer of Kuwait Finance's
local unit, said today in  Kuala Lumpur .  
 Malaysian lenders have become targets after the country's
central bank last month said it will allow domestic banks to
enter merger talks with more than one company at the same time.
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. this week agreed to
pay A$833 million ($658 million) for 24.9 percent of  AMMB
Holdings Bhd. (AMM) ,  Malaysia 's fifth-biggest bank.  
 While Rashid Hussain is ``one that we look at,'' Kuwait
Finance isn't in talks with the banking group, Jamelah said,
declining to say whether the Middle Eastern bank will seek
central bank approval to start talks. Kuwait Finance is
``looking at the numbers. That's about it. We did our own
analysis and assessment.''  
 Shares of Rashid Hussain, which controls the country's
fourth-largest lender, jumped as much as 8 sen, or 5.5 percent,
to 1.53 ringgit and traded at 1.51 ringgit at 12:29 p.m. in
Kuala Lumpur, giving the bank a market value of 1.1 billion
ringgit ($306 million).  
 Kuwait Finance is considering acquiring assets or a stake
in certain banking groups in Malaysia, Jamelah told reporters.  
 ``We are talking to a few,'' she said, declining to name
them. ``There are banks which we find'' could be ''a potential
partner for us.''  
 The group is also interested in acquiring assets in
countries like  Indonesia , the Philippines and  Vietnam , she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Kuala Lumpur at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang in Kuala Lumpur at +60-
   sphang@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tony Jordan  at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        