-- Caterpillar raises prices by as much as 5 percent
-- 
-- Tue Apr 1, 2008 6:39pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/01/businesspro-caterpillar-dc-idUSN0130933820080401

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Caterpillar Inc ( CAT.N ), the 
world's largest U.S. maker of construction and mining 
equipment, said on Tuesday it is raising product prices by as 
much as 5 percent due in part to surging demand. 

  The company, which has seen demand for its mining equipment 
jump as a result of rising commodity prices, said in a 
regulatory filing that the action "is a result of current 
general economic conditions and industry factors.  Caterpillar spokeswoman Rachel Potts said that "as a whole, 
this price action represents an upward adjustment for 
Caterpillar machinery and engines," but added that "there are 
some models in certain regions that may not require an 
adjustment in price."  Jim Owens, the company's chief executive and chairman, told 
Reuters last month that commodity prices are "above what's 
sustainable in the long term" and could lead to an investment 
bubble as damaging as the one that hit the U.S. housing market. 
He warned that Caterpillar might raise prices to recoup its 
costs, including higher steel costs.  The company's earnings have been buoyed by fast-growing 
overseas sales and strong demand from the oil and mining 
industries, even as a weak U.S. economy and housing slowdown 
have stalled domestic sales of equipment and engines.  The Reuters-Jefferies CRB index .CRB of 19 commodity 
futures, which fell 0.5 percent to close at 384.93 on Tuesday 
has trended lower over the past couple of weeks, but is still 
up nearly 30 percent from the 12-month low set in August.  Caterpillar said price details by product will be released 
to dealers in the coming weeks and will vary across geographic 
regions and products.  The shares of the equipment maker, which rose $1.69, or 2.2 
percent, to close at $79.98 on the New York Stock Exchange, 
were slightly higher at $80.10 in after hours trading. The 
stock has gained about 10 percent so far this year.  (Reporting by Deena Beasley; Editing by Leslie 
Gevirtz/Andre Grenon)