-- M.video Seeks $420 Million in IPO, More Than Planned
-- Maria Ermakova
-- 2007-10-22T10:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-22/m-video-seeks-420-million-in-ipo-more-than-planned-update2-.html

          
          
             M.video (MVID) , Russia's second-biggest
electronics retailer, plans to sell shares worth as much as $420
million in an initial public offering to fund expansion.  
 A total of 52.5 million shares, or about 30 percent of the
company, will be offered by M.video's owners for $6 to $8 apiece,
the Moscow-based retailer said today in a statement. As much as
$240 million will go to the company after the owners, including
majority owner and co-founder Alexander Tynkovan, use part of the
proceeds to purchase as many as 30 million new shares.  
 The total share offer is larger than originally planned by
M.video, which said last week the IPO would raise as much as $300
million. The 109-store chain aims to open more stores to increase
its share of  Russia 's $13.2 billion consumer electronics market
to about a fifth from 13 percent at the end of June.  
 The price range is ``quite attractive,'' and the shares may
rise when they start trading, said Elena Suslova, an analyst at
Wermuth Asset Management in Moscow. Suslova estimates the
company is worth about $1.2 billion.  
 M.video's IPO would be the first by a Russian electronics
retailer. The country's ninth year of economic growth is fueling
 consumer spending , while selling space per capita is less than
elsewhere in  Europe .  
 `Fantastic Growth'  
 ``Growth is fantastic in retail, especially in electronics,
which is fragmented,'' said James Beadle, who helps manage about
$180 million at Pilgrim Asset Management in Moscow and will
consider buying M.video shares for as much as $7 apiece.  
 Russian electronics sales will rise about 15 percent
annually through 2010 as per-capita incomes increase by more
than a fifth a year, fueling purchases of higher-quality goods,
according to a report by  Renaissance Capital  investment bank.  
 M.video trails Moscow-based Eldorado Group by sales and
would be valued at as much as $1.44 billion after the IPO.  
 The retailer's sales may rise about 35 percent annually
over the next five years and ``no companies in developed markets
would show such growth,'' Wermuth's Suslova said.  
 M.video's net income will almost double to $28 million this
year as revenue rises 49 percent to $1.99 billion, Renaissance
estimates. The bank predicts the retailer's profit margin for 2007
will be 5.2 percent based on earnings before interest, tax,
amortization and depreciation, less than 7 percent for Best Buy Co.
of the U.S. and 5.6 percent for the U.K.'s Kesa Electricals Plc.  
 Tynkovan, M.video's president, will retain ownership of more
than 50 percent and will sell less than 3 percent of the stock in
the IPO. His brother Mikhail and General Director Pavel Breyev,
who co-founded the chain with Tynkovan in 1993, and Alexander
Zayonts, a Russian businessman, co-own the rest of M.video.  
 Nadezhda Kiselyova, a spokeswoman for M.video, declined to
comment on the sale.  
 The shares will trade on the Russian Trading System and on
the Micex Stock Exchange under the code MVID, the company said.
Deutsche Bank AG and Renaissance Capital are organizing the IPO.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Ermakova in Moscow at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        