-- U.K. Union Recommends Members Back Royal Mail Deal
-- Brian Lysaght
-- 2007-10-22T16:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-22/u-k-union-recommends-members-back-royal-mail-deal-update2-.html

          
          
             U.K. union leaders urged  Royal Mail 
Group Plc employees to support a proposed contract that includes
pension changes and a 6.9 percent pay increase. The agreement
would end the country's longest postal dispute in 11 years.  
 The  Communication Workers Union 's 130,000 members employed
by Royal Mail will vote on the two-year agreement over the next
several weeks, the union said in an e-mailed statement. The CWU
executive committee backed the deal in a vote today.  
 The union has held a series of walkouts since June at Royal
Mail to protest a plan by Chief Executive Adam Crozier to cut
costs and boost productivity. The state-owned company has lost
business to rivals such as Deutsche Post AG and TNT NV since
Britain opened its postal market to competition last year.  
 The agreement ``gives Royal Mail a fighting chance of
success in the future,'' Crozier said in an e-mailed statement
today.  
 The deal reached on Oct. 12 includes a pay raise of 5.4
percent from Oct. 1, a one-time bonus of 175 pounds ($355) and a
union commitment to flexible working rules, Royal Mail said.
Workers would get an additional 1.5 percent pay increase next
April if certain reforms take place, it said.  
 The union said it must agree to any work-rule changes.  
 ``Royal Mail's aim at the outset of this strike was to
remove the union from the workplace and have a subservient
workforce,'' said Dave Ward, the CWU's deputy general secretary.
``The result of the dispute is a strong union and a workforce
whose opinions count.''  
 Pension Changes  
 The union also agreed to a Royal Mail plan to bar new
workers from joining the existing pension plan, which is linked
to pay levels, starting in 2008, and offering them an alternative
program based on their contributions.  
 John Ralfe, a pensions consultant at  RBC Capital Markets ,
said the agreement hasn't addressed the fact that Royal Mail's
pension fund has a shortfall of 6.6 billion pounds.  
 ``The overall cost reduction is pretty small and they've
done nothing to address the real problem, which is the 6.6
billion-pound pension deficit,'' said Ralfe, in an interview.  
 The deal also pushes back the  retirement age  to 65 from 60,
starting in 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Lysaght in  London  at 
 blysaght@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Torday at 
 ptorday@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        