-- Mergers Rebound Drives Rise in London Financial Job Vacancies, Survey Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-11-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/m-a-drives-rise-in-london-financial-job-vacancies-survey-says.html
Job vacancies at London’s financial-
services firms climbed 5 percent last month, helped by a jump in
mergers and acquisitions and a recovery in the British economy,
according to a survey by a recruiting firm.  The number of new job openings in the City and Canary
Wharf, London’s main financial districts, increased to 4,977 in
October from 4,725 a month earlier, recruitment firm Morgan
McKinley said in a statement today.  “The increase in job availability indicates overall
confidence across the sector, following an increase in gross
domestic product in the U.K. in September as well as a notable
increase in M&A,”  Andrew Evans , managing director of Morgan
McKinley’s financial-services unit, said. The first quarter of
2011 “will be busier than quarter four of this year, although
we expect continued fluctuations along the way.”  The U.K.’s gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the
third quarter, the second fastest rate since before the credit
crisis started in 2007, according to the Office for National
Statistics. European companies announced $46.6 billion of
takeovers in October, an 11 percent increase on the previous
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investec Plc, the South African bank, said yesterday that
it hired five analysts for its European securities unit.
Citigroup Inc. said on Nov. 8 it will add 15 managing directors
as part of a plan to expand its European operations.  The number of financial services workers seeking new jobs
fell 16 percent to 9,100 from the previous month, the survey
showed. Average City salaries slipped 4 percent from September
to 51,245 pounds ($82,181) in October, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans in London at  at
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  