-- `Fed Up' Travelers, Unions Balk at Airport Body Scans
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-11-17T16:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/-fed-up-passengers-unions-balk-at-airports-full-body-scans.html
Tension at U.S. airports between
security and privacy may peak Nov. 24, one of the year’s busiest
travel days, with a protest over growing use of full-body X-rays
and of extensive pat-downs for those who reject the scans.  That date, just before the Thanksgiving holiday, is
 National Opt-Out Day  for several groups urging passengers to
avoid the scanners and to slow the screening by choosing a
physical search. Organizers and some airline labor unions object
to the radiation exposure and detailed view of bodies, and also
call the pat-downs an unwarranted invasion of privacy.  “We’re fed up and we’re not going to take it anymore,”
said Brandon Macsata, executive director of the  Association for
Airline Passenger Rights . “We can remain safe as a society
without having to be subjected to intrusive screenings that
violate our privacy rights.”  The  Transportation Security Administration  said the
scanners or pat-downs are critical to stop weapons or explosives
from being concealed under clothing, as happened on Christmas
last year when a Nigerian man tried to blow up a U.S. jetliner
as it landed in Detroit. A trade group for U.S. airlines said
the protest probably won’t further snarl holiday travel.  Discouraging travelers from using the scanners is
“irresponsible” given continuing security threats, TSA
Administrator  John Pistole  said in a Nov. 15 statement.  ‘Outcry Is Huge’  U.S. Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison , a Texas Republican, told
Pistole at a hearing today in Washington that the government
must move to increase passenger privacy after protests against
the enhanced pat-down procedures.  “We’ve got to see some action,” Hutchison said. “We’ve
got to do more. The outcry is huge.”  Pistole said at the hearing that one of the new pat-downs
he received “was more invasive than what I was used to.” Yet
screeners “need to have an effective pat-down,” he said.  Macsata’s Washington-based group is among those backing the
Nov. 24 protest, which began with at least two websites opposing
the full-body scans. One site,  www.wewontfly.com , has attracted
300,000 visitors since it was created two weeks ago, said George
Donnelly, its founder.  Supporters are planning opt-outs in 11 U.S. cities,
including New York’s Kennedy, Dallas, Denver and Phoenix, which
are among the nation’s 10 busiest airports, said Donnelly, 39, a
website designer and administrator who splits his time between
Philadelphia and Medellin, Colombia.  Consumer advocate  Ralph Nader  is backing the opt-out
effort, as are the civil liberties organization Electronic
Privacy Information Center and passenger group FlyersRights.org,
which at 5 p.m. Eastern time yesterday had about 1,440
signatures on an online petition to scrap the scanners.  Crowded Planes  The protests come as planes already are at their fullest
since World War II and as 24 million people, 3.5 percent more
than in 2009, are expected to fly during the 12-day holiday
period that starts Nov. 19, according to the Air Transport
Association, the airlines’ Washington-based trade group.  “I am not aware of any real concern over this proposed
opt-out initiative,”  David Castelveter , a spokesman for the
airline group, said in an interview. “But it would be
unfortunate if, during the most heavily traveled holiday period
of the year, passengers further delayed the check-in process.”  Thirty groups, including the Consumer Federation of America
and Consumer Travel Alliance, signed a letter earlier this year
calling for the TSA to stop using the body scanners, and the
Electronic Privacy Information Center has sued in federal court
to block their use.  Union Opposition  Unions representing 14,800 pilots at AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines and US Airways Group Inc. have urged members to avoid
the scanners, while the  Air Line Pilots Association  and the
Association of Flight Attendants, which together represent
103,000 workers, have pressed U.S. officials for a separate
screening process for crews that avoids full-body scans.  The TSA has installed 385 of the X-ray scanners at 68 U.S.
airports, compared with fewer than 50 machines for last year’s
holiday travel season, said Greg Soule, an  agency  spokesman.
About 1,000 scanners are slated to be in use by the end of 2011.  More than 99 percent of passengers are going through the
new scanners rather than requesting a pat-down, Soule said.  The machines use X-rays to generate an image of a person’s
skin and detect any hidden items underneath clothing. Previous
screening focused mainly on metal detection.  The enhanced pat-down includes agents using the palm side
of their hand and fingers instead of the back of the hand, which
was the previous practice. Agents are allowed to feel around
breasts and genitals for hidden items. The searches are done by
agents of the same sex as the passenger, and the traveler can
ask for them to be done in private.  ‘Irresponsible’ Effort  “On the eve of a major national holiday and less than one
year after al-Qaeda’s failed attack last Christmas Day, it is
irresponsible for a group to suggest travelers opt out of the
very screening that could prevent an attack using non-metallic
explosives,” said Pistole, the TSA administrator. “This
technology is not only safe, it’s vital to aviation security and
a critical measure to thwart potential terrorist attacks.”  The Air Travelers Association isn’t backing the opt-out
effort. The Chevy Chase, Maryland-based passenger advocacy group
views the pat-downs as “very aggressive,” yet justified by
recent security threats, said David Stempler, its president.  The protests are “just going to create misery for
passengers, and passengers will be the only ones who suffer in
that situation,” he said.  Radiation Exposure  The average U.S. citizen receives about 3 millisieverts, or
mSv, of radiation a year from “background environments” such
as radon gas at home and medical and dental X-rays, according to
the  Radiological Society of North America , which is based in Oak
Brook, Illinois.  A person would need 15,822 screenings from the TSA machines
in a 12-month period, or 43 a day, to reach a 0.25 mSv dose,
according to a 2009 study by Johns Hopkins University’s Applied
Physics Laboratory.  “You would need 1,000 or 2,000 airport scans just to equal
one dental X-ray,” said Richard Morin, a professor in the
radiology department at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville,
Florida. “You’re getting more radiation just sitting at your
desk for 15 minutes than you would from one airport scan.”  There isn’t a guideline for maximum exposure, except for
mammograms, where the legal limit is 3 mSv, Morin said.  Health Concern  David Bates , president of the Allied Pilots Association,
which represents American Airlines’ 9,600 active pilots, told
members in a Nov. 1 e-mail that the X-ray scanners “could be
harmful to your health,” especially because pilots already
receive higher doses of radiation from flying aircraft.  A cross-country round-trip flight adds about 0.03 mSv
because of increased cosmic rays, the radiological society says.  The union recommends that pilots use designated crew lines
for screening where available, and otherwise decline scanner
exposure and request an alternative in a private area.  The  US Airline Pilots Association , which represents pilots
at US Airways, gave similar advice to its members and urged
pilots to make sure they have a witness to any pat-down search.  One US Airways pilot subjected to an enhanced pat-down said
the incident included “sexual molestation,” according to a
message to members from Mike Cleary, president of the union
representing those employees.  Bates called the enhanced pat-downs “a demeaning
experience.”  “It is unacceptable to submit to one in public while
wearing the uniform of a professional airline pilot,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  