-- M.I.A. Cavorts in Hot Pants, Blasts Fans With Rap Noise: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2010-11-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/m-i-a-cavorts-in-hot-pants-blasts-concert-goers-with-rap-racket-review.html
Seeing rapper M.I.A. perform live is
like suffering a particularly intense migraine.  The star who was born  Maya Arulpragasam  gyrates in metallic
hot pants, delivering whooping rhymes and rough beats in front
of hyperactive computer graphics and a wall of stroboscopes.  M.I.A. ensures concert-goers suffer for her art, with their
ears and eyes assaulted. Aggressive, overwhelming, bewildering,
provocative, her show will be hated by many, loved by some.  All of which confirms M.I.A.’s pop importance. She is
taking her tour around continental Europe through November and
December, in support of her third album “Maya,” also written as
“/\/\/\Y/\.” Her reception at U.K. shows has been rapturous.  She loves the electronic beats that keep much of Africa,
the Caribbean and Brazil jumping. There are slogans, “TXT SPK”
rhymes and a sort of patois soup from three continents. The
music varies from bafflingly harsh to rewarding.  “Bucky Done Gun” is a clarion call to sweat and badness
that ignites crowds; the sexuality of “Boyz” gets them
dancing. “Steppin’ Up” has chainsaw samples like an updated
 Marilyn Manson .  M.I.A.’s political views (first backing the Tamils in Sri
Lanka, then claiming links between Google Inc. and the CIA) are
muted during the shows -- apart from video clips of Somali
pirates. Everything else is switched to overload, with M.I.A., a
DJ, and two gold-clad sidemen making an absolute racket.  The visuals are intense. M.I.A.’s self-made album artwork
is a frantic mash of digital imagery. A towering video wall on
stage fires out dizzying sequences, punctuated by a battery of
neon and strobes and M.I.A.’s cavorting.  “Born Free” is the pinnacle at the  O2 Academy  show in
London. The electro-punk attack, aided by an onstage drummer, is
visually matched with rhythmic splats of crimson blood.  The calmer “Paper Planes” finishes sets of about an hour
long. Based on a sample of the Clash’s “Straight To Hell”, it
is M.I.A.’s biggest hit. Aptly, the song is a caustic collision
between the sound of gunshots and cash machines.  Rating: **½.  Information:  http://www.miauk.com/   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 