-- `Top Chef' Colicchio Woos Doctors With $55 Chicken For Two: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/-top-chef-colicchio-woos-doctors-with-55-chicken-for-two-ryan-sutton.html
If your doctors aren’t calling back,
they may be lunching at Riverpark.  Moguls have the Four Seasons. Media power brokers have
Michael’s. Fashion models pretend to eat at The Standard.  Now “Top Chef”  Tom Colicchio  has given the midtown-east
medical mafia a brand-name restaurant it can call its own.  Instead of hospital food, the docs can dine on rare squab
and relax with panoramic East River views. A $55 chicken for two
comes with a crazy-rich gravy boat for French fry dunking; a $14
cheddar burger collapses into a salty, beefy fantastically
satisfying crumble.  Riverpark  sits behind  New York University Medical Center 
and  Bellevue Hospital Center . A stone walkway off East 29th
Street, lined with photos of James Watson and other Nobel Prize-
winners, leads you to your odd dinner destination: the $150
million  Alexandria Center for Life Science .  Cancer researcher  ImClone , once beloved of Martha Stewart,
is the upstairs tenant in this Kips Bay neighborhood, a culinary
tundra.  Colicchio is clever. He transformed the so-so Craftsteak
into the excellent Colicchio & Sons. He turned Craft’s under-
used private dining room into the $210-per-person Tom Tuesday
Dinner. And now he’s begat a joint with no real competition
unless you count Totonno’s pizzeria and halal street-meat
vendors.  No Dress Code  Riverpark could be the year’s most gorgeous new restaurant,
at least for patrons who don’t mind things a bit corporate and
adult. The space reeks not of perfume, but of leather. The
square dining room and perpendicular booths make you want to sit
up straight and part your hair. There’s no dress code, though
there’s no one wearing hoodies, sports caps or torn jeans. Folks
just seem to behave better here.  They sit under an avant-garde lighting installation,
drinking rye Manhattans spiked with peaty Islay Scotch from the
stellar cocktail list.  Saline carrots slice the richness of glazed pork belly;
alternatively, pair the dish with a bracing swallow of calvados,
honey and lemon. Pickled peppers perk up a plate of roasted
provolone; a Dark ‘n Stormy highball (rum & ginger beer) perks
it up even more.  Adventurous Menu  Chef Sisha Ortuzar gets credit for the adventurous pan-
American menu. Beef tartare, an establishment staple, has always
been a stealthy surf and turf, deploying a hint of anchovy for a
salt sting. Ortuzar ups the ante by coating the raw meat with
sea urchin, imparting the crimson cubes with a deep maritime
jolt. I don’t mind when my fish tastes like steak, but steak
that reeks of fish is for senses more adventurous than mine.
It’s a challenging dish.  The octopus roll is a tasty Mediterranean riff on the New
England lobster sandwich. The coiled tentacles tumbling outside
the bun make it a little scary looking, a dish for Medusa.
French-onion soup emerges as a brilliant maitake mushroom
consomme ($14); the woodsy broth softens a pecorino crouton.
Surprising shrimp cocktail ends up delighting with head-on,
barely cooked-through prawns ($12).  How about a little gourmet Tex-Mex? Chocolaty mole is great
over grits, but not with pigeon, which turns the skin to mush.
Remember, this is Colicchio’s first project where he’s not the
chef, just the restaurateur; hence the entry-level mistakes that
wouldn’t happen with a seasoned cook in the kitchen. A paste of
romesco adds coarseness to a bland square of steamed branzino.  Gray Matter  Other misses you could almost predict. Steak has always
been Colicchio’s bete noir; so it goes that a $68 rib cut for
two comes gray and overcooked (though nice work on the smoky
crust); a skirt steak lacks sufficient marinade to tame its
offaly bite.  In a nod to the nearby hospital cafeterias, there’s grilled
cheese with tomato soup. Lasagna ($16) is overdone to the point
of rendering the noodles indistinguishable. No matter, think of
the heady dish as a pot of drool-inducing Bolognese. Mop up the
meat with hot, crusty, salt covered baguettes.  It’s one of five good pasta dishes. Burnt-flour fettucine
tastes great with cauliflower and bread crumbs, though the
noodles are better when coated with a livery sauce for duck
agnolotti. Riverpark, like every other New York restaurant,
wants to be Italian too.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Prices: Most dishes under $30; many under $20.  Sound Level: Moderate, around 70 or so decibels.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside tip: Braised polpo in a chili-oil-infused dashi, an
elegant alternative to the octo-roll.  Special Feature: Excellent lemon meringue tart for dessert.  Will I be back: Sure, it’s all Kips Bay really has.  Riverpark is at 450 E 29th St.; Information: +1-212-729-
9790 or  http://www.riverparknyc.com/ .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 