-- Madagascar Starts Voting in Referendum That May Legitimize Government
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2010-11-17T12:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/madagascar-starts-voting-in-referendum-that-may-legitimize-government.html
President  Andry Rajoelina , a 36-
year-old former DJ and mayor, is pushing for a “yes” vote in
today’s Madagascan referendum on constitutional changes that
opponents say aim to legitimize his rule after he seized power
with the aid of the military.  The government, which has scheduled parliamentary and
presidential elections for next year, says the referendum will
help lift the country out of its 20-month diplomatic and
economic isolation. The opposition is concerned Rajoelina will
use a “Yes” vote to prolong his presidency, because the
constitutional changes cut the minimum age of the president to
35 from 40.  Madagascar’s three main opposition parties are urging
voters to abstain because they say the new constitution was
drawn up without consultation and doesn’t give a deadline for
the handover of power to a democratically elected government.
The government reneged on a power-sharing accord brokered last
year by international mediators.  “I want to demonstrate my dislike because they will try
and use this vote to manipulate the international community and
public opinion,” said Solofo Ralaboarisoa, an employee of Air
Madagascar, who wasn’t voting and accompanied a friend to a
polling station in the capital Antananarivo. “It’s a way of
poisoning the people.”  The vote “is the one and only route left out of the
crisis,” said  Augustin Andriamananoro , special adviser to the
president and head of the “Yes” campaign. “It is up to
everyone to fulfill their civic duty and vote to restore
constitutional order.”  Madagascar Suspended  Andriamananoro said he expects 70 percent to vote in favor
of the changes, with a voter turnout of about 50 percent. The
government has organized rallies with local pop stars to drum up
support for the constitution. Polls opened at 6 a.m. and will
close at 4 p.m.  “One of the government’s concerns is the lack of popular
legitimacy,” said Harotsilavo Rakotoson, a lawyer and “No”
campaigner. “They will use a positive result to pretend they
have been elected by Madagascar’s people.”  On Nov. 2, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary for African
Affairs  Karl Wycoff  met with political parties and said the U.S.
government didn’t recognize the referendum and political process
supported by the current administration.  Madagascar was suspended from the African Union and had all
non-humanitarian aid cut after Rajoelina, the mayor of
Antananarivo, ousted his predecessor President  Marc Ravalomanana 
in March last year. Foreign aid previously accounted for about
two thirds of fiscal spending.  Economy to Contract  The island’s economy will contract 2 percent this year, the
only African economy to shrink, according to forecasts by the
International Monetary Fund. The government estimates expansion
of 0.8 percent. Madagascar, the world’s biggest exporter of
vanilla, had a  gross domestic product  of $8.55 billion in 2009,
according to the Central Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook.  The new constitution says presidential candidates must be
resident in the country for six months prior to elections. That
would block Ravalomanana, who lives in exile in South Africa and
was sentenced to life imprisonment by a Madagascan court in
August for conspiracy to commit murder.  Sahondra Rabenarivo, a lawyer and “No” campaigner, said
Rajoelina is portraying the referendum as a vote for change and
an end to the crisis, without explaining the details of the
constitutional changes that do nothing to limit presidential
power in Madagascar.  “I fear the government will turn around to the
international community and say ‘Look, we’ve been
legitimized’,” Rabenarivo said.  Protesters Detained  Colonel Richard Ravalomanana, head of security for the
central region, said he has deployed security forces to maintain
order outside polling stations to prevent protests. Last week 21
people were detained, including three leaders of the main
opposition parties, during demonstrations against the
referendum.  Pierrot Rajaonarivelo, head of the opposition Madagascar
Democracy Movement, said he expects the “No” campaign to win
in the capital, Antananarivo, while the “Yes” vote wins in the
rest of the country. The international community won’t accept
the results if less than 50 percent vote, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 