-- Madagascar Army Refuses to Join Officers' Attempted Coup Against Rajoelina
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-17T21:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/madagascan-army-group-calls-for-coup-aide-says-rajoelina-still-in-control.html
Madagascar’s armed forces refused to
rally round an attempted coup by army officers opposed
to President  Andry Rajoelina , after a referendum on a new
constitution that opponents say may be used to extend his rule.  Twenty months after helping Rajoelina take power, the group
of senior army officials yesterday called for the government to
be dissolved in a declaration distributed from a base near the
capital, Antananarivo.  “The declaration was made by 20 or so members of the armed
forces,” Colonel Philibert Ratovonirina, head of communications
for the army, said by phone. “But, there was no coup. The
government and security forces will stop this.”  Madagascar has been in diplomatic and economic isolation
since Rajoelina, the 36-year-old former mayor of Antananarivo,
ousted his predecessor President  Marc Ravalomanana  in March 2009
with the aid of the military. Yesterday’s declaration, signed by
ex Defense Minister  Noel Rakotonandrasanana  and Colonel Charles
Andrianasoaviana, the head of the Special Intervention Force,
called for exiles such as Ravalomanana to be allowed back into
the country.  Rajoelina denounced the coup attempt on national radio and
said he would not step down.  The dissidents “are already surrounded” at the
residential base of the first battalion at Ivato, near the
airport, said Colonel Didier Randrianary in a phone interview.
“There will be an arrangement between the military forces to
prevent a blood bath.”  Economic Crisis  Madagascar was suspended from the African Union and had all
non-humanitarian aid cut after Rajoelina seized power last year.
Foreign aid previously accounted for about two thirds of fiscal
spending.  The Indian Ocean island’s economy will contract 2 percent
this year, the only African economy to shrink, according to
forecasts by the International Monetary Fund. The world’s
biggest exporter of vanilla had a gross domestic product of
$8.55 billion in 2009 and a population of 22.1 million,
according to the Central Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook.  The coup attempt came as voting ending in the referendum on
a new constitution that the government hopes will end the 20-
month political and economic crisis. Rajoelina has scheduled
parliamentary and presidential elections for next year.  Opposition Boycott  The opposition boycotted yesterday’s poll, saying a “Yes”
vote will be used by Rajoelina to prolong his presidency. The
constitutional changes include a reduction in the minimum age of
the president to 35 from 40, enabling Rajoelina to stand in
future elections. Neither does the new charter set a deadline
for the handover of power to a democratically elected
government.  “One of the government’s concerns is the lack of popular
legitimacy,” said Harotsilavo Rakotoson, a lawyer and “No”
campaigner. “They will use a positive result to pretend they
have been elected by Madagascar’s people.”  Rajoelina’s administration reneged on a power-sharing
accord brokered last year by international mediators.  Two of the military officer’s behind the coup attempt had
helped Rajoelina take power in March last year, said
Ratovonirina. “They have detached from the transitional
government and have now gone with the opposition parties of the
ex presidents,” he said.  Colonel Randrianary said the coup attempt may lead to a
political agreement to end the crisis. “This will push those
who currently hold power to share power in the future,” he
said.  There aren’t any demonstrations in Antananarivo, Richard
Ravalomanana, head of security in the capital, said by phone.  “The army isn’t united,” Lydie Boka, the director of
Paris-based StrategiCo., a risk analysis group, said by phone.
“It’s a situation which is very unstable even if it’s not clear
this is actually going to work as a coup.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at 
1934 or  asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 