-- Agricultural Commodities Decline in China as Wen Pledges to Cool Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T04:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/agricultural-commodities-decline-in-china-as-wen-pledges-to-cool-inflation.html
Agriculture futures slumped in China,
with soybeans, cooking oils, rubber, cotton and sugar dropping
the daily limit, as Premier Wen Jiabao promised to take steps to
cool the fastest  inflation  in two years.  Soybeans and soybean oil fell 4 percent, the maximum
allowed by the Dalian Commodity Exchange, to 4,337 yuan ($652) a
metric ton and 9,396 yuan a ton. Palm oil plunged 5 percent.
Cotton and sugar declined 5 percent in Zhengzhou and rubber
decreased 5 percent in Shanghai.  “The government wants to curb excessive speculation
without interfering with the fundamentals of supply and
demand,”  Tommy Xiao , analyst at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.,
said by e-mail. Agricultural futures have surged in China,
increasing the risk of a correction, he said.  China’s exchanges have introduced measures to cool
speculation in futures markets. The Dalian bourse said last week
it will curb “abnormal” trading to prevent price manipulation
and other activities that disrupt an orderly market. The
Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange and Shanghai Futures Exchange have
announced similar steps.  Soybean futures jumped as much as 12 percent in Dalian this
month and dropped 9.2 percent in the past four days, the biggest
such decline since October 2008. Rubber soared as much as 28
percent in Shanghai, and fell 12 percent in the past four days,
the most since December 2008.  Wen Pledge  Wen said yesterday the cabinet was drafting measures to
counter excessive price gains, suggesting the government may
raise interest rates and introduce price controls. Wen’s
comments at a Guangzhou supermarket were broadcast on state
television. He didn’t elaborate, beyond urging local governments
to ensure market supply and order.  Inflation in October was 4.4 percent, boosted by a 10.1
percent increase in food costs, statistics bureau data show.  The government won’t “hastily” introduce tougher price-
control measures, the Economic Observer reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified official at the National Development and
Reform Commission. The government is studying measures to curb
inflation based on the “trend and cause” and will act
according to the price law, the official was cited as saying.  “Administrative measures to interfere with the markets
probably won’t be often used,” Shanghai JC’s Xiao said. The
government is aware that futures trading can lead to excessive
speculation as China experienced in the past, and that’s why it
took action to further regulate futures trading, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  