-- Air France-KLM Raises Profit Forecast, Plots Asian Routes as Demand Booms
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-18T19:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/air-france-klm-posts-second-straight-quarterly-profit-amid-traffic-rebound.html
Air France-KLM Group , Europe’s
biggest airline, raised its full-year earnings target and plans
to add more than a dozen new routes to tap surging demand for
flights to Asia, Africa and the Middle East.  The shares  rose  the most in five months in Paris after Air
France said late yesterday it’s targeting an  operating profit  of
more than 300 million euros ($409 million) for the 12 months to
March 31. It had forecast only a “positive” result on Oct. 26.  The carrier will add four or five new  Asian destinations  by
2014, mainly in China, plus a similar number in Africa and the
Middle East and one or two in the Americas, Chief Executive
Officer  Pierre-Henri Gourgeon  said. The company has also
recruited PT Garuda Indonesia to its SkyTeam alliance and is
seeking new members in India, Brazil and Saudi Arabia, he said.  “The main purpose of our development in China is to have a
good part of their huge potential for air transport,” Gourgeon
said in an interview. New destinations will include Wuhan in
central China and the coastal city of Xiamen, the CEO said.  Air France-KLM  rose  75.5 cents, or 5.7 percent, to 13.98
euros, the steepest gain since June 3, as of the close in Paris.
The stock has added 27 percent this year, valuing the company at
4.19 billion euros.  Beating Estimates  The airline had net income of 290 million euros in the
three months ended Sept. 30, a second straight quarterly profit,
compared with a 147 million-euro year-earlier loss, it said in a
statement. Sales rose 19 percent to 6.65 billion euros.  Analysts had predicted earnings of 248 million euros on
revenue of 6.4 billion euros, according the average figures from
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “These are really excellent results,” said  Paul Butler ,
an analyst at Macquarie Research in London who added that his
estimate for a 12-month operating profit of 290 million euros
had been at the top end of the range. Butler has an
“outperform” rating on  Air France-KLM stock .  Passenger traffic rose 3.1 percent last month, led by a 5
percent increase on Asian routes, which the company said were
“dynamic,” with seat occupancy levels of 89.5 percent compared
with a “very high” 84.2 percent across the network as a whole.  Airlines worldwide are reporting a surge in earnings as
they emerge from the worst slump in decades. Among Air France’s
biggest rivals, Deutsche Lufthansa AG of Germany tripled net
income in the quarter and  British Airways Plc  ended two years of
losses, while Delta Air Lines Inc., its U.S. partner in SkyTeam,
also swung to a profit from a loss.  Business Barrier  Still, some measures of fares and demand remain below the
high point before the credit crunch and recession, and Air
France and its peers will struggle to regain those heights, said
 Dan Solon  at consulting company Avmark International in London.  “I think this is probably where it’s going to get stuck,”
the analyst said. “Business travelers have got a number in
their heads for what a ticket to such and such costs, and the
industry will have a hell of a time budging upwards from that.”  Garuda is likely to make an announcement on joining SkyTeam
next week, Gourgeon said today at a briefing with analysts. The
Jakarta-based carrier’s CEO,  Emirsyah Satar , said in February
that it was in discussions about membership of the alliance.  India, Brazil  Air France-KLM is in talks with potential Indian and Saudi
Arabian recruits and is looking to bring in a Brazilian partner,
the CEO said. Jet Airways is the largest Indian carrier yet to
commit to an alliance, with Air India having agreed in 2007 to
join the Lufthansa-led Star grouping and Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. signing up to British Airways-led Oneworld in June.  Saudi Arabian Airlines is considering joining one of the
three main groups, the country’s national press agency reported
on Nov. 3, citing Director General  Khaled Abdullah Al Melhem .  In Brazil, Tam SA, the biggest airline and part of Star, is
being bought by Lan Airlines SA, of Chile, a Oneworld member.
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA, the No. 2, has no immediate
alliance plans, finance chief  Leonardo Pereira  said on Sept. 30.  In Europe, Gourgeon said Air France-KLM is moving forward
with a plan to better compete with discount carriers Ryanair
Holdings Plc and EasyJet Plc by establishing a unit next summer
with 40 planes split between four cities in southern France.  ‘Project Base’ will seek to reduce costs by improving
aircraft utilization, accelerating turnaround times for Airbus
SAS A320-series jets, using only two crew per plane a day and
introducing remuneration rules based on “days on.”  There will be no change to the in-flight product, branding
or pricing, the CEO said at presentation in Paris today.  Higher Yields  While capacity will grow about 7 percent next summer, aided
by more Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos, the move is mainly intended
to restore seats eliminated during the economic slump and
represents “a recovery, not an increase,” Gourgeon said.  Demand remains “very strong,” with a clear improvement in
premium traffic as corporate travel rebounds,  Peter Hartman , CEO
of Dutch division KLM, said yesterday in Paris. Unit revenues or
yields increased by about 18 percent in the quarter.  Air France-KLM reported a quarterly operating profit of 576
million euros, snapping seven straight deficits. It had failed
to achieve positive earnings at that level in the three months
through June after the eruption of an Icelandic volcano closed
European airspace at a cost of 158 million euros.  The carrier posted fiscal first quarter net income of 736
million euros only after a 1.03 billion-euro gain from the sale
of a stake in the Amadeus IT Holding SA flight-booking system.  After achieving 287 million euros of cost cuts in the first
half the group has raised its full-year target by 10 million
euros to 540 million euros. Operating expenses fell 0.7 percent
in the half, excluding the impact of currency fluctuations and
fuel costs, which rose 21 percent as hedging had a negative
impact of 230 million euros.  Airline earnings will peak at $8.9 billion this year before
falling to $5.3 billion in 2011 as austerity measures and slower
growth curb demand and capacity increases hurt pricing power,
the  International Air Transport Association  said Sept. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  