-- U.K. Stocks Rise Most in Two Weeks; SABMiller, BA Lead Advance
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-11-18T17:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/halfords-investec-national-grid-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks  climbed the most in two
weeks amid growing speculation that Ireland will accept a
European Union-led bailout to rescue its banks.  SABMiller Plc , the world’s second-biggest brewer by volume,
rallied 5.1 percent to a record after earnings topped analysts’
estimates.  British Airways Plc  climbed as larger rival Air
France-KLM Group lifted its profit forecast. QinetiQ Group Plc,
Britain’s former defense-research laboratory, soared 14 percent.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  rose 76.15, or 1.3 percent, to
5,768.71 at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London, the
biggest gain since Nov. 4. The FTSE All-Share Index climbed 1.3
percent. Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  surged 3.1 percent, the most in
four weeks, as central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said in an
interview with state broadcaster RTE that he expects the country
to ask for a bailout worth “tens of billions” of euros.  “Investors are feeling more confident as the crisis in
Ireland eases, but we have to remember that it’s not all over,”
said  Lippo Suominen , an investment strategist at Nordea Bank AB
in Helsinki. “Who will investors target next? Portugal? Still,
the overall, long-term outlook is still pretty nice, especially
as the U.S. outlook seems to be improving.”  EU, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank
officials today started to study the books of Irish banks
battered by the country’s property slump. Irish Finance Minister
 Brian Lenihan  said the government is prepared to ask for a
rescue package for its banks after talks conclude.  Debt Burdens  The FTSE 100 had fallen 3.1 percent from this year’s high
on Nov. 5 before today amid renewed concern that Europe’s
weakest economies will struggle to reduce their debt burdens and
speculation that China may take further steps to cool growth.  In the U.S., the index of leading indicators rose in
October for a fourth month on signs the Federal Reserve was
preparing to take additional action to spur growth. Other
reports showed fewer workers than forecast filed claims for
jobless benefits last week and manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded at the fastest pace this year in November.  SABMiller advanced 5.1 percent to 2,157 pence, the highest
price since it started trading in London in 1999. The maker of
Grolsch and Peroni beers said so-called adjusted earnings rose
19 percent to $1.47 billion in the first half from $1.24 billion
a year earlier. The average of 12 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was $1.37 billion.  BA, Air France  British Airways rose 4.4 percent to 272.9 pence, the
biggest gain in six weeks.  Air France , Europe’s largest airline,
posted a second straight quarterly profit and raised its
earnings target for the full year as a surge in Asian traffic
helped extend a rebound from last year’s recession.  Separately, BA won a U.K. appeal to block hundreds of air-
cargo customers from forming a group in a U.S.-style class-
action lawsuit over the carrier’s role in a price-fixing cartel.  QinetiQ  soared 14 percent to 112.5 pence, the biggest
increase in a year, after first-half profit beat analysts’
estimates. Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time items
advanced to 64.9 million pounds ($103 million), from 62.5
million pounds in the year-earlier period, the company reported.
Liberum Capital had predicted profit of 57 million pounds.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  gained 4.3 percent to 747.5
pence. The exchange struggling to wrest back trading from new
rivals said fiscal first-half net income rose 26 percent, buoyed
by listings and technology revenue.  Mining Companies  Basic-resources shares climbed as base metals rallied.  Rio
Tinto Group , the world’s third-biggest mining company, advanced
3.2 percent to 4,281.5 pence and  Xstrata Plc , the largest
exporter of coal, increased 2 percent to 1,338.5 pence.  Copper climbed for a second day in London as the dollar
weakened on the prospect of a bailout for Ireland.  Investec Plc , the South African private bank and wealth
manager, gained 1.4 percent to 507 pence after first-half net
income rose 38 percent to 247 million pounds. In addition,
Franklin Resources, owner of Franklin Templeton Global
Investors, agreed to buy Rensburg Fund Management Ltd. from
Investec for 45 million pounds.  Capita Group Plc , the company that administers the British
Broadcasting Corp.’s television licenses, tumbled 4.4 percent to
690 pence, the lowest price since September last year, after
saying U.K. government cuts are affecting sales. Capita said it
expects revenue growth for 2010 to be “modest.”  Intertek Group Plc sank 6.3 percent to 1,828 pence, the
biggest drop since 2008, as the inspection-services company
forecast the full-year profit margin will be “slightly below”
last year.  “We remain cautious on further growth acceleration due to
the uncertain effect of austerity  measures on economies in many
countries,” Chief Executive Officer  Wolfhart Hauser  said in a
statement today.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  