-- Anglo Irish Keeps Control of 232 Unsold Condos in NYC's Battery Park City
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-11-18T08:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/anglo-irish-keeps-control-of-232-unsold-condos-in-nyc-s-battery-park-city.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  kept control
of 232 unsold condominium units in Manhattan’s Battery Park City
with an $82.8 million bid in a foreclosure auction yesterday.  There were no other offers for the units at 225 Rector
Place, a failed project that the Dublin-based bank began to
foreclose on in February 2009. Anglo Irish won’t necessarily
hold onto the property, said Christopher Sullivan, a partner at
law firm Herrick, Feinstein LLP who is representing the company.  “Its options are to sell the bid to a third party or take
title and sell the property,” said Sullivan, whose firm is
based in New York.  Anglo Irish, seized by the Irish government in 2009 after
its real-estate loans soured, held the auction in an attempt to
recoup $135 million it is owed. The lender was entitled to offer
as much as that amount without having to commit any cash, a
practice known as a credit bid.  If Anglo Irish sells its bid, the buyer would take title to
the condos by the court-mandated closing date of Dec. 15,
Sullivan said. The assets include the unsold condos, a 114-space
parking garage and 2,000 square feet (186 square meters) of
commercial space.  While representatives from Stephen Ross’s Related Cos.
attended the auction, they didn’t make an offer.  Mitchell Karlan , a lawyer for New York-based Related, declined to comment
after the auction.  Manhattan Deals  Once Ireland’s biggest publicly traded lender to property
developers, Anglo Irish increased its U.S. loans sevenfold in
the four years through 2008 to 9.3 billion euros ($13 billion).
That was about 13 percent of its loans at the time, according to
financial reports.  In 2005, Anglo Irish loaned to properties in at least 14
U.S. cities, including Miami, Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles and
Washington, according to New York-based property research firm
 Real Capital Analytics Inc.  It backed at least $2.4 billion of
Manhattan real estate deals from 2005 to 2009. They include the
renovation of the Apthorp, a 12-story property built in 1906
with 163 apartments and a 117-car parking garage; the purchase
of a Ralph Lauren store on Madison Avenue and 72nd Street on the
Upper East Side; and a Holiday Inn on Lafayette Street in SoHo.  “There’s an internal debate within Ireland on whether to
sell everything now or manage it over the next couple of years
to maximize value,” said  Ben Thypin , an analyst at Real
Capital.  “The continued assumption of liabilities from failed banks
in Ireland is making creditors, namely the European Central
Bank, nervous,” Thypin said.  Ireland’s Bank Woes  Ireland is preparing to take a majority stake in Allied
Irish Banks Plc, the country’s second-largest bank. Allied Irish
and Ireland’s biggest lender, Bank of Ireland Plc, are becoming
increasingly reliant on the ECB for funding. ECB loans to banks
based in Ireland rose 7.3 percent to 130 billion euros in
October from the previous month, Ireland’s central bank said on
Nov. 1.  Steps taken to salvage Ireland’s banking system will widen
the deficit to 32 percent of gross domestic product in 2010.  When Anglo Irish initiated foreclosure proceedings at 225
Rector Place, the company said in court papers that developer
Yair Levy didn’t pay property taxes or contractors and failed to
“complete the work needed to make the project safe and
habitable.”  Levy, who turned the rental property into condominiums, has
sold 72 of the 304 units in the building, according to the suit.
No units have sold since foreclosure proceedings began, leaving
more than 75 percent of the apartments empty, said Sullivan, the
Anglo Irish attorney.  Fraud Allegations  Rex Whitehorn, an attorney representing Levy and his
company YL Rector Street LLC, didn’t return calls seeking
comment.  New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  filed a lawsuit in
June against Levy and his company, accusing them of defrauding
purchasers at the Rector development by “raiding” a $7.4
million reserve fund meant to be used for repairs and building
improvements, according to a  statement  issued by the Attorney
General’s office. A review of the project’s financial records by
Cuomo’s office found that Levy used reserve fund money for
personal and general business expenses, including making credit
card payments and writing checks to himself and relatives.  Anglo Irish appointed a receiver to manage the building
until a new sponsor takes title to the unsold units. The bank
advanced “several millions” to the receiver to fix safety
hazards such as exposed walls and wiring and to complete some of
the amenities, Sullivan said.  “That money will never be recovered by the bank through
the sale of the property,” Sullivan said.  The case is Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Limited v. YL Rector
Street LLC, et al, No. 101796/2009, New York Supreme Court,
Manhattan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 