-- Annaly's New Units Target `Left Out' Mortgage Lenders and Their Securities
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-17T16:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/annaly-s-new-unit-targets-left-out-mortgage-lenders-and-their-securities.html
Annaly Capital Management Inc. ’s
plan to start lending to mortgage bankers will allow it to
finance those “left out” of a market more dominated by the
biggest companies than in the past and provide new sources of
bonds to buy, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Farrell  said.  The company, the largest  real estate investment trust  that
invests in mortgage bonds, said in a statement yesterday it had
formed a new unit, Shannon Funding LLC, that will provide so-
called warehouse loans to home lenders. The New York-based REIT
is targeting $100 million to $200 million of credit lines next
quarter and about $1 billion by late 2011, Farrell said today.  Annaly joins mortgage-debt investors and brokers including
Redwood Trust Inc., BlackRock Inc. and Gleacher & Co. in seeking
to take advantage of retreats in the home-lending market created
by a jump in  homeowner defaults . Warehouse lending, a “loss-
leader” during the housing boom, can now be a profitable
business, a Wunderlich Securities Inc. analyst said. Annaly
hopes it will also help it acquire securities, Farrell said.  “The smaller to middle-market mortgage originators have
been left out,” Farrell said in a telephone interview. “The
capital we can provide to them will allow us to develop
relationships over time” that may help fill “our huge buy need
every month” created by mortgage bonds it holds paying down.  Those securities created by customers probably would
initially be government-backed mortgage bonds with specific loan
characteristics such as properties in certain states, he said.
Eventually they may include other residential- and commercial-
mortgage debt that two other REITs it manages,  Chimera
Investment Corp.  and  CreXus Investment Corp. , focus on, he said.  Warehouse Loans  Outstanding warehouse-line commitments, used by mortgage
bankers to fund new loans and hold the debt until sales,
declined to about $27 billion on June 30 from more than $200
billion in 2007, according to data from newsletter  National
Mortgage News  and trade group Mortgage Bankers Association.  Wells Fargo & Co., Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  accounted for almost 57 percent of new mortgages in the
first half of this year, according to industry publication
 Inside Mortgage Finance . In 2006, the top three lenders,
Countrywide Financial Corp., Wells Fargo and Washington Mutual
Inc., accounted for 35.4 percent. Bank of America purchased
Countrywide and JPMorgan acquired Washington Mutual assets and
liabilities in 2008.  ‘Well-Timed’  The new unit is “well-timed and a welcome addition to the
options available to originators,”  Merrill Ross , an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities in Baltimore, wrote today in a report. She
rates the company’s  shares , which have returned 13.8 percent
this year through yesterday assuming reinvested dividends, a
“buy.”  “Under current conditions, the concentration of
competitors and the lack of financing available to smaller
originators has created a pricing opportunity that could allow
Shannon to be profitable within a few quarters of operations,”
she said.  Shannon may focus on mortgage companies with between $5
million and $10 million of net worth, Farrell said. Earlier this
year, Annaly hired former Bank of Ireland Plc executives as part
of an initiative in which it plans to make corporate loans to
“middle-market” companies, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  