-- Manulife Says Rules Inhibit Deals, Lincoln Speculation ‘Insane’
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-11-18T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/manulife-s-bell-says-speculation-of-lincoln-national-takeover-is-insane-.html
Manulife Financial Corp. , the
Canadian insurer that bought John Hancock Financial for $13.9
billion in 2004, said uncertainty about increased regulation is
stifling mergers and acquisitions in the industry.  “This would be a very, very difficult time for us to go to
the market or even go to our board and say, ‘Hey we’ve got this
great idea, we want to spend $7 billion,’” Chief Financial
Officer  Michael Bell  said yesterday at a conference in New York.
Deals are hampered by “all this damn uncertainty, uncertainty
around the capital standards, uncertainty in the financial
markets, uncertainty in terms of the accounting standards.”  Financial firms are facing greater regulatory scrutiny as
lawmakers write rules to prevent a repeat of the 2008 crisis.
Manulife, which Bell said is “looking at everything” available
to acquire, hasn’t spent more than $500 million on an insurance
purchase in six years. Trading website Benzinga had reported
that Manulife, Canada’s biggest insurer, made a bid for  Lincoln
National Corp.   “That was an insane rumor,” Bell said. “It was such a
joke that we were going to buy Lincoln.”  The biggest deals in the insurance industry this year have
involved businesses outside the U.S. and Canada.  MetLife Inc. ,
the largest U.S. life insurer, spent $16.2 billion buying an
 American International Group Inc.  unit with operations from
Chile to Poland to Japan. AIG also sold a majority stake in a
Hong Kong-based unit for more than $20 billion in an initial
public offering.  Looking to Expand  Manulife Chief Executive Officer  Donald Guloien , who took
over at the Toronto-based insurer last year, is seeking to
expand in Asia and bought a stake in a Chinese wealth-management
joint venture in March. Guloien’s predecessor,  Dominic D’Alessandro , bought John Hancock to add U.S. business in what
was then the biggest acquisition by a Canadian company.  Manulife is the  worst-performing  stock on Canada’s S&P/TSX
Financials Index this year. Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Lincoln,
which repaid its U.S. bailout this year, slipped about 4 percent
on the New York Stock Exchange from Dec. 31 through yesterday.  The adoption of the Dodd-Frank Act in July set financial-
industry guidelines that regulators in the U.S. must implement.
MetLife CEO  Robert Henrikson  said at a conference of the
 American Council of Life Insurers  last month that the industry
so far been “very successful” at lobbying policy makers.
Still, “the game is only in the fourth quarter,” he said.  “We cannot afford to drop our focus,” Henrikson said at
the ACLI’s annual meeting in Baltimore. “The fourth quarter is
when the game is won and lost.”  More M&A  Manulife has said it’s in the midst of “repositioning”
its business mix and will discuss details of the plan during an
investor conference in Toronto tomorrow. The company expects
mergers and acquisitions in the industry to pick up as the new
rules become clear, Bell said.  “We’ll see some significant M&A in the next five years, in
particular in consolidation of the U.S. industry,” Bell said.
“Tougher capital standards will squeeze out some players” and
prompt some carriers to seek buyers, Bell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  