-- Apple Names Ex-Northrop CEO Sugar to Board in Role of Audit Panel Chairman
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-11-17T21:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/apple-names-former-northrop-ceo-sugar-as-director.html
Apple Inc.  named former  Northrop
Grumman Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Ron Sugar  as a director,
adding an aerospace-technology expert to a board that includes
leaders in retail, cosmetics, software and politics.  Sugar, 62, will serve as the board’s audit and finance
committee chairman, Cupertino, California-based Apple said today
in a statement. Sugar headed Northrop, the third-largest U.S.
military contractor, from 2003 until last year, helping the
company consolidate $26 billion in acquisitions.  He fills a vacancy created by the March death of  Jerome York , the former chief financial officer of Chrysler Corp. and
International Business Machines Corp. Sugar led Northrop during
a run-up in spending by the U.S. Defense Department and worked
on digesting deals the company had made in the previous 10
years. He also holds a doctorate in engineering from the
University of California, Los Angeles.  “Ron is an engineer at heart, who then became a very
successful business leader,” Apple CEO  Steve Jobs  said in the
statement. Sugar has been involved in the development of “some
very sophisticated technology.”  Sugar joined Northrop in 2001 after the Los Angeles-based
company  bought  Litton Industries. He became chairman and CEO in
2003, overseeing an almost 30 percent increase in sales.
Northrop’s products include nuclear-powered aircraft carriers
and unmanned Global Hawk spy planes.  ‘Deep Understanding’  Sugar also built up the company’s  information-technology
business , which makes command-and-control systems for the U.S.
military and systems for the health-care industry. The unit
reached $8.54 billion in sales last year, or 24 percent of the
company’s total revenue.  “Sugar presided over a rapid expansion of the company’s
information services business, so he has a deep understanding of
the technology and emerging market for such technology,” said
 Loren Thompson , a defense industry consultant and analyst at the
Lexington Institute in Arlington, Virginia.  Apple fell $1.09 to $300.50 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The stock has climbed 43 percent
this year.  The diversity of Apple’s board mirrors its expansion into a
range of markets. The company, now the world’s  largest
technology business  by market value, has grown from a computer
maker into a top producer of consumer electronics and phones.
Apple’s iPhone and iPad sales accounted for more than half its
revenue last quarter.  Seven Directors  The appointment expands the board to seven members,
including Jobs, Intuit Inc. Chairman  Bill Campbell , former U.S.
Vice President  Al Gore , Genentech Inc. Chairman  Arthur Levinson ,
J Crew Group Inc. Chairman and CEO  Mickey Drexler , and Avon
Products Inc. Chairman and CEO  Andrea Jung .  Sugar also serves on the boards of Northrop, Amgen Inc.,
Chevron Corp. and Air Lease Corp.  “I have always had enormous admiration for the people of
Apple,” Sugar said in the statement. “It is a special
privilege to serve on the board of such an amazing company.”  Corporate-governance advocates have complained that Jobs
has too much sway over a group of hand-picked directors. The
close-knit nature of the board may have affected the limited
disclosures about Jobs’s health in 2009, when he had a liver
transplant,  Jeffrey Sonnenfeld , a dean at Yale University’s
School of Management, said earlier this year.  Jung’s Rise  The  company  elevated Jung to co-lead director last
December, alleviating some of those concerns by giving a more
independent voice to the board, Sonnenfeld said. Levinson is the
other co-lead director.  The audit and finance committee is in charge of overseeing
the company’s financial statements provided to  shareholders , as
well as compliance with regulatory and public disclosure
requirements. Sugar’s finance experience includes serving as
chief financial officer at TRW Inc. in the 1990s. Other members
of the panel include Campbell, Levinson and Jung.  The board stood behind Jobs in 2006 after the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission began an investigation into
stock-option backdating. Jobs admitted to recommending some
favorable dates on options other than his own. A special board
committee led by Gore exonerated him of misconduct.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  