-- Applied Materials Reports Profit That Tops Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-11-17T23:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/applied-materials-profit-exceeds-estimates-as-chipmakers-order-machinery.html
Applied Materials Inc. , the world’s
largest producer of chipmaking equipment, said profit more than
tripled as semiconductor manufacturers ordered more machinery.  Fourth-quarter  net income  increased to $468 million, or 35
cents a share, from $137.9 million, or 10 cents, a year earlier,
the Santa Clara, California-based company said today in a
statement. Sales rose 89 percent to $2.89 billion. Analysts on
average projected profit of 31 cents and sales of $2.6 billion,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Foundries, which make products on behalf of chipmakers, are
ordering equipment to expand their output. Applied, whose
leading position in the machinery market makes it a bellwether
for demand in the chip industry, said new orders in the quarter
ended Oct. 31 more than doubled to $3.03 billion. The company
said consumer electronics demand is strong.  “We haven’t seen orders at this level for 10 years,” Chief
Financial Officer  George Davis  said in an interview after the
earnings were released. “We’re at a very strong point in the
cycle.”  Applied  was little changed at $12.34 in extended trading
after dropping 8 cents to $12.38 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have fallen 11 percent this
year.  “They’ve been pretty solid contributors to capital spending
this year,”  Patrick Ho , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Dallas, said, referring to the foundries. He recommends  buying 
Applied stock, and says he owns some shares. “It doesn’t look
like it’s going to slow down dramatically.”  First-Quarter Forecast  The company said in July that it’s giving up on an attempt
to break into a new part of the solar-panel equipment business
and will stop selling its SunFab lines, which use so-called
thin-film technology. Applied is cutting as many as 500 jobs
globally as part of the shutdown.  Applied said first-quarter revenue will drop 8 percent to
15 percent from the fourth quarter. That indicates sales of
about $2.45 billion to $2.66 billion, and compares with the
$2.65 billion average of analysts’ estimates.  Profit  excluding
some costs will be 30 cents to 34 cents a share, That compares
with the 33-cent average of  projections  compiled by Bloomberg.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Mike Splinter , Applied has
sought to reduce its reliance on the chip-equipment business. It
adapted some of its machinery to make semiconductors and flat-
panel displays for use in the production of solar panels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 