-- Ardian's Device Zaps Kidney Nerves to Reduce High Blood Pressure in Study
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-11-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ardian-s-device-zaps-kidney-nerves-to-reduce-high-blood-pressure-in-study.html
Ardian Inc ., the closely held
company developing hypertension therapies, reduced high blood
pressure with its device that used radio waves to destroy nerves
near the kidney, a novel therapy effective in patients who
didn’t respond well to other treatments.  In a study of 106 patients with  high blood pressure , those
who got the nerve-destroying procedure had their systolic blood
pressure drop to an average of 146/84 from a baseline of 178/96,
the researchers reported today at the  American Heart Association 
meeting in Chicago. The study also was published today in the
Lancet medical journal.  Ardian, based in Mountain View, California, received
approval from regulators in Europe to sell the device as a
 hypertension  treatment. The company plans to begin a 300-patient
trial in the U.S. in early 2011, said Andrew Cleeland, Ardian’s
chief executive officer, in an interview.  “These results are pretty dramatic,” said  Anthony DeMaria , editor-in-chief of the Journal of the American College
of Cardiology. “These are people in whom hypertension is hard
to control and often impossible. We have an intervention that
can substantially lower the blood pressure and in a substantial
minority even normalize it.”  Almost one-third of U.S. adults have high blood pressure,
also known as hypertension, which strains the heart and can
damage the arteries and organs. Medical guidelines recommend
keeping  blood pressure  about 120/80 millimeters of mercury, or
mmHg. The top number reflects the systolic pressure, measured
when the heart contracts. The bottom number is the diastolic
pressure, when the heart is filling with blood.  No Medications  Patients in the study hadn’t controlled their blood
pressure by medications or changes in diet and exercise habits,
said Murray Esler, one of the study’s researchers from Baker IDI
Heart and Diabetes Institute in Melbourne, Australia, in an
interview. Esler is a paid consultant to Ardian.  The findings need to be confirmed in larger studies to see
if the blood pressure benefit persists over time, Esler said.
The study found no serious side effects related to the device or
the procedure, he said.  The procedure uses a catheter, or a tiny wire, inserted
through the leg into an artery near the kidneys, Esler said. The
catheter emits high-frequency radiowaves to destroy nerves near
the kidney that have been linked to high blood pressure. The
procedure takes about 40 minutes for each kidney and requires a
one-night hospital stay, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  