-- Drop in Prices at Target Shows Need for Fed Asset Purchases: Chart of Day
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-11-17T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/target-third-quarter-profit-advances-23-on-credit-card-unit.html
Target Corp. , the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, posted a 23 percent increase in third-
quarter profit after earnings at its credit-card unit more than
doubled.  Net income  rose to $535 million, or 74 cents a share, in
the three months ended Oct. 30, from $436 million, or 58 cents,
a year earlier, the Minneapolis-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding a tax gain, profit was 68 cents a share,
matching the average of 20 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey .  Profit at the credit-card division grew to $130 million
from $60 million as bad-debt expenses fell. New fresh grocery
sections and a discount program started last month to spur sales
from Target’s highest-spending existing customers helped the
retailer boost sales during the economic recovery, outperforming
larger rival  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  in the U.S.  Target’s “business is evolving, and to keep earnings
growing they are going to have to get more and more people in
there to drive more volumes,” said  Brian Sozzi , a New York-
based analyst for Wall Street Strategies Inc. The groceries
helped boost transactions last quarter while reducing the
average amount of each purchase, said Sozzi, who recommends
holding the shares.  Target  gained  $2.08, or 3.9 percent, to $55.62 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange trading composite trading. The shares
have gained 15 percent this year.  Wal-Mart Sales  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said yesterday that
U.S. same-store sales, which exclude new stores, fell for a
sixth straight quarter as traffic sank from last year.  Target  has increased same-store sales in the past year,
including 1.6 percent growth in the third quarter. Such sales
are projected to grow 2 percent to 4 percent in the fourth
quarter, Chief Financial Officer  Douglas Scovanner  said on a
conference call with analysts.  “It’s fairly clear that Target’s customers are doing
better than Wal-Mart’s because Wal-Mart has more of those lower-
income customers,”  Neil Currie , an analyst for UBS Securities
LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, said before the results. He
recommends buying Target’s shares.  Total revenue grew 2.2 percent to $15.6 billion, meeting
the average estimate from analysts tracked by Bloomberg.  November Sales  The company reiterated its forecast for fourth-quarter
profit of $1.38 a share. Same-store sales increased in the
“mid-single digits” in the first two weeks of November,
Scovanner said.  “We’re very pleased with our financial performance and our
momentum as we begin the fourth quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  said on the call.  Target remodeled 340 of its 1,400 smaller general
merchandise stores this year with fresh food sections called
PFresh. Its more than 250 superstores already offer groceries.  The company expects to refurbish 380 outlets next year.
That would push the total to more than 800, adding as much as 2
percentage points to same-store sales, Scovanner said. PFresh
remodels added 0.9 percentage points to such sales in the third
quarter.  The credit unit generated $379 million in revenue during
the quarter, compared with $487 million a year ago. The company
increased profit by reducing write-offs and the amount of
delinquent accounts.  Target began offering holders of its debit or credit cards
5 percent off most purchases on Oct. 16 to increase usage. Tests
of the program showed the sales lift paid for the discounts and
may add a percentage point to same-store sales in the fourth
quarter, Scovanner said on Sept. 15. Purchases made with a
Target card accounted for 5.5 percent of sales during last
quarter, the same as a year earlier.  Wal-Mart said yesterday that third-quarter net income rose
9.3 percent to $3.44 billion, or 95 cents a share. Sales grew
7.9 percent abroad on a constant currency basis to offset a drop
of 1.3 percent in revenue from U.S. stores open at least a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  