-- Argentina's Paris Club Debt to be Resolved by Early 2011, Lorenzino Says
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-11-17T18:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/argentina-s-paris-club-debt-to-be-resolved-by-early-2011-lorenzino-says.html
Argentina wants to resolve
negotiations with the Paris Club group over defaulted debt
before April to help boost investment in South America’s second-
biggest economy, Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  said.  Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  will seek to agree on a
negotiating schedule with the Paris Club over about $6.7 billion
in defaulted debt in the first half of December, Lorenzino said
in an interview in Buenos Aires today. An accord would remove an
“obstacle” to investment in Argentina by companies in energy
and infrastructure, Lorenzino said.  “This would remove an obstacle for companies that want to
invest in the country, which is growing about  9 percent ,”
Lorenzino said, citing interest by companies in energy, roads
and infrastructure. “I’m optimistic that there is goodwill on
both sides” to resolve the debt, he said.  Foreign direct investment  in Argentina is among the lowest
in South America’s major economies, totaling $2.2 billion in the
first half of 2010 compared with $17.1 billion in Brazil, $8
billion in Chile, $4.1 billion in Colombia and $3.4 billion in
Peru, according to the Santiago-based United Nations Economic
Commission for Latin America.  The Paris Club is an informal association of creditors that
includes Germany, Japan and the U.S. The group met for the first
time in May 1956 to help resolve Argentine debt problems,
according to the organization’s website.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said Nov. 16 that
the Paris Club agreed to begin talks on the debt, which dates
back to the country’s 2001 financial crisis, without oversight
of the International Monetary Fund.  In 2008 her plan to pay the debt with central bank  reserves 
was abandoned after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the start of a global financial slowdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  