-- Harvard Bans Vuvuzelas for Its Season-Ending Football Game Against Yale
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/harvard-bans-vuvuzelas-for-season-ending-football-match-against-yale.html
The deafening drone of vuvuzelas
won’t be heard at the 127th football game between  Harvard
University  and  Yale University .  Harvard yesterday banned the plastic horns made popular
during June’s soccer World Cup in South Africa because of their
potential to distract and disturb players, band members and
fans. The season-ending game is scheduled to kick off at 12 p.m.
local time on Nov. 20 at Harvard Stadium in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  “Artificial noisemakers will not be permitted inside the
ticketed footprint of Harvard Stadium,” Tim Wheaton, Harvard’s
associate director of athletics, said in a statement.  Students, football players and band members from both
schools objected to the vuvuzelas because the blast reaches 127
decibels, compared with 100 decibels from a chainsaw, said
Elliot Eaton, a senior and drum major, conductor and musical
director for the  Yale Precision Marching Band .  “If you have thousands of students with vuvuzelas on both
sides of the stadium that is painful, that is miserable, that is
not effective for showing school spirit,” said Eaton.  Eaton and other band members expressed their concern about
the noise level to the Harvard administration. Eaton said he was
originally told that Harvard would allow the horns and reserve
the right to confiscate them if need be.  UEFA Ban  While soccer’s world governing body FIFA declined to ban
vuvuzelas during the World Cup, its European counterpart UEFA
said in September that the horns will be prohibited at its club
and international competitions.  “For the sake of the older alumni coming back to the game,
the bands of either team and the players themselves, Harvard
needs to do the right thing and ban vuvuzelas,” Yale junior
quarterback Patrick Witt said in an e-mail before the ban was
announced.  The horns became popular when Eric Cervini and Johnathon
Davis, both Harvard freshmen, started a “Silence Yale”
campaign last month. The friends sold their first order of 300
vuvuzelas almost immediately and, in conjunction with a few
upperclassmen, had sold more than 2,000 when the ban was
announced.  “We’re definitely going to work with the athletic
department here to see if there’s something we can work out,”
Cervini said in a telephone interview. “We’re going to try to
get a petition out from some of the football players and see if
we can prove that the athletes want them, and obviously a lot of
the spectators want them as well.”  700 Horns  In New Haven, Connecticut, Yale freshman Jonathan Desnick 
heard about the vuvuzelas on Harvard’s campus and bought 700 
blue horns to sell to Bulldogs fans. Desnick was joined in the 
endeavor by Yale’s Branford College Council, which has been 
selling the vuvuzelas since last week.  Cervini said that the Harvard undergraduate council on Nov.
15 passed a recommendation to the administration that the horns
be banned. Wheaton didn’t immediately return a voicemail seeking
details on Harvard’s decision to prohibit the horns.  “Even if we can’t bring them into the stadium, the biggest
part of the Harvard-Yale game, at least for the students there
is the tailgate,” said Cervini. “At least we’ll have them
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 