-- Asian Stocks, Commodities Drop as China Drafts Price Curbs; Won, Euro Fall
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-17T10:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/asian-stocks-decline-for-fourth-day-on-china-growth-ireland-debt-concerns.html
Asian  stocks  fell, sending the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to its biggest four-day slump since August,
as commodity shares sank after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
the cabinet is drafting plans to stem inflation.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-biggest mining company,
dropped 3.2 percent in Sydney after oil and metal prices sank in
New York.  Mitsubishi Corp. , Japan’s largest commodities trader,
retreated 0.6 percent in Tokyo.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. , a fashion
retailer that gets most of its sales in Europe, lost 2.7 percent
in Hong Kong amid concern Ireland’s debt crisis is worsening.
Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. tumbled 4.8 percent in
Seoul after brokerages cut their investment ratings.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.8 percent to 129.65 as
of 7:32 p.m. in Tokyo, with about twice as many stocks declining
as rising. The index is headed for its lowest close this month.  “China coming back with tightening talk is making the
market nervous again,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based
strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about
$85 billion. “All the fears are back over China going too far,
and what that will do to growth in the region. It’s giving
investors the excuse to lock in profits.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index retreated 2 percent, the most
since June 29, after three days of record trading, and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.9 percent.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.2 percent after
dropping as much as 1.1 percent earlier. South Korea’s Kospi
Index slipped 0.1 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
declined 1.6 percent. Bourses in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia,
India and Pakistan are closed for holidays.  Commodities Decline  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.4
percent today. The index decreased 1.6 percent yesterday in New
York, the most since Aug. 19, on concern about China and Ireland.  Energy and material companies slumped the most today among
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups. Rio Tinto
dropped 3.2 percent to A$83.69 in Sydney and  BHP Billiton Ltd. ,
the world’s largest mining company, fell 2.2 percent to A$43.47.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the nation’s largest oil
refiner, lost 2.9 percent to HK$7.17 in Hong Kong, and Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., part of the country’s biggest maker of the
metal, slid 3.2 percent to HK$7.01. Cnooc Ltd., China’s No. 1
offshore oil explorer, sank 2.7 percent to HK$16.48.  Crude oil for December delivery dropped 3 percent yesterday
in New York to $82.34 a barrel, the lowest settlement price
since Oct. 29. Copper futures for March delivery tumbled 4.9
percent yesterday, the biggest decrease since June 29. The
London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum plunged 6.3 percent yesterday.  China, Commodities  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said in comments broadcast last
night that the cabinet is drafting measures to counter overly
rapid price gains.  The People’s Bank of China in October raised its benchmark
interest rates for the first time since 2007 and last week
boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios by as much as one
percentage point, seeking to tame the fastest inflation in two
years. Consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent in October from a year
earlier, exceeding all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “There are worries demand will decrease on China’s
tightening policies,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager
in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “Pressure to sell
stocks, mainly commodity-related shares, will increase.”  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s second-biggest oil and
gas producer, lost 2.9 percent to A$40.95, and Paladin Energy
Ltd., which produces uranium in Africa, plunged 4.8 percent to
A$4.37 after being downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at
Paradigm Capital.  Mitsubishi Corp. lost 0.6 percent to 2,089 yen in Tokyo.
 Korea Zinc Co. , the world’s second-biggest zinc smelter,
decreased 2.9 percent to 289,500 won in Seoul.  Relative Gains, Valuations  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 8.5 percent this year
through yesterday amid signs a U.S. economic recovery was
regaining momentum and optimism that Europe’s debt crisis could
be contained. That compares with gains of 5.7 percent by the S&P
500 and 4.8 percent by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 14.4 times
estimated  earnings , compared with 13.9 times for the S&P 500 and
12 times for the Stoxx 600.  Esprit sank 2.7 percent to HK$40.30 in Hong Kong.  Billabong
International Ltd. , a surfwear maker with more than a fifth of
its sales in Europe, retreated 3.2 percent to A$8.10 in Sydney.  ‘Sovereign-Debt Risk’  Ireland is in talks with European and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would enable the
country to inject capital into its banks, said a European
official with direct knowledge of the talks.  “Sovereign-debt risks create added risk for financial
institutions who hold such debt, which in turn sees access to
credit become more difficult,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages
about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney.
“Further budget tightening in affected countries will tend to
delay the development of a more meaningful economic recovery.”  Hyundai Engineering tumbled 4.8 percent to 59,200 won in
Seoul. BNP Paribas SA cut its rating to “hold” from “buy”
and Hana Daetoo Securities Co. lowered its recommendation to
“neutral” from “buy” after Hyundai Group was named yesterday
as the preferred bidder for a stake in the builder.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 