-- Stocks, Euro Gain as Irish Aid Is Discussed; S&P 500 Pares Gain
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-18T00:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/asian-stocks-commodities-drop-as-china-drafts-price-curbs-won-euro-fall.html
Stocks in Europe rebounded from the
biggest drop in four months, the euro rose and Irish bonds
gained as government officials negotiated aid for the nation.
Oil fell a fourth straight day, the longest streak since
September, and U.S. stocks erased most of their advance.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 0.5 percent and the euro
climbed 0.3 percent to $1.3529. Irish bond yields fell 10 basis
points to 8.15 percent. Crude slumped 2.3 percent to $80.44. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced less than 0.1 percent as
NetApp Inc. joined Cisco Systems Inc. in spurring concern that
technology spending will slow. After the close, S&P 500 futures
rose 0.2 percent as of 7 p.m. in New York while stock indexes
fluctuated in early trading in Japan and Australia.  The European Union and International Monetary Fund will
start scanning the books of Ireland’s  banks  tomorrow in a
prelude to a possible aid package to stem Europe’s widening
fiscal crisis. U.S. government reports showed today that the
increase in consumer prices and housing starts trailed economist
forecasts, bolstering the Federal Reserve’s case that it needs
to buy Treasuries to spur growth.  “It’s a bit of a relief bounce,” said  Quincy Krosby ,
chief market strategist for Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential
Financial Inc., which oversees $690 billion. “Investors are
realizing that there will be a solution for the Irish situation
that won’t end up in global contagion.”  Seventh Day  Global stocks plunged for a seventh day yesterday, the
longest streak since January, and commodities slid amid concern
that the debt crisis in Ireland and Greece is worsening and that
China will act to slow its economy. U.S. Treasuries snapped a
two-day plunge and the dollar rallied. That concern eased today,
with the yield premium for Irish 10-year bonds narrowing to 554
basis points more than Germany debt with a similar maturity,
from 562 points yesterday.  Finance chiefs from the 16-country euro area said the joint
assessment will determine whether Ireland can fix the banking
system on its own or needs to fall back on the EU-IMF 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund.  Actelion Ltd.’s 9.1 percent surge led health-care stocks in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index higher after Amgen Inc. was said to
be considering a takeover offer. Roche Holding AG advanced 1.3
percent as the drugmaker announced a cost-reduction program.
Thales SA lost 4.2 percent after UBS AG downgraded Europe’s
biggest maker of defense electronics.  Euro, Yen  The dollar fell versus the euro and yen as weaker-than-
expected U.S. economic data reinforced speculation the Fed will
follow through on its plan to buy $600 billion in government
debt, debasing the currency. The U.S. currency declined against
12 of 16 most-traded counterparts as a government report showed
consumer prices excluding food and fuel had the lowest annual
increase on record and housing starts declined.  While the S&P 500, the benchmark measure of U.S. stocks,
broke a four-day losing streak, the index wiped out most of a
0.4 percent gain and almost posted a decline. NetApp
unexpectedly posted quarterly results on its website before U.S.
stock exchanges closed, forecasting less third-quarter profit
than analysts estimated, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NetApp, which makes data-storage products, plunged 6.5
percent. Cisco, the world’s biggest maker of networking
equipment, tumbled the most since 1994 on Nov. 11 after its
projection also trailed forecasts.  Target Corp. advanced 3.9 percent, rising for the first
time since Nov. 10. The second-biggest U.S. discount retailer
posted a 23 percent increase in third-quarter profit after
earnings at its credit-card unit more than doubled.  GM’s IPO  General Motors Co.  raised at least $20.1 billion selling
common and preferred shares in its initial public offering,
according to a company statement. Exercising an overallotment
option may push the share sale to as much as $23.1 billion.
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s  $22.1 billion  initial sale is
the largest IPO of common stock in history.  The offering brings Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson 
closer to his goal of returning the $49.5 billion GM received in
a taxpayer bailout last year. The Treasury, which is taking a
loss on its portion of the sale, will break even only if the
shares climb more than 60 percent, Bloomberg data shows.  China’s stocks fell for a second day, driving the benchmark
index to a 10 percent decline since Nov. 8 in what’s called a
correction, after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the cabinet is
drafting measures to curb inflation.  Chongqing Brewery Co. ,
partly owned by Carlsberg A/S, plunged by the 10 percent limit
on concern the government will prevent companies from passing on
rising costs to consumers. The  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped
1.9 percent to the lowest level in a month.  Cotton plunged by the exchange limit for a second straight
day on signs that demand is slowing after prices reached record
highs this month and China announced plans to slow growth to
limit inflation. Cotton for March delivery fell by ICE’s daily
limit of 6 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $1.232 a pound. That was
the lowest price for a most-active contract since Oct. 29.  Nickel prices jumped as much as 5.1 percent in London amid
concern there will be a military coup in Madagascar that will
delay supplies from the $4.65 billion Ambatovy mine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nick Baker  in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 