-- Massachusetts Companies Get Lion's Share of Contracts to Clean Up BP Spill
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/massachusetts-companies-get-lion-s-share-of-oil-spill-contracts.html
Massachusetts-based companies
received twice as much money in federal contracts stemming from
the BP Plc oil spill as the combined total of the five Gulf of
Mexico states where the oil washed up, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Rankings.  Contractors in the state, more than 1,500 miles from the
site of the April 20 explosion of BP’s Macondo well off the
Louisiana coast, collected at least $51.7 million through Nov.
1, about 28 percent of what the U.S. spent, information from the
 Federal Procurement Data System  shows.  Of the five states where businesses received the most
money, only Louisiana borders the Gulf. Its contracts totaled at
least $10.9 million. Combined with money for businesses in
Mississippi, Alabama, Texas and Florida, the Gulf states
received $25.3 million.  The disparity stems from agreements the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration has with damage-assessment
consultants based outside of the region, said  Chris Vaccaro , a
spokesman for the Commerce Department agency.  “The contracts are set up in advance to provide support
capabilities in response to emergency pollution events,”
Vaccaro said. “Their expertise is not simply transferable to
another firm in the Gulf region nor are the contract mechanisms
in place.”  The agency’s consultants include Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based  Industrial Economics Inc. , which has received at least
$47.5 million in spill-related contracts, all from NOAA, more
than any other company, the federal data shows.  Industrial Economics “is subcontracting with local firms
in the Gulf as much as possible,” Vaccaro said.  Boulder, Colorado-based  Stratus Consulting Inc. , another
NOAA consultant, received the second-largest amount of money
from the contracts, putting its home state in third place.  As of Nov. 1, $186.8 million in contracts had been awarded
by 14 government departments for products and services related
to the clean-up. Almost half, $90.5 million, came from NOAA. The
total may be larger because data from the Department of Defense
is subject to a 90-day delay.  A summary of the ranking by state and recipients is below.
For the complete results, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurie Meisler at   lmeisler@bloomberg.net  