-- Ireland Risks Bank Run, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-23T18:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/asset-purchases-needed-with-fed-failing-on-mandates-pimco-s-clarida-says.html
Ireland risks a “major bank run”
unless European officials act quickly to calm the financial
turmoil in the nation, Pacific Investment Management Co. Co-
Chief Investment Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian  said.  “The numbers so far have shown that the Irish banking
system has been bleeding deposits,” El-Erian said in Bloomberg
Radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“It will seriously undermine the prosperity of this country for
a generation. The first thing they must do is execute on what
they announced this weekend -- which is a big external aid
package and steps by the Irish government.”  Ireland’s government was forced on Nov. 21 into applying
for a bailout from the European Union and International Monetary
Fund, mainly due to concerns about the country’s banking system.
Lenders had become more reliant on emergency European Central
Bank funding after being frozen out of wholesale markets. The
amount of ECB loans to the country’s banks rose 7.3 percent to
130 billion euros in October from the previous month, Ireland’s
Central Bank said on Nov. 1. The data include both international
and domestic banks operating in Ireland.  Deposits in Irish banks “are safe” and the ECB
“continues to meet” the funding needs of the country’s banks,
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said today in Dublin. The central
bank reiterated that depositors have the reassurance that the
financial resources of European and international financial
institutions will be in place to support the banking system,
according to  Jill Forde , a spokeswoman for the bank in Dublin.  Irish Banks  Allied Irish Banks Plc, the country’s second-largest bank,
said Nov. 19 that its deposit deposits dropped by about 13
billion euros -- or 17 percent -- since the start of the year.  “They have issued numbers up to September where it ranges
from 5 to 14 percent in terms of the deposits that have exited
the system,” said El-Erian, a former IMF deputy director who
helps oversee the biggest manager of bond funds for Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco.  Bank of Ireland, the country’s largest lender, said Nov. 12
its loan-to-deposit ratio soared to 160 percent from 145 percent
at the end of June as corporate depositors pulled money from
late August to the end of September. Bank of Ireland said in an
analysts conference call that day that deposit outflows had
broadly stabilized.  Irish Life & Permanent Plc, the only domestic lender to
avoid a bailout so far, said on Nov. 17 its banking division’s
borrowings from the ECB, the lender of last resort, rose to 11.7
billion euros at the end of September, up from 8.1 billion euros
at the end of June.  Yields Rise  “What you advise your sister in Ireland now is that you’d
say take your money out of an Irish bank and put it in another
bank headquartered elsewhere,” El-Erian said. “That’s what
happened in Argentina and in emerging economies. People worry
about their savings.’  Irish 10-year bonds fell, sending the yield 31 basis points
higher to 8.61 percent in London. The extra yield investors
demand to hold the securities instead of German bunds widened 45
basis points to 589 basis points.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said the euro is in an
“exceptionally serious” situation after Ireland became the
second European country to need a rescue after Greece.  Rescue Package  “I don’t want to paint a dramatic picture, but I just want
to say that a year ago we couldn’t imagine the debate we had in
the spring and the measures we had to take” over Greece, Merkel
said in Berlin today. “We are facing an exceptionally serious
situation as far as the euro’s situation is concerned.”  European Union officials estimate that a rescue package for
Ireland may amount to about 85 billion euros ($114 billion), two
officials familiar with the talks said today.  The EU and IMF package has failed to damp speculation that
Portugal and Spain would need to tap the emergency fund set up
by the European Union and International Monetary Fund set up
after the Greece rescue. Moody’s Investors Service said a “
multi-notch” downgrade in Ireland’s Aa2 credit rating was
“most likely.”  The aid, which Irish officials said as recently as Nov. 15
they didn’t need, marks the latest blow to an economy that more
than doubled in the decade ending in 2006. The bursting of the
real-estate bubble in 2008 plunged the country into a recession
and brought its banks close to collapse. With Irish  bond yields 
near a record high, policy makers are trying to keep the crisis
from spreading.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer Allianz SE,
manages $1.236 trillion of assets as the world’s biggest manager
of  bond funds.   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net 
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  