-- Massey Says Acquisition Options to Be ‘Fully Vetted’
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2010-11-17T18:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/massey-chief-blankenship-says-acquisition-options-will-be-fully-vetted-.html
Massey Energy Co., owner of the West
Virginia mine where 29 people died in April, said merger and
acquisition options will be “fully vetted,” when its board
meets Nov. 21.  “The mine tragedy and volatility of the stock” has
intensified the MNA talk, Chief Executive Officer  Don Blankenship , 60, said at the Dahlman Rose & Co. Global Metals,
Mining & Materials Conference in New York. Merger and
acquisition options will be a “bullet point” for the board
meeting.  Massey has dropped 15 percent since the fatal blast, the
worst U.S. coal-mining disaster in 40 years. The stock rose 50
cents, or 1.1 percent, to $46.68 at 1:52 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  The mining company has been approached by steelmakers for
possible mergers, a situation that Blankenship said has been
“normal for quite some time.”  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. , the third-largest U.S. coal
company, is among those that have expressed interest in buying
Massey, two people with knowledge of the matter said.
 ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest steelmaker, has also
contacted Massey to express interest, according to one person.  Massey, the largest coal producer in Central Appalachia,
owns 2.8 billion tons of reserves, 1.3 billion of which are
metallurgical coal, used to produce steel. Benchmark prices for
that grade of coal have soared to $209 a metric ton for the
three-month contract ending Dec. 31, 62 percent higher than a
year earlier, driven by demand from China and India.  Blankenship said the company sees “fear” on the part of
its customers as they seek opportunities to establish a secure
supply of coal amid the rising prices.  Coal Market  Coal prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange gained 37
percent this year to $67.28 a ton as of Nov. 16, as the global
economy recovers from the most severe recession since the 1930s.  Massey’s directors could delay a decision on whether to put
the company up for sale, according to three people. The board
has ruled out taking Massey private at this time, the people
said.  Coal India Ltd. , the world’s largest coal producer, is
considering a Massey Energy mine for its first asset purchase in
the U.S., to help the state-run company meet demand from power
stations and steel mills, three people with direct knowledge of
the matter said last week.  “India may be a bigger player in the world” because they
lack metallurgical coal, Blankenship said.  Blankenship, who began his career with the company as an
office manager in 1982, is the board’s chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 