-- ASX Hires Goat-Farming Ex-Ministerial Aide to Sell Singapore Takeover Bid
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-17T06:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/asx-hires-goat-farming-ex-ministerial-aide-to-sell-singapore-takeover-bid.html
ASX Ltd. has hired a former adviser
to  Tony Abbott , Australia’s parliamentary opposition leader, to
lobby lawmakers in support of its takeover by Singapore Exchange
Ltd., three people familiar with the situation said.  David Gazard will seek to persuade lawmakers -- including
one who is his brother-in-law -- that the $7.9 billion bid
doesn’t hurt Australia’s national interests, according to the
people, who didn’t want to be named because Gazard’s appointment
is private. Gazard, who owns a goat farm near the nation’s
capital, Canberra, also worked as an adviser to former Prime
Minister  John Howard  and his Treasurer,  Peter Costello .  “We’re engaging with all stakeholders, including decision
makers in Canberra, and deploying resources to make sure we
brief the right people,” ASX’s spokesman  Matthew Gibbs  said in
a telephone interview from Sydney yesterday. Gibbs would not
confirm Gazard’s hire. The focus of ASX, which operates
Australia’s main bourse, is on submitting the merger proposal to
the Foreign Investment Review Board, he said.  Singapore Exchange, part owned by the city-state’s
government, requires the support of Australian Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s minority Labor government, which hasn’t decided
its stance, and at least four other legislators in the lower
house of parliament, to approve the cash-and-shares deal. The
bid was worth A$45.98 a share, or A$8.05 billion ($7.9 billion),
at the close of share trading in Singapore yesterday.  Proposed Merger  Opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  has cited national-
interest concerns over the agreement, while Australian Greens
member  Adam Bandt , the National Party’s Tony Crook and
independents  Andrew Wilkie  and  Bob Katter  have all said they’re
opposed to the proposed merger of Asia’s fifth- and eighth-
largest bourses.  In addition to FIRB approval, Singapore Exchange’s bid
faces scrutiny from the Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission, Reserve Bank of Australia, and Australian Securities
and Investments Commission, the nation’s financial-markets
regulator, as well as the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  One of the Gazard’s tasks will be to convince independents
including Katter, Wilkie,  Tony Windsor , and  Rob Oakeshott  of the
merits of the takeover. Oakeshott, who has said he will announce
his position after briefings, is Gazard’s brother-in-law.  Gazard, who failed in a bid to win a seat in parliament as
a Liberal Party of Australia candidate for Eden-Monaro in the
Aug. 21 federal election, wouldn’t comment on his role when
contacted. The lobbyist, who advised the opposition’s Abbott
while he was health minister, raises goats on the farm where he
lives, according to an  article  Gazard wrote in The Punch online
magazine.  Crime Reporter  Gazard advised Howard, Costello and Abbott while a
coalition of the Liberal and National parties was in power from
1996 to 2007. Afterwards, he set up a public relations company,
which is listed on the Australian Government  Register  of
Lobbyists as David Gazard & Associates.  Gazard, 45, also worked as a crime reporter in Canada,
according to the electioncandidates.com.au website. He is
married with three children, according to a candidate biography
on the Liberal Party’s website.  ASX’s Chief Executive  Robert Elstone  said told reporters
when announcing the takeover last month that the merger with SGX
was in the interests of both countries, and that the companies
were confident of winning regulators’ approval.  The takeover won’t compromise market regulation,  Malcolm Starr , ASX’s head of regulatory policy said last week in
response to a report in the Age newspaper that the country’s
Financial Services Council is concerned the deal may reduce the
fairness of listing rules.  Parliamentary Approval  SGX’s takeover will struggle to win parliamentary approval
unless the deal is supported by Australia’s two main political
parties, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said in a research note
dated today.  SGX’s Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  faced a revolt
from his own shareholders on Oct. 25 when he unveiled the
agreement to acquire ASX at twice the average premium for
financial services acquisitions in the past year.  Rising competition from electronic venues and investor
demands to cut trading costs have driven acquisitions among
global exchanges since January 2007, including Nasdaq Stock
Market Inc.’s takeover of OMX AB, which Bocker helped arrange as
the Stockholm-based operator’s CEO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 