-- AT&T Still Seeking Exclusive Devices as IPhone Deal's End Looms
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-17T18:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/at-t-seeking-exclusive-device-partnerships-as-iphone-deal-said-to-near-end.html
AT&T Inc. , the sole U.S. wireless
carrier for  Apple Inc.’s  iPhone, is looking for additional
exclusive partnerships with device manufacturers, as its iPhone
deal is said to end.  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. wireless company, will
start selling the iPhone early next year, two people familiar
with the company’s plans said in June. Exclusive partnerships
are still required for carriers,  Glenn Lurie , who’s responsible
for AT&T’s tablet devices and partnerships, said today in an
interview at a Morgan Stanley conference in Barcelona.  “I don’t think the era has gone at all, I believe that
exclusive relationships drive innovation,” Lurie said. “In my
space, I’m definitely still cutting deals that are exclusive.”  AT&T, based in Dallas, has had sole domain over the popular
touch-screen smartphone in the U.S. since its introduction in
2007. AT&T activated 5.2 million of the phones last quarter. The
company is also the only provider that lets owners of Apple’s
iPad connect directly to its mobile-phone network.  “We have a very good relationship with Apple, we’ve been
working together for multiple years and I assume that that will
continue,” Lurie said. When “you know it’s just you two
talking and they’re not going to be in your competitor’s office
the next day, you can get very deep into how you’re going to
deliver a better product.”  Lurie declined to comment on whether AT&T’s exclusive
iPhone deal will end.  Tablet Offerings  AT&T will also limit the number of different tablets it
sells in its own stores, Lurie said. “Until we understand the
full breadth of the demand, we’re going to have to pick a few,
put them in and see how they go.” National retailers including
 Best Buy Co . may sell a wider range of tablets, he said.  AT&T will begin selling Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy
tablet on Nov. 21, at least a week later than Verizon. The
Galaxy Tab device is designed to compete with the iPad, which
held 95 percent of the tablet computer market in the third
quarter, according to research firm Strategy Analytics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  