-- Audi Drives Into Super Bowl to Raise CEO's American Car Count
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-17T23:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/audi-drives-into-super-bowl-to-raise-ceo-s-american-automobile-deliveries.html
During an otherwise peaceful family
vacation driving along the California coast last August, Audi AG
Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Stadler  was displeased by what he
saw -- or more precisely, didn’t see -- on the streets of
America’s most affluent neighborhoods.  “I simply see too few vehicles with the four rings when I
am driving on the highways there,” Stadler says three months
later in his all-glass office overlooking  Audi ’s sprawling
headquarters in the Bavarian city of Ingolstadt, referring to
Audi’s iconic logo. “We still have work to do.”  That is a humbling realization for the brand that surpassed
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz in
luxury sales in western Europe last year. Audi is also the
luxury leader in China, where parent Volkswagen AG entered in
1985. Now, nearly two decades after its reputation in the U.S. 
took a hit over concerns its cars were subject to sudden 
acceleration, Audi is starting to gain traction in America,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Nov. 22 issue.  Even though the automaker’s U.S. sales still trail those of
BMW, Mercedes, and  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Lexus, Audi will sell
more than 100,000 vehicles in the world’s largest market for
luxury cars for the first time this year and the automaker aims
to double that figure by 2018.  Stadler needs a North American bounce to meet his ambitious
goal of leapfrogging his German rivals to become the world’s No.
1 maker of luxury cars by 2015. VW also is counting on Audi to
remain a profit driver: The division’s third-quarter return on
sales hit 11 percent, besting BMW’s automotive operating margin
of 8.1 percent and  Mercedes ’ 9.5 percent.  Adding Models  Stadler, who took charge four years ago, is spending 2
billion euros ($2.7 billion) annually to improve technology and
introduce new vehicles. Audi will add  six new models  in the next
five years, which could include a small auto, compact sport-
utility vehicle and a sports car. The carmaker is also laying
out millions to run quirky commercials during blockbuster events
like the Super Bowl and Academy Awards to stir up interest.  Some trendsetters have taken notice: Celebrity Audi drivers
include New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  and his
supermodel wife  Gisele Bundchen , as well as Taylor Lautner from
the “Twilight” films and Chace Crawford of TV’s “Gossip
Girl.”  “Audi has a young, hip image -- it’s attracting a lot of
young Hollywood types,” says  Rebecca Lindland , who tracks
luxury-car makers at researcher IHS Automotive in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “There’s a terrific amount of buzz about the
brand.”  Inauguration Sponsor  To boost Audi’s awareness in the U.S., the carmaker in 2009
sponsored the evening newscasts on ABC, CBS, and NBC on
President  Barack Obama ’s inauguration day by buying out all the
commercial time and showing a single ad for its A4 sedan.  Its Super Bowl commercial this year featured the “Green
Police,” who arrest people for using plastic bags and Styrofoam
cups. In the ad, an  Audi  A3 driver with a fuel-efficient diesel
engine, in turn, zips past environmental roadblocks. Traffic on
the brand’s U.S. website for the compact car jumped 300 percent
after the spot ran. The carmaker has also taken the unusual
tactic of showing rivals in its ads, referring to them as “old
luxury” while trumpeting Audi cars as “new luxury.”  “If you want to be a progressive brand, you have to be
controversial at times,” says sales and marketing chief  Peter Schwarzenbauer , who previously worked for Porsche SE and BMW in
North America.  Audi is expanding the model portfolio as well to fill in
lucrative niches with new cars such as the A7 Sportback, which
takes center stage at the L.A. auto show this week, and Q3
compact SUV. Both hit the U.S. next year.  Lower Sale Price  Still, Audi has a long way to go. Its U.S. sales through
October were 81,700 vehicles, less than half those at each of
its three main luxury rivals. Audi’s average U.S.  selling price 
in October of $45,185 trailed BMW’s $51,315 and Mercedes
$61,340, according to market researcher Edmunds.com.  The luxury carmaker also came in 12th in J.D. Power’s 2010
Initial Quality Study, based on responses from drivers three
months after receiving their vehicle, well behind  Mercedes-Benz 
and Lexus, who were third and fourth. BMW was 16th.  “A big challenge for them is just to make the vehicles
easier to operate,” said  David Sargent , vice president of
automotive research at J.D. Power & Associates in Troy,
Michigan. “It’s trying to strike a balance between having the
advanced technology in the vehicle that consumers are looking
for, and Audi has a lot of those people, and then trying to make
it intuitive.”  Quality Improvements  The challenge is also to improve quality, while continuing
to grow.  Audi  is looking at the possibility of adding a compact
line between the A1 and A3, another sports car and an SUV
smaller than the Q3 as it aims for 1.5 million in sales in 2015.
This year Audi forecasts record deliveries of 1.08 million.  Stadler, who says he walks onto the  production line  and
pulls off cars at random to see if they are up to snuff,
oversees the quality control department himself. He holds
conclaves with board members and other managers to dive into
problems that arise. Those sitting at the table are expected to
speak up.  “It doesn’t help if one always tells me the good side,”
Stadler said. “I want to know what’s not going well and what we
can do to make things better.”  Luxury Treatment  Schwarzenbauer says he aims to give buyers the luxury
treatment from the moment they set foot in a showroom. The
percentage of  Audi  dealers exclusively selling the brand in the
U.S. has increased to 82 percent from 35 percent five years ago.
U.S. dealers are also pouring $1 billion of their own money
through 2015 into improving and expanding sales floors.  “They’re making tremendous investments in dollars, time
and manpower to escalate the brand,” said Stephen Grossman,
managing director of an Audi dealership in Manhattan owned by
Open Road Auto Group. “It’s been a struggle with inventory.
Demand is much higher than supply.”  Audi’s lower rebates and special offers are a testament to
that high interest. Audi has chopped U.S. average incentives in
half since 2007 to just $995 last month, according to
Edmunds.com.  Mercedes  offered $3,712 in October, BMW $2,706 and
Lexus $2,607.  “You can’t be number one in the world without being
successful in the U.S.,” says Schwarzenbauer. “ Frank Sinatra ’s
line, ‘If you can make it here, you can make it anywhere,’ is
still valid for me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Ingolstadt, Germany, via 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Andreas Cremer  in Ingolstadt, Germany, via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 