-- Australian, New Zealand Gain After U.S. Data Reinforces Fed
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-11-17T18:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/aussie-dollar-near-two-week-low-on-european-debt-china-inflation-concerns.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars gained against the greenback as U.S. economic data
reinforced speculation the Federal Reserve will continue to buy
government debt, supporting demand for riskier assets.  The greenback weakened against the South Pacific currencies
after a government report showed core U.S. consumer prices had
the lowest annual increase on record, reinforcing bets the
central bank will follow through on quantitative easing. Gains
were limited as Chinese curbs to limit inflation may hurt
exports from the South Pacific nations. Stocks rose.  “The S&P bounced back quite sharply and that little rally
boosted the Aussie in correlation,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a
currency strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto. “Worse-
than-expected inflation data out of the U.S. means more
quantitative easing from the Federal Reserve, which means more
cheap money and additional support for risk assets.”  Australia’s currency traded at 97.99 U.S. cents at 1:06
p.m. in New York from 97.67 cents yesterday, when it touched
97.25 cents, the lowest level since Oct. 29. The currency
fetched 81.54 yen from 81.35 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to 77.02 U.S. cents
from 76.78 cents. It bought 64.11 yen from 63.94 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  rose 0.2 percent.  Consumer prices in the U.S. excluding food and fuel had the
lowest annual increase on record, increasing 0.6 percent in
October from a year earlier.  The gauge is favored by central bankers and the Federal
Reserve said Nov. 3 it would buy $600 billion in government debt
to spur growth and inflation, with the extra liquidity debasing
the currency.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the cabinet is drafting
anti-inflation measures, without elaborating beyond urging local
governments to ensure market supply and order. His comments at a
Guangzhou, Guangdong, supermarket were broadcast on state
television yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net 
 Allison Bennett   in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  