-- Australia’s Wage Growth Accelerates By Most in Almost Two Years
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-17T02:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/australia-wage-growth-gains-by-most-since-2008-as-economy-gathers-strength.html
Australian wages rose in the third
quarter by the most in almost two years, as the growth of
salaries in private industry outpaced government pay gains for
the first time since the start of the global financial crisis.  The wage price index, measuring hourly pay rates excluding
bonuses, climbed 1.1 percent from the second quarter, when it
rose 0.8 percent, the statistics bureau said today in Sydney.
That matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
22 economists. The index advanced 3.5 percent from a year
earlier.  The report on wages follows  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens’ decision Nov. 2 to end a five-month
pause in raising  interest rates  as he seeks to contain an
expected gain in inflation. Australia’s economy has added jobs
for eight straight months, and the government this month
predicted unemployment of about 5 percent will drop to 4.75
percent by mid-2011.  Today’s numbers “support the RBA’s ‘pre-emptive’ rate hike
this month,” said Amber Rabinov, a senior economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne. “The
acceleration in wages could be a little concerning for the
central bank given that it has occurred ahead of the expected
surge in the Australian economy from late next year.”  The Australian dollar was little changed, fetching 97.73
U.S. cents at 1:35 p.m. in Sydney from 97.54 cents just before
today’s report.  Private, Public  Private wages climbed 1.2 percent in the three months
through September, outpacing the 0.9 percent gain in the public
pay for the first time since the second quarter of 2008, today’s
report showed.  Employment in  Australia  rose by 29,700 jobs last month from
September, a government report last week showed, almost 50
percent more than the median forecast for a 20,000 increase in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Even so, the unemployment rate unexpectedly jumped to 5.4
percent last month from 5.1 percent as the pool of workers and
job seekers swelled to a record.  An index measuring the number of jobs available for skilled
workers fell 1 percent in November from October, a separate
government report today showed.  The RBA, in minutes released yesterday of its Nov. 2
meeting, said that while the labor market remained strong, other
evidence suggested it “might not be as tight as indicated by
the  unemployment rate .”  Rate Increases  Stevens boosted borrowing costs two weeks ago by a quarter
percentage point to counter an expected acceleration in
inflation as mining investment, job growth and overseas demand
propel the nation’s economy. He has increased the benchmark
lending rate seven times since October 2009 to 4.75 percent.  In the minutes of this month’s meeting, policy makers said
they “judged that the balance of risks had shifted to the point
where a modest tightening of monetary policy was prudent.”  A separate private report today showed annual growth in an
index of leading economic indicators slowed in September for a
sixth straight month. The gauge expanded at an annual rate of
4.6 percent, after gaining 5.8 percent in August, Westpac
Banking Corp. and the  Melbourne  Institute said in Sydney today.
The index fell to 270 points from 270.1 in August.  Today’s wage report showed hourly rates of pay at education
and training services increased 4.4 percent from a year earlier,
the biggest gain among the 18 industries surveyed by the
statistics bureau. Information, media and telecommunications
salaries rose the least, gaining 2.3 percent.  Traders are betting there’s almost no chance of a quarter
percentage point increase in the central bank’s benchmark rate
to 5 percent next month, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on interbank futures on the  Sydney Futures Exchange  before
today’s report.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  