-- Auto-Stock Rally Proves Well Timed for GM's IPO: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-17T16:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/automaker-stock-rally-proves-well-timed-for-gm-public-offer-chart-of-day.html
Auto stocks rallied worldwide at
just the right time for General Motors Co. to make one of the
world’s largest initial public offerings.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares an MSCI Inc.  index  of
automakers and auto-parts producers with the  MSCI World Index , a
benchmark for developed markets, since the latter began rallying
from a 12-year low in March 2009. Both were set to 100 when the
MSCI World hit bottom.  Since Sept. 1, the percentage-point gap between the auto-
industry gauge and the MSCI World has increased more than
sixfold. The differential as of yesterday’s close was about 25
points, the widest margin in the past 20 months.  GM boosted the size of its IPO by 31 percent today and
expanded a concurrent sale of convertible preferred shares by 33
percent. Investors had ordered more than seven times the amount
of common stock in the largest U.S.  automaker  than was
available, according to a person familiar with the deal.  “Anyone doing an IPO might want to use this as a case
study,”  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer of  Edmunds.com ,
an auto website, said today in a statement. “It’s so well
scripted.” Anwyl cited GM’s $2.16 billion profit for the third
quarter and plans to cut debt by $11 billion, among other
developments.  The IPO will total $22.7 billion, including $4.6 billion of
preferred, if the common shares are priced at the upper end of a
$32-to-$33 range and all the stock registered for sale is sold.
The amount would exceed the record $22.1 billion raised from
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s  initial sale in July.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  