-- Axis's Shikha Sharma to Announce `Strategic Initiative' in Mumbai Today
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-11-17T09:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/axis-s-shikha-sharma-to-announce-strategic-initiative-in-mumbai-today.html
Axis Bank Ltd.  Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer  Shikha Sharma  will hold a press briefing
in Mumbai today to announce a “significant strategic
initiative,” according to an e-mailed statement.  The lender, based in Mumbai, didn’t provide additional
details about the announcement it plans to make. Axis is ranked
No. 4 among banks in India by  market value , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Axis is likely to merge with the investment banking and
securities unit of Enam Securities Pvt. in an all-stock
transaction that may be valued at about 21 billion rupees ($463
million), ET Now reported earlier today, citing people that it
didn’t identify. Enam will own 3.5 percent of Axis, the
television channel reported.  The acquisition would be Axis Bank’s  first purchase  in the
financial services industry. ICICI Bank Ltd., ranked No. 2 among
the nation’s banks, bought smaller rival Bank of Rajasthan Ltd.,
based in northwest India, in August through a share swap in a
transaction worth as much as 23 billion rupees.  HDFC Bank Ltd., ranked third in India by capitalization,
bought regional lender Centurion Bank of Punjab Ltd. in July
2008 for 71.2 billion rupees in India’s biggest banking
acquisition, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Axis, which had previously sought to buy Global Trust Bank
Ltd. in January 2001 to create the nation’s largest non-state
lender, scrapped that transaction in April of that year after
allegations of manipulation in Global Trust shares.  Enam Securities Pvt., based in Mumbai, was founded in 1984
by Manek Bhanshali, Nemish Shah,  Vallabh Bhanshali  and Jagdish
Master, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  