-- Axis Bank, Enam Securities to Merge Investment Banking Operations in India
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-18T03:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/axis-subsidiary-to-merge-with-enam-units-sharma-says-update1-.html
Axis Bank Ltd. , India’s top-ranked
manager of debt sales, aims to bolster its equity underwriting
operations by merging the unit with Enam Securities Pvt. in a
transaction valued at about 20.7 billion rupees ($455 million).  Axis will swap 5.7 shares for each one of closely held Enam,
the Mumbai-based companies said in a joint statement yesterday.
Enam shareholders will get a 3.3 percent stake in Axis following
the transaction, and Enam’s  Manish Chokhani , 44, will be chief
executive officer of the entity to be created by the combination,
according to the release.  Axis’s  first  financial-services acquisition will combine
capital at India’s fourth-largest bank with the clients and
distribution network managed by Enam, said  Deven Choksey ,
CEO of K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.  Shikha Sharma , 51,
named CEO of Axis in April 2009, aims to expand its advisory
unit after share sales in India climbed to a record this year.  “The deal is a shot in the arm for Axis, which was looking
to expand: when you are becoming a global player, you need to
have a bank at the front-end and distribution for the back-
end,” said Choksey, whose Mumbai-based firm manages $125
million in assets. “It’s a win-win deal for both, as even Enam
needs funds from a bank base.”  Shares of Axis  rose 1.6 percent to 1,492 rupees as of 9:15
a.m. in Mumbai trading, extending their gains for the year to 50
percent. That compares with a 14 percent advance in India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index. Stock markets in India were closed
yesterday.  Underwriter Rankings  Enam is ranked third among equity-underwriters in India,
where share sales climbed to 1.02 trillion rupees this year,
surpassing 2007’s 782 billion rupees, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Axis is at No. 16, the data show. In mergers and
acquisitions, Enam is ranked No. 9 among advisers, while Axis
isn’t in the top 20.  Yet Axis has beaten local and overseas rivals including
HSBC Holdings Plc and ICICI Bank Ltd. in managing debt sales in
the nation this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Axis Bank is a powerhouse in several businesses like the
bond market, debt syndication market,”  Vallabh Bhansali , co-
founder and chairman of Enam, told reporters yesterday. “For us
to build a balance-sheet, we thought that combining forces would
be an extraordinary opportunity.”  Combining Businesses  Bhansali, 58, will be a director on Axis’s  board , the
companies said. The transaction would combine Axis’s investment
bank with Enam’s advisory service, as well as its institutional
and retail equities units and its non-banking finance company,
according to the statement. It won’t include Enam’s portfolio
management service and asset management units.  Macquarie Group Ltd. advised Axis on the transaction, while
 Anil Singhvi , vice chairman of Reliance Natural Resources Ltd.,
advised Enam.  Enam won’t compete with Axis in the businesses that will be
merged for five years, and will also license its brand to Axis
for two years, Sharma said yesterday.  Enam “complements the strong corporate banking and debt
capital market franchise of Axis Bank,” Sharma said. “Indian
banking is in a sweet spot as India’s economy is in a sweet spot:
Enam was a perfect fit and was too tempting not to consider.”  Axis is likely to merge with Enam’s investment banking and
securities unit in an all-stock transaction that may be valued
at about 21 billion rupees, ET Now reported yesterday before the
announcement, citing people that it didn’t identify.  Second-Largest Deal  The transaction may be the second-largest involving India’s
investment banks and securities firms, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Merrill Lynch & Co. spent $500 million in December 2005 to
buy control of its Indian venture DSP Merrill Lynch Ltd. from
its local partners, valuing that business at $1 billion.  Morgan Stanley paid $445 million in February 2007 for
Mumbai-based JM Financial Ltd.’s stake in a business that traded
in stocks for local and foreign institutions. At the same time,
JM Financial paid $20 million to buy out Morgan Stanley’s share
of that venture’s investment-bank, fixed-income and retail units.  “We are seeing a lot of small brokerages getting
consolidated as the business has come under pressure given the
competition from new entrants,” said  Gaurav Gupta , managing
director and head of Macquarie Capital Advisers India.
“Competition is driving down realizations.”  Axis’s larger rivals have made acquisitions in recent years
to add clients and outlets. ICICI Bank Ltd., ranked No. 2 among
the nation’s lenders, bought smaller rival Bank of Rajasthan
Ltd., based in northwest India, in August through a share swap
in a transaction worth as much as 23 billion rupees.  Biggest Banking Acquisition  HDFC Bank Ltd., ranked third in India by capitalization,
bought regional lender Centurion Bank of Punjab Ltd. in July
2008 for 71.2 billion rupees in India’s biggest banking
acquisition, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Axis, which had previously sought to buy Global Trust Bank
Ltd. in January 2001 to create the nation’s largest non-state
lender, scrapped that transaction in April of that year after
allegations of manipulation in Global Trust shares.  Enam Securities, based in Mumbai, was founded in 1984 by
Manek Bhanshali, Nemish Shah, Bhanshali  and Jagdish Master,
according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net  