-- Banks in Europe May Win EU Exemption From Basel Leverage Ratio
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-11-17T15:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/banks-in-europe-said-to-be-poised-to-escape-basel-rules-that-curtail-debt.html
Banks in Europe may escape global
rules designed to limit their debt, as several countries push
the European Union to drop a so-called leverage ratio, two
people close to the discussions said.  A majority of nations in the  27-country  EU oppose
introducing a binding leverage ratio that was adopted last week
by the  Group of 20  countries, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
The countries, including Sweden and France, say the ratio might
encourage banks to pursue risky activities, the people said.  “The leverage ratio as it is currently constructed is a
rather blunt instrument,”  Rob McIvor , a spokesman for the
Association for Financial Markets in Europe, said in a telephone
interview. “It does not take into account different
institutions’ business models or structures.”  The G-20 adopted measures proposed by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision, including the leverage ratio, to
increase the amount of capital that banks hold to protect
themselves from insolvency. The rules must be implemented by
individual countries or EU directives. The U.S. never
implemented a previous set of Basel rules.  The leverage ratio is a “key element” of the package
because it will act as a “safeguard” against attempts by banks
to get around other requirements linking the amount of capital
they must hold to the level of risk associated with their
assets, the Basel committee said  last month .  Limit Activities  Opponents of a leverage ratio say that by putting a limit
on the scale of banks’ activities, institutions may be tempted
to maximize returns by curtailing traditional lending in favor
of riskier activities.  “Rather than a one-size-fits-all approach, we can see some
benefits in a more sensitive implementation by appropriate
regulators,” McIvor said.  The ratio would require a bank to have Tier-1 capital
equivalent to 3 percent of its assets, preventing it from
accumulating assets worth more than 33 times its capital level.
The leverage ratio should, subject to final adjustments, be
introduced from Jan. 1, 2018, the Basel committee said.  Almost all EU states have said they oppose implementing
legislation that includes a binding leverage ratio, according to
the people. The countries are seeking a separate decision on the
issue in several years, following further analysis of the
financial effect.  ‘Lack of Sensitivity’  “The leverage ratio is unsuitable as a regulatory
instrument”, declared  Chris De Noose , managing director of the
 European Savings Banks Group , “due to its lack of sensitivity
to the specificities of the business models of the various
financial institutions and their riskiness and exposure to
market volatility.”  A binding leverage ratio probably leads to banks being
given the “wrong incentives,” Lars Hofer, a spokesman for the
 Association of German Banks , said. Banks could take “higher
risks in order to generate higher profits on a given number of
risk-weighted assets,” he said.  The U.K. is one of the few countries that supports
including a binding leverage ratio in the implementing measures,
according to the people.  The U.K. and French finance ministries weren’t immediately
able to comment today.  The Basel reforms can only come into force if nations adopt
them through legislation. The U.S. attracted criticism from EU
lawmakers by failing to implement a previous round of
international rules, known as Basel II.  The Basel Package  The  European Commission  has responsibility for preparing
measures to implement the Basel package in the EU and national
finance ministries have had preliminary talks on how to do it.  Most countries want the leverage ratio to be introduced in
the EU as a so-called pillar 2 measure, meaning that leverage
would be one of the indicators monitored by national banking
supervisors while not setting a binding limit.  The leverage ratio is one of the main changes introduced in
the updated Basel rules, known as Basel III. Others include the
creation of a minimum short-term liquidity requirement, which is
set to come into effect on Jan. 1, 2015, and a so-called net
stable funding ratio that addresses banks’ longer term liquidity
and is supposed to take effect on Jan. 1, 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 