-- Bankers’ Pay Should Be Subject to Clawbacks, IIF Says
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2010-11-17T18:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bankers-should-face-clawbacks-deferred-pay-to-manage-risk-iif-group-says.html
A banking organization whose members
include  Deutsche Bank AG , UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. said it’s
urging firms to impose deferred pay and clawback measures on
executives, as regulators consider requiring such steps.  The  Institute of International Finance , which represents
more than 400 banks worldwide, said today in a statement it’s
committed to aligning employee pay with risk-taking to make the
global financial system less prone to crisis. The board of the
IIF also includes heads of BNP Paribas SA and HSBC Holding Plc.  “As the bonus season approaches, the board felt that it
was important for the industry to demonstrate to the regulatory
community that banks are willing to do something about the wrong
incentives that led to the last crisis,” said  Charles Dallara ,
the IIF’s managing director, in an interview.  Governments and regulators around the world have come under
public pressure to rein in bankers’ pay after top executives
whose banks collapsed or required government bailouts walked
away with hundreds of millions of dollars of severance payments
or accumulated pay packages. The Financial Stability Board
published similar  standards  a year ago to more closely tie risks
with rewards, and leaders of the Group of 20 countries have said
they would adopt those measures as national rules.  “The question is whether it’s going to have a real
effect,” said Carola Frydman, who teaches finance at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s  Sloan School of
Management  in Cambridge, Massachusetts. “Usually what we’ve
seen with other regulations in the structure of pay is that
firms find a way around many of these different regulations.”  Taking Steps  The “vast majority” of firms have taken steps to meet the
FSB standards on aligning payout structures with long-term
performance, the IIF found in a September survey of members.
About 15 percent of firms have yet to fix significant gaps in
this area, according to the survey.  The FSB was set up by the G-20 last year to oversee the
work of groups setting international standards.  Morgan Stanley last year instituted clawbacks that allow
the New York-based bank to take back compensation if an employee
engages in conduct that hurts the firm in the years after it was
paid. Zurich-based UBS said in February that its net loss in
2009 would trigger a bonus clawback for the first time,
depriving bankers of 300 million Swiss francs ($303 million) of
deferred pay they were due to receive this year.  Deutsche Bank this year increased employees’ fixed pay, in
turn reducing bonus payments by an equal amount. The bank also
introduced clawbacks for 2009 bonuses in the event of losses.  The IIF will survey members after the year-end bonus season
to see whether they’re implementing policies set out by the
board, Dallara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 