-- Bank of England Split Three Ways as Officials Focused on Inflation Concern
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-17T09:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bank-of-england-split-three-ways-as-officials-focused-on-inflation-concern.html
The Bank of England’s Monetary
Policy Committee split three ways for a second month as some
officials became more concerned that Britain’s bout of inflation
will dislodge price expectations.  Adam Posen  kept up his demand to increase the 200 billion-
pound ($319 billion) stimulus plan by 50 billion pounds, while
 Andrew Sentance  voted to raise the  benchmark interest rate  for a
sixth month, according to minutes of the Nov. 4 decision
released by the central bank today in London.  “Some committee members were concerned that recent
inflation outturns and the higher near-term profile meant that
the risk to inflation expectations was somewhat greater than
previously thought,” the minutes said. “Overall, most members
felt that the balance of risks had not altered decisively and
that the right action at this meeting was to maintain the
current, highly expansionary, stance of monetary policy.”  Inflation accelerated to 3.2 percent in October, breaching
the government’s 3 percent upper limit and forcing Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  to write his fourth letter of
explanation to the Treasury this year. King said yesterday in
testimony to lawmakers that he still sees a “significant” risk
of undershooting the 2 percent inflation goal.  The pound rose more than 0.1 percent after the minutes, and
the release of data showing jobless benefit claims unexpectedly
fell in October. The currency traded at $1.5933 as of 9:34 a.m.
in London. The yield on the benchmark two-year government bond
fell 2 basis points today to 1.061 percent.  Range of Views  “There was a wider than usual range of views among
committee members over the likely effects on inflation” of
various factors, the minutes said.  Posen argued that the bank’s central growth forecast
“optimistically assumed only a limited impact of the planned
fiscal consolidation on consumption and the risks to growth lay
to the downside of that projection.”  Sentance kept up his call to start “gradually” raising
the interest rate from the current record low of 0.5 percent. He
wanted a 0.25 percentage point increase.  “Recent news had strengthened the case for altering policy
sooner rather than later,” the minutes cited him as saying.  Yesterday, King told the House of Lords Economic Affairs
Committee that the bank faces “a difficult balancing act.”  “We could do further quantitative easing if that turned
out to be necessary,” he said. If the bank’s judgment is wrong,
then “we will find ourselves in the position two years from now
where we will have seriously undershot the inflation target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Fraher  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  