-- Bank of Canada Says Documents Stolen From Carney's Car, Since Recovered
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-18T00:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bank-of-canada-says-documents-stolen-from-carney-s-car-since-recovered.html
The Bank of Canada said a bag of
documents was stolen from Governor  Mark Carney ’s unattended car
in Montreal on Nov. 1 after a thief smashed the window and
grabbed briefing notes and staff reports.  The travel bag has been recovered though it’s not clear if
all the documents are accounted for, said bank spokesman  Jeremy Harrison . The papers didn’t contain any market-moving
information and didn’t have government of Canada security
classifications, Harrison said today in Ottawa.  Carney was at a meeting in Montreal when someone smashed a
window of the locked car, Harrison said. He declined to comment
on where the staff driver was, citing a police investigation.
The central bank is reviewing its security procedures, he said.  “All employees are regularly made aware of the bank’s
guidelines for safeguarding sensitive information,” Harrison
said. “Drivers are expected to exercise sound judgment,
understand and use proper protocol and demonstrate security
awareness.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he knew of the theft
last week. Carney “is a victim of a crime,” Flaherty said
outside Parliament today.  Chisholm Pothier , Flaherty’s director of communications,
said it was unknown whether all the papers had been recovered
and referred inquiries about the status of the documents to the
central bank. Flaherty had earlier told reporters in Ottawa that
all the documents were recovered.  Thomas Mulcair , a lawmaker for the opposition New
Democratic Party, urged Carney to comment on the theft.  “It’s up to him to assume the responsibility and to
explain to all of us,” Mulcair told reporters in Ottawa. “He
was in Montreal doing important work and he was bringing those
documents with him; it was because they were important.”  Scott Brison , a lawmaker for the Liberal Party, said that
while there are concerns the documents could “fall into the
wrong hands,” the incident is not “the same as some other
breaches of security” given it was a theft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  