-- Bankrupt Vallejo, California, Weighs Five-Year Fiscal Plan to Restructure
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-11-17T14:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bankrupt-vallejo-california-weighs-five-year-fiscal-plan-to-restructure.html
The city manager of  Vallejo ,
 California , proposed a fiscal plan to help end the state’s
largest municipal bankruptcy since Orange County sought court
protection in 1994.  The five-year budget would help pay down $195 million in
unfunded pension obligations, trim payments for retiree health-
care premiums to $300 a month, curb benefits for new workers and
create a so-called rainy day fund.  The one-time Navy town of about 120,000 on the northern
edge of San Francisco Bay sought protection from creditors under
Chapter 9 of U.S. bankruptcy law in May 2008 after city unions
rejected salary cuts and the recession eroded tax revenue.
Chapter 9 allows municipalities to reorganize debt rather than
liquidate.  “The situation we find ourselves in is very bleak,” Phil
Batchelor, the interim city manager, told the council last
night.  About $50 million of debt is supported by the city’s
general fund, its main account. In May 2009, the city stopped
paying bondholders. Under the five-year plan, Vallejo would
defer principal payments until 2013, then resume paying bond
debt at the reduced level of about $1 million a year. Terms
remain under discussion with creditors.  A September 2034 bond the city issued in 2003 was trading
at 90 cents on the dollar Nov. 15 to yield an average 6.99
percent, acccording to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board 
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The city expects revenue of $65.5 million next fiscal year,
increasing to $68.2 million by 2015. Spending is projected to be
$66.4 million next year, rising to $67.6 million in the same
period.  Police Force Slashed  Vallejo slashed its police force to 90 this year from 155
officers in 2003, a decline of 42 percent that eliminated most
crime-prevention programs, according to Batchelor. The city’s
fire department shrank by the same degree and three fire
stations were closed.  The City Council will vote on the plan at a Nov. 30
meeting. If approved, the fiscal road map will be included in an
exit plan to be presented to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Michael McManus  in Sacramento by Jan. 18.  “The harsh reality is that this is a tough plan and we
will have significant opposition,”  Marc Levinson , a Sacramento-
based lawyer with Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP who’s
drafting the exit plan, told the council.  James Paul, a lawyer representing Vallejo’s retirees, said
he plans to file a challenge to the proposal to reduce retiree
health benefits.  Retiree Benefits  “The city promised to folks lifetime health benefits that
are fully paid for the retirees and their spouses,” Paul said
in an interview. “And $300 a month covers one person under
Social Security, and they are taking away by their own
admissions $100 million in future benefits.”  Trimming health-care premiums would eliminate about $100
million in general-fund debt obligations, according to the
proposal, which Batchelor drew up with Finance Director  Robert Stout . The city also would create a 5 percent “economic
contingency reserve,” or rainy-day fund, maintained separately
from funds available for operations, amounting to $3.4 million
in fiscal 2014-2015.  “While 5 percent is a barely minimal threshold to weather
the next economic cycle, or even a continued current downturn,
it affirms the first steps necessary to demonstrate fiscal
viability and to rebuild the trust of the city’s development,
grant and capital market partners,” Batchelor said in the plan.  Union Negotiations  Vallejo is negotiating with unionized city workers to
contribute more from their paycheck to finance their own
pensions. The city also is looking to reduce benefits for future
employees.  Vice Mayor Stephanie Gomes said she hadn’t decided whether
she’ll vote to adopt the plan later this month.  “It wouldn’t be my preferred vision and goal for our city,
where we want to be in five years,” Gomes said in an interview
during a break in the meeting. “It’s where we’ll be in five
years by spending what we have now and living within our
means.”  In 1996, the U.S. Navy shut down its  Mare Island  shipyard,
the service’s oldest West Coast base, dealing a blow to the
city’s economy. Home prices in Solano County, which encompasses
Vallejo, fell 26 percent in the year through March 2008, and
sank a further 6.8 percent from December 2008 through September
2009, according to market researcher  DataQuick Information
Systems .  Previous Bankruptcy  Before Vallejo, the last California municipality to seek
protection from creditors was Desert Hot Springs in 2001. The
city, about 110 miles (177 kilometers) east of Los Angeles, went
bankrupt because of a legal judgment it couldn’t afford to pay.  Orange County’s 1994 filing was the biggest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history. The county, with about 3.1 million
residents southeast of Los Angeles, entered court protection
after then-Treasurer  Robert Citron  made a wrong-way bet on
interest rates.  The case is In re City of Vallejo, 08-26813, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Vallejo at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 