-- Barloworld Growth to Come From Russia, Southern African Mining, CEO Says
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-17T15:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/barloworld-growth-to-come-from-russia-southern-african-mining-ceo-says.html
Barloworld Ltd. , the world’s largest
forklift dealer, expects emerging-market sales to eclipse
revenue from developed economies over the next three years,
bolstered by mining projects in Russia and Southern Africa.  Barloworld’s flagship equipment division, which supplies
 Caterpillar Inc.  mining machinery, “could double” sales after
Caterpillar’s $7.6 billion acquisition of Bucyrus International
Inc. earlier this week, Chief Executive Officer  Clive Thomson 
said in an interview from Johannesburg today.  The Bucyrus purchase will boost Barloworld’s product range
to cover “75 percent plus” of mining companies’ equipment
needs from about 25 percent now, he said. Barloworld delivers
machines to gold, diamond and coal mines in Russia and in
Mozambique, he said.  “It really is ground-breaking, it’s not just one or two
incremental product lines,” Thomson said. “It’s probably a
doubling of our opportunity into the future in terms of our
mining-equipment needs.”  Barloworld earlier today reported a loss of 7 million rand
($992,000) in the 12 months through September, compared with a
profit of 671 million rand a year earlier, as sales dropped 10
percent to 40.8 billion rand.  The company also said it agreed to pay $52 million for the
50 percent it doesn’t already own in Vostochnaya Technica, a
Russian dealership that sells Caterpillar equipment, according
to a separate statement.  Shares Jump  Barloworld had its biggest gain in about 10 years, climbing
5.06 rand, or 10 percent, to 55.26 rand at the 5 p.m. close on
the Johannesburg stock exchange. The stock has gained almost 23
percent this year.  The area in Russia that Barloworld supplies covers six time
zones and the total size of the area it is licensed to supply
Caterpillar equipment to is larger than “the U.S., Germany and
France together,” Thomson said. The region is rich in coal,
nickel, diamonds, gold and timber.  “On a three-year view we see a much stronger growth in our
business coming from southern Africa and Russia,” Thomson said.  Caterpillar plans to distribute the Bucyrus equipment
through its global distributors, which will give Barloworld an
opportunity to grow its mining-equipment product range to
include drag lines and shovels used in bulk mining, as well as
conveyor belt equipment, Thomson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 