-- Berlusconi Vows to Survive Confidence Vote in Pledge to Italy Bondholders
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-11-17T17:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/berlusconi-vows-to-survive-confidence-vote-in-pledge-to-italy-bondholders.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
vowed to survive a confidence vote in parliament next month and
ensure political stability to ward off possible investor concern
about Italy’s state debt.  Berlusconi said that if his government avoids falling in
the confidence vote, he will work “to guarantee the stability
that is absolutely essential for withstanding the crisis
situation that has still not passed” from financial markets,
Ansa news agency reported, citing comments he made to reporters
in Rome today.  The premier, 74, speaking as a fiscal crisis roils credit
markets in Europe, said he’s “keeping a low profile” out of
“concern to avoid government instability, given the state bonds
that we have to place on national and international markets.”  Berlusconi’s government will face confidence votes in both
houses of parliament on Dec. 14 that may topple his government
and lead to elections two years before his term ends. President
 Giorgio Napolitano  announced the timetable late yesterday after
meeting parliamentary leaders in Rome to discuss the country’s
political crisis.  Berlusconi’s grip on power has been slipping since
 Gianfranco Fini , co-founder of the ruling People of Liberty
party, broke with the premier in July. Fini this month demanded
that Berlusconi resign, and may have enough backers for his new
Future and Liberty for Italy party in the Chamber of Deputies to
deny Berlusconi a majority and bring down the government.  Unhelpful ‘Nervousness’  “This is no way to run a country,” Fiat SpA Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said yesterday in Los
Angeles after the announcement. “The lack of clarity creates
nervousness and the instability doesn’t help things.”  The political turmoil occurs as investors shun the debt of
the euro-region’s so-called peripheral nations on concern that
Ireland’s squabbling with the European Union over emergency aid
will spread the region’s debt crisis.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar-maturing German bunds rose 1.6 basis points
to 162.1 today. It surged to a euro-era record of 190 basis
points Nov. 12 on investor concern that Ireland may follow
Greece in seeking a bailout.  All the major political parties have said they are
committed to passing the Italian budget plan before voting on
the fate of the government. The Chamber of Deputies yesterday
began discussing the budget bill, which includes cuts totaling
13 billion euros to trim the deficit to 5 percent of gross
domestic product. The plan must also be approved in the Senate.  President’s Role  The collapse of Berlusconi’s government wouldn’t
necessarily lead to early elections or his exit from politics.
Before calling for a vote, Napolitano would first consult all
the parties to see if a new government could be formed, possibly
one led by Berlusconi. Even with his popularity at record low
levels, polls indicate that his coalition might still win re-
election.  Berlusconi said today he would prefer early elections
should his government fall. “I don’t think we can make it,” he
said when asked by reporters if he could win backing in
parliament to form a new government, Ansa reported. “We need a
solid government and we can’t count on those who don’t guarantee
total loyalty to the program promised to voters.”  Election Day  Defense Minister  Ignazio La Russa  told reporters in Rome
today that March 27 would be a possible date for elections,
echoing comments by Northern League leader  Umberto Bossi , a key
government ally.  Some in the opposition such as former Rome Mayor  Francesco Rutelli  have said that they want to avoid an early vote by
forming a “technocratic” government with a limited mandate to
push through reforms before returning to the ballot booth.  “What we need is to forge a consensus around a major
institutional figure” who could form a new government “to
jumpstart economic growth,” Rutelli, who heads the centrist Api
party, told SKY TG24 in an interview today.  Mario Draghi , the
governor of the Bank of Italy, “is definitely one of those
figures who could generate a broad consensus.”  While Berlusconi, 74, may have enough backing in the Senate
to win a confidence vote, Fini may have enough support in the
lower house to deny him a majority. The outcome became less
certain yesterday after  Giuseppe Angeli , a deputy who had joined
Fini’s ranks, announced he planned to return to the Berlusconi
group.  La Russa  also said he had received calls from three other
Fini backers who said they won’t vote against Berlusconi in a
parliamentary showdown.  Corruption Trials  The confidence votes may coincide with a decision by
Italy’s Constitutional Court set for Dec. 14 on the validity of
a law passed by the government granting Berlusconi and other top
officials immunity from prosecution while in office. If the
court rules against the premier, pending corruption trials
against him could resume.  Fini, who abandoned Berlusconi’s party after accusing the
premier of not permitting debate within the government, reached
a truce when he backed him in a confidence vote Sept. 29. The
reconciliation began to fray after media reports that Berlusconi
helped secure the release from police custody of a 17-year-old
nightclub dancer.  Berlusconi has denied pressuring the police and said he
only helped the girl after her release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  