-- Bernanke Briefs Senate Banking Committee on Fed's Asset-Purchase Program
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-17T17:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bernanke-said-to-brief-senate-banking-committee-on-latest-bond-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  met with Senate Banking Committee members on Capitol
Hill today, in what two congressional aides said was a briefing
on the Fed’s latest round of monetary stimulus.  The meeting started around noon and 10 senators, including
Republicans  Richard Shelby  of Alabama and  Bob Corker  of
Tennessee, were seen entering the committee room. The session
was held behind closed doors.  U.S. central bankers voted Nov. 3 to inject another $600
billion of reserves into the banking system through purchases of
U.S. Treasury debt in an effort to steer the economy away from
deflation and support growth. The second round of purchases
followed a previous $1.7 trillion program.  The move prompted a political backlash among Republicans.
Senator Corker and Representative  Mike Pence  of Indiana held a
joint press conference yesterday on their proposal to remove the
Fed’s full employment mandate and focus the central bank on
stable prices alone.  By “restraining the Fed and giving clarity to its mission
focused singularly on sound monetary policy, we can avoid future
short-term fixes that have long-term inflationary
consequences,” Pence said yesterday.  Economists such as  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , former
Congressional Budget Office director, and  John Taylor , a
Stanford University professor and former Treasury
Undersecretary, said the Fed program should be “discontinued”
in an open letter to Bernanke Nov. 15.  Inflation Data  The Fed chairman has the benefit of weak inflation data
today to explain his position.  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in October,
less than forecast by economists, after a 0.1 percent rise the
prior month, the Labor Department said today in Washington.  Excluding food and fuel, so-called core costs increased 0.6
percent from October 2009, the smallest gain on record. U.S.
housing starts fell 12 percent last month to a 519,000 annual
rate, the fewest since a record low reached in April 2009, the
Commerce Department said today.  Federal Reserve spokeswoman  Michelle Smith  declined to
comment. Sean Oblack, spokesman for the Senate Banking
Committee, wasn’t immediately available for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washingtont .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  