-- Bernanke's `Cheap Money' Stimulus Spurs Corporate Investment Outside U.S.
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2010-11-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bernanke-s-cheap-money-stimulus-spurs-corporate-investment-outside-u-s-.html
Southern Copper Corp. , a Phoenix-
based mining company that boasts some of the industry’s largest
copper reserves, plans to invest $800 million this year in
projects such as a new smelter and a more efficient natural-gas
furnace.  Such spending sounds like just what the Federal Reserve had
in mind in 2008 when it cut interest rates to near zero and
started buying $1.7 trillion in securities to spur job growth.
Yet Southern Copper, which raised $1.5 billion in an April debt
offering, will use that money at its mines in Mexico and Peru,
not the U.S., said  Juan Rebolledo , spokesman for parent Grupo
Mexico SAB de CV of Mexico City.  Southern Copper’s plans illustrate why the Fed’s second
round of bond buying may not reduce unemployment, which has
stalled near a  26-year high . Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his
colleagues appear to be fueling a foreign-investment surge,
underscoring the difficulty of stimulating the economy through
monetary policy with interest rates already near record lows.  “You’re seeing leakage from quantitative easing,” said
 Stephen Wood , chief market strategist for Russell Investments in
New York, which has $140 billion under management. “That
leakage is going into emerging markets, commodity-based
economies, commodities themselves and non-U.S. opportunities.”  U.S. corporations have issued more than $1.07 trillion in
debt so far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Foreign companies also are tapping U.S. markets for cheap cash,
selling $605.9 billion in debt through Nov. 15 compared with
$371.8 billion for all of 2007, before the Fed  cut  the overnight
bank-lending rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Korea, Chinese Companies  Sinochem Group, the Beijing-based petroleum, fertilizer and
chemicals producer, sold $2 billion of 10- and 30-year bonds on
Nov. 4. Two days earlier, state-owned  Korea National Oil Corp. ,
based south of Seoul in Gyeonggi, sold $700 million of five-year
senior unsecured notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Corporate cash sloshing across U.S. borders is an
unavoidable consequence of the Fed’s low-rate strategy, Wood
said.  Export Development Canada , the government agency that
provides financing help for  Canadian exporters , last month
tapped the U.S. market for $1 billion in 1.25 percent notes.
Those funds also will be available to support companies’
domestic activities, following a two-year expansion of the
agency’s mission in 2009 to help businesses navigate the credit
crunch.  “I have begun to wonder if the monetary accommodation we
have already engineered might even be working in the wrong
places,”  Richard Fisher , president of the Federal Reserve Bank
of Dallas, said in an  Oct. 19 speech .  Falling Yields  Average yields on corporate bonds in the U.S. fell to 4.4
percent on Nov. 4, the lowest on record, from 10.6 percent two
years ago, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  Fisher said “far too many” large corporations told him
that “the most effective way to deploy cheap money raised in
the current bond markets or in the form of loans from banks,
beyond buying in stock or expanding dividends, is to invest it
abroad.” He didn’t name the companies.  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. , North America’s largest
iron-ore producer, said in March that it would use part of a
$400 million offering to repay debt associated with a Brazilian
mining project. The Cleveland-based company owns 30 percent of
the Amapa iron-ore mine in northern Brazil.  Finance Merger  PepsiCo Inc. , the world’s largest snack-food maker, raised
$4.25 billion in a four-part January debt offering to finance a
merger with its two largest bottlers. The Purchase, N.Y.,-based
multinational acquired the outstanding stock it didn’t already
own in  Pepsi Bottling Group Inc. , which has operations in the
U.S. and six other countries, and  PepsiAmericas Inc. , which in
2009 had more than 30 percent of its assets in Eastern Europe.  The deals were “primarily about strengthening our beverage
business in North America rather than overseas expansion,” said
 Jeff Dahncke , a Pepsico spokesman. Even so, the company plans to
invest some of this year’s anticipated $125 million to $150
million pretax savings from the transactions in “high-growth
emerging markets,” according to a March 1 press release.  U.S. corporations’ overseas investment in the first half of
2010 exceeded the amount that foreign firms spent in the U.S. on
factories and acquisitions at an annual rate of almost $220
billion, according to the Commerce Department. In the first half
of 2006, the last year before the financial crisis, the net flow
favored the U.S. at an annual rate of about $30 billion.  Outbound Investment  More than half of outbound investment this year landed in
Europe, Commerce data show. In April,  Valmont Industries Inc. ,
which manufactures light poles and communication towers, issued
$300 million in 10-year notes. The Omaha-based company said it
would use the proceeds to help fund its $439 million acquisition
of  Delta PLC , a London-based maker of similar products.  The acquisition would add “highly complementary businesses
to our existing businesses and significantly expand our
footprint outside the United States, in fast-growing Asian
markets and Australia’s strong, resource-driven economy,”
Valmont said in a regulatory filing.  Such capital flows may help the U.S. economy over time by
weakening the dollar and boosting exports, according to  Richard DeKaser , an economist with the Parthenon Group, a Boston-based
consulting firm.  “This is not unusual,” he said. “It’s not weird. It’s an
integral part of monetary policy.”  Matthew Slaughter , a management professor at Dartmouth
University’s Tuck School of Business in Hanover, N.H., agrees
that overseas investment may contribute to growth.  ‘Support or Complement’  “When U.S. companies expand abroad, that tends to support
or complement what they do in the U.S.,” said Slaughter, who
served on the  White House Council of Economic Advisers  from 2005
until 2007.  “Our focus is on domestic policy,”  Eric Rosengren ,
president of the Boston Fed, said in a Nov. 16 interview.
“Maybe on the margins, some companies are going to borrow in
the United States and decide to invest elsewhere, but I’m not
sure that would be my primary concern.”  There’s no mystery behind corporations’ interest in foreign
markets. As the U.S. struggles to recover from the deepest
recession since World War II, business prospects in other
countries are brighter. The International Monetary Fund predicts
the U.S. economy will grow at an  annual rate  of 2.3 percent next
year, compared with 9.6 percent in China, 8.4 percent in India
and 6 percent in Chile.  ‘We’re Excited’  Dell Inc. , the world’s third-largest maker of personal
computers, said in August that second-quarter revenue from the
four so-called BRIC countries -- Brazil, China, India and Russia
-- rose 52 percent, compared with a 22 percent overall increase.
The company anticipates spending more than $100 billion in China
during the next decade, and “we’re excited about our strategic
investments” there, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  said
Sept. 16.  Plans include building a manufacturing and customer-support
center in Chengdu, China, and expanding Dell’s existing
operation in Xiamen, the company said. The Chengdu site,
scheduled to open in 2011, could grow to 3,000 workers, and as
many as 500 jobs may be added in the Xiamen office.  Nine days before announcing the Chinese expansion, Dell
sold $1.5 billion in 3-, 5- and 30-year notes. In regulatory
filings, the Round Rock, Texas-based company said it planned to
use the proceeds for “capital expenditures, advancements to or
investments in our subsidiaries, and acquisitions of companies
and assets.”  Company spokesman  David Frink  said none of the proceeds
would be spent on the new Chinese facility.  “We don’t have plans to use the cash outside the U.S.,”
he said.  Growth Opportunities  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. , the biggest U.S. toolmaker,
also is emphasizing growth opportunities overseas. In August,
the company raised $400 million in 30-year bonds and said it
would use the proceeds to reduce debt and for general corporate
purposes. Stanley declined to elaborate, spokesman Tim Perra
said.  Chief Financial Officer  Donald Allan  told an investor
conference Aug. 31 the New Britain, Connecticut-based company
would build its security business through mergers and
acquisitions in Europe and Asia and saw a “great geographic
expansion opportunity” in Latin America.  Issuers aren’t required to disclose where they plan to
spend the proceeds from such sales.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the
world’s largest retailer, raised $5 billion last month and said
it would use the money to pay off existing short-term debt and
for general corporate purposes. A spokesman for the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company didn’t respond to an e-mailed question
about planned investment locations.  Refinancing, Reinvesting  Tim Hoyle , vice president for research at Haverford
Investments in Radnor, Pa., which manages $6 billion, said Wal-
Mart is among several corporations he follows that are
refinancing existing debt and reinvesting the proceeds.  “In Wal-Mart’s case, all of the reinvestment is happening
in overseas markets,” he said.  That phenomenon illustrates the challenge confronting
Bernanke.  “All the Fed can do is  create liquidity ,” Hoyle said.
“What Fisher is saying is correct: The Fed has no control over
how that liquidity is used.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David J. Lynch  in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  