-- Bettencourt Ordered to Undergo Medical Exam in Legal Battle With Daughter
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-17T18:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bettencourt-ordered-to-undergo-medical-exam-in-legal-battle-with-daughter.html
L’Oreal SA  heiress  Liliane Bettencourt  was ordered to undergo a medical exam to determine
whether she is mentally fit in a long-running court battle with
her daughter.  A family court declared the application by her daughter,
Francoise Bettencourt-Meyers, admissible and gave a three-doctor
panel three months to submit a report, said Nicolas Huc-Morel, a
lawyer for Meyers. Bettencourt will appeal the decision, her
spokeswoman said.  “Madame Bettencourt is as free today as she was yesterday
and will not submit to the exam,” said Marion Bougeard,
Bettencourt’s spokeswoman. “Francoise Bettencourt-Meyers has
not gotten any further along than she was yesterday.”  This is Meyers’ third request for a guardian for her 88-
year-old mother. The two are engaged in a dispute concerning 1
billion-euros ($1.4 billion) worth of gifts granted to
photographer and author Francois-Marie Banier. Meyers claims
Banier abused her mother’s “frailty” to get gifts of art, real
estate and insurance policies, while Bettencourt insists she was
fully aware of what she was doing when making the awards.  Bettencourt filed a harassment complaint against her
daughter after the latest request for a guardian. The doctors
don’t have the power to force her to undergo an exam, Huc-Morel
said.  In a separate decision today, the Cour de Cassation,
France’s highest appeals court, ordered the transfer to Bordeaux
of multiple inquiries sparked by Meyers’s complaint, Agence
France-Presse said.  The probes include alleged campaign-finance law violations
related to President Nicolas Sarkozy’s 2007 election and
influence peddling by the former treasurer of Sarkozy’s
political party. The switch was prompted by in-fighting between
the prosecutor overseeing the related probes and the judge
hearing Meyers’s case, AFP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 