-- BlackRock Lobbies Fed to Avoid Designation as Systemically Important Firm
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-11-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/blackrock-lobbies-fed-to-avoid-designation-as-systemically-important-firm.html
BlackRock Inc. executives met with
Federal Reserve officials this month to explain why the world’s
largest money manager doesn’t pose enough risk to the financial
system to merit central bank supervision.  Robert Connolly , BlackRock’s general counsel, and vice
chairman  Barbara Novick , head lobbyist and one of the New York-
based firm’s co-founders, met Nov. 4 with seven Fed officials to
discuss the newly formed Financial Stability Oversight Council’s
authority to designate a firm “systemically important” and
liable to tougher oversight, according to a posting on the Fed’s
 website .  The oversight council, created by the Dodd-Frank financial
overhaul law passed in response to the global economic crisis of
2008, can recommend that the Fed strengthen rules to reduce risk
at banks and other financial companies. The group will decide
next year which, if any, money managers, mutual funds, hedge
funds, private-equity firms, insurers and other companies
deserve more monitoring because they pose a potential risk to
financial stability.  Connolly and Novick told Fed officials that “unlike a
bank, an asset-management company acts as an agent for its
clients and does not hold investment assets on its own balance
sheet,” according to the Fed website. “They also noted that
clients can and do replace asset managers, with minimal
switching costs, which could reduce the systemic-risk
consequences arising from an asset manager falling into
financial distress.”  Firms Lobbying  BlackRock, which manages $3.45 trillion in assets, is among
a group of financial firms and industry lobbyists who are
appealing to Fed officials about the Dodd-Frank requirements,
according to meeting summaries on the Fed website.  “If a bank fails, there are a whole lot of issues that are
systemically relevant in the economy,” Novick said in an
interview yesterday. “If an asset manager fails, there are a
line of people who are competitors to that asset manager in one
product or multiple products who can step into their shoes.”  The financial stability council is led by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and includes Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  On Oct. 14,  Gary Cohn , co-president of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., met with Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke  and other central
bank officials to raise concerns about “aggregating risk at
clearinghouses by requiring a much broader set of securities to
be cleared.”  Lazard Ltd. Meeting  On Nov. 2,  Michael Castellano , chief financial officer of
Lazard Ltd., and  Scott Hoffman , the merger adviser’s general
counsel, met with Fed General Counsel  Scott Alvarez  to discuss a
Dodd-Frank requirement that so-called securities holding
companies register with the Fed.  On Nov. 5, the Investment Company Institute, a Washington-
based lobby group for the mutual fund industry, told the council
in a letter that mutual funds pose little threat to the U.S.
financial system and should remain beyond the Fed’s reach.  BlackRock’s Novick and Connolly pursued a similar line of
persuasion in their meeting, according to the Fed website. While
asset-management firms conduct securities and derivatives
trades, “it is typically the individual investment funds,
acting on behalf of clients, which enter into trades, not the
asset-management company,” the BlackRock executives told Fed
officials.  The executives added that “this business practice can
reduce the interconnectedness between an asset-management
company and other systemically important financial firms.”  Fed Declines Comment  Fed officials attending the meeting included associate
general counsel Kieran Fallon;  Michael Gibson  and Diana Hancock,
directors in the research and statistics division; and
economists in the financial studies and flow of funds sections.
Fed spokeswoman Barbara Hagenbaugh declined to comment on the
meeting.  U.S. bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets -- about 35 in all, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., Bank
of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and  Goldman Sachs  -- will
automatically be designated systemically important.  Geithner said Sept. 30 that bailed-out insurer American
International Group Inc. and GE Capital, General Electric Co.’s
finance arm, could be considered for increased supervision
because Dodd-Frank imposes stricter oversight on entities “that
are banks in all but name, whether you call them investment
banks, or AIG, or GE Capital.” Such firms may be forced to
“run with a much more conservative, prudent leverage and
funding mix,” Geithner said.  The council will meet again Nov. 23.  It held its first meeting Oct. 1 and opened a 30-day public
comment period on designating firms for increased supervision.
The group also requested comments on implementing the so-called
Volcker rule that bars bank holding companies from trading for
their own accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  