-- BMW Chief Sees Big-Engine Demand Rising as Chinese Drivers Step Up a Gear
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-11-17T14:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bmw-chief-says-big-engine-demand-to-rise-as-chinese-seek-power.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest maker of luxury cars, anticipates increased
demand for eight- and 12-cylinder engines as Chinese consumers
switch to autos with more power.  “Sales of large vehicles will grow,” Chief Executive
Officer  Norbert Reithofer  told journalists today. “It would be
a mistake for the viability of this company, if we wouldn’t
offer eight- and 12-cylinder engines.”  Chinese customers are likely to trade up over the next five
years, while U.S. and European purchasers aren’t likely to start
buying smaller cars, Reithofer said at a briefing near BMW’s
Munich headquarters.  While maintaining powerful engines,  BMW  is also developing
an electric-powered city car and expanding its range of compact
models to protect the viability of lucrative 5- and 7-Series
sedans as regulators tighten environmental rules. The maker of
BMW, Mini, and Rolls-Royce vehicles is investing 530 million
euros ($716 million) on the battery-powered Megacity vehicle and
has spent 1.2 billion euros on fuel-saving technology.  Sales of six-cylinder  engines  will likely decline as turbo-
charged four-cylinder motors offer more performance while
burning less fuel, said Reithofer.  BMW is developing front-wheel drive vehicles for the
namesake brand and is planning to expand Mini with a coupe and
roadster to meet demand for smaller vehicles with lower carbon-
dioxide emissions. The  manufacturer  also plans to build the
Vision Efficient Dynamics hybrid sports car, which will combine
a three-cylinder engine with two electric motors.  Demand for vehicles from BMW’s M performance unit is also
rising, with sales of the $89,200 X6 version, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Munich via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 