-- Boehner Chosen by Republicans to Be Next House Speaker
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-11-17T20:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/boehner-chosen-by-republicans-to-be-next-speaker-of-u-s-house.html
House Republicans celebrated their
new majority in the next Congress and their leader  John Boehner ’s 61st birthday by nominating him today to serve as the
chamber’s next speaker.  Boehner’s formal election as speaker will take place in
early January when the new House convenes with a  Republican
majority  after the party’s net gain of at least 61 seats in the
Nov. 2 elections.  His designation as the next speaker caps a 20-year
congressional career and a comeback from an exile from
leadership after being on the fringes of a 1997 plot to depose
then-Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a Georgia Republican.  The Republican caucus met in a House office building named
for the late Speaker Nicholas Longworth, another Ohio Republican
whom Boehner frequently quotes. Boehner was chosen by voice
vote, according to his press secretary,  Michael Steel .  Eric Cantor , 47, of Virginia was chosen as the new majority
leader and  Kevin McCarthy , 45, of California was picked to
succeed Cantor as the Republican whip.  Candidate Recruitment  Boehner had put McCarthy in charge of recruiting candidates
to challenge Democrats in the midterm elections that gave
Republicans the House majority they had lost after the 2006
vote.  The  House Republican Conference , the formal name for the
caucus, picked  Jeb Hensarling , 53, of Texas as its new chairman.
He succeeds Representative  Mike Pence , 51, of Indiana, who has
been mentioned as a possible 2012 Republican presidential
contender.  Boehner has pledged to restore the power of committee
leaders to write legislation, which in recent years has been
centralized in the offices of Republican and Democratic
speakers.  During a Sept. 30 speech in Washington, Boehner said he
would open the House floor to more debate and give members of
both parties more chances to offer amendments to legislation.  By stifling floor debate, “we’ve turned members into
voters,” he said. “They pull out their voting card and they
vote, and that’s about the extent of their involvement in the
House,” he said. “More debate, more amendments, will mean more
intense scrutiny and ultimately better legislation.”  During this year’s campaign he accused outgoing Speaker
 Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, and President  Barack Obama 
of steamrolling health-care and climate legislation through the
House without regard to public opposition to the measures and
the desire that Congress focus on the nation’s jobless rate.  He said the Republicans would stop the Democrats’ “job-
killing agenda” by acting to repeal the health-care measure and
cut  government spending .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Litvan  at   llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  