-- Boehner, McConnell Express `Deep Concerns' on Fed Plan in Bernanke Letter
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-11-17T18:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/boehner-mcconnell-express-deep-concerns-on-fed-plan-in-bernanke-letter.html
The four top Republicans in Congress
wrote to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today
expressing “deep concerns” over the central bank’s second-
round of Treasury bond purchases.  “While intended to improve the short-term growth of the
U.S. economy and help maintain a stable price level, such a
measure introduces significant uncertainty regarding the future
strength of the dollar,” the letter said. The purchases could
“result both in hard-to-control, long-term inflation and
potentially generate artificial asset bubbles.”  The letter, dated today, was signed by House Republican
leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, House Republican Whip  Eric Cantor 
of Virginia, Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky, and Senate Republican Whip  Jon Kyl  of Arizona. A copy
of the letter was obtained by Bloomberg News.  U.S. central bankers voted Nov. 3 to inject another $600
billion of reserves into the banking system through purchases of
U.S. Treasury debt in an effort to steer the economy away from
deflation and support growth. The second round of purchases
followed a previous $1.7 trillion program.  The top Republicans said the second round of purchases is
“giving the impression that the Federal Reserve will keep
making new and different attempts to boost the short-term
prospects for the economy.”  Bernanke met with Senate Banking Committee members on
Capitol Hill today. Bernanke told the lawmakers that he
won’t let inflation “get out of control,” Senator  Evan Bayh 
told reporters when asked to describe Bernanke’s comments.  Corker Proposal  Yesterday, Republicans  Bob Corker , a senator from
Tennessee, and Representative  Mike Pence  of Indiana held a joint
press conference on their proposal to remove the Fed’s full
employment mandate and focus the central bank on stable prices
alone.  The Fed chairman had the benefit of weak inflation data
today to explain his position.  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in October,
less than forecast by economists, after a 0.1 percent rise the
prior month, the Labor Department said today in Washington.  Excluding food and fuel, so-called core costs increased 0.6
percent from October 2009, the smallest gain on record. U.S.
housing starts fell 12 percent last month to a 519,000 annual
rate, the fewest since a record low reached in April 2009, the
Commerce Department said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washingtont ;  Laura Litvan  in
Washington at   llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  