-- Boeing May Delay Dreamliner Entry Into Service to '12, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-11-17T21:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/boeing-may-delay-dreamliner-entry-into-service-to-12-morgan-stanley-says.html
Boeing Co.  may postpone the 787
Dreamliner’s entry into service for the seventh time, adding as
much as a year to the three-year delay for the composite-plastic
jet, Morgan Stanley said.  The plane may not be delivered to the first customer until
2012, because last week’s electrical fire during a flight test
may prompt a redesign of software and hardware,  Heidi Wood , a
New York-based analyst with Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note
today. She rates the shares “equal-weight.”  The 787 test fleet remains grounded for a ninth day as the
investigation continues into the Nov. 9 fire. The Dreamliner is
the first airliner built with carbon-fiber composites and uses
an all-electric system to save fuel. It has been delayed six
times from its original May 2008 target, as  Boeing  struggles
with the new materials, parts shortages, redesign work and a
greater reliance on suppliers.  Boeing can’t decide when flights will resume until it
completes the investigation and assesses whether design changes
are necessary, said  Lori Gunter , a spokeswoman, reiterating
comments made yesterday.  Boeing, based in Chicago,  fell  28 cents to $62.50 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 11 percent since the day before the fire, after having
gained 30 percent this year through Nov. 8.  The company brought two of the six test jets back to its
Seattle base yesterday, indicating that there’s not a quick fix,
Wood said, adding that she doesn’t expect flights to resume
until late December or early 2011. The jet that caught fire
remains in Laredo, Texas, where it landed. Crews are replacing
the power panel that failed and are still investigating the
cause behind it, Boeing said yesterday.  Certification Tests  The 787 has been flying since December 2009 in tests toward
certification for passenger service, which currently is targeted
for the first quarter of 2011. The six planes fly around the
world in search of various weather conditions for tests required
by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration.  The issue appears “bigger than a simple, single component
failure,” Wood wrote. “Redesign may be necessary and it looks
like this affects at a minimum the test-flight airplanes,
potentially the 28-odd planes already built.”  Boeing has been assembling Dreamliners at its factory in
Everett, Washington, and storing them there in preparation for
next year’s delivery start, once the FAA certifies the plane.
With 847 advance orders, the $178 million, 250-seat Dreamliner
is the company’s best-selling new jet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  