-- Bonds Trail Stocks by Most Since 2009 as Growth Quickens: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-17T21:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bonds-trail-stocks-by-most-since-2009-as-growth-quickens-argentina-credit.html
Argentine dollar debt is lagging
behind stocks by the most since April 2009 as a quickening
economic expansion and the lowest bond yields in three years
spur investors to seek higher returns in equities.  The country’s dollar-denominated  bonds  returned 1.3 percent
in the past month, less than the 13 percent  gain  for the
nation’s main stock index. The yield advantage for Argentine
debt versus the earnings yield for equities has fallen to 2.35
percentage points and slid to an all-time low 0.93 last month.  Investors are shifting from bonds to equities as a record
soybean harvest and the government’s swap of $12.9 billion of
defaulted debt spur the fastest economic growth in five years.
The expansion, which the central bank predicts will accelerate
to 9 percent this year, fueled a 38 percent dollar-bond gain in
the first 10 months, topping the 25 percent  return  for stocks.  “There’s a lot of attraction in current and future growth
rates in Argentina,” said  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin
America fixed-income research at IDEAglobal in New York.
Investment flows show that “there’s probably more of a chance
of better valuations to continue to seek appreciation within the
equity side.”  Yields on Argentina’s dollar bonds tumbled to 8.35 percent
on Nov. 4, the lowest since December 2007 and down from more
than 12 percent in February, after the death of former President
 Nestor Kirchner . Argentine bonds have rallied on speculation
Kirchner’s death will strengthen the opposition’s bid to unseat
his wife, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , in next
year’s presidential election.  Yield Gap  Banks including Grupo Financiero Galicia SA and Banco Macro
SA have led this year’s stock gains on speculation the June
restructuring will ease access to capital markets.  The yield gap between bonds and stocks has fallen from 7.76
percentage points in May 2009. The  extra yield  investors demand
to own Argentine bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped to
501 basis points on Nov. 5, the least since March 2008,
according to JPMorgan and down from 910 in June 2005, when
Kirchner completed the harshest sovereign debt restructuring
since World War II.  Stocks have taken longer than bonds to reflect the
improving economic outlook because they trade less frequently
and the market is harder to access than debt, according to
 Frederick Searby , head of Latin American equity strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  ‘Bigger Clients’  “A lot of bigger clients that are bullish on Argentina,
like the hedge funds, have played the debt markets just because
there aren’t many liquid ways to play” stocks, Searby said.
“It’s natural at times that when debt markets have big rallies
people go out the capital structure and go into equities.”  While trailing stocks, Argentine bonds are beating other
Latin American debt, returning 33 percent this year, compared
with 13 percent for notes from  Mexico  and  Brazil , according to
JPMorgan.  “The returns that Argentine bonds are showing are still
very high when you compare to the rest of the region,” said
 Javier Salvucci , an analyst at Silver Cloud Advisors SA in
Buenos Aires. “There are still opportunities there. Stocks have
been catching up on bonds but it doesn’t mean that opportunities
in fixed income have disappeared.”  Stock Performance  The Merval index has returned 30 percent in dollar terms,
more than 16 percent for Mexico’s IPC Index and 1 percent for
Brazil’s Bovespa. Argentina’s economy will grow 4.8 percent in
2011, compared with 3.5 percent for Mexico and 4.5 percent for
Brazil, according to the median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points to 557
at 3:31 p.m. New York time today, according to JPMorgan.  Warrants linked to economic growth fell 0.12 cent to 12.92
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 46 basis points to
710 yesterday, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso was little changed today at 3.9768 per dollar.
Stocks are still likely to be a better investment for the near-
term, said  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps manage $6 billion in
emerging market-debt at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in London.  “The picture here is clearly bullish for emerging
equity,” Gutierrez said. “It’s not negative for emerging debt,
it’s just right now, with the risk free rates backing up pretty
significantly, it’s really difficult for any fixed income
product to escape.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  