-- BP Lacked ‘Discipline’ Before Rig Blast, Panel Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-11-17T20:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bp-lacked-operating-discipline-before-gulf-of-mexico-blast-panel-says.html
Decisions made by  BP Plc  and its
contractors before the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig suggest that risks were ignored and a “lack of
operating discipline” contributed to the disaster, according to
an interim report from a technical panel.  The findings question the competency of key personnel on
the doomed rig in the Gulf of Mexico, according to the report
from a committee of the  National Academy of Engineering and
National Research Council.  The blast on April 20 sank the rig,
killed 11 workers and set off the worst U.S. oil spill.  The report highlights the decision to proceed with sealing
the well after tests showed that cement put in place to prevent
natural gas from seeping in wasn’t effective, a conclusion also
reached by a panel formed by President  Barack Obama . U.S.
regulators responsible for offshore drilling provided
“insufficient” checks and balances, the report found.  “The pivotal event when the game changed, not totally out
of control but headed that way, was the pivotal negative test,”
 Paul Bommer , committee member and senior lecturer in the
Department of Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering at the
University of Texas, said today on a conference call. “When
that was accepted as being OK and they went on to displace mud
in preparation for temporary abandonment, their options greatly
narrowed.”  Flawed decisions, which ultimately lowered costs, weren’t
identified or corrected by BP, its contractors or by regulators
in the U.S. Minerals Management Service, said  Donald Winter ,
former secretary of the Navy and chair of the study committee.  Reduced Schedule, Costs  The choices used to seal the well “appear to be made in a
direction which provides a reduced schedule and therefore a
reduced cost of completing the well,” Winter said.  The report triggered a fresh request for BP Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Dudley  to testify on the spill before Congress.
Dudley declined to appear before the House Energy and Commerce
Committee in October, citing the “enormous amount of work to
do” after taking over as CEO on Oct. 1.  BP shares the authorities’ “goal to prevent future
accidents and oil spills from offshore drilling operations,”
the London-based company said in an e-mailed statement. “We
therefore have cooperated with the committee and will continue
to do so as it reviews the issues raised in its interim
report.”  The blowout spewed crude into the Gulf for 87 days and shut
thousands of square miles to fishing. Last month, the  National
Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill  appointed by
Obama said cement recommended by  Halliburton Co. , the world’s
second-largest oilfield-services provider, to seal the well was
unstable and may have led to the explosion.  Rig Loss  It may not be possible to determine why oil and gas entered
 BP ’s Macondo well because of the death of key witnesses,
the loss of the rig and operating records and the difficulty in
trying to obtain evidence from the site 5,000 feet (1,500
meters) below the surface, the report said.  The committee also lacks information from the blowout
preventer, the device that failed to stop the flow of oil and
gas in the event of a blowout. The committee offered no
recommendations. A final report is due in June.  Obama halted oil and natural-gas drilling in waters deeper
than 500 feet (152 meters) after the well off the Louisiana
coast blew out.  Randall Luthi , president of the Washington-based
 National Ocean Industries Association , said today’s report
supports the industry’s view that a blanket moratorium was
unnecessary. The drilling ban, scheduled to remain in effect
until Nov. 30, was lifted Oct. 12.  ‘Human Error’  “Today’s findings and previous reports point to human
error and a series of questionable decisions,” Luthi said in a
statement. “This is precisely why it is so important to find
the root cause of the accident, before mandating wide-scale
legislative or administrative fixes.”  Though tests indicated that cement meant to seal the well
was suspect, workers on the rig proceeded with steps to
temporarily abandon the exploratory well, said  Mark Zoback , a
committee member and professor in Department of Geophysics at
Stanford University in California. The decision to accept the
results without a review by engineers working on land “suggests
a lack of onboard expertise and of clearly defined
responsibilities,” according to the report.  BP well-site leaders  Donald Vidrine  and  Robert Kaluza  have
declined to testify before a joint U.S. Coast Guard-Interior
Department investigative panel studying the disaster.  Vidrine’s testimony is needed “to answer the question who
made that decision,” Zoback said.  Bad Decisions, Delays  Bad decisions were compounded by delays in recognizing that
oil and gas were flowing into the well. Hydrocarbons entered the
well undetected for almost an hour before the first explosion.
Actions to control the well weren’t taken and gas was funneled
through equipment that vented above the rig floor instead of
overboard.  “Of particular concern is an apparent lack of a systems
approach that would integrate the multiplicity of factors
potentially affecting the safety of the well, monitor the
overall margins of safety, and assess the various decisions from
perspectives of well integrity and safety,” according to the
panel.  BP faulted its engineers for the fatal drilling-rig blast
in an internal investigation, and said contractors  Transocean
Ltd. , which owned the rig, and Halliburton share the blame.  The presidential panel investigating the spill found no
evidence decisions were made to put profit ahead of safety on
the drilling rig, its co-chairman said last week.  Lawmakers, Environmentalists  Environmental groups and lawmakers have said BP cut corners
to reduce costs as the company sought to complete the doomed
well that was $58.4 million over budget and move the Deepwater
Horizon  rig  to another project. The U.S. House in July passed
legislation that would bar BP from offshore drilling leases
based on safety lapses.  “We certainly found no evidence that anyone had scrimped
on safety, for example, to save money,”  William Reilly , co-
chairman of the presidential panel, told reporters Nov. 8. He
later said, “What we have really heard today is a story of what
appears to be several very human decisions made by competent
professionals who missed signals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 