-- Brazilian Real Strengthens for the First Time in Eight Days on Ireland
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2010-11-17T20:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/brazilian-real-strengthens-for-the-first-time-in-eight-days-on-ireland.html
Brazil’s real strengthened for the
first time in eight trading days as European Union finance
ministers started work on possible aid for Ireland’s debt-laden
banks, damping risk concern.  The currency of Latin America’s biggest economy appreciated
0.9 percent to 1.7269 per dollar at 3 p.m. New York time, from a
close of 1.7416 yesterday.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said talks with the
European Commission, the European Central Bank and the
International Monetary Fund on potential aid for the country’s
banks will start tomorrow. Concern about a worsening debt crisis
in Europe had sapped demand for emerging-market assets.  “In the short term, what’s driving the exchange rate is
the external market,” said  Francisco Carvalho , a foreign-
exchange manager at BGC Liquidez, the second-biggest brokerage
dealing with dollars on the BM&FBovespa.  Near-zero interest rates in developed nations have prompted
a rally in the currencies of emerging-market nations as
investors seek higher returns. The real has strengthened 34
percent versus the dollar since the start of 2009, making it the
second-best performing emerging-market currency after South
Africa’s rand.  Brazil’s benchmark lending rate of 10.75 percent compares
with 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.1 percent in Japan.  In the overnight interest-rate futures market, the yield on
the contract due in January 2012 fell 3 basis points, 0.03
percentage point, to 11.58 percent.  Rate Futures  Yields on several rate futures contracts fell as the
central bank said Brazil’s economic expansion slowed by two-
thirds in the third quarter, signaling the economy is heading
toward a less inflationary environment.  The yield on the contract maturing in January 2012 reached
a 15-week high yesterday on bets the central bank may increase
its benchmark rate next year to curb inflation.  A central bank survey published yesterday showed economists
expect policy makers will raise the overnight rate more than
previously predicted in 2011 to 12 percent to contain inflation.
 Consumer prices  in Brazil climbed more than forecast in October,
driving inflation to an eight-month high.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Josue Leonel  in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
 Ana Monteiro  in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 