-- Palin Overcomes Low Scores to Reach ‘Dancing’ Finals
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-11-17T21:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bristol-palin-reaches-abc-s-dancing-finals-on-strength-of-u-s-fan-base.html
Bristol Palin  made it to the final
round of ABC’s “Dancing With the Stars,” surviving another
week of low scores from the talent show’s judges with the help
of fans that included Tea Party voters.  Palin, 20, the daughter of former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin , will join actress  Jennifer Grey  and Disney Channel star
 Kyle Massey  in the three-contestant final next week. Singer
 Brandy  was voted off the show last night on the  Walt Disney Co. 
network.  “This year has not been about the dancing,” said Johnny
Avello, chief oddsmaker for the  Wynn Las Vegas  casino, who
follows the voting and figured Palin had a 4-to-1 chance to stay
in the competition. “This year is about popularity, and whether
it’s the Republican Party or whoever, Bristol Palin is getting
more votes despite being the worst dancer.”  Palin and her partner Mark Ballas received 53 points for
their two dances on Nov. 15, finishing last based on the judges’
scores. During the taping of this week’s rehearsals, she said
the audience can relate to her.  “No offense to anyone else, but I’m not fake,” Palin said
in an on-camera interview. “People do connect with me because
they feel I’m real and I’m not typical Hollywood.”  Leading the four semifinalists was Grey, who received 60
points and was the 8-to-5 favorite, according to Avello. Massey
had a 5-to-2 chance of reaching the finals after scoring a 58.
Brandy received 57 points for her two dances and was considered
most likely to leave at 9-to-2.  “Dancing With the Stars,” TV’s most-watched show this
season, pairs celebrities with professional dancers in weekly
elimination rounds that weigh the public’s votes and judge’s
scores equally.  Pasodoble Score  The program, airing Monday and Tuesday nights in the U.S.,
consists of a performance night and a results night. The voting
allows weaker dancers with more fans to advance.  Palin received her top score of the series Nov. 15 for her
first dance, a Spanish pasodoble, getting 27 of 30 points.  “Bristol the Pistol,” said Len Goodman, the head judge.
“You’ve fired a few blanks during the weeks, but tonight all
guns blazing.” Her second dance, a waltz, received a 26.  Disney, based in Burbank, California, rose 30 cents to
$37.22 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have gained 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 