-- British Airways Cartel Case May Trigger U.S.-Style Class-Actions in U.K.
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-11-17T17:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/british-airways-cartel-case-may-trigger-u-s-style-class-actions-in-u-k-.html
British Airways Plc  and other
carriers accused of fixing cargo prices could face U.S.-style
class-action suits in the U.K. for the first time if a court
eases rules on customers joining together to sue, lawyers say.  A victory in the appeal by two flower shippers who were
denied the right to form a group to sue British Airways “has
the potential to mushroom dramatically,” by making it cheaper
and faster to seek damages in Britain against companies that
collude to inflate prices, antitrust lawyer  Frances Murphy  said.  “Some might refer to such a ruling as an Americanization
of the English civil procedure,” Murphy, who leads the
antitrust practice at Jones Day LLP in London and isn’t involved
in the case, said in an interview. If the request is granted, it
could lead to “protracted litigation with indirect purchasers,
all claiming to have suffered some degree of loss.”  The  Court of Appeal , which is expected to rule tomorrow,
could allow direct and indirect customers of British Airways to
join the same class in suing -- a group that could run into the
hundreds of thousands. The decision comes a week after British
Airways and 10 other carriers were fined a total of 799.4
million euros ($1.08 billion) by the European Union following a
three-year probe of the cartel.  Pleaded Guilty  In 2007, the London-based company pleaded guilty in the
U.S. to related charges and was fined $300 million.  While civil suits by groups of customers are common in the
U.S., the cases are rare in the U.K. and haven’t been done on
the scale sought in this case, said  Becket McGrath , a
competition lawyer with Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP.  A ruling in favor of the flower shippers “would show that
it’s possible to adopt a class-action model in the U.K. without
waiting for legislative changes,” McGrath said. “It would be a
significant means of aggregating claims and making litigation
worthwhile.”  British Airways’ spokesman  Tony Cane  declined to comment
specifically on the case by the flower shippers, Emerald
Supplies Ltd. and Southern Glass House Produce Ltd.  “We will continue to contest any class actions brought by
cargo customers,” Cane said in an interview.  If the customers win their appeal and are allowed to form a
class to sue the airline, the court would be loosening a rule
that has been around for more than a century and bringing the
U.K. closer to the U.S. in terms of recovery for customers, said
 Jonathan Hitchin , a lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in London.  ‘Suffered’  “In some cases, the class could be enormous,” Hitchin
said in an interview. “It would demonstrate that there is a
widely available remedy for those who have suffered as a result
of cartel behavior.”  The flower shippers appealed after an April 2009 ruling by
Judge  Andrew Morritt  in the High Court in London, who denied
their request because the proposed group was too ill-defined and
had too many potential conflicts.  “The grounds on which the High Court chucked the request
are not convincing,” McGrath said.  Scott Campbell, a lawyer from the firm  Hausfeld & Co. LLP 
who represents clients suing British Airways, said that about
200 customers want to be represented by the flower companies. He
said the potential class “must be in the hundreds of thousands
of individual claims.”  British Airways in July asked the court to add  Air France-
KLM Group ,  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  and 30 others as
defendants to protect itself against payments it may be ordered
to make in the case. The court is still considering the request.  Emerald Action  “This very much makes the Emerald action the hub of cargo
cartel litigation in the EU,” Campbell said in an e-mail,
referring to the name of one of the flower companies.  British Airways isn’t the only carrier facing civil cartel
claims.  Air France  and its Dutch Martinair unit were sued in
September in the Netherlands for as much as 500 million euros
over the carriers’ alleged involvement in the cartel.  About 300 shipping customers, including Royal Philips
Electronics NV and  Ericsson AB , joined the Dutch case claiming
that they paid too much for services in Europe from 2000 to
2006, according to Claims Funding International Plc, the Dublin-
based company that organized the case.  The European Commission said last month it is considering
expanding the use of group lawsuits for customers affected by
antitrust violations in all of the EU’s 27 nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 