-- Brooklyn Money Manager Convicted of Securities Fraud
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-11-17T22:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/brooklyn-money-manager-barry-philip-convicted-of-45-million-fraud-scheme.html
A money manager from Brooklyn, New
York, was found guilty of running a $45 million Ponzi scheme
that defrauded hundreds of investors.  Philip Barry , 53, a resident of the Bay Ridge section of
Brooklyn, began accepting money in 1978 from investors,
guaranteeing fictional annual profits, according to prosecutors
in the office of U.S. Attorney  Loretta Lynch  in Brooklyn.
Instead, he used new investors’ money to pay earlier ones,
prosecutors said.  “The defendant lied to clients to get their money, lied to
clients about what he would do with their money and lied to
clients about getting their money back,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney John P. Nowak told jurors in his closing argument
today.  The federal jury, which deliberated for less than four
hours, convicted Barry today of all the counts he faced -- one
of securities fraud and 33 of mail fraud. He faces up to 20
years in prison on the securities-fraud conviction alone.  The criminal trial began Nov. 8. In a separate action, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said Barry diverted some
of the investor money to a mail-order pornography business. On
Sept. 7, Barry sued the SEC for libel over the accusation. He
has run Barry Publications for 30 years, selling “vinyl LP
records, music cassette tapes, compact discs and DVDs,” he
said.  No Bail  Barry was taken into custody. His lawyer, Lisa Hoyes, asked
that she be allowed to put together a bail package for him. U.S.
District Judge  Raymond J. Dearie , who presided over the trial,
said bail couldn’t be considered today.  “For now the defendant is remanded,” Dearie said.  Hoyes didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the verdict.  Barry, who worked out of a Bay Ridge storefront, was
accused of luring more than 800 investors into his Leverage
Group, which claimed to be investing in stock options. His
reported ending balance of more than $45 million far exceeded
assets actually held, producing “substantial losses” for many
investors, according to prosecutors.  Each December, Barry would figure a “guaranteed” rate of
return for the following year, ranging from 12.55 percent to 16
percent, prosecutors said. When investors tried to withdraw
money from their accounts, checks would often be returned due to
insufficient funds or, in some cases, Barry ignored their
requests altogether, prosecutors said.  Barry may have had “unorthodox” business practices but
his investors were looking for outsized returns, Hoyes said in
her closing argument.  Stocks, Options  One witness at the trial, Frank J. Monteleone, a bond
trader at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in Memphis, Tennessee, who grew
up in Bay Ridge, told jurors he gave Barry $100,000 to invest
and Barry refused to return any money.  Nowak said in his closing argument that in 2002, when Barry
first met with Monteleone and his wife, he told them he invested
in options. In testimony in his bankruptcy case in 2009, Barry
admitted that by 2001 he stopped investing in any stocks or
options.  In August 2008, Barry went to federal prosecutors and told
them he was invested only in land rather than options and that
he couldn’t get approvals to develop the land, according to
court papers. He also admitted he used money from new investors
to pay off old ones, according to prosecutors.  “He knew he committed a crime,” Nowak said in his closing
argument.  Boxes of Documents  Hoyes said Barry’s approaching prosecutors, his allowing
them to go through “boxes and boxes” of his documents, his
never fleeing the country and his “humble lifestyle” showed
that he wasn’t a con man.  Dearie ruled before the trial began that Barry couldn’t
call to the witness stand a Monticello, New York, real-estate
broker to testify as an expert that Barry’s properties in
Sullivan County, New York, about 100 miles north of Manhattan,
would be worth $160 million if developed, showing he had no
intent to defraud, according to court papers.  At a Nov. 3 pre-trial hearing, the broker, William Rieber,
testified that the developed land would be worth about $225
million.  “He was invested in very valuable land in Sullivan County
for the benefit of the investors,” Hoyes said in her closing
argument.  Prosecutors say Barry bought the land for himself. The
properties were auctioned off for $6.6 million in 2009, after he
declared bankruptcy the previous year, according to the
government.  Personal Expenses  In February 2009, after the scheme unraveled, Barry told
his investors that the Leverage Group only held real estate, and
not enough to cover account balances, according to prosecutors.  Barry also used investor money for personal expenses,
including at home-improvement stores, restaurants and gas
stations, the SEC said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Barry, 09-cr-0833, the SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Barry, 09-cv-3860,
and Barry’s suit against the SEC is Barry v. United States
Securities and Exchange Commission, 10-cv-4071, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 