-- BSkyB Says Resolution of News Corp. Offer May Take Until Middle of 2011
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-17T12:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/bskyb-says-resolution-of-news-corp-offer-may-take-until-middle-of-2011.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc ,
which rejected  News Corp. ’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4 billion)
bid for full ownership in June, said the renewed offer could
extend into 2011 if additional government reviews are ordered.  “At the earliest it could be resolved at the end of this
calendar year, and if it goes further out it’s the middle of
next calendar year,” Chief Executive Officer  Jeremy Darroch 
said at a Morgan Stanley conference in Barcelona today. The
company is now undergoing first-stage reviews in the U.K. for
competition and plurality of media.  Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. made a bid for the 61 percent
of  BSkyB  it doesn’t already own to gain access to the pay-TV
operators’ increasing cash flows. BSkyB, which last week hit its
target of 10 million subscribers, spurned the 700 pence a share
bid and said it wanted at least 800 pence.  “It’s News Corp. who are running that process and we’ve
agreed to cooperate and we are doing so,” Darroch said. “Our
relationship with News is very good. There’s been no bigger
supporter of Sky than News over the last 21 years.”  The proposal hasn’t affected business operation or plans,
he said. BSkyB is expanding programming and delivery platforms,
and may make “sensible bolt-on acquisitions,” he said. Even
with a tougher consumer environment and competition from new
platforms, the company sees potential to increase subscribers in
the U.K., he said.  Advertising Prices  European antitrust regulators have asked television
companies whether News Corp.’s offer would limit their access to
viewers and raise advertising prices, according to a
questionnaire obtained by Bloomberg News.  News Corp. hasn’t considered making disposals to gain
regulatory approval for its bid for full ownership, BSkyB
Chairman  James Murdoch  said in Barcelona today.  The EU document didn’t include questions about the effect
of the merger on the news media. U.K. newspapers, the British
Broadcasting Corp. and phone company BT Group Plc signed a joint
letter to U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  calling for the
bid to be challenged by the U.K.  Cable this month demanded a separate review of the proposed
offer, potentially delaying the deal.  Cable’s decision may create a dilemma for the coalition
government of Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose Conservative
Party was backed by Murdoch’s newspaper the Sun in Britain’s May
general election.  Cable will decide on the bid based on the “rule of law
rather than the commercial noise and lobby of competitors,”
BSkyB Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Griffith  said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  