-- Berkshire Enters Loan Business for Luxury Planes as Buffett Boosts NetJet
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-11-17T21:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/buffett-s-berkshire-to-make-loans-for-luxury-jet-customers.html
Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. will make loans to clients of its luxury air-travel unit
after sales declined during the financial crisis.  The financing minimum is $100,000 and the loans are
available only to commercial customers, according to a statement
today from Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s NetJets business.  NetJets returned to profit this year with pretax earnings
of $158 million through September. Buffett is trying to help a
unit he called Berkshire’s  “major problem”  for 2009, when the
credit crunch prompted cash-strapped clients to give up their
accounts. NetJets Chief Executive Officer  David Sokol , who took
over in August of last year, has fired pilots and sold aircraft
to cope with the slump in demand.  “There are a number of efforts to jump-start this market
-- none of them looks terribly promising,” said  Richard Aboulafia , an aviation analyst with Fairfax, Virginia-based Teal
Group. “The market is what the market is, and right now it’s
still treading water.”  NetJets clients share ownership of a fleet of planes
operated by the Berkshire unit. The so-called fractional jet
ownership allows wealthy individuals and companies that don’t
maintain executive planes to arrange private flights. The 
Columbus, Ohio-based unit will make the loans through NetJets
Finance LLC.  NetJets rival Flight Options will be offering a financing
option for its customers for the Embraer Phenom 300 plane
starting in the first quarter of 2011, CEO  Michael J. Silvestro 
said. He declined to give details, saying Cleveland-based Flight
Options wasn’t ready to make an announcement.  ‘Critical Component’  “I think that aircraft financing and its availability has
always been a critical component in our industry,” Silvestro
said in a telephone interview. “Anytime you can have access to
capital you certainly have an opportunity to do more business.”  Flight Options expects to have 12 Phenom 300 planes by the
end of 2011 and plans to make financing available to both
individuals and businesses, said  Christopher Mittendorf , a
spokesman for the company.  Buffett, Berkshire’s 80-year-old CEO, bought NetJets in
1998 and bankrolled the company’s expansion under founder
 Richard Santulli . In 2009, the unit lost “a staggering” $711
million, Buffett told shareholders in February. That brought its
aggregate pretax loss over Berkshire’s 11 years of ownership to
$157 million.  Financial Difficulty  “We had a whole number of customers who had gotten into
financial difficulty,” Sokol, also Berkshire’s top energy
executive, said in an August interview. The credit crunch
“caused a lot of people who couldn’t afford to be flying
privately to step back away.”  Sokol cut debt at Columbus, Ohio-based NetJets to $1.4
billion at the end of December from $1.9 billion in April 2009,
when Santulli was in charge. Buffett, in his  annual letter  to
shareholders, praised Sokol’s work.  Credit approval for loans may take “as little as a few
days,” NetJets said. The loans have fixed rates of 6 percent
and terms as long as five years, the company said.  “Owners are able to structure a payment solution that
exactly meets their needs,” Sokol said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  