-- Obama to Honor Buffett, George H.W. Bush, Merkel
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-11-17T23:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/buffett-to-receive-presidential-medal-of-freedom-highest-civilian-honor.html
Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , former President  George H.W. Bush  and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  will be among this year’s recipients
of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the White House announced
today.  The award is the nation’s highest civilian honor and is
presented to people who have made meritorious contributions to
the U.S. or to world peace. The honorees for 2010 also include
poet  Maya Angelou , Representative  John Lewis  of Georgia, a
leader of the civil rights movement, and labor leader  John Sweeney , the former president of the AFL-CIO.  “These outstanding honorees come from a broad range of
backgrounds and they’ve excelled in a broad range of fields,
but all of them have lived extraordinary lives that have
inspired us, enriched our culture, and made our country and our
world a better place,” President  Barack Obama  said in a
statement.  Buffett, 80, who was an adviser to Obama’s presidential
campaign, published a “thank you” letter to the federal
government in today’s New York Times, saying the U.S.
intervention in the financial crisis stopped many companies
from going under, saved millions of jobs and restored calm.  Pledging His Fortune  He is chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha-based
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., which has subsidiaries in industries
spanning insurance, energy and ice cream. Forbes magazine
 estimated  Buffett’s fortune is worth $47 billion. He’s pledged
to donate most of it to the foundation established by  Microsoft
Corp . co-founder  Bill Gates  and his wife,  Melinda Gates , as
well as other philanthropic organizations.  Bush, 86, the 41st president and the father of Obama’s
immediate predecessor, was cited for his long service to the
country. Before winning the White House in 1988, he was vice
president under  Ronald Reagan . He is a U.S. Navy veteran, was a
U.S. representative from Texas, an ambassador to the United
Nations, chairman of the Republican National Committee and
director of the Central Intelligence Agency.  Merkel, 56, is the first woman to serve as chancellor in
Germany. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, she progressed in
politics as the East and the West joined as a unified nation.
She wrote an open letter to Germany today thanking voters for
helping the country emerge from the economic crisis. She said
she would work to cut spending and protect public finances.  Russell, Musial  Also being honored is Tom Little, an optometrist who was
one of 10 medical workers murdered by the Taliban in August as
they returned from an aid mission. He and his wife, Libby, had
lived and worked in Afghanistan for three decades, according to
the announcement.  The other recipients are: sports legends  Bill Russell , who
played basketball for the Boston Celtics, and former St.  Louis Cardinal Stan Musial , a member of the baseball Hall of Fame;
 John H. Adams , co-founder of the Natural Resources Defense
Council; cellist  Yo-Yo Ma ; Gerda Weissmann Klein, who has
written several books about surviving the Holocaust; civil
rights activist Sylvia Mendez; artist  Jasper Johns ; and  Jean Kennedy Smith , the sister of slain President  John F. Kennedy 
who was U.S. ambassador to Ireland from 1993 to 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Traci McMillan  in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  