-- Build America Sales May Surge to $40 Billion Next Month, Loop's Mier Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-17T22:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/build-america-sales-may-surge-to-40-billion-next-month-loop-s-mier-says.html
Build America Bond issuance may
surge next month to $40 billion as borrowers rush to take
advantage of the expiring federal-subsidy program, said  Chris Mier , a Loop Capital Markets LLC municipal strategist.  State and local governments are accelerating debt sales to
December and will more than quadruple borrowing under the
program compared with December 2009, Mier said today in an
interview with Bloomberg News reporters and editors in New York.  The Build America program, which provides a 35 percent
reimbursement of interest costs, will end Dec. 31 if Congress
doesn’t extend it, as proposed by President  Barack Obama . An
extension passed the House of Representatives this year, then
stalled in the Senate. About $163 billion of the taxable bonds
have been sold, making them the fastest-growing segment of the
municipal market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s enough to throw a kink into things,” Mier said.
“Confusion is the enemy of a well-functioning state and we’ve
got a lot of confusion.”  States and local governments sold about $9 billion of the
securities in December 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The popularity of so-called BABs has reduced the use
of conventional tax-exempt debt, which produces earnings for
investors that’s free from federal and most state income taxes.  Part of Stimulus  Obama’s $814 billion economic-stimulus package created the
Build America program last year at a projected taxpayer  cost  of
$36 billion over 10 years. Obama sought to expand the Build
America program this year, reducing the size of the subsidy and
permitting sales by nonprofits next year. Some Democrats in
Congress have also sought to extend the program.  California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  said today that his
“best prediction” is that lawmakers won’t agree to an
extension, in an interview with CNBC. He cited “current Capitol
Hill sentiment” as the basis for his outlook.  Senator  Chuck Grassley , an Iowa Republican in line to
become chairman of the chamber’s tax-writing committee in
January, yesterday asked congressional investigators to
determine how much of the program’s subsidies are going to Wall
Street banks in the form of fees.  “I have a duty to eliminate fraud, waste and abuse in the
BABs program,” Grassley said yesterday in a letter to the
 Government Accountability Office , the investigative arm of
Congress. Grassley also cited potentially inadequate reporting
rules on how the proceeds of Build America Bonds are spent.  Mier is a managing director at Chicago-based Loop, an
investment bank that has managed more than $2.47 billion in
municipal financings this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. He said he’s skeptical that Congress will keep the
program alive, while he suggested it may be revived later.  “If it doesn’t get extended now, it’ll be six months to a
year before it does,” he said. “It’s the 500th thing on
Congress’s to-do list.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  