-- Buyout Firms Vying for Targets Increase Prices, May Lower Profits, 3i Says
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2010-11-17T11:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/buyout-firms-vying-for-targets-increase-prices-may-lower-profits-3i-says.html
Leveraged buyout firms are driving
prices for potential targets to “extraordinarily” high levels
in Europe as they vie to spend unused funds, 3i Group Plc Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Queen  said.  Firms are paying 10 to 13 times companies’ earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, more than during
the buyout boom of 2006 and 2007, Queen told the SuperInvestor
conference in Paris today. Firms may struggle to profit from
those deals, said  Sanjay Patel , head of international private
equity at Apollo Management International LLP.  While recessions have produced “very attractive” returns
in the past, this time may be different, Patel told the
conference. “The question for our industry is: what does the
new vintage look like. It’s a quandary for us as it may not be
as attractive as previous cycles,” he said.  Private equity firms are rushing to invest some of the $450
billion raised before the financial crisis brought dealmaking to
a near-halt for two years. The firms have led $194 billion of
takeovers this year, more than double the amount in the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Prices are pretty high in Europe,” Patel said. “It’s
tougher to find good assets available for sale in Europe than in
the U.S.”  Leveraged buyout firms like Apollo pool money from
investors to take over companies, financing the purchases mostly
with debt, and seek to sell them within five years for a profit.
Apollo was started in 1990 by  Leon Black , former mergers and
acquisitions chief at Drexel Burnham Lambert Group. London-based
3i is Europe’s biggest publicly traded private equity firm.  ‘Just Won’t Get Sold’  The U.S. is a much larger market than Europe, said Patel,
who oversees Apollo’s private equity investments outside the
U.S. “There are a lot of privately held companies in Europe,
lots of beautiful companies, but they just won’t get sold,” he
said.  The number of European leveraged buyout firms is likely to
shrink as a result, and many will have to diversify away from
LBOs, Patel said.  3i’s Queen said prices may decline after 2012 when firms
will have to start selling companies and return cash to
investors before they raise new funds.  “There are about 2,000 companies across Europe that have
been bought between 2002 and 2008,” Queen said in an interview.
“All of those have to be sold between 2012 and 2018.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  