-- Caffeinated Alcoholic Drinks Are Unsafe, FDA Tells Beverage Makers
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-18T00:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/caffeinated-alcohol-drinks-called-unsafe-in-warning-by-u-s-regulators.html
Caffeine is an “unsafe food
additive” to malt alcohol beverages, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration told four makers of alcoholic energy drinks after
a yearlong probe into reports of hospitalizations and deaths.  The federal government may seize the products if companies
don’t remove the caffeine from them, the FDA said today in a
statement. The agency sent warning letters to Charge Beverages
Corp., New Century Brewing Co., United Brands Co. and  Phusion
Projects LLC , the maker of Four Loko. The Federal Trade
Commission also sent warning letters to the companies.  Drinks combining high levels of caffeine and alcohol have
been linked to alcohol poisoning, car accidents and assaults,
FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said today. Twenty-five state
attorneys general had asked the FDA to investigate the drinks,
which may contain up to 12 percent alcohol per 23-ounce can.
Washington state banned the products after nine college students
who drank Four Loko at a party were hospitalized.  “We didn’t see these kinds of incidents when people were
drinking Irish coffees,” Washington state Attorney General  Rob McKenna  said today on the conference call. “What we’re seeing
now is striking and it calls for swift action. That’s what’s
happening here today.”  Voluntary Removal  Phusion Projects, based in Chicago,  announced  late
yesterday that it would remove the caffeine from Four Loko
drinks.  “FDA views this announcement as a positive step,” the
agency said today in a statement. “FDA has not yet heard
officially from the company about this announcement, including
how quickly it will remove the present product from circulation
and how quickly it will reformulate its product. FDA intends to
work with Phusion Projects, LLC, and the other manufacturers to
assure their products meet safety standards.”  The caffeine in such products can mask the alcohol’s
effects, increasing the risk of alcohol poisoning, said Robert
Brewer, alcohol program leader at the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention  in Atlanta.  “The caffeine does not make drinkers less intoxicated or
impaired; it merely makes them feel that way,” Brewer said on
the conference call.  Four Loko appears to be marketed to young adults who may be
“especially vulnerable” to the dangers of binge drinking, the
FDA said in its  warning letter  to Phusion. New Century’s
 Moonshot , United Brands’  Joose and Max  drinks, and three of
Charge Beverages’  Core  drinks were cited in the other FDA
warning letters. The four companies, all closely held, have 15
days to respond.  White House Response  “These products are designed, branded, and promoted to
encourage binge drinking, and I commend the FDA for acting
promptly to curb their sale,” White House Drug Policy Director
 Gil Kerlikowske  said today in an e-mail.  Rhonda Kallman , founder and chief executive officer of
Boston-based New Century Brewing, said she was “absolutely
shocked” by the FDA’s letter. Moonshot is an “all-natural
beer” that contains 5 percent alcohol by volume and less
caffeine than a cup of coffee, she said.  “I don’t know why Moonshot is part of this,” Kallman said
today in an interview. “It isn’t marketed to kids. It’s very
limited in its distribution. I have like 50 places in the entire
country that sell it.”  United Brands, based in San Diego, disputes the FDA’s
action and characterization of its products,  Michael Michail ,
the company’s chief executive officer, said today in a
statement.  ‘Adult Consumers’  “We have complied with all national and state regulations,
and will continue to do so,” Michail said. “We have seen no
known reports of any health or safety incidents involving our
products, and will continue to produce quality products that
meet the demands of our loyal adult consumers.”  Phusion decided to remove the caffeine from Four Loko
beverages “after trying -- unsuccessfully -- to navigate a
difficult and politically charged regulatory environment,”
Chris Hunter, Jeff Wright and Jaisen Freeman, the Chicago-based
company’s co-founders and managing partners, said in yesterday’s
statement.  The company has stopped producing and shipping all
alcoholic beverages that contained caffeine, and “will continue
to work closely and cooperatively with national and state
regulators,” Phusion said today in an e-mail.  Charge Beverages, based in Portland, Oregon, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Phusion, United Brands, New Century and Charge Beverages
also were warned by the  FTC  that the marketing of the
caffeinated alcohol drinks may constitute unfair or deceptive
trade practices.  The Treasury Department’s Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade
Bureau plans to notify producers, wholesalers and importers of
alcoholic beverages that “they are prohibited from selling or
shipping the products that FDA has determined to be adulterated
in interstate or foreign commerce,” John Manfreda, the bureau’s
administrator, said today on the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 