-- California Plans to Price $10 Billion Notes Today, Completing Delayed Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/california-delays-final-pricing-of-10-billion-revenue-note-sale-by-a-day.html
California  today will complete an
offering of $10 billion of short-term notes needed to bolster
its cash position after a lawsuit was filed against a planned
government building sale to reduce debt.  Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  postponed the note pricing until
today to amend offering documents provided to investors to show
the lawsuit could widen the state’s $6.1 billion deficit
expected in the current fiscal year, according to a statement
from his office. The state took orders for $6.06 billion of the
short-term notes during the past three days from individual
investors, said his spokesman,  Tom Dresslar , in the statement.  “Given the hostile market forces, 60 percent-plus retail
demand is pretty impressive,” Dresslar said. “We’re very
pleased.”  Two former members of the Los Angeles State Building
Authority sued Nov. 16 in San Francisco County Superior Court to
stop the sale of state office buildings at 11 sites, according
to a copy of the suit. It also seeks to prevent California from
using the proceeds to pay down debt raised to construct the
properties. Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s budget for this
fiscal year counts on $1.2 billion from the sale.  Separately, the state also canceled part of an unrelated
lease-revenue bond sale, of $267.3 million in tax-exempt
securities, that it had planned to price on Nov. 23 for the
State Public Works Board, according to a statement yesterday
from Lockyer. He cited “market conditions.”  No BABs Decision  A decision hasn’t been made on whether to go forward with a
planned $101.1 million sale of taxable lease-revenue Build
America Bonds for the board, according to the statement. It was
to be priced on the same day.  Because of the delay in the note sale, Lockyer also said he
will push back by a day, to tomorrow, another planned Build
America Bond sale. Lockyer also increased the sale size to $2.75
billion from $2 billion, he said in a release. The Build America
program, which gives issuers a 35 percent federal subsidy on
interest costs, will end Dec. 31 unless Congress extends it.  California will move ahead with a scheduled offering of
tax-exempt general-obligation bonds scheduled to be priced Nov.
23, while reducing the amount to $1 billion from $1.75 billion.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempt bonds due in 10 years jumped
23 basis points yesterday, the biggest one-day gain since March
2009 amid a flood of issuance. They  climbed to 2.98 percent , a
five-month high, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index.
Yields rose on every maturity, the Bloomberg indexes show.
 Twenty-year rates  reached the highest since Sept. 2, 2009, after
climbing for a fourth straight day. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  ‘Cold, Cold World’  “The tax-exempt municipal bond market is a cold, cold
world right now for issuers and taxpayers,” Dresslar said. “In
an environment where tax-exempt yields keep rising, it’s in
taxpayers’ best interest that we cut the tax-exempt offering and
increase the savings we can achieve with subsidized BABs.”  The state took orders from individual investors for $803.4
million of notes maturing in May, with yields quoted at 1.25
percent, and $5.26 billion maturing in June at 1.5 percent,
according to the statement.  Institutional investors will be offered the securities
today, and final prices will be set.  The notes are rated F2 by Fitch Ratings, its third-highest.
Standard & Poor’s rated them SP-1, second-highest, while Moody’s
Investors Service grades them MIG-1, its top rating. S&P ranks
California’s long-term debt at A-, its fourth-lowest investment
grade, the riskiest among U.S. states.  An S&P analyst,  Gabriel Petek , said in a statement that the
lawsuit doesn’t affect the credit rating of the short-term notes
because the rating company had already considered various
scenarios that might influence cash flow, including a potential
delay of the building sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  