-- Canada Said to Resist U.S. Push to Sell More GM Shares
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-17T23:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/canada-said-to-resist-u-s-push-to-sell-more-gm-shares-in-public-offering.html
Canada and Ontario rejected a U.S.
offer to sell more shares in General Motors Co.’s $15.8
billion initial public offering this week, allowing the Canadian
governments to benefit if the automaker’s shares rally.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration increased
the number of shares it plans to sell by 36 percent and the
United Auto Workers retiree medical trust has added 25 percent
to its offering as Canadian governments stuck with the amount
announced Nov. 3, U.S. filings show. The U.S. had asked them to
boost the share sale as well, three people familiar with the
talks said.  If  GM  shares rise from the initial $33 a share, Canada will
recover more of its investment in the bailout than if it sold
more shares in the IPO. Canada and the province of Ontario
control 11.7 percent, the U.S. has a 61 percent stake and the
health fund controls 17.5 percent.  “We feel that it is the adequate balance between being
part of the IPO, which we have always said we would be, and at
the same time doing so in a way where we are going to chunk it
out over time to try and maximize taxpayer protection,”
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said today.  Canada made a “prudent” decision on GM shares as it seeks
to protect “taxpayer value,” Clement said.  Noreen Pratscher, a spokeswoman for GM, didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone message seeking comment. A spokesman for
the Treasury,  Mark Paustenbach , declined to comment.  $9.5 Billion  Canada contributed $7.1 billion to the U.S.-led  GM  bailout
in June 2009 and Ontario provided $3.5 billion. In exchange,
they received 175 million shares and $1.1 billion has been
repaid.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said then that his government
was assuming “for budgetary purposes” that it won’t recover
any of its investment. The governments need an average price
across all of their shares of about $54.25 to break even.  The common shares carry a book value for the government of
Canada of about $15 a share right now, Canadian Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  told reporters outside Parliament today. Canada
also has preferred shares in GM, which he said the government
will continue to hold. GM is buying back $2.1 billion in
preferred shares owned by the U.S.  “The Canadian government may have decided that the next
tranche of shares will sell at a higher price,” said  Joseph D’Cruz , professor of strategic management at the University of
Toronto’s Rotman School of Management. “Whether the investment
is written off or not doesn’t change what the government should
be doing. They have an obligation to maximize returns.”  Toronto Exchange  GM shares will be listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange
tomorrow under the ticker symbol GMM, trading in U.S. dollars.
GM Canada President  Kevin Williams  will ring the bell to begin
trading tomorrow in Toronto, the exchange said.  The combined Canadian stake in GM will fall to 9.3 percent
through the IPO if underwriters exercise an option to buy
additional shares. Canada will need to sell its remaining stake
for an average of $60.08 a share, Bloomberg data show.  Canada agreed to sell 30.5 million shares, which would
raise as much as $1 billion, and may sell as many as 4.6 million
more shares, worth about $150 million, among those set aside for
investment banks in the so-called overallotment option.  “We had discussions early on with the U.S. government and
with the government of Ontario,” Flaherty said. “We made our
own decision.”  The U.S. is now planning to sell 358.5 million shares after
initially agreeing to 263.5 million and the  UAW  health fund will
sell 89 million shares, an increase from the original pledge for
71 million. The two GM stakeholders also may sell 50.2 million
more shares as part of the overallotment, a U.S. regulatory
filing today shows.  Minimizing Losses  The U.S. and underwriters asked the Canadian government to
sell more shares, said three people briefed on the discussions,
who asked not to be named because the talks are private. The
Treasury wanted to provide future shareholders as much liquidity
as possible while minimizing its losses on the deal, the people
said.  The U.S. Treasury, which is taking a loss on its portion of
the sale, needs to sell GM stock for an average of $43.67 a
share to break even on its entire investment, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  If underwriters exercise the overallotment option, the
remainder of the U.S. government’s  GM  shares would need to be
sold at an average of $53.07 apiece, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 