-- Capital Power, Potash Corp., SXC, Teck: Canadian Equity Preview
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-11-17T13:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/capital-power-frontier-westport-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have  unusual  moves in Canadian trading.  Bank of Nova Scotia  (BNS CT): Canada’s third-largest lender
is among potential buyers for a 20 percent stake in Bank of
Guangzhou being sold for as much as $850 million by the southern
Chinese city, a person with knowledge of the matter said. Ann
DeRabbie, a spokeswoman for the Toronto-based bank, declined to
comment.       Capital Power LP  (CPX CT): The operator of power-generating
facilities completed a C$300 million debt offering. The notes
have a coupon rate of 5.276% and mature on Nov. 16, 2020.
Proceeds will be used to finance a portion of the purchase of
the Island Generation facility, repay debt and general corporate
purposes.       Frontier Rare Earths Ltd.  (FRO CT): The Luxembourg-based
mineral exploration company is expected to begin trading on the
Toronto Stock Exchange. Frontier set its initial public offering
at 17.65 million units at C$3.40 each.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  (POT CT): The world’s
largest fertilizer producer by market value said it will buy
back up to $2 billion of its stock by Dec. 31.  SXC Health Solutions Corp.  (SXC CT): The pharmacy-benefits
manager had its rating raised to “buy” from “hold” by
 Gabriel Leung , an analyst at Paradigm Capital Inc.  Teck Resources Ltd.  (TCK/B CT): Canada’s largest base-
metals and coal producer raised its semi-annual dividend 50
percent to 30 cents a share as of the dividend payable Jan. 4.       Westport Innovations Inc.  (WPT CT): The maker of biogas and
natural gas engines may move after Benjamin Salisbury, an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp., said U.S. Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid has postponed a vote on a heavy-duty natural
gas vehicle incentives bill. The bill  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  