-- Carlyle's Booz Allen Raises $238 Million in U.S. Initial Public Offering
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-11-18T01:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/carlyle-s-booz-allen-hamilton-raises-238-million-in-initial-public-offer.html
Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. ,
the government-consulting firm acquired by Carlyle Group in 2008,
raised $238 million pricing its initial public offering at the
low end of its forecast range. The shares advanced.  The McLean, Virginia-based company sold 14 million Class A
shares at $17 each yesterday after offering them at $17 to $19
apiece, according to a  filing  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and a statement. Booz Allen climbed  13 percent  to
$19.25 in U.S. composite trading today.  Carlyle, the world’s second-largest private equity firm,
took Booz Allen public in the biggest week for U.S. initial
offerings since 2008 after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
suffered its longest stretch of declines in three months. The
IPO price still was more than three times the average paid by
Carlyle and other existing owners, Bloomberg data show.  “Even at the low end, they got a pretty good valuation on
this one,” said  Scott Billeadeau , who helps oversee $18 billion
at Fifth Third Asset Management in Minneapolis. “They did the
right thing, they priced at the lower end, that’s what made it
work.”  Booz Allen, which generates about 98 percent of its sales
from the U.S. government, will use the proceeds to repay  debt ,
the filing said. Morgan Stanley in New York and London-based
Barclays Plc led the sale.  GM, Visa  The offering was the first of ten scheduled for this week
that together may raise as much as $17.5 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  General Motors Co.  sold $15.8 billion of
common shares today, more than the $10.6 billion the Detroit-
based company initially sought, according to a company statement
and data compiled by Bloomberg.  GM’s IPO may ultimately raise $18.14 billion, the company
said in a news release today.  The offering is the second-largest in U.S. history after
San Francisco-based  Visa Inc.’s  $19.7 billion sale in March 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The biggest U.S. automaker may
also raise as much as $5 billion from a sale of preferred shares,
including an overallotment option, GM said today.  GM increased the size of its IPO even after the  S&P 500 
retreated for a fourth straight day. The benchmark gauge for U.S.
equity tumbled 1.6 percent to 1,178.34 yesterday amid concern
that the debt crisis in Ireland and Greece is worsening and
China will act to slow its economy. The S&P 500 advanced less
than 0.1 percent today.  Bitauto’s IPO  Bitauto Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-based provider of
Internet content for China’s automotive industry, raised $127
million selling 10.6 million shares at $12 each, the top end of
its forecast range, according to a statement today. The shares
advanced 3.8 percent to $12.45 today.  The price for Booz Allen’s IPO was 215 percent more than
the average per-share amount of $5.40 paid by existing owners,
according to the filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.
Washington-based Carlyle didn’t plan to sell its holding in  Booz
Allen  and retained a 71 percent stake, the SEC filing said.  Booz Allen was valued at 25 times estimated earnings based
on the original midpoint price, according to estimates from
Marina del Ray, California-based IPOdesktop.com.  That’s more than double the average of 11 times estimated
profit for Arlington, Virginia-based  CACI International Inc. , L-
3 Communications Holdings Inc. of New York, and  ManTech
International Corp.  in Fairfax, Virginia, three companies that
Booz Allen identified as competitors in its filing.  Earnings Results  Booz Allen’s revenue increased 18 percent to $5.12 billion
in its fiscal year ended March 31, the filing said. The firm
reported a $25.4 million  profit  for the period, compared to a
$49.4 million loss in the year ended March 31, 2009.  In the six months ended Sept. 30, the company’s sales rose
8 percent from a year ago to $2.71 billion. Net income more than
doubled to $43 million, according to the SEC filing.  Booz Allen  was founded in 1914 by Edwin Booz. It provides
management and technology consulting services to the U.S.
government in areas from defense and intelligence to health care,
according to its prospectus.  “We had an extensive conversation about how we should
price this particular deal,”  Ralph Shrader , Booz Allen’s
chairman, president and chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview from the NYSE. “Our stock has traded up, so
we’re very pleased with that.”  LPL Investment, Harrah’s  The offering was the first of at least four from companies
backed by private equity firms this week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  LPL Investment Holdings Inc. , the Boston-based brokerage
and investment advisory firm owned by TPG Capital and Hellman &
Friedman LLC, sold 15.66 million shares at $30 each today. Fort
Worth, Texas-based TPG and Hellman & Friedman of San Francisco
bought about 60 percent of LPL in 2005.  Aeroflex Holding Corp. , owned by San Francisco-based Golden
Gate Capital, Veritas Capital of New York and a buyout fund run
by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  in New York, will offer 17.25
million shares at $13.50 to $15.50 tomorrow, its filing said.  The maker of semiconductors and testing equipment hasn’t
posted a  profit  since it was taken private in August 2007. IPO
buyers are being asked to spend 141 percent more than the
average price that current investors paid for their stakes, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the world’s biggest casino
company, will sell 31.3 million shares for $15 to $17 each
tomorrow, its filing said. The Las Vegas-based company will
change its name to Caesars Entertainment Corp. before the IPO.  Leon Black’s  New York-based Apollo Global Management LLC
and  David Bonderman’s  TPG took Harrah’s private for $30.7
billion, including debt and transaction costs, in January 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 