-- Carrefour Said to Cancel Sale of Malaysia, Singapore Units After Review
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-11-18T08:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/carrefour-said-to-cancel-sale-of-malaysia-singapore-businesses.html
Carrefour SA , the world’s second-
largest retailer, canceled plans to sell its businesses in
Malaysia and Singapore after a strategic review, according to a
person familiar with the situation.  The operator of more than 3,000 supermarkets and
hypermarkets worldwide decided it would create more value by
keeping the units than by selling them, said the person, who
declined to be identified as the plans aren’t public.  Carrefour  this week agreed to sell its business in Thailand
to French rival  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA  for 868 million
euros ($1.18 billion) as part of a plan to focus on markets such
as China and Latin America, where it may be in the top two. Some
of the proceeds from that sale will be used to develop the
business in Malaysia, the person said.  “It was always going to be a challenge to meet their
valuation,”  Khair Mirza , an analyst at Maybank Investment Bank
Bhd., said in a phone interview today. “If you look at what
Thailand sold for, 13 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- retailers based in Singapore
and Malaysia don’t trade at those valuations.”  Economic growth in Malaysia and Singapore may also have
been helped Paris-based Carrefour decide against selling the
assets there, said Mirza. “Most of Carrefour’s hypermarkets in
Malaysia are less than five years old. So there’s definitely
upside to their earnings that they can maximize in the near-
term.”  Malaysia, Singapore Stores  Carrefour ’s Malaysian and Singapore operations may be
valued at $350 million to $400 million, four people familiar
with the matter said in July.  “If the offer price was very dilutive, it makes more sense
to hang on to the assets,”  Fabio Fazzari , an analyst at Equita
Sim in Milan, said in a phone interview. “I don’t think this
will have large repercussions for Carrefour or for the sector in
general. Carrefour’s focus is on its hypermarket strategy.”  The retailer’s 19 hypermarkets in Malaysia generated 329
million euros in revenue last year while the two outlets in
Singapore contributed 85 million euros, its annual report shows.
 Carrefour ’s 39 Thai hypermarkets and one convenience store
generated 598 million euros of net sales.  The retailer had last year had 3,062 supermarkets and
hypermarkets worldwide as well as 4,726 hard-discount stores,
according to its  annual report .  Lars Olofsson , Carrefour’s chief executive officer, has
pinned the retailer’s turnaround on a $2 billion revamp of its
hypermarket, or superstore, format in Europe during the next two
years. Revenue growth has stagnated at the stores as consumers
buy groceries closer to home or opt for department and specialty
stores for apparel and beauty products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in London at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 