-- Cathay Pacific-Air China Freight Venture May Fly Within Weeks, Pratt Says
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-11-17T09:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/cathay-pacific-air-china-freight-venture-may-fly-within-weeks-pratt-says.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.’s
air-cargo venture with Air China Ltd. may begin flights within
weeks, helping the carrier expand its air-freight business in
mainland China.  Operations may begin on Dec. 1 or Jan. 1, Cathay Pacific
Chairman  Christopher Pratt  said today in Hong Kong at an event
for affiliate  Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Co.  The tie-up has
won Chinese government approval, he said.  The carrier is also optimistic about cargo and passenger
demand in the next quarter, Pratt said, as economic growth spurs
travel and exports in China. The company in February agreed to
invest 1.7 billion yuan ($256 million) in affiliate Air China’s
cargo arm to add freight hubs in Shanghai and Beijing to its
Hong Kong base.  Cathay Pacific, which has forecast record profit this year,
will inject four Boeing Co. 747-400 freighters into Air China
Cargo as part of its investment plan. The airline owns 19
percent of Beijing-based Air China, the nation’s largest
international carrier. Air China owns 30 percent of Cathay
Pacific.  Cathay Pacific fell 0.4 percent to close at HK$22.70 in
Hong Kong. Air China, the world’s largest carrier by market
value, fell 3.8 percent to HK$9.87.  Freight volumes at Cathay Pacific jumped 20 percent in the
first 10 months of the year, helped by European and U.S. demand
for Apple Inc. IPads and other Asian-made goods. The airline is
also carrying more luxury goods to China because of the
country’s rising number of millionaires.  The surging traffic has enabled Cathay Pacific to surpass
Korean Air Lines Co. as the world’s biggest international air-
cargo carrier this year. Hong Kong airport is also set to end
Memphis, Tennessee’s at least 18-year reign as the world’s
busiest cargo airport. FedEx Corp. has its main hub in Memphis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  