-- McDonald’s Raises China Prices on Higher Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T08:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/mcdonald-s-increases-china-prices-on-higher-raw-material-costs-from-today.html
McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, increased prices for its burgers,
drinks and snacks in China to offset costs after the country’s
 inflation  surged to a two-year high.  Product prices were raised by 0.5 yuan to 1 yuan (15 cents)
today at the more than 1,200  McDonald’s  restaurants in the
country because of higher raw material costs, said Sophia Luan,
the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company’s China spokeswoman. She
declined to provide an average percentage increase when
interviewed by phone today.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China’s Cabinet is drafting
measures to counter excessive price increases, according to 
state television yesterday, and  inflation  grew to 4.4 percent
last month, the highest in more than two years.  McDonald’s 
opened its first 1,000 restaurants in China in 19 years, faster
than in any other country outside the U.S., and plans to have
2,000 within four years, according to Asia President  Tim Fenton .  “Everybody is getting used to price increases nowadays,”
said Zhang Chen while ordering a fish burger and grapefruit tea
at a  McDonald’s  restaurant at the  Shanghai International Finance
Center . “One yuan or half a yuan isn’t a big deal.”  Big Mac Index  Zhang, a 27-year-old administrative assistant at a
financial company, said she didn’t notice the increase in
prices. The restaurant raised the price of its cheese burger by
0.5 yuan while a corn cup was 1 yuan more expensive than
yesterday.  McDonald’s  fell 2.1 percent to $77.42 yesterday in New York
trading.  China has the world’s cheapest Big Mac burgers partly
because of a weak yuan, according to The Economist’s  Big Mac
Index  as of  Oct. 14 . The sandwiches cost $2.18 each on average
in Beijing and Shenzhen, compared with $3.71 in the U.S.  Big Macs are most expensive in Switzerland at $6.78,
according to the magazine’s index, which uses the concept of
purchasing power parity that states the dollar should buy the
same amount in all countries.  “If consumers see justifications for price increases, such
as value and product safety, they will be willing to pay for
it,” Vinay Dixit, senior director of Asia consumer centers at
McKinsey & Co., said in an interview in Shanghai.  Consumer Confidence  A Chinese consumer confidence index fell in the three
months ended September, the first decline in six quarters, on
expectations the costs of goods and services will keep rising.  A total of 76 percent of Chinese consumers expect prices
will increase over the next year, up from 70 percent in the
previous quarter, according to a statement from Nielsen Co. and
the Chinese statistics bureau’s Economic Monitoring and Analysis
Center today. Concerns about  inflation  are strongest among rural
and first-tier city consumers, the survey said.  China may impose price limits on food and toughen
punishment of those found speculating on agriculture futures
including corn and cotton, the China Securities Journal
reported, citing an unidentified person.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, fell 1.9 percent to 2,838.86 at the 3
p.m. close of trading, the lowest level in a month.  -- Michael Wei ,  Li Yanping  and  Stephanie Wong . Editors:  Frank Longid , Stephanie Wong  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  