-- LCH Clearnet Doubles Margin Requirement for Irish Government Bonds to 30%
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-17T09:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/lch-clearnet-raises-margin-requirement-for-irish-bonds-to-30-of-positions.html
LCH Clearnet Ltd. doubled the extra
margin requirement it charges for Irish bond trading to 30
percent of net positions as European finance ministers discussed
aid to the indebted nation.  The increase will be based on outstanding positions at the
close of business tomorrow and reflected in a so-called margin
call on Nov. 19, LCH Clearnet said in a statement on its  website 
today. The change applies to Irish government bond repurchase
agreements cleared through its RepoClear service, it said.  LCH boosted the margin requirement after the  yield  on Irish
10-year government bonds stayed “consistently” at more than
500 basis points above a AAA benchmark, it said. The securities
fell today, erasing earlier gains, sending the yield three basis
points higher to 8.50 percent as of 8:45 a.m. in London.  “We are not making any judgment on Irish creditworthiness,
this decision is based solely on government bond-spread data,”
 John Burke , head of fixed income at LCH, said today in an
interview. There is no limit to potential extra margin charge,
and while the company will continue to monitor the market, there
are no current plans to increase it further, he said.  European finance ministers have started work on possible
aid for Ireland’s  debt-laden banks , stopping short of an
immediate bailout package. Ireland said it doesn’t need EU
money.  Clearing houses such as LCH guarantee investors’ trades are
completed by standing in the middle of two counterparties, and
raise margin requirements to protect themselves against losses
should one side of the trade fail. The company on Nov. 10 said
it would impose an extra 15 percent margin requirement on
investors’ net positions in Irish debt.  The difference in yield, or spread, between Irish 10-year
debt and the AAA euro-region benchmark used by LCH widened three
basis points to 540 basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  