-- Chamber's Donohue Pledges to Work With Obama on Trade, Jobs After Dispute
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-11-17T16:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/chamber-s-donohue-pledges-to-work-with-obama-on-trade-jobs.html
U.S. Chamber of Commerce President
 Tom Donohue  pledged to work with President  Barack Obama  in a
push for trade deals and to create jobs, after two years during
which the men often were at odds.  Donohue, who squared off against Obama over measures on
climate change, health care and financial regulation, said the
Chamber, the largest business lobbying group, is ready to
cooperate after voters on Nov. 2 ousted Democrats from control
of the House of Representatives.  “Since the elections, we’ve been asked whether the Chamber
will be able to work with the administration and those in
Congress who criticized us,” Donohue said today in a speech to
his board in Washington. “The answer is: Of course we can. It’s
already happening.”  The Washington-based Chamber spent more than $30 million on
outside advertising before this month’s election, supporting
mostly Republican candidates. Democrats attacked that
advertising, saying it was unfair for the Chamber to hide its
roster of corporate donors.  Donohue said he wants to work with Obama and lawmakers in
both parties to pass pending trade agreements, cut the long-term
government debt and preserve the independence of the U.S.
Federal Reserve. He also broke with Republicans such as Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky who say their top
priority is defeating Obama in 2012.  “It’s not our intention to weaken the president in any
way,” Donohue told reporters after his speech. “We are ready
to walk across this park and work with the administration on any
issue.”  Walk Across Park  The Chamber’s headquarters building faces Washington’s
Lafayette Park, across from the White House. Already today,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  crossed the park to speak with the
Chamber’s board in closed-door meetings.  Since the election, which gave Republicans control of the
House and added to their seats in the Senate, the tone on both
sides has changed. Obama addressed an affiliate of the Chamber
in Mumbai this month, and helped companies such as  Boeing Co .
and  General Electric Co . sign deals in India. Donohue traveled
to Seoul to help Obama seal a deal that would let the long-
stalled free-trade agreement with South Korea be sent to
Congress for approval. The sides were unable to reach agreement.  “There are issues that we both have in common that we both
want to see progress on” such as trade and jobs, White House
Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said when asked about Donohue’s
comments. “We’re pleased and happy to work with him.”  The Chamber still has a list of administration policies
that it has targeted.  Regulatory ‘Tsunami’  U.S. companies are facing a “tsunami” of regulations that
are becoming a tax on citizens, Donohue said today in
reiterating a theme he’s used previously to criticize the Obama
administration.  “We cannot allow this nation to move from a government of
the people to a government of the regulators,” Donohue said.
“We’re going to be engaged in this fight for years to come.”  While Obama failed to complete the Korean trade deal while
in Seoul, Donohue says he is optimistic an accord can be worked
out.  “We didn’t quite get it done, but I am encouraged that the
agreement will be completed soon,” Donohue said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  