-- Chelsea May Offer $40 Million for Benfica's David Luiz: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-17T11:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/chelsea-may-offer-40-million-for-benfica-s-david-luiz-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from European newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Chelsea Wants Luiz  Chelsea  may bid as much as 25 million pounds ($40 million)
for Benfica’s David Luiz in order to boost its defensive line-
up, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The London club is short on defenders because Brazilian
center-back Alex and captain  John Terry  are struggling with
injuries.  Liverpool Griezmann Deal  Liverpool  is close to striking a 7 million pound-deal for
Real Sociedad winger Antoine Griezmann, the  Daily Mail  said.  Manchester United  and  Arsenal  are also interested in the
French teenager, who has played for Sociedad since 2005.  Beckenbauer Likes Bendtner  Arsenal and Denmark player  Nicklas Bendtner  would be a good
fit for  Bayern Munich , the  Daily Mirror  quoted  Franz Beckenbauer 
as saying.  “He is among some players who have done very well -- both
for Denmark and for his club -- and who has got the class and
the potential to play in a club like Bayern Munich, where we
already have a lot of class players,” the newspaper cited the
former Bayern player, who sits on the club’s advisory board, as
saying.  Redknapp Praise  Tottenham’s  Rafael van der Vaart  praised the laid-back
approach of his manager  Harry Redknapp  at White Hart Lane and
said life at former club  Real Madrid  was “boring,”  The Sun 
reported.  “Harry is a very special man, that’s why I already feel at
home at Spurs,” the newspaper quoted the Netherlands player as
saying. “There are no long and boring speeches about tactics,
like I was used to at Real Madrid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  