-- China Consumer Confidence Has First Drop in 6 Quarters on Price Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T04:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/china-consumer-confidence-falls-on-inflation-first-drop-in-six-quarters.html
A Chinese consumer confidence index
fell for the first time in six quarters on expectations that the
 price  of goods and services will keep increasing.  The measure dropped to 104 in the third quarter from 109 in
the previous three months, according to a statement from Nielsen
Co. and the Chinese statistics bureau’s Economic Monitoring and
Analysis Center.  “Inflation has been triggered mainly by increases in food
prices which has pushed up inflation expectations, especially
among low-income workers,” Pan Jiancheng, deputy director-
general of the National Bureau of Statistics’s monitoring center
told a briefing in Beijing today to release the survey. Caps on
food prices aren’t necessary yet and the key to curbing
inflation is to accelerate supply, he said in an interview.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  told state television yesterday the
Cabinet is drafting measures to counter excessive price gains,
after inflation rose to 4.4 percent last month, the highest in
more than two years. The National Development and Reform
Commission may impose controls on food prices, offer subsidies
and crack down on commodity speculation to curb gains, the China
Securities Journal reported yesterday, citing unidentified
sources.  “It’s very clear that inflation expectations in China are
rising very fast,”  Sun Mingchun , chief China economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “It’s time for the government to act very
decisively to give a signal that we are going to control the
liquidity” and “manage inflation expectations.”  Futures Decline  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the
bigger of China’s stock exchanges, slid 1.2 percent at the
midday break, after tumbling 8 percent in the previous three-day
period on speculation policy makers may raise interest rates to
combat inflation. Agricultural futures on the Dalian Commodity
Exchange, including soybeans, sugar and cotton, tumbled by as
much as their daily 5 percent limit in morning trade on concern
the government will curb speculation and take more measures to
limit price gains.  “Price controls don’t really work, so rather than
introducing them, the government needs to increase supply and
open up imports for agricultural produce to stabilize prices,"
said  Liu Li-Gang , head of China research at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Hong Kong. ‘‘The lesson of the
surge in prices in 2008 is that the government should be more
pre-emptive.’’  Food Surges  China in January 2008 temporarily froze prices for oil
products, natural gas and electricity, as well as daily goods
and school and transportation fees, to fight inflation that
surged to the fastest pace in more than a decade.  The government won’t ‘‘hastily’’ impose stricter price
controls in the near term, the Economic Observer reported today,
citing an unidentified official at the commission. The agency
didn’t respond to faxed questions sent by Bloomberg News
yesterday regarding reports of new price limits.  Food prices  jumped 10.1 percent in October from a year
earlier, the most in two years, the National Bureau of
Statistics said last week. Vegetable prices rose 18 percent from
a year earlier.  ‘‘It’s much easier for food-driven inflation to boost
overall inflation expectations because food has such a high
weight in the CPI and is very sensitive in people’s lives,” Pan
from the statistics bureau told today’s briefing.  The People’s Bank of China unexpectedly raised interest
rates on Oct. 19 for the first time since 2007 after inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace in two years.  Imported Inflation  Daiwa’s Sun estimates the central bank could raise
borrowing costs again as early as the end of this month and
allow faster yuan gains to curb imported inflation. Ministry of
Commerce spokesman  Yao Jian  said yesterday that higher prices of
commodities including grain, cooking oil and cotton on
international markets was contributing to increased costs of
goods in China.  While speculation is growing that the central bank will
tighten credit again by the end of the year, such a move may
attract more capital inflows and exacerbate already excessive
domestic liquidity, Pan said in today’s interview.  PBOC Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said yesterday China is under
“pressure” from capital inflows as developed nations ease
monetary conditions and reiterated Chinese authorities will
strengthen liquidity management.  The central bank “needs to watch to see the impact of its
existing measures before rushing into another interest rate
increase,” ANZ’s Liu said. “An increase in  interest rates 
won’t address the short term food price issue.”  Rural Concerns  Rural consumer confidence fell to 106 from 117 the previous
quarter, according to today’s NBS-Nielsen survey which canvassed
3,500 people across the country. Urban consumer confidence in
first-tier cities including Beijing and Shanghai was unchanged,
rose in second- and third-tier cities and fell in fourth-tier
cities, according to the statement.  “Consumers’ perception related to increasing prices is the
key factor that drove the result we measured in consumer
confidence,”  Mitch Barns , Nielsen’s Greater China president,
told the briefing in Beijing today. Concern over price increases
has increased quarter on quarter for the past two years and the
proportion of consumers who expect prices to climb has risen to
the highest level in two years, he said.  A total of 76 percent of consumers expect prices will
increase further over the next year, up from 70 percent the
previous quarter, according to today’s survey. Concerns about
inflation are strongest among rural and first-tier city
consumers, it said.  Persistent Inflation  In  rural areas , 89 percent of consumers expect the increase
in prices to persist over the next 12 months, compared with 78
percent in the previous survey released in August.  Wang Tao , Beijing-based economist at UBS AG, told today’s
consumer confidence briefing she expects inflation in November
could accelerate to nearly 5 percent before easing in December
due to a higher comparative base.  “Price controls won’t work,” she said. “The government
should use subsidies to boost supply and raise interest rates
and rein in liquidity to damp inflation expectations.”  -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong and
 Richard Dobson  in Shanghai. Editors:  Nerys Avery ,  Ken McCallum   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  