-- China Said to Seek Foreign Buyers for Guangzhou Bank's $850 Million Stake
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-11-17T07:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/china-said-to-seek-sale-of-20-stake-in-guangzhou-bank-to-foreign-investor.html
The government of China’s southern
city of Guangzhou is seeking to sell a 20 percent stake in  Bank
of Guangzhou  to a foreign investor for as much as $850 million,
a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Bank of Guangzhou, the city’s seventh-largest lender, has
allowed due diligence by potential buyers including Groupe BPCE,
France’s second-largest bank by branches, and  Bank of Nova
Scotia , Canada’s third-largest lender, the person said, asking
not to be identified because the sale process is confidential.  Foreign investors have announced plans to inject more than
$16 billion into Chinese lenders since the start of 2006 as the
country’s gross domestic product more than doubled, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG 
said in May it will spend about $811 million to boost its stake
in Huaxia Bank Co. to 19.99 percent.  “This can be seen as a unique opportunity for a well-
capitalized foreign bank to get immediate exposure to China’s
banking system,” said  Michael Werner , a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “The question is how many foreign
banks have healthy enough capital positions to consider this
purchase.”  A 20 percent stake in Bank of Guangzhou may be valued at
$650 million to $850 million, the person said. The Guangzhou
municipal government, which owns 93 percent of the company
together with other state-backed entities, plans to sell more
than 50 percent of its holding to foreign and domestic investors,
according to the person.  Talks With Taiwanese  The city government has also held talks with Taiwanese
financial institutions on the stake sale, the person said. Under
Chinese rules, foreign investors can own a maximum 25 percent of
a domestic bank, with the limit for a single overseas
shareholder set at 19.99 percent.  A Paris-based spokeswoman at BPCE declined to comment by
phone and Bank of Nova Scotia spokeswoman  Ann DeRabbie  declined
to comment. Calls to Bank of Guangzhou’s office were referred to
the board secretary, who was unavailable for comment. An
official at the Guangzhou government’s financial services
department declined to give his name or comment. A fax to the
department wasn’t immediately answered.  The stake sale will boost revenue for the government of
Guangzhou, playing host to the Asian Games that started on Nov.
12. The total investment for the event, held every four years,
will reach about 122.6 billion yuan ($18.4 billion), Xinhua News
agency reported on Oct. 13, citing Guangzhou Mayor Wan Qingliang.  Domestic Investors  The government also plans to sell about 30 percent of the
bank to domestic investors, the person said. Guangzhou
International Holdings Group, which owns 64 percent of the bank,
said in a  Sept. 17 statement  that it seeks to sell no more than
2.5 billion of the bank’s shares for at least 2.68 yuan apiece.  Bank of Guangzhou is valued at 22.2 billion yuan, based on
the minimum price and 8.3 billion shares disclosed in its 2009
report. The lender was established in 1996 and has 82 branches
focusing on retail, corporate and treasury business. It has more
than 3.5 million retail customers.  Bank of Guangzhou has forecast profit will more than triple
to 1.7 billion yuan this year from 508 million yuan in 2009, and
net income may reach 2.2 billion yuan in 2011, the person said.  The bank’s other shareholders include Guangzhou Guangyong
State-Owned Assets Management Co. which has a 26 percent stake
and Guangzhou Guangyong Trading Co., owning 1.89 percent.  Citigroup Inc.  and foreign and Chinese partners in 2006
signed a $3.1 billion agreement to take control of Guangzhou-
based Guangdong Development Bank. The investing group beat
Paris-based Societe Generale SA and China’s Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co. in the 18-month race to buy 86 percent of Guangdong
Development, with New York-based Citigroup owning 20 percent of
the bank. Guangzhou is the capital of Guangdong province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  