-- China’s Stocks Decline as Wen’s Speech Boosts Rate Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T07:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/china-s-stocks-decline-as-wen-s-speech-boosts-interest-rate-speculation.html
China’s stocks fell for a second day,
sending the benchmark index into a so-called correction, after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the cabinet is drafting measures to curb
inflation.  Chongqing Brewery Co. , partly owned by Carlsberg A/S,
plunged by the 10 percent limit on concern the government will
prevent companies from passing on rising costs to consumers.
Jiangxi Copper Co. and PetroChina Co. slid at least 1.9 percent
on a worsening outlook for metal and energy demand after
commodities capped the biggest five-day slide in a year.  “The market is worried that future measures to tighten
monetary policy will be more severe,” said  Lvwu Mei , vice
director of research at Lion Fund Management Co., which oversees
about $7.5 billion. “Investors should adopt a more conservative
approach given the current market sentiment.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 55.68, or 1.9 percent, to
2,838.86 at the 3 p.m. close, the lowest level in a month. The
gauge has lost 10 percent since reaching an almost seven-month
high on Nov. 8 as investors speculated the government will raise
rates for the second time in a month and institute price
controls to combat the fastest inflation in two years. The CSI
300 Index retreated 2.1 percent to 3,103.91 today.  Premier Wen’s comments at a supermarket in the southern
city of Guangzhou were broadcast last night on state television.
He didn’t elaborate, beyond urging local governments to ensure
market supply and order.  A gauge of consumer staples  in the CSI 300 slid 5.4 percent,
the most since August 2009. Chongqing Brewery, the best
performer this year after tripling its stock price, fell 10
percent to 70.81 yuan. Wuliangye Yibin Co., a spirits maker,
dropped 3.9 percent to 35.90 yuan.  Turning Bearish  Nomura Holdings Inc. is turning “bearish” on China’s
yuan-denominated shares, saying that the government may
introduce price controls and “more draconian’” measures to
curb accelerating inflation.  “The likelihood of a re-introduction of price controls on
food is growing,”  Sean Darby , a Hong Kong-based strategist at
Nomura, which was ranked first in China research by
Institutional Investor magazine in its All-China Research Team
poll this year, said in a report today. “The recent run-up in
agriculture prices worldwide and signs of hoarding appear to
have pushed the authorities to reconsider draconian measures.”  Commodities capped the biggest five-session slide since
July 2009 on concern that China will seek to slow its economic
growth, curbing raw-material demand in the country that is
leading the global recovery. Copper, sugar and rubber futures
slumped their daily limit in China, with copper set for its
biggest four-day slide since 2008.  Commodities Slide  Jiangxi Copper, the largest producer of the metal, lost 2.9
percent to 35.27 yuan. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. dropped 1.9
percent to 25.78 yuan. PetroChina, the biggest oil producer,
slid 1.9 percent to 11.35 yuan.  The central bank may raise rates due to sustained
inflationary pressure, the China Securities Journal said in
today’s edition. China may increase borrowing costs for a second
time this year as soon as Nov. 19, the newspaper said, citing an
unidentified analyst.  The People’s Bank of China boosted its benchmark one-year
lending rate on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a percentage point to
5.56 percent, the first increase since 2007.  Consumer prices  in
China gained 4.4 percent in October. The government’s full-year
inflation target is 3 percent.  China will introduce measures to control rising food prices,
including limits on how much products may be sold for and
subsidies, the China Securities Journal reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified person. Agriculture futures including
soybeans and cotton tumbled by the daily limit today.  Confidence Drops  Nanning Sugar  dropped 4.4 percent to 21.35 yuan, the lowest
since Oct. 8. Guangxi Guitang, a producer of cane sugar, fell
5.6 percent to 11.33 yuan.  A Chinese consumer confidence index dropped to 104 in the
third quarter from 109 in the previous three months, according
to a statement from Nielsen Co. and the Chinese statistics
bureau’s Economic Monitoring and Analysis Center.  China’s health-care stocks plunged 6.5 percent, the most
among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups, on concerns rallies
since mid-year have been excessive given the prospect further
measures to tame inflation will slow the economy.  “Health-care stocks have risen too much,” said Li Ying, an
analyst at CSC Securities HK Ltd. in Shanghai. The index
tracking drugmakers has gained 37 percent since July 1, compared
with a 23 percent gain in the CSI 300 Index. Kangmei
Pharmaceutical Co. slumped 8.4 percent to 20.16 yuan.  ‘Overweight’ Property  A gauge of property developers in the Shanghai Composite
rose 0.7 percent. China is unlikely to introduce further
property-specific measures as the government shifts its policy
focus to controlling inflation, according to a report by
Citigroup analysts including  Oscar Choi .  The brokerage reiterated its “overweight” recommendation
on property stocks, saying that current share prices have
factored in “much of the bad news” and that “policy
headwinds” will stabilize in the next six months. Poly Real
Estate Group Co. added 0.6 percent to 12.31 yuan.  China stocks volatility jumped to the highest in six months,
spurring China International Capital Corp. to recommend that
investors refrain from buying equities as the government
intensifies measures to contain inflation.  “Investors should stay put,”  Hao Hong , a Beijing-based
global strategist at CICC, the top-ranked brokerage for China
research in Asiamoney’s annual survey, wrote in a report.
“Inflation risks haven’t been priced in.”  The Shanghai gauge has rebounded 20 percent since reaching
this year’s low on July 5 on expectations central banks around
the world will inject more cash into their economies to boost
growth. The index remains down 13 percent this year after the
government raised bank reserve requirements and curbed lending
growth to cool the economy.  -- Irene Shen  and  Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. Editors:  Allen Wan ,
 Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3048 or
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  