-- China Property Policy Risks to `Stabilize' as Government Tackles Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T08:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/china-property-policy-risks-to-stabilize-as-government-tackles-inflation.html
China is unlikely to introduce
further property-specific measures as the government shifts its
policy focus to controlling inflation, Citigroup Inc. said in a
report today.  Policy headwinds should relax slightly in the next half
year because the government may have to consider the impact on
rising inflation if liquidity flowed out of property, analysts
led by  Oscar Choi  wrote. More than 1 trillion yuan ($150 billion)
would likely go into other areas if the government screens out
property investment and speculation demand, Citigroup forecast.  China this year suspended mortgages for third-home
purchases and pledged to speed up trials of property taxes,
while the central bank raised bank reserve requirements last
week to tame inflation and restrain foreign capital, after
raising interest rates for the first time in three years last
month. Property stocks were the only industry group to gain
today on the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  “With the government shifting its policy focus to
inflation control, we expect policy risks for the property
market to stabilize,” the analysts wrote. “The property market
for sure is not immune to interest rate or reserve-ratio-
requirement hikes, but more property-specific measures are
unlikely.”  Inflation climbed to a two-year high of 4.4 percent in
October from last year. Home price growth rose 8.6 percent from
a year earlier in October, the slowest pace in 10 months.  Overweight Recommendation  The  Shanghai Composite  measure tracking real estate stocks
added 0.7 percent at the 3 p.m. close today. The measure is down
27 percent this year, compared with 13 percent for the Shanghai
Composite.  China Vanke Co. , the country’s biggest developer,
rose 0.3 percent to 8.18 yuan in Shenzhen, and rival Poly Real
Estate Group Co. added 0.6 percent to 12.31 yuan.  Citigroup reiterated its “overweight” recommendation for
Chinese property stocks, saying that current share prices have
factored in “much of the bad news.”  Rising home prices are defying the government’s curbs
because they are not targeted at the “structural problems”
that are causing the overheating, the analysts said in the
report. They include insufficient housing, excessive liquidity
and a large wealth gap among consumers, they said.  Big Vs. Small Cities  Major cities such as Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and
Shenzhen have been hurt more by the government’s measures
because of huge rallies in prices, because local governments
follow the central government’s tightening policies and
developers’ reluctance to cut prices, the analysts said after
visiting more than 100 projects in 15 cities.  Sales volumes dropped in key cities though home prices
remained high, the report found.  “Property is still treated as the best anti-inflation
product in the market,” analysts said.  Markets in smaller, second-tier cities such as Chengdu,
Tianjin and Qingdao remain robust, the report said. Developers
are willing to cut prices by 10 percent from their previous
guidance and are accelerating project launches to offset
declines in bigger cities, the report said.  Land prices in top-tier cities were intact, while land
prices fell 20 percent to 30 percent in smaller cities, the
analysts said without giving comparisons.  Housing Curbs  China will use no less than 10 percent of net proceeds from
land transactions to develop low-cost housing, said the Ministry
of Finance in a statement yesterday.  China ordered first-time foreign homebuyers to show proof
they don’t own other properties in the country as it steps up
measures to curb gains in the real estate market, the housing
ministry and currency regulator said earlier this week.  Foreigners will have to provide home ownership statements
before their purchases, along with proof of at least a year’s
employment in China, the State Administration of Foreign
Exchange and the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
said in a statement dated Nov. 4 and released on the two
government websites Nov. 15. Overseas companies are only allowed
to buy offices in cities where they are registered, it said.  China has noticed faster growth in property investment from
overseas this year and is stepping up its review of projects and
verifying data on the property sector, Commerce Ministry
spokesman Yao Jian said in Beijing yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  