-- China's First Passenger Plane Stokes Pride, Wins Initial Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/china-s-first-passenger-plane-stokes-pride-wins-initial-sales.html
Yi Peng took a day off so he could
walk through a model of China’s first large passenger plane.  “We are proud of this -- it’s a China-made plane,” self-
employed Yi, 40, said as he waited with his wife to enter the
full-size mockup at the Zhuhai air show yesterday. “If it were
an imported plane, we wouldn’t be lining up.”  Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China  announced its first 100
orders for the 166-seat C919 plane at the show as China strives
to challenge Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS in the $70 billion-a-year
global aircraft market. The nation is also developing high-speed
trains, supercomputers and mobile-phone systems to create
better-paying jobs and reduce its reliance on imports.  “The airplane is a big deal,”  Mark Howes , Asia-Pacific
president for  Honeywell International Inc. , a parts supplier for
the C919, said at the show in southern China. “It’s a national
program in terms of importance to the Chinese government.”  Visitors to Comac’s 1,500 square-meter (16,000 square-foot)
show stand are able to tour the model cabin and cockpit in
groups of about 15. They climb up boarding steps to reach the
aircraft door, where two women dressed in red stewardesses
uniform welcome them inside.  “The interior is clean and bright, not a bad feel
overall,” said Jennifer Huo, 34, a Shanghai-based public-
relations executive after her tour. “I feel proud that China
can come up with such a plane.”  In-development Plane  The in-development aircraft is due to make its maiden
flight in 2014 and enter service two years later. It will have a
range of 2,200 nautical miles (3,500 km), according to details
at the stand. It competes against  Boeing ’s 737 and  Airbus’s
A320 , the planemakers’ most popular models.  Comac announced deals for as many as 100 C919s at the show
from General Electric Co.’s leasing arm, and Chinese companies,
including the nation’s big three carriers -- Air China Ltd.,
China Southern Airlines Co. and China Eastern Airlines Corp. It
didn’t say how many planes each customer had ordered.  GE Capital Aviation Services Ltd., the world’s largest
plane lessor, separately said it had signed a letter of intent
for five planes with options for five more. GE’s venture with
 Safran SA , CFM International, will also supply engines for the
C919 as the company works to boost sales in the world’s fastest-
growing major economy.  Prove Performance  Ilyushin Finance Co., Russia’s biggest aircraft-leasing
company, isn’t yet planning to follow GE in ordering C919s,
Deputy Director General Ostrovskiy Yury said after his visit to
the plane mockup. Comac first has to show that the C919 will
meet performance pledges and win approval for the aircraft from
overseas regulators, he said.  “If the Chinese aviation industry can improve their
aircraft to such a quality that they can meet international
certification, they would be more interesting for us,” he said.  Talks on leasing MA600 turboprops to Russian airlines have
stumbled on a lack of certification, he said. The MA600 is made
by Xi’an Aircraft Industry (Group) Co., a unit of Aviation
Industry Corp. of China, or AVIC.  United Technologies Corp. ’s Hamilton Sundstrand Corp. unit
and Safran announced the formation of ventures at the show that
will supply parts for the C919. Overseas suppliers are usually
partnering with units of AVIC, the nation’s biggest aerospace
company, to work on the plane.  Partsmakers are backing the aircraft because of surging
growth in China’s aviation market. The country will likely need
4,265 new passenger planes through 2029, as economic growth will
cause a fivefold jump in air travel, according to AVIC, which is
an investor in Comac. The planemaker aims to sell 2,000 C919s
worldwide over 20 years.  “Given China’s prowess, we should have been able to come
up with a large plane much earlier,” said Huo, the PR
executive, who visited the mockup. “But it’s not too late.”  -- Liza Lin . Editors:  Neil Denslow ,  Kenneth Wong   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 