-- China's Cabinet May Impose Temporary Price Controls to Counter Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T13:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/china-s-cabinet-confirms-price-controls-may-be-looming-as-inflation-surges.html
China may impose temporary price
controls to counter the fastest  inflation  in two years, the
cabinet said.  Price caps on “important daily necessities” and
production materials will be used if necessary, the State
Council said on its website today after a meeting chaired by
Premier  Wen Jiabao .  China’s accelerating inflation has sent stocks and
commodities sliding on speculation that efforts to curb
prices will cool the world’s fastest-growing major economy.
The State Council’s announcement came after the  Shanghai
Composite Index  today extended to 10 percent its decline from
an almost seven-month high on Nov. 8.  “This is about the strongest signal the government
could give of its determination to slow price rises,” said
 Mark Williams , a London-based economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. and a former China adviser for the U.K. Treasury.
“Whether or not controls end up being widely implemented,
the government will hope that the mere fact of the
announcement will help to rein in inflation expectations.”  The cabinet also pledged to stabilize natural gas prices,
crack down on speculation in agricultural goods and ensure
the supply of vegetables, grain, cooking oil and sugar. State
television reported yesterday that the State Council was
drafting measures to curb prices.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined 1.1 percent to
1,088.83 as of 7:34 a.m. in New York, set for the lowest
closing level since Oct. 1.  Costlier Burger  McDonald’s Corp ., the world’s largest restaurant chain,
said today that it has increased prices for its burgers,
drinks and snacks in China to offset costs.  The central bank last month raised interest rates for
the first time since 2007 as the government wrestles with
inflation that accelerated to a 4.4 percent annual pace in
October, mainly driven by food costs. Inflows of cash from
trade and investors betting on Chinese growth and gains by
the yuan threaten to fuel price gains.  Citigroup Inc. economist  Ken Peng  sees the central bank
raising interest rates next month and said the government
will also seek to limit credit growth after targeting 7.5
trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) of new loans this year, 22
percent less than the record amount extended in 2009.  2008 Precedent  China in January 2008 temporarily froze prices for oil
products, natural gas and electricity, as well as daily goods
and school and transportation fees, to counter inflation that
surged to the fastest pace in more than a decade. Shanghai’s
stock index plunged in 2008 after peaking in October 2007.  “It’s feeling like the winter of 2007 all over again,”
said  Gavin Parry , managing director of Parry International
Trading Ltd., a stock trading desk in Hong Kong. “The last
time China enacted price controls, they ended the Shanghai
bull market. The knock-on could be larger this time given the
global focus on China.”  Shanghai’s  benchmark  index fell 1.9 percent today, after
a 4 percent decline yesterday.  Today’s statement, which also said the government should
seek to stop the illegal processing of corn and cotton,
followed a report in the China Securities Journal yesterday
that price limits were possible for food, and punishments
could be strengthened for speculation in agricultural goods.  Vegetable Prices  Corn prices in China jumped to a record yesterday as
tightening supplies increased their investment appeal. Rice
also reached an all-time high. China has already sold sugar,
cotton, corn, aluminum and zinc from stockpiles in an effort
to ease shortages.  Vegetable prices in the first 10 days of this month
jumped by 62.4 percent from a year earlier, the Financial
News said yesterday, citing a survey of prices by the
Ministry of Commerce.  The State Council highlighted the “importance and
urgency” of tackling prices and said local governments could
use subsidies to aid the poor.  October’s  inflation  rate was higher than any of the
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
government is also seeking to cool property prices after
record annual gains this year.  McDonald’s product prices were raised by 0.5 yuan to 1
yuan (15 cents) at the more than 1,200 restaurants in the
country because of higher raw-material costs, the company
said today.  “It’s good that the government starts to take the
inflation problem seriously, but it has not yet touched the
root of the problem -- excess liquidity,” said  Tao Dong , a
Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  -- Li Yanping ,  Sophie Leung  in Beijing. With assistance from
 Darren Boey  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Fergal O’Brien .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  