-- China's Use of Biomass Fuel Makes It World's Biggest Energy User, IEA Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T07:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/china-s-use-of-biomass-fuel-makes-it-world-s-biggest-energy-user-iea-says.html
China’s biomass use, which the
government excludes from its consumption estimates, placed the
country ahead of the U.S. as the world’s largest energy consumer
in 2009, the International Energy Agency said.  Inclusion of “traditional biomass use” in rural areas,
such as the burning of grain stems or wood for cooking,
increases China’s energy consumption by four to five percent,
 Nobuo Tanaka , executive director of the Paris-based adviser said
at a press conference in Beijing today. Biomass is material made
from organic matter.  China disputes IEA estimates on its energy efficiency. The
agency overestimated the country’s energy use in its World
Energy Outlook report published last week,  Han Wenke , head of
energy research at the National Development and Reform
Commission, the country’s top economic planning agency, said
today. Official data show China is still the world’s second
biggest consumer.  “The IEA doesn’t have a thorough understanding of China’s
efforts to boost energy efficiency,” Han told reporters today.
“Some data it cited are not in line with official data verified
by the Chinese government.”  China consumed 2,252 million metric tons of oil equivalent
in 2009 in the form of crude, coal, natural gas, nuclear power
and renewable sources, IEA Chief Economist Fatih Birol said in
July. That exceeded the 2,170 million tons used by the U.S.  “When will China become the biggest energy consumer if
using China’s own statistics? Maybe it’s not 2009, maybe it’s
2010, or next year at the latest,” Tanaka said. “It doesn’t
make much difference.”  More than half of China’s 1.3 billion population live in
rural villages, where firewood is the most commonly used fuel
for cooking.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 