-- Christie Killing New Jersey Tunnel Was `Rational,' Former Governors Say
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-17T19:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/christie-killing-new-jersey-tunnel-was-rational-former-governors-say.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ’s
decision to kill a proposed $8.7 billion commuter-rail tunnel
under the Hudson River was a “logical” move designed to
preserve funds for roads, former Governor  James Florio  said.  Christie, 48, last month pulled the plug on the project,
which was designed to double New Jersey Transit’s passenger
capacity into New York City. The first-term Republican said on
Oct. 27 he canceled the tunnel because New Jersey would have
been responsible for as much as $5 billion in costs beyond the
initial price.  Florio, a Democrat who served one term and lost in 1993
after raising taxes to balance the state budget, said Christie
faced a dilemma. He had to consider new mass-transit projects
against the need to pay for road work, Florio said, at a time
when the state’s  Transportation Trust Fund  is estimated to run
out of money for new projects next year.  The governor “made the economically logical and rational
decision to say he had to finance the Transportation Trust,”
Florio said today on a panel reviewing Christie’s first year. It
was held at the annual New Jersey League of Municipalities
convention in Atlantic City. “That was more significant in my
mind,” Florio said.  The panel, which included former Democratic Governor
 Brendan Byrne  and one-time acting New Jersey Governors  Donald DiFrancesco  and  John Bennett , focused on Christie’s $10 billion
in spending reductions this year.  Federal Money  The state had spent about $600 million on design and
construction contracts for the new tunnel, which got under way
in 2009. The original funding agreement called for New Jersey to
pay $2.7 billion plus cost overruns and the federal government
and  Port Authority of New York and New Jersey  to each pay $3
billion.  DiFrancesco, a Republican  who served  in 2001 and 2002, and
Florio both said Christie’s ending the project preserved the
state’s share of federal matching funds.  “He made a choice, at least in the short-term, that the
federal government ought to step up on this,” DiFrancesco said.  New York City officials said today they’re studying a
proposal to extend the No. 7 subway line from Manhattan under
the Hudson River to a rail station in Secaucus, New Jersey. The
project would cost about $5.3 billion, they said, cheaper than
the tunnel Christie killed.  Christie’s fights with unions and public workers over his
spending cuts, as well as reductions to programs such as women’s
health, may threaten his political standing if the groups unite
to oppose him, Florio said.  “He’s responding to the perceived idea that he has to be
cutting everything,” Florio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 