-- Chrysler to Refinance Debt in Second Half of 2011, Fiat's Marchionne Says
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-17T08:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/chrysler-to-refinance-debt-in-second-half-of-2011-fiat-s-marchionne-says.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by  Fiat SpA , should have a “firm idea”
about refinancing its debt by the end of the first half of next
year as the company seeks to improve profitability.  “We’ll probably execute in the second half of 2011,” said
 Sergio Marchionne , who is chief executive officer of both
automakers. “We need to find a solution to all of this by the
time we hit the IPO market.”  Fiat, based in Turin, Italy, gained control of Chrysler
during the U.S. automaker’s 2009 bankruptcy and may conduct a
share sale in the second half of 2011, the company has said.
While Chrysler last month reported its best quarterly earnings
since emerging from court protection, interest payments on $7.4
billion of U.S. and Canadian government loans will prevent the
company making a profit this year, according to Marchionne.  The effective interest rate on money borrowed from the U.S.
government is as high as 14 percent and as much as 20 percent on
the Canadian loans, the company said.  Chrysler has held discussions with several financial
institutions that are “willing to help,” Marchionne said
yesterday in Los Angeles.  Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler lost $84 million in
the three months through Sept. 30.  Ferrari  Marchionne said last week Fiat may sell its auto-parts
division  Magneti Marelli SpA  and a stake in Ferrari SpA before
consolidating Chrysler, analysts told Bloomberg News.  Separately, Fiat said yesterday it may consider
transactions involving Ferrari, Magneti Marelli and Alfa Romeo
SpA after it spins off its industrial businesses.  “These represent just some of the strategic options
available” after the demerger “that could be evaluated
internally at the company’s full discretion,” Fiat said
yesterday in a statement made at the request of the Italian
stock market regulator Consob.  Fiat, Italy’s biggest manufacturer, isn’t currently trying
to sell Ferrari to potential buyers, Marchionne said. The
company might someday consider selling a part of Ferrari to
prove its worth, he said.  “At some point in time, we may think of that,” Marchionne
said. “I have no plans to do it, but it’s a possibility.”  Marchionne spoke to reporters yesterday at a new company-
owned dealership. The Motor Village, slated to open during the
first quarter, will serve as a testbed for Chrysler’s brands,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Los Angeles at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  