-- Guggenheim's $600 Million CLO Pushes Issuance to Twice Last Year's Volume
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-11-17T17:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/citigroup-said-to-price-600-million-guggenheim-loan-fund.html
Guggenheim Investment Management
LLC’s $600 million collateralized loan obligation pushed
CLO issuance in 2010 to more than twice last year’s volume.  This year, $2.6 billion of CLOs backed by high-yield, high-
risk, widely syndicated loans have been sold in the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from $1.22
billion issued all of 2009, Morgan Stanley data show.  The market for CLOs is opening up after virtually
disappearing during the credit crisis, which saw issuance drop
from $91.1 billion in 2007. Narrower CLO yields may continue to
drive more issuance of the debt.  Spreads on the highest-rated portions of the debt were 225
basis points more than the London interbank offered rate as of
Nov. 11 after widening to as much as 725 basis points more than
Libor in April 2009. Spreads were as low as 23 basis points more
than the benchmark in 2007, according to Morgan Stanley data.
Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to each other.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  Yesterday, JPMorgan Chase & Co. priced a $400 million
collateralized loan obligation for  Apollo Global Management LLC ,
according to a person familiar with the deal.  Two more CLOs backed by widely syndicated loans may price
before the end of the year. GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit
investment arm of Blackstone Group LP, is raising a CLO with
Bank of America Corp., and Oak Hill Advisors LP is raising one
with Morgan Stanley.  AAA Rated  Citigroup Inc.  priced the Guggenheim deal yesterday,
according to people familiar with the offering, who declined to
be identified because the talks are private.  The CLO includes a $342 million piece rated AAA by Standard
& Poor’s that will pay lenders 175 basis points more than Libor,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. The remainder of the portfolio will include a
portion rated BBB and preferred shares, neither of which were
sold, the people said.  Alexander Samuelson, a Citigroup spokesman, declined to
comment. Jeffrey Kelley, a Guggenheim spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  