-- Clement Says Canada to Be `Prudent' With Taxpayer Money in GM Stock Sale
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-17T16:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/clement-says-canada-to-be-prudent-with-taxpayer-money-in-gm-stock-sale.html
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said the government will seek to maximize returns for
taxpayers as it begins to sell some of its shares in  General
Motors Co.   GM’s  initial public offering may raise $15.8 billion after
the U.S. Treasury and United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care
trust increased the shares they are selling, according to a
regulatory filing. Canada hasn’t increased the number of shares
it’s selling.  “We have arrived at a number which again,  Jim Flaherty  and
I will explain very soon, which we think is prudent,” Clement
said in an interview outside Parliament in Ottawa, referring to
the finance minister. “We always reserved the right to decide
on our own share of that initial public offering.”  The IPO was expanded by 31 percent to 478 million shares,
GM said today in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, a day after boosting the offer price to as much as
$33 a share. An overallotment and an offering of preferred
shares may increase the total amount raised to about $22.7
billion.  Canada “is selling some but not all of our shares and we
feel that it is the adequate balance between being part of the
IPO, which we have always said we would be, and at the same time
doing so in a way where we are going to chunk it out over time
to try and maximize taxpayer protection,” Clement said.  Ontario Stake  General Motors Corp. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after the failure of New York-based
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 froze credit
markets and helped cause the longest recession since the Great
Depression.  GM’s common shares will be listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker  GM  and on the Toronto Stock Exchange
under the ticker GMM, the SEC filing showed.  Kevin Williams , the
president of GM Canada, is expected to open trading in Toronto,
said  Carolyn Quick , a spokeswoman for TMX Group Inc.’s Toronto
Stock Exchange.  Canada and Ontario contributed a combined $10.6 billion to
the GM bailout, of which $1.1 billion has been repaid. Ontario
provided $3.5 billion, while the federal government added $7.1
billion.  The federal and provincial governments hold a combined 11.7
percent of the automaker ahead of the IPO. The stake will be
reduced to 9.6 percent with the sale, according to SEC filings.  Canada and Ontario agreed to sell 30.4 million shares in the
IPO, out of its total of 175.1 million, according to the filing.
The stake may be reduced to 9.3 percent if bankers managing the
sale fill an overallotment option, or greenshoe, to meet demand.  Ontario Finance Minister  Dwight Duncan  isn’t commenting on
the GM IPO, according to his press secretary Andrew Chornenky.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  