-- Coal's Two-Year High May Force European Utility Gas Switch: Energy Markets
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-11-17T17:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/coal-s-two-year-high-may-force-european-utility-gas-switch-energy-markets.html
Coal in Europe is trading close to a
two-year high as rising demand in China drives up prices around
the world, making natural gas more attractive to U.K. and German
utilities for producing electricity.  Benchmark coal  for delivery next month in northwest Europe
reached $108.50 a metric ton yesterday, the highest level since
Nov. 7, 2008, and traded today at $105, according to GFI Group
Inc. broker data.  China faces “a moderate shortage” of the
fuel that generates 80 percent of its power after temperatures
fell below freezing earlier than usual this year, New York-based
Commodore Research said on Nov. 15.  “Coal prices are now completely driven by Asian demand,
and European utilities have to accept that price,” said
 Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst at Societe Generale.  China, the world’s biggest coal user, will import record
amounts of the fuel in November and December, according to
Commodore. U.K. power plants have struggled in 2010 to make a
 profit  from using coal for the first time in at least three
years, according to Bloomberg data.  Centrica Plc  and RWE AG
started gas-fired plants this year in Britain, Europe’s biggest
market for the fuel.  U.K. coal consumption dropped almost 50 percent since
January, while use of gas was little changed, the Department of
 Energy and Climate Change  said on Oct. 28. Britain used coal for
about 28 percent of its power generation last year and gas for
about 45 percent, government data show.  No Profit  The profit from turning coal into power for delivery next
month in Britain, the so-called clean-dark spread, has averaged
minus 9 pence (14 U.S. cents) per megawatt hour in 2010,
representing a loss for utilities that burn the fuel, according
to Bloomberg data.  “The historic rise of coal prices juxtaposed over
relatively low power prices in Europe has pushed the dark spread
close to zero,”  Marius Frunza , the Paris-based head of
structuring at Sagacarbon, a unit of Caisse des Depots et
Consignations, said in an e-mail.  The clean-dark spread, which includes the cost of carbon
permits and a 5-pound fixed charge for transporting coal to the
power station, was 1.35 pounds a megawatt hour as of 4:50 p.m.
in London, Bloomberg data show.  The return for gas, known as
the clean-spark spread, was 5.56 pounds.  Gas plants have “higher efficiencies and lower costs to
transport the fuel,” said  Nick Campbell , an energy analyst at
Lytham St. Annes, England-based Inenco Group Ltd. Gas is also a
cleaner fuel than coal, requiring about half as many emission
allowances, he said.  While U.K. natural gas for delivery next month gained 44
percent this year to 48.55 pence a therm, that’s still about
half the price reached in 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Fuel of Choice  Natural gas will be the fuel of choice for the next two
years because of surplus supplies and rising costs for emission
allowances, Omar Abbosh, a London-based managing director at
Accenture Plc, the world’s second-largest technology-consulting
firm, said in an interview.  “We will have a dash for gas,” Abbosh said. “Our coal-
fired power plants and existing nuclear plants are now beginning
to close down, partly due to regulations. The economics for gas
look good for the next couple of years.”  In Germany, Europe’s biggest energy market, the profit from
using coal to make power for delivery next month was 3.54 euros
($4.80), according to Bloomberg data. It was 2.16 euros at gas
plants. Germany got about 18 percent of its power from coal in
2009 and 15 percent from gas. Transport costs aren’t included.  U.K. Power Rises  While German power prices have yet to recover from the
global recession, U.K. prices are starting to rise as colder
weather boosts demand. U.K. baseload power for December topped
45 pounds a megawatt hour yesterday in London, the highest price
since February 2009, according to Bloomberg data. The contract
was at 44.60 pounds today in London.  Centrica Plc, the U.K.’s largest energy supplier, switched
on the 900-megawatt Langage gas-power station on England’s South
coast in April. RWE AG, Germany’s second-biggest utility, used
gas for its 1,650-megawatt Staythorpe plant, which started in
September near Nottingham, England. Electricite de France SA and
RWE plan to add more gas capacity in Britain over the next two
years, according to their websites.  Britain has four terminals for importing liquefied natural
gas and gets the fuel directly from North Sea fields. While
China is less reliant on gas, its LNG imports rose 24 percent in
September from a year earlier, the Beijing-based General
Administration of Customs said Oct. 25.  China plans to triple its use of natural gas to about 10
percent of energy consumption by 2020 and cut reliance on coal
and oil, according to Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  