-- Comerica Doubles Dividend as Biggest U.S. Lenders Prepare to Boost Payouts
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-17T14:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/comerica-doubles-dividend-as-biggest-u-s-lenders-prepare-to-boost-payouts.html
Comerica Inc. ’s decision to double
its dividend may signal that U.S. regulators will allow more of
the biggest lenders to begin restoring their payouts.  Comerica, the Dallas-based bank that posted annual profits
throughout the financial crisis, boosted its quarterly dividend
to 10 cents a share yesterday. Comerica also authorized the
repurchase of as much as 7 percent of stock outstanding,
according to a company statement. Banks including JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Wells Fargo & Co., U.S. Bancorp and PNC Financial Service
Group Inc. may be next, said  Jennifer Thompson , an analyst at
New York-based Portales Partners LLC.  “You will see a number of the stronger banks increase
their dividends over the next quarter,” Thompson said yesterday
in a phone interview. She assigns a “hold” rating on Comerica,
the 15th-biggest U.S. commercial lender by assets. “The
regulators have put rules in place and now it will be a matter
of making individual decisions for each bank.”  Investors and analysts have used quarterly conference calls
to press banking executives about the timing of dividend
increases and bank managers have chafed against limits set by
regulators. Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said last
week that banks seeking to raise payouts must undergo stress
tests to show they have sufficient capital for two years.  JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon  said Oct. 13 that he hopes to
raise the dividend in the first quarter of 2011. The lender had
repurchased $2.6 billion of its own shares this year through
September. Wells Fargo finance chief  Howard Atkins  said last
month that an increase in the payout is a “top priority” for
the bank.  Bloomberg dividend forecasts show JPMorgan, based in New
York, may quadruple its quarterly payout to  20 cents  in
February, while San Francisco-based Wells Fargo may double its
to  10 cents  in April.  Capital Pressure  Concerns that bank capital was under pressure from souring
loans prompted Fed officials in February 2009 to issue a letter
saying financial firms “should reduce or eliminate dividends”
when earnings decline or the economic outlook deteriorates. The
six largest U.S. banks currently pay quarterly dividends
totaling 51 cents a share, down from $2.49 in 2007. Barbara
Hagenbaugh of the Fed and  Andrew Gray , a spokesman for the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., declined to comment.  Comerica’s  dividend  is payable Jan. 1 to shareholders of
record on Dec. 15, and the buyback plan may include almost 12.6
million shares. The bank also may repurchase warrants covering
about 11.5 million shares.  Comerica  climbed $1.01, or 2.8
percent, to $37.75 at 9:31 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares advanced 24 percent this year
through yesterday.  Home Lending  Comerica has made little residential-mortgage lending
compared with many rivals, Thompson said. In March, Comerica
repaid $2.25 billion to the Troubled Asset Relief Program and in
October it redeemed $500 million of trust-preferred securities,
which will be discontinued as a form of regulatory capital
starting in 2013.  “Historically they have operated with a very conservative
capital structure,” said  Jeff Davis , an analyst at Guggenheim
Securities LLC in Nashville, Tennessee. “They have more
flexibility to do things early in cycles like this.”  Larger banks like JPMorgan and Wells Fargo may have to wait
for clarity on Basel III capital rules and costs of mortgage
buybacks before boosting dividends, Davis said. The Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision said last week that it will
identify which firms will be subject to stricter rules by the
middle of next year and how much of an additional cushion
they’ll need by the end of 2011.  Comerica “is a bank that has run with a lot of equity
capital and that’s where Basel III is steering the banking
sector,” Davis said. The bigger banks may “have to wait to see
how the capital ratios play out because in a lot of ways
JPMorgan is the ‘bank of America’ and while Wells Fargo is
highly profitable I think they will be subject to the Basel III
rules as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 