-- Copper, Zinc Futures Plunge by Limit in Shanghai on China Tightening Risk
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T07:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/copper-zinc-plunge-limit-in-shanghai-on-chinese-rate-increase-speculation.html
Copper and zinc futures tumbled as
much as 5 percent in Shanghai, the maximum allowed by the
bourse, after metals in London slumped the most in more than six
months yesterday on speculation China, the biggest consumer,
will take steps to cool inflation, curbing demand.  Copper for February delivery on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange closed limit-down at 61,550 yuan ($9,259) per metric
ton. Zinc for March delivery fell to 17,815 a ton. Three-month
copper on the London Metal Exchange declined 1 percent to $8,070
a ton at 3:05 p.m. after sliding 5.7 percent yesterday.  The  LME index , comprised of six industrial metals, slumped
the most since May 4 yesterday as zinc plunged 8.5 percent, the
biggest drop in six months. China’s inflation climbed to 4.4
percent in October, the fastest pace in two years, prompting
speculation that the government will raise interest rates.  “The precipitous fall indicates investors have become
increasingly risk-averse, as the strong rally in the past few
months seems vulnerable, given probable tightening measures in
China,” Wang Ning, an analyst at Xiangyu Futures Co., said by
phone from Shanghai.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the cabinet is drafting
measures to counter excessive price gains. The comments,
broadcast last night local time on state television, suggested
the government would intensify efforts to cool inflation.  “What I’ve seen was a lot of liquidation of long positions
as investors retreat from the market and wait until they get a
clearer macro picture,” Wang said.  Confidence Falls  A Chinese consumer confidence index fell for the first time
in six quarters on expectations that the price of goods and
services will keep increasing. The measure dropped to 104 in the
third quarter from 109 in the previous three months, according
to a statement from Nielsen Co. and the Chinese statistics
bureau’s Economic Monitoring and Analysis Center.  “The rebound in inflation expectations among consumers has
curbed their willingness to spend,” the statement said today.  Investor confidence was also dented by discussions between
Ireland and European and International Monetary Fund officials
over a bailout that would enable the country to inject capital
into the country’s banks.  Copper futures in Shanghai declined 11 percent in the past
four sessions, heading for the biggest four-day slide since
December 2008. Zinc slid 16 percent in the period, and was
poised for the largest drop since November 2007.  China’s central bank may raise rates as soon as Nov. 19
because of sustained inflationary pressure, the China Securities
Journal said today. Earlier announcements also indicate that
rate decisions are often released on Fridays or around the 20th
of the month, the newspaper reported.  Stocks in China declined, with the Shanghai Composite
Index, which tracks the bigger of China’s stock exchanges,
closed 1.9 percent lower at 2,838.86.  Aluminum in London gained 0.2 percent to $2,246 a ton, zinc
declined 2.9 percent to $2,078 a ton, and lead dropped 2.7
percent to $2,195 a ton. Nickel climbed 0.9 percent to $21,005 a
ton, and tin dropped 1.5 percent to $24,150 a ton at 3:04 p.m.
in Shanghai.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Richard Dobson, Jarrett Banks.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  