-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Rose in October on Gasoline
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-17T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/cost-of-living-in-u-s-probably-rose-as-consumers-paid-more-for-gasoline.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose for a fourth month in October, led by higher
gasoline and food prices that aren’t filtering through to other
goods and services, economists said before reports today.  The consumer-price index increased 0.3 percent after a 0.1
percent gain the prior month, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Labor
Department report. Excluding food and fuel, so-called core costs
may have increased 0.7 percent from October 2009, matching a
record low. Another report may show  housing starts  last month
fell to the lowest level since July.  Retailers such as  J.C. Penney Co.  are planning to use
discounts to lure shoppers during the holiday season as a
stagnant labor market restrains demand. The core consumer-price
figures help explain the  Federal Reserve ’s second round of
unconventional monetary easing aimed at preventing deflation, or
a prolonged drop in prices.  “We’re not at the stage where companies can pass on higher
costs,” said  David Semmens , an economist at Standard Chartered
Bank in New York. “There’s little to indicate we’ll see any
near-term price increases in anything other than energy.”  The Labor Department’s price data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates of the 80 economists surveyed ranged from
gains of 0.1 percent to 0.5 percent.  Prices  excluding fuel  and food rose 0.1 percent from a
month earlier after no change in September, according to the
Bloomberg survey. The projected increase in core costs from
October 2009 would be the smallest since similar gains in 1961.  Housing Starts  Another report at the same time from the Commerce
Department may show builders  broke ground  on 598,000 houses at
an annual rate in October, down 2 percent from a 610,000 pace
the prior month, according to economists surveyed.  Building permits , a sign of future construction, rose 3.8
percent to a 568,000 rate, according to the estimates. Starts
are 73 percent below their January 2006 peak.  Housing’s woes help explain why shares of builders have
declined this year even as broader indexes climbed. The Standard
& Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding  Index  has dropped 8.4
percent in 2010, while the S&P 500 is up 5.7 percent.  The ongoing slump in housing,  unemployment  near 10 percent
and risk of sustained declines in prices are among reasons the
Fed on Nov. 3 announced it would buy up to $600 billion in
Treasuries through June.  Bernanke on Prices  “You don’t want inflation to be too high but you also
don’t want it to be too low,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
in a speech on Nov. 6. “Our purpose is to provide additional
stimulus to help the economy recover and to avoid potentially
additional disinflation, which I think we all agree would be a
worse outcome.”  So far, price increases have occurred primarily in food and
energy. The  cost of a gallon  of regular gasoline at the pump
averaged $2.80 in October, up from $2.70 the prior month,
according to data from AAA, the nation’s largest motoring group.  Meantime, the struggling housing market is restraining the
CPI. Rents, which account for about 40 percent of core consumer
prices, have been held in check as foreclosures push more houses
into the rental market.  Retailers are again turning to discounts to encourage
consumers this holiday season. J.C. Penney, the third-largest
U.S. department-store company, last week said third-quarter
profit rose 63 percent.  ‘Highly Promotional’  Fourth-quarter sales at stores open at least a year will
rise 3 percent to 4 percent, the Plano, Texas-based company said
in a Nov. 12 statement, adding that the holiday shopping
environment will “remain highly promotional.”  “Many retailers have characterized their inventory levels
as high, particularly after October, which could mean a period
of greater promotion and mark-down in the fourth quarter,”  Bill McComb , the chief executive officer of Liz Claiborne Inc.,
designer and marketer of brands including Kate Spade, said on a
Nov. 4 earnings conference call.  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
the Labor Department, because it includes goods and services.
Almost 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for
services ranging from medical visits to airline fares and movie
tickets.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed the producer-
price index in October increased 0.4 percent, matching the
previous month’s gain, while the cost of goods excluding fuel
and food fell 0.6 percent. The cost of goods imported into the
U.S., reported last week, rose 0.9 percent from the prior month.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  