-- Cotton Plunges Exchange Limit for Second Day as China Seeks to Slow Growth
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-11-17T15:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/cotton-plunges-exchange-limit-for-second-day-as-china-seeks-to-slow-growth.html
Cotton plunged by the exchange limit
for a second straight day on signs that demand is slowing after
prices reached record highs this month and China announced plans
to slow growth to limit inflation. Orange juice also fell.  China’s central bank last week raised lenders’ reserve
requirements as a trade surplus helped accelerate  inflation . A
Chinese consumer confidence index fell for the first time in six
quarters. Before today, cotton prices on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York surged 71 percent this year as rising demand threatened to
shrink inventories.  “The Chinese market was way overdone,” said  Peter Egli ,
the director of risk management in Chicago for Plexus Cotton
Ltd., a U.K.-based merchant. After a doubling of prices in the
past year, “at some point, the profitability for a mill
stops,” he said.  Cotton for March delivery fell by ICE’s daily limit of 6
cents, or 4.6 percent, to $1.232 a pound at 10:01 a.m. in New
York. That’s the lowest price for a most-active contract since
Oct. 29. The December, May and July contracts also fell by 6
cents. The daily trading limit was raised by 1 cent yesterday
after the contract plunged by the previous maximum of 5 cents.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 commodities
tumbled 3.2 percent yesterday on growing concern that China will
move to cool economic growth.  ‘Reasonable Level’  “The market just had to come back to a more reasonable
level,” which would be about $1.10 for cotton, Egli said.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday that the cabinet
is drafting measures to counter rapid price gains. The nation
may impose price limits on food and toughen punishment of those
found speculating on agriculture futures, the China Securities
Journal reported, citing an unidentified person.  Stricter steps to control prices will be introduced after a
review of gains for individual commodities, the Economic
Observer newspaper said, citing an unidentified official at the
National Development and Reform Commission.  Cotton for May delivery slumped as much as 5 percent to
27,090 yuan a ton on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture lowered its global
output  estimate  on Nov. 9 to 115.25 million bales for the season
ending July 31, from 116.68 million bales a month earlier, and
forecast that stockpiles will decline to 42.2 million bales.
That would be the smallest inventory in 15 years, according to
the agency’s data.  Output in China was forecast to trail domestic use by 17
million bales, according to the USDA. Demand is forecast to
outpace production in the Asian nation for a 12th straight year.
A bale weighs about 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  Orange-juice futures for January delivery fell 0.5 cent, or
0.3 percent, to $1.5215 on ICE, heading for the second straight
decline. Before today, the commodity gained 18 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  