-- Credit Suisse Investment Bank Chairman Paul Calello Dead of Cancer at 49
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-17T00:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/credit-suisse-investment-bank-chairman-paul-calello-dead-of-cancer-at-49.html
Paul Calello , who as head of  Credit
Suisse Group AG ’s investment bank managed the unit through the
financial crisis and helped build the company’s operations in
Asia, has died. He was 49.  Calello died yesterday at his home in New York of non-
Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, the Zurich-based bank said in a statement.
After he was diagnosed on September 2009, Calello stepped down
as chief executive officer of the investment bank to undergo
treatment. He relinquished his title almost 10 months later to
acting CEO  Eric Varvel  and became chairman of the unit.  “Paul Calello was an outstanding leader, and a down-to-
earth, very human colleague who forged strong relationships and
made a positive difference in the world around him,” Credit
Suisse CEO  Brady Dougan , 51, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will miss him greatly.”  Calello and Dougan were part of the Bankers Trust Corp.
team that left in 1990 to start Credit Suisse Financial
Products, a derivatives subsidiary of the Swiss bank. Dougan and
Calello ascended the ranks as derivatives -- contracts with
values derived from assets or events -- became an increasingly
important money-maker for Wall Street.  Calello “loved the people side of the business, which is a
little bit unusual for a guy who grows up as a trader who knows
the technical side and the math side as well,” said  Wilson Ervin , a senior adviser to Dougan, who said he first met Calello
in the early 1990s. “He loved jumping into new things.”  The son of social workers, Calello grew up in Boston and
received a bachelor’s degree in economics from Villanova
University in 1983 and an MBA from Columbia University’s
Business School in New York in 1997. He later became a member of
the board of overseers at Columbia Business School, which in
October announced the establishment of the Paul Calello
Professorship in Leadership and Ethics. The permanent chair was
endowed by a group of Credit Suisse colleagues.  ‘Rare Guy’  “I knew him in Asia when times were really good and he was
a terrific manager, but I also knew him in New York when times
were bad,” said  Glenn Hubbard , dean of the business school.
“It’s a rare guy who’s good in both good times and bad.”  Calello stood out as a leader during the financial crisis
by advising the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on policy
matters and reforming Credit Suisse’s compensation system, said
Hubbard, who served as chairman of President  George W. Bush ’s
Council of Economic Advisors from 2001 to 2003. In a January
article Calello co-wrote with Ervin for the Economist, they
suggested creating a “bail-in process” that would require
failing banks to rely on debt holders instead of taxpayers for
new capital.  First Jobs  Calello started his career with research jobs at the
Federal Reserve in Boston and Washington before joining Bankers
Trust. He was on a short list of candidates to replace  Timothy F. Geithner  as president of the New York Fed in 2009, after
Geithner was nominated to be Treasury secretary.  William Dudley ,
who ran the New York Fed’s financial-markets division, got the
job.  Always interested in politics and policy, Calello would
have liked to find a way to go into a government position, said
 Alex Gibney , his brother-in-law.  “He felt very strongly that he wanted to give back,” said
Gibney, a film director who is married to Calello’s wife’s
sister. “He felt that in the public sector there were not
enough people who had operated in the financial sector at the
top of the game who were then going back in to try to help
out.”  20-Year Career  Calello held jobs in London, Hong Kong, New York and Tokyo.
He served as global head of fixed-income derivatives and
commodities from 1992 to 2000 and became a member of the bank’s
executive board in 1997. In 2002, Calello became chairman and
CEO of Credit Suisse’s investment bank in the Asia-Pacific
region and in 2006 he gained responsibility for all the bank’s
activities in Asia.  “When we asked him to go out to Hong Kong he very quickly
understood the opportunities in Asia and really embraced it and
had a great attitude about it,” said  John Mack , who was head of
Credit Suisse’s investment bank at the time and is now chairman
of New York-based Morgan Stanley. “He was a real leader.”  While Calello was running the business in Asia, Credit
Suisse won roles arranging the $22 billion initial public
offering of  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the $9.2
billion IPO of  China Construction Bank Corp . and the $3.5
billion IPO of  China Life Insurance Co.   Beijing Orphanage  Calello’s wife, Jane DeBevoise, who he met when they were
both working for Bankers Trust in Tokyo, was a Chinese art
expert who spoke Mandarin, Gibney said. While in Tokyo in 1991,
the couple adopted a daughter, Jin, from China. Less than a year
later, on Jan. 14, 1992, Calello’s wife gave birth to triplet
sons, David, James and Peter, according to Gibney.  All the children speak Mandarin as well as English, and in
recent years they’ve worked for an orphanage in Beijing.  “Both he and Jane were very serious about that, they
wanted their kids to be really connected to the real world, do
real service things,” Ervin said.  When Dougan was promoted to Credit Suisse CEO in May 2007
from running the investment bank, Calello succeeded him and
moved to New York from Hong Kong. As the financial crisis
engulfed Wall Street, Calello and Dougan curbed risk-taking and
helped Credit Suisse avoid government bailouts required by
competitors like  UBS AG  and  Citigroup Inc.   Attended Lehman Meeting  Calello, who attended the 1998 emergency meeting at the New
York Fed that helped engineer a rescue of hedge fund Long-Term
Capital Management LP, was again at the Fed a decade later for a
weekend meeting that unsuccessfully tried to save Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Paul wasn’t one of those statesmen who let other people
get into the details, he’s was a very high-energy, plugged-in
guy,” Ervin said. “Paul could have really done any job here at
the bank that he wanted to do.”  In December 2008, responding to criticism of bonuses
following the financial crisis and bank bailouts, Calello used
some of the illiquid loans and bonds weighing down the lender’s
balance sheet to pay bankers.  Instead of cash or stock, managing directors and directors
received a stake in a pool of about $5 billion of leveraged
loans and commercial mortgage-backed debt. The plan was
described as “monstrously clever,” by Dirk Hoffman-Becking, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in London. As of August
2009, the pool was said to have returned 17 percent.  Enjoyed Public Duties  An athlete who said he preferred running and cycling to
watching sports like baseball, Calello lived in Brooklyn Heights
and sometimes commuted to his downtown Manhattan office on a
Vespa. He also said he relished the public duties of his job,
such as hosting client lunches at the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland, as well as speaking to the press.  “He wasn’t a typical Wall Street banker, he had many, many
facets,” said  Citigroup Inc . Vice Chairman  Stephen Volk , a
former colleague at Credit Suisse who said he and his wife often
visited Calello when they were in Hong Kong. “He was more like
they used to make them in the old days.”  Calello was a member of the Foreign Policy Association
board of directors, the board of the New York Philharmonic and
the Council on Foreign Relations. He also served as a trustee to
the Credit Suisse Foundation.  “We had a strategy session where we were talking about the
long-term, 10-year strategy of the New York Philharmonic five
weeks ago and it was all afternoon and he was there
participating,” said  Lazard Ltd.  Vice Chairman  Gary Parr , who
is chairman of the Philharmonic.  ‘I’m Lucky’  During a visit with Calello at the hospital, Gibney said
his brother-in-law brushed off any sympathy.  “He kind of stopped me and said, ‘Look I’ve got a great
family. I’ve been places and seen things I never imagined I
would when I was growing up. I’m lucky,’” Gibney said.  Gibney said Calello, whose guitar-playing repertoire
included “No Woman, No Cry” by  Bob Marley  & The Wailers, spent
his last weekend singing with his children and died at home with
his wife.  In addition to his wife and four children, Calello is
survived by his mother, Mary Cronin Calello, and his father,
Albert Thomas Calello Jr.; three sisters, Cathy Staples, Ann
Groccia and Kristan Bishop; his mother-in-law, Lillie DeBevoise,
and 13 nieces and nephews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 