-- Dendreon’s Provenge Extends Survival, U.S. Panel Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-17T22:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/dendreon-s-provenge-survival-data-is-adequate-u-s-panel-says.html
Dendreon Corp.  won the backing of an
advisory panel helping the U.S. government decide whether to pay
for its $93,000 prostate cancer treatment.  Outside advisers to the Medicare health plan said today
they were confident that Dendreon’s Provenge “significantly”
improves survival in men with advanced prostate cancer.
Medicare, the U.S. insurance program for the elderly and
disabled, will take the  recommendations  into account in a
coverage proposal due by March 30 and a final decision in June.  Dendreon won Provenge approval in April after studies
showed a four-month survival benefit. Three-quarters of patients
approved for the drug also qualify for Medicare, making next
year’s reimbursement decision critical for sales. Provenge may
generate $1.75 billion in 2014 with Medicare coverage, according
to the average estimate of four  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  “It improves survival without the additional adverse
reactions that are known with some of the other cancer
therapies,” panel member  Karl Matuszewski , a pharmacology
expert and editor for  Reed Elsevier  NV health publications, said
today at the meeting in Baltimore. “This is really another
option.”  Panel members rated Provenge’s survival benefits on a scale
of one to five with five being the most confident that the drug
helps patients. The 10 voting members supported Provenge’s
survival benefits with an average score of 3.6. Analysts had
said that a vote of three or greater would be a win for Seattle-
based Dendreon.  ‘Positive’ Result  The recommendation is “very positive” and “will provide
a relief to investors,” said  Robyn Karnauskas , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank Securities in New York, in an e-mail. “We think
stock could trade up with the removal of this overhang.”  Dendreon  rose  $2.24, or 6.2 percent, to 38.11 at 5:36 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market after regular trading
was halted during the meeting. The company increased 36 percent
 this year  before today even after having fallen 29 percent since
Provenge’s approval April 29 because of reimbursement and supply
concerns.  Provenge is the first medicine that trains the body’s
immune system to attack cancer cells as it would a virus. The
 therapy  involves extracting white blood cells from a patient,
mixing with vaccine components and delivering the combination as
an infusion. Treatment lasts one month with three doses each
given two weeks apart.  Prostate cancer will be diagnosed this year in 217,730 U.S.
men and lead to 32,050 deaths, according to the  American Cancer
Society . Symptoms typically start when patients have less than a
year to live. Of more than 1 million men with the disease, about
70,000 qualify for Provenge, according to Karnauskas.  No Cure  No cure exists for advanced prostate cancer that has spread
outside the prostate gland. Patients often are given hormone
therapy or chemotherapy drugs such as Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis
SA ’s Taxotere or Jevtana. Those drugs improved survival by 2.4
months in studies and are linked to higher rates of side effects
and longer treatment regimens than with Provenge.  While 14 of 15 regional Medicare contractors are paying for
Provenge in the interim until the coverage determination is
made, most patients face waiting lists. Dendreon has said it
will meet demand for the drug when new plants open next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Baltimore at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 