-- Discover Gets ‘Historic Opportunity’ With Mobile Deal
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-11-17T21:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/discover-gets-historic-opportunity-with-mobile-payments-deal.html
Discover Financial Services , the
payments processor whose stock has outgained three bigger
rivals, may get another boost after the largest U.S. mobile
carriers chose its network for a new venture, analysts said.  “This is a solid move for Discover in the U.S. mobile-
payments space and this is value-enhancing to its network and
possibly the company’s shares over the intermediate to longer-
term,” wrote  Sanjay Sakhrani , an analyst with KBW Inc., in a
research note today.  AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon Wireless  are leading a venture to
create  Isis , a mobile-commerce network that would let people
make purchases by waving smartphones near “contactless”
readers in stores. That could threaten  Visa Inc. ,  MasterCard
Inc.  and  American Express Co. , whose fees and merchant contracts
have faced increasing scrutiny from regulators and lawmakers,
which Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover has largely avoided.  Mobile payments in the U.S. may climb to $214 billion in
2015 from $16 billion this year, said  Gwenn Bezard , an analyst
with Boston-based consulting firm  Aite Group LLC , in a report
today.  “Discover has a historic opportunity to become the network
of choice for a host of firms in need of a reliable pipe
connecting to merchants’ point of sale,” Bezard said.
Discover’s “underdog position,” its roots as an offshoot of
 Sears Roebuck and Co.  “and good relationships with the merchant
community could be serious assets as mobile commerce gains
momentum,” he wrote.  Discover gained 25 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $18.35 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
have climbed 25 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent
drop for San Francisco-based Visa and MasterCard’s 8 percent
decline. New York-based AmEx advanced 2.2 percent on the year.  Smartphone at Checkout  Isis, named for the Egyptian goddess of simplicity, would
allow a consumer to pay for purchases by holding a smartphone
with an embedded radio microchip near a reader at checkout. The
near-field communication technology, or NFC, may supplant
plastic credit and debit cards and let retailers send customers
electronic receipts and rewards immediately.  While  investors  may deem Discover’s deal with the wireless
carriers a victory at the expense of larger rivals, it’s still
too soon to declare a winner, according to Sakhrani. Visa and
Purchase, New York-based MasterCard already are working with
card-issuing banks to test mobile payment technologies
worldwide. Isis may not be available commercially in the U.S.
for 18 months, the mobile carriers said yesterday.  Other Networks  “There are no details around the terms of the arrangement
and whether or not other networks could potentially be allowed
to participate,” Sakhrani said in the note. “The success of
the joint venture will hinge largely on other issuers signing up
with Isis to increase the visibility among consumers.”  Sakhari  rates  Discover “outperform” and has a $20 price
target.  The carriers’ decision to use NFC, a technology available
in less than 2 percent of U.S. point-of-sale terminals, “limits
the near-term impact on the industry,” said  Adam Frisch , an
analyst with New York-based Morgan Stanley, in a note to clients
yesterday.  T-Mobile USA , a unit of Deutsche Telekom AG, is a partner
in the Isis venture. Verizon Wireless is co-owned by  Verizon
Communications Inc.  and  Vodafone Group Plc . 