-- Euro Advances for Second Day on Optimism Debt Problems Will Be Contained
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-11-18T11:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/dollar-retreats-from-seven-week-high-against-euro-ahead-of-u-s-jobs-data.html
The euro advanced for a second day
against the dollar and the yen on optimism a bailout for Ireland
will prevent contagion across the region’s larger debt markets.  The 16-nation currency rose from near a seven-week low
versus the greenback as European Union and International
Monetary Fund officials traveled to Dublin to discuss possible
aid. Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said he expects
the country to ask for a “substantial” bailout from the EU and
IMF to rescue its battered banks. The dollar and the yen
weakened as stock markets gained. The South Korean won
strengthened against all its 16 most-actively traded peers after
a report showed department-store sales climbed.  “An announcement of a support package for Ireland could
lead to a calmer period in the market, and that’s supporting the
euro,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “Risk sentiment has
improved, and that’s weakened the dollar to some extent.”  The euro rose 0.9 percent to $1.3646 at 6:33 a.m. in New
York</a>, after declining to $1.3448 on Nov. 16, the lowest level
since Sept. 28. The single currency gained 0.8 percent to 113.41
yen. The dollar traded at 83.24 yen from 83.18 yen yesterday.  The euro strengthened against the pound for the third
straight day, gaining 0.4 percent to 85.40 pence. Britain’s
pound rose 0.3 percent to $1.5961.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against a basket of six currencies,
dropped for a second day before a report that economists said
will show U.S. jobless claims rose last week. The  Index  fell 0.7
percent to 78.506. The MSCI  World Index  of shares rose for a
second consecutive day, gaining 0.8 percent.  Honohan Remarks  Ireland’s government will hold talks with the EU, IMF and
the European Central Bank “over a number of days,” a Finance
Ministry spokesman said yesterday. Discussions will be held at
the Irish central bank, the country’s  bond agency  and the
Finance Ministry.  The euro extended its gains after Honohan said he expects
the country to ask for a bailout from the EU and the IMF worth
“tens of billions” of euros.  Honohan is the first Irish official to publicly say that
the nation will need aid. A final decision hasn’t been reached,
and Ireland will probably pay an interest rate close to 5
percent, he said in an interview with Irish broadcaster RTE.  The “large loan” will “show Ireland has sufficient
firepower to deal with any concerns of the market,” said
Honohan. He spoke from Frankfurt, where he is attending a
regular European Central Bank Governing Council meeting.  ‘Irish Problem’  “The Irish problem looks like it will be solved,” said
 Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd.,
a unit of the world’s largest interdealer broker. “The euro is
managing to find some support.”  European policy makers will scan the books of Ireland’s
debt-laden banks to determine whether the government can fix the
banking system on its own or needs to fall back on the 750-
billion-euro ($1 trillion) European Financial Stability Fund.  The euro has appreciated 0.6 percent over the past week
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, a measure
of 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar is up 0.9 percent
and the yen is down 0.2 percent, the indexes show.  Jobless Claims  The dollar declined against 15 of its 16 most-active
counterparts before the Labor Department releases its weekly
unemployment data today. The number of U.S. citizens filing
initial jobless claims rose 6,000 to 441,000 last week,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  The U.S. central bank risked a worsening outlook for
inflation and jobs if it hadn’t embarked on its new asset
purchase plan, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said
yesterday. Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh , Minneapolis Fed President
 Narayana Kocherlakota , Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto 
and Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  are all scheduled
to speak today.  “The dollar has yet to switch to a bullish trend with high
unemployment,” said  Hitoshi Asaoka , senior strategist at Mizuho
Trust & Banking Co. in Tokyo. “It’s not like the Fed can start
raising rates in the next few months.”  The Fed is buying about $75 billion in Treasuries per month
through June to spur employment and inflation in a tactic called
quantitative easing. The central bank acquired $1.7 trillion of
Treasuries and mortgage debt under a previous program that ended
in March.  Korean Won  South Korea’s won rose from a seven-week low as official
data showed sales at major department stores increased at the
fastest pace in eight months in October, signaling that the
recovery in Asia’s fourth-biggest economy is intact.  The currency gained the most in five weeks and the  Kospi 
index rose the most since Nov. 1. Sales at the three largest
department stores climbed 13.3 percent in October, after having
risen 6.4 percent in September.  “Stronger department-store sales may signal that domestic
demand is helping the economy recover,” said Sung Jae Man, a
currency analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc in Seoul. “A
robust economy will help boost demand for the country’s
currency.”  The currency rose 0.9 percent, the most since Oct. 13, to
1,134.53 per dollar. It reached 1,444.45 yesterday, the weakest
level since Sept. 29.  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened as data showed the economy
grew more than 8 percent for a fourth quarter.  Taiwan Dollar  Taiwan’s economy grew 9.8 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, according to data from the statistics bureau.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 17
economists was for an increase of 8.34 percent in gross domestic
product. The economy may grow 9.98 percent this year and 4.51
percent in 2011, the official said.  “The currency’s rise is supported by strong fundamentals
as Taiwan’s economy keeps expanding,” said  Eric Hsing , a fixed-
income trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei, before the
data were published.  The Taiwan dollar strengthened 0.2 percent to NT$30.397
against its U.S. counterpart. The currency climbed to NT$30.015
on Nov. 12, the strongest since March 2008.  New Zealand’s currency rose for a second day after a
government report showed producer prices climbed last quarter
more than twice as fast as economists had predicted.  “Given the extent of the upside surprise, we’ve seen
markets sit up and take notice,” said  Mike Jones , a currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “It’s
another factor strengthening the case for Reserve Bank of New
Zealand rate hikes from early next year.”  The so-called kiwi rose 0.9 percent to 77.74 U.S. cents,
and gained 0.8 percent to 64.59 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  