-- Drugmaker Acquisitions to Weigh on Credit Ratings, Moody’s Says
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-11-17T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/drugmaker-acquisitions-to-weigh-on-credit-ratings-moody-s-says.html
Credit conditions for the global
pharmaceutical industry will worsen in the next 12 to 18 months
because of an increase in debt-financed acquisitions and
regulatory pressure, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The flurry of mergers and acquisitions last month will
continue as drugmakers seek to ease pressure caused by patent
expirations and decreasing sales of brand-name medicines, the
credit-rating company said in a report today. Companies also are
finding it harder to get new drugs approved by regulators,
Moody’s said.  In October  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest drugmaker,
agreed to buy  King Pharmaceuticals Inc.  for about $3.6 billion,
 Crucell NV  said it would be bought by  Johnston & Johnson  and
 Sanofi-Aventis SA  took its offer for Genzyme Corp. hostile.  “Clearly if it’s debt-financed, which is typically what
we’ve seen in the industry, this could lead to pressure on
ratings,”  Marie Fischer-Sabatie , vice president and senior
analyst in Moody’s corporate finance group, said in a phone
interview from London. “The U.S. Food and Drug Agency continues
to be relatively cautious and it’s becoming more difficult for
companies to bring blockbuster stuff to the market because some
therapeutic areas are already crowded.”  Novartis AG ’s Gilenya, the first pill to slow multiple
sclerosis, is one of several new drugs that has the potential
for annual sales of more than $1 billion, said Moody’s. U.S.
regulators approved the medicine in September.  Eli Lilly and
Co.’s  diabetes drug Bydureon was delayed last month by the FDA,
stalling a new revenue source for at least two years.  Government Spending  Health-care reform in the U.S. will also add to the
industry’s costs, while Europe aims to reduce health spending to
cut budget deficits, according to Moody’s.  Peak sales of products in development and looming patent
expirations, both measured against total revenue, are weakening,
according to the report. The pressure on the two key pieces of
data Moody’s uses to craft its industry assessment isn’t likely
to ease until after 2012, when the wave of patent expirations
for best-selling medicines is predominantly over, the credit-
rating company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  