-- DSM Chief Seeks Purchases in Personal-Care Chemicals
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-11-18T09:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/dsm-chief-seeks-purchases-to-expand-in-personal-care-chemicals.html
Royal DSM NV , the world’s largest
maker of vitamins, plans to branch out into personal-care
chemicals with purchases and factory expansions to tap demand
for moisturizer ingredients.  DSM’s focus is on ingredients for skin- and hair-care,
Sijbesma said. The company currently gets 200 million euros
($270 million), or less than 3 percent of its  annual sales , from
polymers and vitamins used in personal-care products.  “We’re still small in that area,” Chief Executive Officer
 Feike Sijbesma  said in an interview in London yesterday. “We
want to grow that both organically and through acquisitions.”  The 10 billion-euro market for products used in hair gel to
sunblock is forecast to outpace growth of 3 percent to 4 percent
in the global economy, the CEO said. Demand in the personal-care
industry held up better than commoditized products during the
economic slump, attracting global chemical companies.  DSM joins Dutch paintmaker  Akzo Nobel NV  in seeking to
expand in the market. BASF SE’s planned purchase of Cognis for
3.1 billion euros, due to be completed in December, sparked
speculation other suppliers including  Croda International Plc 
and Air Liquide SA’s Seppic unit may be snapped up.  “The personal-care sector has attracted increasing
attention,” said  Peter Hall , a partner at Valence Group, which
advises chemical companies on deals. “Anything that becomes
available in this sector will be heavily pursued.”  Profit Goals  Deal sizes in the chemicals industry are moving back toward
larger transactions, and so far this year the tally for mergers
and acquisitions stands at $27.6 billion, according to a Nov. 4
report by PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Lubrizol Corp., Rhodia SA, Stepan Co. and International
Specialty Products are among the largest suppliers of personal-
care chemicals.  “Few of the larger players are going to exit this sector
any time soon,” Valence’s Hall said. “Attention will focus on
the high value, well-managed stand alone businesses, with Croda
being an outstanding example.”  Sijbesma, a trained biologist, is looking for new products
and markets to help DSM meet sales and  profit goals  and lift its
share price. The company, which also supplies food products to
Unilever Plc and other foodmakers, aims to double earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 1.6
billion euros by 2013.  Plaudits  “I would certainly applaud a move towards personal care,”
said  Mark van der Geest , an analyst at ABN Amro. “The No. 1,
No. 2 and No. 3 priorities for DSM now are to grow. They can do
that by looking at adjacent businesses.”  DSM shares added 0.8 percent to 39.12 euros today. They
have climbed 13 percent in Amsterdam trading this year, valuing
the business at 7.4 billion euros. That compares with a 78
percent jump at Croda, the U.K. supplier of sun-block agents to
Procter & Gamble Co., which is valued at 2 billion pounds ($3.2
billion). Croda soared 2.4 percent to 1,422 pence today.  Sijbesma this year divested fertilizer, melamine and citric
acid operations with a combined revenue of at least 650 million
euros. He’s also seeking to divest elastomers, its remaining
commodity chemical business.  The CEO orchestrated the 1.75 billion-euro of Roche Holding
AG’s vitamins and fine chemicals unit in 2003, and he is now at
the helm of a company with  next-to-zero debt  and  cash  of 1.9
billion euros.  “Personal care has a stabile growth and higher margins,”
said Van der Geest, who has a “hold” rating in DSM stock.
“You’re up higher in the chain, closer to consumer goods makers
like L’Oreal SA, which have higher margins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  