-- Dynegy Faces Asset Sales, Bond Talks, Absent Approval of Blackstone Deal
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-17T14:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/dynegy-faces-asset-sales-bond-talks-absent-approval-of-blackstone-deal.html
Dynegy Inc.  shareholders will vote
today whether to accept  Blackstone Group LP ’s sweetened $604.5
million takeover bid. The outcome is too close to call and
rejection would force the power producer to renegotiate debt and
search for another buyer, analysts said.  Blackstone raised its offer by 50 cents a share yesterday
from an August bid in an attempt to overcome opposition from
Dynegy’s two largest shareholders, billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  and hedge fund Seneca Capital. The $5 offer is an 80
percent premium to Dynegy’s stock price before  the board’s  Aug.
13 announcement that it had accepted the buyout.  Whether the required majority of  shareholders  will take the
higher offer when the vote is held in Houston is difficult to
predict,  Charles Fishman , a Falls Church, Virginia-based analyst
for Pritchard Capital Partners LLC, said in an interview
yesterday.  “I’m sure that by Blackstone’s calculations this is what’s
needed to put them over the goal line,” Fishman said. “Is that
enough? I don’t know.”  Under the revised offer, Blackstone will get $16.3 million,
or 13 cents a Dynegy share, if shareholders reject the takeover
and the company sells itself for more than $4.50 a share within
18 months, Dynegy said today in a statement announcing it had
accepted the new terms.  Still Too Cheap  Seneca and Icahn rejected the new bid yesterday as still
too cheap. At $5 a share, Icahn’s profit on Dynegy stock would
be $2.5 million, based on regulatory filings, compared with a
loss at $4.50. Seneca also would profit at $5 a share, compared
with a loss at the earlier price, according to filings.  The extra 50 cents a share “makes little material
difference” to a shareholder trying to decide whether to hold
until rising power prices revive the stock, or sell before the
company runs out of money,  Julien Dumoulin-Smith , a New York-
based analyst for UBS Securities LLC, said yesterday in an
interview.  A majority “no” vote would leave opponents of the deal
pressing for cost cuts, asset sales and refinancing to pump the
stock above Blackstone’s $5 offer price.  Dynegy said Blackstone’s is the only proposal, after a two-
year search for alternatives and a monthlong solicitation for a
higher bid, with a guaranteed value for common shareholders.  Tumbling electricity prices and rising fuel costs helped
drive down Dynegy shares and leading last month to its sixth
quarterly loss in two years. Without higher prices or lower
costs, the Houston-based power producer may consume $680 million
of cash next year and a total of $2.32 billion in five years,
Dumoulin-Smith estimated.  Share Drop  Dynegy  rose  2 cents to $5.04 at 9:44 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. It has dropped 44 percent this year.  The company said in a Nov. 8 statement it may need to sell
stock, further cutting the value of existing shares, unless it’s
purchased by Blackstone.  JPMorgan Chase  & Co. analyst  Andrew Smith  raised his rating
on the stock to a buy from a hold on Nov. 15, saying it’s worth
about $7 under financial plans proposed by its biggest
shareholders.  Seneca’s  Douglas A. Hirsch  has proposed four new people to
serve on Dynegy’s six-member board. The Seneca plan calls for a
possible sale of the company or assets, capital restructuring
and cost cutting.  Line of Credit  Icahn has offered Dynegy a $2 billion line of credit, a
proposal that Blackstone would give him the ability to force the
company into bankruptcy and buy it.  Dynegy doesn’t face a real cash crunch until 2016, when
$1.6 billion of bonds come due, Smith wrote. It should be able
to refinance its bank loans and a credit line it’s not using
before then, he wrote.  “It’s possible that it takes four years before we see any
power-market improvement,” Smith wrote. “It’s too soon to
assume all the market fundamentals will go against Dynegy for
the next four years.”  UBS estimates Dynegy would be worth $12 a share with a
“modest” recovery in power prices and aggressive cost cutting
by the company.  Breaking up the company over two or three years would yield
about $9 a share, Pritchard Capital’s Fishman  said in a Nov. 15
note.  Defeat of the Blackstone offer probably would enable
Seneca, the largest shareholder, to place at least two of its
own nominees on the board, analysts said.  Board Members  One of the nominees, E.  Hunter Harrison , former chief
executive officer of  Canadian National Railway Co ., may help
Dynegy drive a better contract with the Burlington Northern
Santa Fe unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . for
shipping western coal to Midwest plants, UBS said.  The second nominee,  Jeff Hunter , chief financial officer of
closely held US Power Generating Co., an owner of New York
generating plants, may help cut costs, the analysts said.  Four proxy advisory firms split evenly over their
recommendation on the vote. Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc. and Egan-Jones Ratings Co. support the buyout, saying that
while shareholders may be disappointed in the price, they
otherwise face the risk of bankruptcy if power markets don’t
improve.  Proxy Governance Inc. and Glass Lewis & LLC recommended a
“no” vote, saying refinancing is a better option for
shareholders.  NRG Energy Inc. , Texas’s second-largest power producer,
agreed to pay $1.36 billion for Dynegy plants in California and
Maine, contingent on the Blackstone offer closing. Dynegy also
has plants in the U.S. Midwest and Northeast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 