-- Dynegy Extends Vote on $604.5 Million Blackstone Bid
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2010-11-17T21:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/dynegy-extends-shareholder-vote-on-blackstone-s-takeover-bid-until-nov-23.html
Dynegy Inc.  postponed for six days a
vote on  Blackstone Group  LP’s $604.5 million takeover bid that’s
opposed by the U.S. power producer’s largest shareholders.  The extension to 4 p.m. Nov. 23 gives shareholders more
time to consider yesterday’s revised offer by Blackstone, which
is 50 cents a share higher than its prior bid and includes a
$16.3 million breakup fee should they reject the deal, Houston-
based Dynegy said today in a statement.  The largest shareholders, billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
and hedge fund Seneca Capital, reiterated their opposition
yesterday after Blackstone raised the offer. Seneca has said
Dynegy is worth more than $6 a share now and as much as $18 once
a better economy revives prices for power from its plants.
Blackstone’s $5-a-share offer values Dynegy at $4.77 million,
including debt.  “Obviously, Blackstone didn’t have the votes,”  Charles Fishman , a Falls Church, Virginia-based analyst for Pritchard
Capital Partners LP, said in an interview today. He rates the
shares “neutral” and owns none. “The board now will go back
to Blackstone and say, ‘Do you want to increase it again?’”  Dynegy  rose 4 cents, less than 1 percent, to $5.06 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after touching
$5.15.  Securities Rules  The shareholder recessed at Dynegy’s headquarters in
Houston will resume at 3:30 p.m. Nov. 23, Chief Executive
Officer  Bruce Williamson  said. By recessing the meeting for six
days, Dynegy avoids triggering securities rules that call for a
longer delay and for a change in the record date for ownership
that determines which shareholders can vote.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, the
largest private equity firm, had no comment on the delay.
Blackstone yesterday called its revised bid its “best and final
offer.”  Defeat of the Blackstone takeover would allow other bidders
for Dynegy’s assets to emerge, Icahn said yesterday, including
potentially his own bid.  Seneca, based in New York, has said Blackstone was scooping
up Dynegy on the cheap to profit by selling the plants once the
economy revives power demand. Seneca holds a 9.3 percent stake.  Delaying the vote “is a blatant effort to thwart the will
of shareholders,” Seneca said today in an e-mailed statement.
Shareholders would have rejected the $5 a share offer, Seneca
said. Terms of the breakup fee are “virtually unprecedented”
and a “violation of fiduciary duty,” the statement said.  Breakup Fee  Requiring a breakup fee after a higher bid is “perfectly
normal” Elizabeth Nowiki, who teaches and researches breakup
fees at Tulane Universitys Law School in New Orleans. The higher
bid signals other private equity firms that Blackstone
considered its first offer a bargain, and the breakup fee
insulates it against a bidding war, she said.  Dynegy has predicted its shares will plummet after a
rejection of  Blackstone ’s offer. Dynegy has forecast negative
cash flow of $1.6 billion during the next five years to pay debt
and keep plants running.  “Dynegy continues to face  challenges , many of which are
beyond its control, including low and declining commodity prices
and continued economic weakness,” Williamson said in a Nov. 8
statement. No higher offers for the company emerged during a
monthlong shopping period that ended in September.  Opinions Split  Investor-research firms have been divided in their opinion
on the Blackstone takeover. Glass Lewis & Co. LLC and Proxy
Governance Inc. have advised shareholders to reject the offer,
saying Dynegy has better options. Two other advisory firms,
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and Egan-Jones Ratings
Co., supported the deal.  Dynegy, worth almost $19 billion before it tried to swallow
Enron Corp. in 2001, closed at an eight-year low of $2.78 a
share the day before Blackstone’s original offer was announced
on Aug. 13. Interest payments consumed about 12 percent of
Dynegy’s third-quarter sales, contributing to its  sixth
quarterly loss  in two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 