-- Health Workers to Get Help in Spotting Elderly Investment-Fraud Victims
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-11-17T17:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/health-workers-to-get-help-in-spotting-elderly-investment-fraud-victims.html
Securities regulators in 22 states
are expanding a program to teach medical professionals how to
spot victims of investment fraud among the elderly.  The project will show health-care professionals how to
determine when older patients are vulnerable to investment abuse
and how to refer them to regulators, the  Investor  Protection
Trust, a Washington-based nonprofit that promotes shareholder
education, said in a  conference call  today. The $712,000
initiative is funded by fines levied by participating states
from financial firms found liable for misconduct, the group
said.  “There is a medical component to elderly investment fraud
that has been overlooked and cannot be addressed solely by state
securities regulators, said  Irving Faught , administrator of the
Oklahoma Securities Commission and chairman of the Investor
Protection Institute, which is participating in the program.  One out of five Americans age 65 or older have been conned
by investment scammers, a total of more than 7.3 million people,
according to a June 15 survey of 2,022 adults by the nonprofit.
Forty percent of children who have parents age 65 and older said
they are “very” or “somewhat” worried their parents’ ability
to handle personal finances will collapse over time, the survey
found.  “There is no group of citizens that are more vulnerable to
exploitation and fraud, and it’s very timely for us to finally
make a big push to do something about this,” Robert Lam,
chairman of the Pennsylvania Securities Commission, said in the
call today.  Mild Impairment  Seniors with mild cognitive impairment, those who can
perform daily functions but have trouble following medication
schedules and managing finances, are a particular concern, the
Investor Protection Trust said. About 22 percent, or about 5.4
million people, age 71 or older have mild cognitive impairment,
according to a 2008  study  by Duke University.  Family practice doctors will receive an hour and a
half to two hours of training under the program, which will
teach them how to assess someone for mild cognitive impairment
in three minutes. They will then refer the patient to a
specialist, who will perform a more in-depth 45-minute
screening.  States involved in the program are Alabama, California,
Colorado, Delaware, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kentucky, Michigan, Nebraska, North Carolina, New Jersey, New
Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Utah,
Vermont, and Washington, according to the group.  Regulators in the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico also
have joined. The project was created at the Baylor College of
Medicine in Houston, with funding from the Investor Protection
Trust, and tested first in Texas.  The Investor Protection Institute, the North American
Securities Administrators Association, the National Adult
Protective Services Association, the Academy of Family
Physicians and the American College of Physicians collaborated
on the program.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Danielle Kucera  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 