-- EBay Mobile Fashion App Lets Shoppers Model Glasses
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-11-18T19:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ebay-mobile-fashion-application-lets-shoppers-model-3-d-glasses.html
(Corrects homebase of SapientNitro in last paragraph of
story published Nov. 17.)  EBay Inc. , the largest online retail
marketplace, is introducing a technology that lets people browse
and try on sunglasses using an Apple Inc. iPhone, as it seeks to
mimic the real-world shopping experience.  The so-called augmented-reality feature is part of EBay’s
fashion application,  Steve Yankovich , vice president of the
company’s mobile unit, said in an interview last week. The app
will be available in December, he said.  EBay is using handset-friendly tools to benefit from rising
demand for mobile commerce, an area of retailing where  Colin Gillis , an analyst at New York-based BGC Partners LP, says it
established an early lead. The company has said its apps will
generate as much as $2 billion in volume this year. Worldwide,
there will be about 150 million to 200 million mobile augmented
-reality users by 2012, from about 600,000 last year, according
to  Perey Research & Consulting  in Montreux, Switzerland.  “Within a year or two, I would be shocked if we didn’t see
it everywhere,” said  Norman Winarsky , a vice president at Menlo
Park, California-based SRI International, a technology incubator
known for developing the computer mouse. The future of mobile
shopping will allow consumers to experience and try anything
they want, Winarsky said. “You can put your finger in front of
the camera and a diamond ring will appear,” he said.  Ikea introduced an app on the iPhone earlier this year that
lets people see how the retailer’s furniture would fit in their
homes. Companies such as  Lego A/S , Europe’s biggest toymaker,
have store kiosks through which shoppers may hold up a box and
see what the Legos will look like assembled.  As technological hurdles fall and companies start
synchronizing their online and mobile business strategies, more
retailers may introduce augmented reality-style apps, said Rob
Gonda, global lead of creative technology at  SapientNitro , a
Boston-based marketing firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  