-- Batista’s EBX Bids for Canadian Gold Explorer Ventana
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-11-17T21:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ebx-of-brazil-offers-to-buy-ventana-gold-valuing-company-at-c-1-5-billion.html
EBX Group Ltd., an investment
company controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , said
it plans to acquire Ventana Gold Corp., valuing the Canadian
gold explorer at about C$1.5 billion ($1.47 billion).  EBX will offer C$12.63 apiece for shares it doesn’t already
own, 26 percent more than Ventana’s closing stock price
yesterday in Toronto. Batista already holds about 20.8 million
shares, or about 20 percent, of Ventana, Rio de Janeiro-based
EBX said today in a statement. Ventana said in a separate
statement it’s seeking advice before responding to the proposal.  “They’ve been a tremendously supportive shareholder since
they got involved with Ventana” last year, Chairman  Richard Warke  said in a telephone interview. “This is not a surprise.”  Batista, 53, bought his first gold mine at age 24 and is
worth $27 billion, according to Forbes, which ranks him as the
world’s eighth-richest person. He also controls MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA, which mines iron ore in Brazil. Batista has said
he plans to turn MMX into a “quasi-Vale,” a reference to
Brazil’s Vale SA, the world’s second-largest mining company.  Ventana rose C$3.87, or 39 percent, to C$13.90 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto trading. The Vancouver-based company controls metal-
exploration areas in Colombia, including the La Bodega property,
according to its  website . It had a loss of $5.01 million and no
revenue in its fiscal first quarter that ended Sept. 30,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold M&A  The EXB bid undervalues the estimated gold resources at
Ventana’s La Bodega development in Colombia, said  Michael Fowler , a Toronto-based analyst with Loewen, Ondaatje,
McCutcheon Ltd.  “We don’t think it will be enough to win control,” Fowler
said in a note to clients.  There have now been 84 gold-company takeovers announced so
far this year worth $25.9 billion, compared with 85 transactions
worth $5.4 billion in the same period in 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The average premium for gold acquisitions this
year is 50 percent, according Bloomberg data.  The press office for closely held EBX declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 