-- 
ECB Said to Have Bought Portuguese, Irish Government Bonds to Cap Decline

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-04T13:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ecb-buys-portuguese-greek-government-bonds-amid-irish-talks-traders-say.html
The  European Central Bank  bought
Irish and Portuguese government bonds, according to three people
with knowledge of the transactions.  The ECB wasn’t seen buying securities from any other euro-
region nations, said the people, under condition of anonymity
because the trades are confidential. The central bank’s press
office in Frankfurt didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet signaled that the
central bank bought government bonds today to fight tensions in
euro region debt markets. The ECB was not unanimous in voting
for a resumption of bond buying, he said.  “I never said the SMP had been interrupted and you will
see what we do,” Trichet said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt , referring to the ECB’s Securities Market Program. “I
wouldn’t be surprised that before the end of this teleconference
you would see something on the market.”  The yield on the Irish 10-year bond fell 14 basis points to
10.50 percent as of 2:34 p.m. in  London . The Portuguese two-year
yield dropped 57 basis points to 14.74 percent.  German two-year yield fell 10 basis points to 0.94 percent,
while 10-year yields were two basis points lower at 2.38
percent.  The ECB’s bond-buying program differs from so-called
quantitative easing policies pursued by the  Federal Reserve  and
the Bank of England because the central bank mops up the
liquidity created by the purchases, meaning the net effect on
the  money supply  is neutral. The ECB began the program on May 10
last year to stabilize markets rocked by the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  