-- EDF Says U.K. Atomic Policy May Draw Investors to $32 Billion in Projects
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-11-17T15:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/edf-predicts-u-k-nuclear-policy-will-draw-investors-to-32-billion-plants.html
Electricite de France SA  said U.K.
energy policy is likely to make the company’s 20 billion pound
($32 billion) plan to build four nuclear reactors profitable
enough to draw more investors to the projects.  The government plans to announce changes to energy
regulation in the next few weeks as it seeks to accelerate
investment in nuclear and renewable energy to reduce emissions.
Necessary reforms include a minimum price for carbon permits and
so-called capacity payments to low-carbon generators, according
to EDF U.K. Chief Executive Officer  Vincent de Rivaz .  EDF wants to complete the first of four new reactors at
Hinkley Point in southwest England by 2018. The Paris-based
company acquired the U.K.’s existing fleet of nuclear plants in
2008 before selling a 20 percent stake to  Centrica Plc , the
country’s largest energy supplier. Once the policy is settled,
EDF is willing to bring in more investors, de Rivaz said.  “My priority today is to dedicate this next year to
reducing the uncertainty and strengthening the confidence in our
business plan,” de Rivaz said in an interview in London. After
that’s in place, “my problem will be to select the candidates
queuing to join.”  Britain’s coalition government is rolling back energy
deregulation put in place by former Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  in the 1980s as it seeks to reduce carbon emissions and
replace aging power plants. The measures being considered are
intended to protect investors from energy market volatility.  ‘Dash for Gas’  “The current market framework is not fit to deliver the
investment we need,” Chris Huhne, U.K. secretary of state for
energy and climate change, said today. “Left untouched, the
electricity market would allow a new dash for gas, increasing
our dependence on a single fuel, and exposing us to volatile
prices.”  Policy will have to provide the incentives to make new
reactors viable, Citigroup Inc. analyst  Peter Atherton  said in a
telephone interview. “The government would like companies to do
things that are commercially and economically difficult to
justify.”  A Department of Energy and Climate Change spokesman
declined to comment on what changes are being considered.  Nuclear plants are expensive to build and cheap to operate,
making investors sensitive to long-term electricity prices. The
expansion of wind power across Europe will lead to periods when
supply exceeds demand, resulting in negative prices. A capacity
payment would reward nuclear generators for providing low carbon
power, regardless of the price of electricity.  ‘Reward Capacity’  “We need to have an element that rewards capacity that is
available on the market” to address concerns about energy
security and ensure enough power during periods of peak demand,
de Rivaz said.  About a quarter of Britain’s capacity will expire in the
next decade as coal-fired stations shut to meet European
pollution requirements and reactors reach the end of their
working lives.  The country’s 19 operating reactors account for 18 percent
of generation. The government approved eight sites for new
plants in October. In addition to EDF,  Scottish & Southern
Energy Plc , Spain-based Iberdrola SA and France’s  GDF Suez SA ,
as well as RWE AG and E.ON AG have announced plans for about
19,000 megawatts of new reactors through 2050.  Bigger Bills  Replacing power plants and building enough renewable
projects to meet climate-change targets will cost about 200
billion pounds over the next decade, according to U.K. regulator
Ofgem. This is likely to result in a quadrupling in annual
household electricity and gas bills from 2009 levels, to 4,733
pounds by 2020, according to price-comparison website uSwitch.  “We are expecting a level playing field for major low
carbon investments,” de Rivaz said. “Talking about CO2
reduction without a price of carbon is a mismatch, it doesn’t
make sense. We just want to have things aligned. It’s an element
of de-risking. Affordability will be the reward.”  Assuming a reactor is used for 60 years, a carbon price of
$30 a ton and a 5 percent rate of return on capital, atomic
power is competitive with other technologies, said Ron Cameron,
who oversees nuclear development at the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. Carbon permits for next
year trade at about 15 euros a ton.  EDF will spend 5 billion euros, overrunning an initial
estimate of 3.3 billion euros, to complete the first-of-a-kind
EPR reactor at Flamanville, France. In Finland, Areva SA is
behind schedule on its plant at Olkiluoto, initially meant to be
finished in 2009, is now slated for completion by 2013.  Windfall Profits  Opponents of setting a carbon floor price, including Steve
Riley, European executive director of  International Power Plc ,
operator of a 1,050-megawatt coal-fired plant, argue it would
result in windfall profits for existing nuclear generators.  All 15 reactors due to be operating beyond 2012 in the U.K.
are owned by EDF. Based on current timetables, the utility will
also be the first to complete new reactors, at Hinkley Point,
Somerset in 2018 and at Sizewell, Suffolk between 2020 and 2022.  “Our agenda is for this to be in place to incentivize new
investment in low carbon generation, including renewables and
carbon capture and storage as well as nuclear,” de Rivaz said.  EDF’s new U.K. reactors will produce 17 percent less waste
than previous models and produce enough power to supply 2.5
million homes. EDF estimates they will take between six and
seven years to build and employ as many as 5,000 people at the
peak of construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 