-- Medicare's Berwick Defends Health Law From Republicans in First Testimony
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2010-11-17T21:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/medicare-s-berwick-defends-u-s-health-law-before-senate-finance-committee.html
Republicans complained at Medicare
Administrator  Donald Berwick ’s first appearance before Congress
that they have been unable to review his work implementing
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  Obama appointed Berwick in July without Senate approval,
denying Republicans a chance to question him in a confirmation
hearing. He defended the law today before the Finance Committee,
which supervises Medicare, the health insurance program for the
elderly and disabled, and the Medicaid program for the poor. The
session was held to just over an hour.  The hearing previewed exchanges to come next year as
Republicans take control of the House. Republicans on the panel
didn’t question Berwick about remarks he’s made about rationing
care or new boards and offices within his agency the law creates
to slow health spending. Senator  Orrin Hatch , Republican of
Utah, said the hearing was too short.  “It’s like asking us to drain the Pacific Ocean with a
thimble,” he said, calling the hearing “pathetic.”  Berwick called the health law “the best opportunity in a
generation to make progress” on improving health care. Prompted
by Senator  Debbie Stabenow , Democrat of Michigan, he later
warned that if Republicans succeeded in repealing the law, as
they have promised, the outcome would be “terrible.”  Repeal Consequences  A repeal may mean Medicare beneficiaries returning 1.8
million checks for $250 each that they received under the law
for drug costs and a loss of improved benefits, such as better
coverage for preventive health services, he said. Efforts at
Berwick’s agency to reduce hospital-acquired infections and
increase anti-fraud efforts might stop, he said.  “I can’t think of a worse plan than repealing this law,”
he said.  Senator  Max Baucus , the Montana Democrat who leads the
Finance Committee, said repealing the law signed in March would
deepen the budget deficit.  The overhaul would reduce the growth of spending in
Medicare and Medicaid by about $455 billion during a decade,
according to the Congressional Budget Office, the accounting arm
of Congress.  Republicans such as Kansas Senator  Sam Brownback  have said
those cuts should be repealed. Texas Senator  John Cornyn  has
introduced legislation to repeal a new board empowered to
propose further spending reductions in Medicare, beginning in
2015. Twelve Republicans have signed on as co-sponsors to
Cornyn’s bill, including Hatch.  While no Republicans used the word “rationing” today in
their questions to Berwick, he alluded to the topic himself.  Needed Care  “My principle is that patients should get all of the care
they want and need, when and how they want and need it,” he
said in response to a question from Senator  Ron Wyden , Democrat
of Oregon. Wyden told Berwick he wanted an approach to end-of-
life care that is “the opposite of rationing.”  Republicans have criticized Berwick for remarks he made to
the journal Biotechnology Healthcare in June 2009. It had asked
him whether research into the comparative benefits of different
medical treatments might lead to rationing.  “The decision is not whether or not we will ration care --
the decision is whether we will ration with our eyes open,” he
responded in the interview. “And right now, we are doing it
blindly.”  In a prepared statement distributed before the finance
hearing, Berwick said that the health law won’t cut guaranteed
Medicare benefits “nor will it ration care.” He didn’t say the
line during his testimony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Wayne  in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  