-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline for Sixth Day as China Drafts Price Curbs
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-17T13:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/emerging-market-stocks-decline-for-sixth-day-as-china-drafts-price-curbs.html
Developing-nation stocks fell for a
sixth day, the longest slump since January, after China’s
government said it may impose price controls to combat the
fastest inflation in two years.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined 1.1 percent to
1,088.83 as of 7:34 a.m. in New York, set for the lowest closing
level since Oct. 1.  The Shanghai Composite Index  sank 1.9
percent, the steepest drop among equity gauges in developing
nations. Asian currencies weakened, sending the  Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index  to the lowest level since Oct. 4.  China may cap prices of “important daily necessities” and
production materials, the State Council said today after a
meeting chaired by Premier Wen Jiabao. Chongqing Brewery Co.
tumbled by the 10 percent limit in Shanghai on concern the
government will prevent companies from passing on rising costs.
Raw-materials producers including  PetroChina Co.  and Russia’s
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel sank amid speculation China’s efforts to
combat inflation will slow the fastest-growing major economy.  “The market is worried that future measures to tighten
monetary policy will be more severe,” said  Lvwu Mei , vice
director of research at Shenzhen-based Lion Fund Management Co.,
which oversees about $7.5 billion. “Investors should adopt a
more conservative approach given the current market sentiment.”  The MSCI index of 21 developing nations has dropped 5.8
percent from this year’s peak on Nov. 5 as concerns of an
overheating Chinese economy and weakening finances for Europe’s
most-indebted governments spurred investors to sell higher-
yielding assets. Trading of bearish emerging-market stock
 options  jumped to a five-month high in the U.S. yesterday as
investors boosted buying of the contracts to protect against
losses in the shares.  PetroChina Falls  The Shanghai Composite gauge entered a so-called
correction, falling 10.2 percent from its high on Nov. 8.
China’s central bank may raise interest rates for a second time
this year as soon as Nov. 19 to fight inflation, the China
Securities Journal reported today.  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil producer, slid 1.9
percent in Shanghai while Jiangxi Copper Co. dropped 2.9
percent. Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s biggest mining company,
retreated 2 percent. China is the world’s largest consumer of
metals from copper to steel and the biggest user of cotton,
wheat and cooking oils.  The Micex Index of Russian shares dropped 0.5 percent and
the ruble declined 1 percent against the dollar.  The South Korean won weakened 1.3 percent versus the U.S.
currency, while the Thai baht retreated 0.5 percent and the
Chinese yuan slumped 0.1 percent. Financial markets are closed
for holidays in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and India.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  