-- Merck Drug Improves Cholesterol Without Safety Risk of Pfizer Pill
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-11-17T21:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/merck-drug-improves-cholesterol-without-safety-risk-of-pfizer-s-product.html
An experimental drug from  Merck &
Co.  raised levels of good cholesterol, slashed bad cholesterol
and may have helped patients avert heart complications, without
the safety risks that prompted  Pfizer Inc.  to abandon a similar
product four years ago.  Patients on the treatment, called anacetrapib, had a 40
percent drop in bad cholesterol and a 138 percent rise in the
good cholesterol that ferries fat from the blood, the study
found. Sixteen people on the drug died, had heart attacks or
strokes, compared with 21 on a placebo. The 1,623 patient trial
was funded by Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck.  The data, reported at the  American Heart Association 
meeting in Chicago, will revive interest in a class of medicines
that may reach peak sales of $19 billion a year, said  Nikhil Mehta , director of cardiovascular disorders at  Decision
Resources Inc. , a consulting firm. Investors who lowered
expectations after the failure of Pfizer’s pill torcetrapib, in
a family of medicines known as CETP inhibitors, may now change
their view, he said.  “If what we are seeing now is born out in larger studies,
this could be the next big thing that could benefit hundreds of
millions of people,” said  Christopher Cannon , the lead
researcher and a cardiologist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in
Boston. “The bad cholesterol goes down to the level you are
born with and good cholesterol gets up to twice what you are
born with. This is totally unprecedented territory.”  Shares Rise  Merck rose 37 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $34.47 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares rose 0.5
percent in the past 12 months.  Roche Holding AG , based in Basel, Switzerland, and  Eli
Lilly & Co.  of Indianapolis have  similar drugs  in development.
Merck said it will begin its final trial of anacetrapib in
30,000 high-risk patients next year  “There’s no reason the sales potential that existed before
torcetrapib failed doesn’t apply now,” Decision Resources’
Mehta said in a telephone interview. “No other drugs have taken
the place of these medicines. There is still potential for
multibillion dollars of sales, going up into the double-digit
range. This is an important study for reassuring people and
raising the profile of the class again.”  The finding virtually rules out the likelihood that Merck’s
pill will have the same toxicity as the failed Pfizer drug, said
 Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic in
Ohio, who led one of the trials studying the similar Pfizer
compound, called torcetrapib.  ‘Good Chance’  “There is a very good chance that this drug will make
it,” Nissen said in an interview.  Lipitor, which lowers bad cholesterol, or LDL, generated
$11.4 billion in sales for New York-based Pfizer last year. The
product faces generic competition in the U.S. next year.
Torcetrapib, before being abandoned after the company paid $1
billion to develop it, was seen as the next big revenue-
generator for Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker.  Doctors and drug companies have been searching for years
for ways to reduce heart disease with good cholesterol, and the
findings are promising, Nissen said.  “This class, if it works, could be as big as the
statins,” the class Lipitor belongs to, he said. “If we can
reduce event rates another 25 percent above what statins do,
that will save a lot of lives.”  Potent Drugs  Everyone in the study also received potent drugs known as
statins to lower bad cholesterol levels. While those medications
reduce the risk of heart attack and death by about one-third,
heart disease remains the leading killer worldwide, according to
the  World Health Organization .  Statins  generated $35 billion in
2009, according to IMS Health Inc., a research company in
Norwalk, Connecticut.  The study was also published in the  New England Journal of
Medicine  to coincide with the presentation. There were no signs
of increased blood pressure or levels of the hormone
aldosterone, which studies suggest may be the cause of
torcetrapib’s flaws. In the trial, significantly fewer patients
getting anacetrapib needed procedures to clear clogged heart
arteries.  While torcetrapib raised good cholesterol levels, it also
unintentionally increased blood pressure, electrolytes and the
hormone aldosterone. An analysis of the existing data on
torcetrapib suggest those so-called off-target effects were the
cause of the drug’s toxicity. Merck’s product doesn’t have any
of those effects or show signs of other serious adverse events,
the researchers said.  ‘Very Confident’  “We were able to say very confidently anacetrapib is not
associated with increases in blood pressure, as torcetrapib was,
electrolytes or aldosterone,” Yale Mitchel, Merck’s vice
president of clinical research for atherosclerosis, said in an
interview.  Torcetrapib increased the number of deaths in its final
study, making that a key issue, said  Harlan Krumholz , a
cardiologist and professor at Yale University School of
Medicine. In Merck study today, four patients taking anacetrapib
and one person given a placebo died from cardiovascular causes.
While the difference could have stemmed from chance, it is
something to watch, he said.  “I’m not saying this will be a dangerous drug, but I’m not
sure there will be reduction in deaths,” he said in an
interview. “I’m bullish on the idea of testing this, I’m just
not bullish about the result. I don’t have enough information.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  