-- Merkel Pledges Spending Restraint in Open Letter as Voter Support Returns
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-17T13:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/merkel-pledges-spending-restraint-in-open-letter-as-voter-support-returns.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  used an
open letter to the nation to pledge to restrain spending and
protect public finances, thanking voters for helping Germany
emerge from the economic crisis “better than anyone else.”  Merkel, in an advertisement placed in all major German
newspapers today, said the world is “talking of a miracle” as
it observes the  recovery  in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy.  “I don’t believe in miracles -- but I believe in this
country’s people: in their ideas, their good sense, their can-do
attitude,” she said  in the letter . The government “is saving
so we can keep our options open and maintain investment.”  Merkel’s message marks an effort to woo voters in six state
elections next year as she resists U.S. pressure to shrink
Germany’s trade surplus and prods other euro-area countries to
enforce budget discipline. Support for her Christian Democratic
bloc rose to a six-month high in a poll published today.  Germany’s economy may  grow  this year at the fastest rate
since 1991, fueled by exports that provide one in three of the
nation’s jobs. Gross domestic product, adjusted for seasonal
effects, grew 0.7 percent from the second quarter, when it
surged 2.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said Nov. 12.
 Unemployment  was 6.7 percent in September, compared with a euro-
area average of 10.1 percent, according to the latest EU data.  ‘New Stability Culture’  Merkel’s letter was published one day after a party
convention of her Christian Democratic Union, where she vowed to
press for a “new stability culture in Europe” to prevent a
repeat of the debt crisis that swept from Greece and is now
swirling around Ireland, Portugal and Spain.  The chancellor is pressing ahead with plans to involve
holders of euro-area government bonds in the cost of any future
crisis amid criticism by officials including European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  that her stance is worsening
the so-called peripheral countries’ debt woes.  Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc gained 1 percentage point to 33
percent support, the highest since May, in a weekly Forsa poll
for Hamburg-based Stern magazine published today. Her Free
Democratic Party coalition partner held at 5 percent. The
coalition’s combined 38 percent compares with 48.4 percent at
federal elections last year in which Merkel won her second term.  The opposition Social Democrats held at 23 percent while
the Greens party, their coalition partner between 1998 and 2005,
dropped a point to 22 percent. That’s almost 12 points more than
the combined 33.7 percent the two parties won in the election.
Forsa polled 2,503 voters on Nov. 8-12 with a margin of error of
2.5 percentage points.  Greek Aid  Coalition support plunged in May after Merkel backed as
much as 22.4 billion euros ($30.3 billion) for Greece and then a
week later endorsed contributing up to 148 billion euros for a
750 billion-euro rescue fund for the euro area. Germany is the
largest European contributor to both funds, with a share of more
than 25 percent.  Today’s open letter is meant to highlight Merkel’s “major
projects” for Germany,  Steffen Seibert , her chief spokesman,
told reporters in Berlin. The 2.8 million-euro advertising
campaign is financed by the government’s media relations office
in Berlin, a government spokeswoman said separately.  Merkel laid out four pledges, starting with “saving in
many areas” of public finances. She backed an “education
republic” that helps children from poorer backgrounds and
promotes research and innovation. Other goals are affordable
health care and a commitment to producing 80 percent of
electricity from renewable-energy sources by 2050.  Germans lifted the country out of the economic and
financial crisis, though the government played its part, Merkel
said. Now, her coalition “is rolling up its sleeves for the
challenges that lie ahead -- as promised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  