-- Essence of Che, Marie Antoinette at 367-Year-Old Candle Maker's N.Y. Shop
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-11-17T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/essence-of-che-marie-antoinette-at-367-year-old-candle-maker-s-n-y-shop.html
More than 200 years after  Marie Antoinette  lost her head, I got a whiff of her from a scented
candle in a downtown Manhattan basement.  The 367-year-old candle-maker  Maison de Cire Trudon  of
Paris opened a shop on Bond Street last month, offering dozens
of wax creations redolent of history.  “You have the smell of Marie Antoinette, you have the
smell of Versailles, you have the smell of Napoleon,” said
Ramdane Touhami, 36, chief executive officer, as he lifted one
glass dome after another to let me sample.  The guillotined queen’s “Trianon” candle has a whiff of
roses and hyacinths. The “Ernesto” of Che Guevara has hints of
leather and tobacco. Napoleon’s “Empire” presents pine and
sage.  The shop itself, the company’s first outside France, melds
the hip and romantic with the historical. Inspired by the
opulent Hall of Mirrors in Versailles, it has robin’s-egg-blue
walls, distressed wood floors and mirrors, and a shaky metal
staircase. Wax busts of French royals and literary characters
line the walls.  Founded in 1643, Cire Trudon supplied the court of Louis
XIV and churches all over France. Its candles burn today in the
presidential residence near the Champs-Elysees.  “They are in the top echelon of luxury candles,” said
Anthony Carro, owner of  Candle Delirium , a West Hollywood,
California, store that offers 40 brands. “They are very
prestigious and their smells are highly unusual.”  Humid Convent  “Carmelite” is meant to suggest the damp walls of an old
convent; “Roi Soleil” conjures the wood floors in Versailles;
“Manon” brings to mind fresh laundry.  “It’s hard to go back to burning another candle after Cire
Trudon,” said Carro. “It’s like driving an Aston Martin and
then going back to a Chevy.”  The scented candles can burn for as long as 85 hours and
cost $75 to $85. Unscented (and nondripping) long candles in
every shade are $4.  The biggest candle weighs 2.8 kilograms (6.16 pounds) and
costs $450. (Candle Delirium has a 5-foot-tall paraffin-wax
pillar that sells for $800.)  Touhami, who has a Chaplinesque mustache and mien, joined
the company in 2007 and since then has, with a partner, gained
control of it. He introduced scents that reflect its long
history and materials meant to convey its high-end niche. The
cotton wicks are woven in Germany, glass containers are made by
hand in Venice and the candles are produced in a Normandy
factory.  Sales Rise  Sales almost doubled to 13.6 million euros ($18.3 million)
in 2009 from 7 million euros ($9.4 million) in 2007, he said.
The Cire Trudon brand, which used to be sold only in France, can
be found at 600 retailers in 55 countries.  Candle lovers form a subculture that includes pop stars
like  Lady Gaga  and  Jennifer Lopez .  Mariah Carey  requires four
$65  Jo Malone  vanilla candles in her dressing room, according
to her contract, published by TheSmokingGun.com, a division of
 Time Warner Inc.  Rihanna needs six  Archipelago Black Forest
Candles  (each costs $29) in her dressing room.  “There are people who are candle hoarders,” said Carro.
“They have candle closets.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 