-- Dollar Falls as Weaker U.S. Data Reinforce Fed's Plan to Purchase Assets
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-17T22:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/euro-is-near-7-week-low-versus-dollar-amid-concern-irish-crisis-may-spread.html
The dollar fell versus the euro for
the first time in three days as weaker-than-forecast economic
data bolstered bets the Federal Reserve will follow through on
its plan to buy $600 billion in bonds, debasing the currency.  The greenback dropped against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as a report showed U.S. consumer prices excluding
food and fuel had the lowest annual increase on record. The euro
gained as talks on European support for debt-laden Ireland
calmed the market. Fed officials defended their asset-purchase
program against criticism.  “We’ve had a lot of debate among Fed speakers whether or
not the entire $600 billion would be purchased, or would it be
extended or cut short,” said  Amelia Bourdeau , a currency
strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at UBS AG. “This ends the
debate, so the dollar’s weakening again.”  The dollar weakened 0.3 percent to $1.3529 at 5 p.m. in New
York, from $1.3489 yesterday, when it touched $1.3448, the
strongest level since Sept. 28. The euro has lost 2 percent in
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, a measure of 10
developed-nation currencies, since Nov. 3, the day the U.S.
central bank announced its asset-purchase plan.  The greenback slipped 0.1 percent to 83.18 yen after
earlier rising as much as 0.3 percent and falling 0.3 percent.
It was the greenback’s first drop against the yen in seven days.
The euro rose 0.2 percent to 112.55 yen, from 112.38 yen.  The Fed is buying about $75 billion in Treasuries per month
through June to spur employment and inflation in a tactic called
quantitative easing. The central bank acquired $1.7 trillion of
Treasuries and mortgage debt in purchases that ended in March.  ‘Deep Concerns’  The latest round of buying prompted criticism in the U.S.
and abroad. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  suggested
it’s designed to erode the value of the U.S. dollar, and the
four top Republicans in Congress wrote today to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  expressing “deep concerns.”  The program “introduces significant uncertainty regarding
the future strength of the dollar,” wrote House Republican
Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, House Republican Whip  Eric Cantor 
of Virginia, Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky and Senate Republican Whip  Jon Kyl  of Arizona. A copy
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Today’s economic data “continues the disinflation trend,”
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  told reporters after a
speech in St. Louis. The bank’s plan to avert deflation has
become misperceived as a government bailout, which may require
policy makers to do a better job of explaining it, he said.  Data Justified Move  “The data really justified the Fed’s move, as everybody
has seen the international community did not give it a warm
embrace,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at
Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said in a speech in
Providence, Rhode Island, that the central bank risked a
worsening outlook for inflation and jobs if it hadn’t embarked
on the new purchases, which began last week.  The dollar reversed earlier gains versus the euro and yen
after Labor Department data showed U.S. consumer prices
excluding food and fuel, a gauge favored by central bankers,
increased 0.6 percent in October from a year earlier, the
smallest gain in year-over-year data going back to 1958.  Builders began work last month on the fewest homes since a
record low in April 2009, the Commerce Department said. Starts
fell to a 519,000 annual pace, versus a forecast for 598,000.  A Labor Department report tomorrow will show the number of
Americans filing initial jobless claims increased by 6,000 last
week, economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast.  Support for Ireland  The euro earlier traded near a seven-week low against the
dollar amid concern a failure to craft a rescue package for
Ireland will allow the nation’s banking crisis to spread to
other members of the common currency.  “Right now, barring news out of the euro zone, most of the
crisis has been priced in and we are trading range-bound at this
point waiting for news,” said  Boris Schlossberg , director of
research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.
“We’re in a stalemate.”  The European Union started work on a possible aid package
for Ireland’s indebted  banks . EU and International Monetary Fund
experts will begin scanning the books of the companies tomorrow
in Dublin.  Finance chiefs from the 16-country euro region said the
joint assessment will determine whether Ireland can fix the
banking system on its own or needs to fall back on a EU-IMF 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund.  ‘Some Comfort’  “Comments from European officials as well as the EU and
IMF officials’ visit to Ireland has provided some comfort to the
markets,” strategists at BNP Paribas SA led by  Hans Redeker ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy in London, wrote to
clients. “While euro-dollar saw some relief today, we expect
pressure to remain on the down side.”  The Brazilian real strengthened for the first time in eight
days as investors saw the talks as supporting risk. The
Australian and New Zealand dollars reversed earlier declines as
stocks gained, fueling demand for assets tied to growth.  The real advanced against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, appreciating 0.9 percent to 1.7269 per dollar. The
so-called Aussie and kiwi each strengthened 0.3 percent against
the greenback.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose as much as 0.4 percent
before ending the day little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett   in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  