-- European Stocks Rebound From Biggest Drop in Four Months; Actelion Rallies
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-17T17:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-roche-actelion-may-move.html
European stocks  rebounded from the
biggest drop in four months as the European Union started work
on a possible aid package for Ireland’s indebted banks.  Actelion Ltd. jumped 9.1 percent, leading health-care
stocks higher, after Amgen Inc. was said to be considering a
takeover offer. Roche Holding AG advanced 1.3 percent as the
drugmaker announced a cost-reduction program. Experian Plc, the
world’s biggest credit-checking company, surged the most in 19
months after earnings increased.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 0.5 percent to 267.31 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London after tumbling 2.3 percent
yesterday. The EU and International Monetary Fund will start
scanning the books of Irish banks tomorrow to determine whether
Ireland can patch up the banking system on its own or needs to
tap a 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund.  “Ireland is going to hold out for now for as long as they
can and this is going to lead to significant volatility,”  Nick Firoozye , London-based head of interest rate strategy at Nomura
International Plc said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
‘Countdown’ with Maryam Nemazee. “No one really trusts the
banking sector numbers which is why Ireland and Germany are
centering on the idea that could bailout the banks.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s  CAC 40  gained 0.8 percent and
Germany’s DAX increased 0.6 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose
0.2 percent.  Irish Stocks Gain  Ireland’s  ISEQ  rallied 1.5 percent as Britain said it would
back support for Ireland to prevent the nation’s bank woes from
spilling over into the U.K. market. Stocks climbed even as
LCH.Clearnet Ltd. raised the margin requirement for Irish bond
trading to 30 percent of net positions, making it more expensive
to buy the nation’s securities.  A measure of health-care stocks rose 1 percent for the
biggest gain among 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600.  Actelion surged 9.1 percent to 54.6 Swiss francs after two
people with knowledge of the matter said Amgen, the world’s
largest biotechnology company, is considering a takeover offer
and may approach the drugmaker as early as this week.  Roche gained 1.3 percent to 144.4 francs after the world’s
biggest maker of cancer drugs said it will cut 4,800 jobs as
part of a cost-reduction program aimed at saving 2.4 billion
francs ($2.4 billion) annually.  Glaxo Gains  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  climbed 2.4 percent to 1,243 pence after
the U.K. drugmaker and Human Genome Sciences Inc. won a U.S.
panel’s backing to sell the first new lupus drug, Benlysta, in
more than 50 years.  Experian climbed 6.3 percent to 748 pence, the biggest gain
since April 2009, after reporting a 4.4 percent rise in first-
half profit to $260 million. Experian also announced plans to
refinance $2.5 billion of debt two years before it matures with
new loans and bonds.  Zodiac Aerospace SA increased 2.2 percent to 52.78 euros
after French daily La Tribune reported that Safran SA could make
a hostile bid for Europe’s biggest maker of airplane seats. The
newspaper cited comments made by Safran Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Paul Herteman  in China.  Northern Foods Plc  soared 25 percent to 56.5 pence and
Greencore Group Plc rallied 29 percent to 1.34 euros after the
food makers agreed to merge. Combining the companies, which both
supply U.K. retailers including Tesco Plc and Marks & Spencer
Group Plc, will create a firm with annual sales of about 1.7
billion pounds ($2.7 billion), they said.  Deutsche Post, UPS  Deutsche Post AG  gained 1.4 percent to 13.75 euros after
Capital magazine reported that United Parcel Service Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Scott Davis  is seeking cooperation partners in
Europe in a bid to expand its private-clients business.  UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery firm, has
established contact with Deutsche Post among others, the
magazine cited Davis as saying in an interview.  ICAP Plc, the biggest broker of transactions between banks,
rose 1.3 percent to 472 pence after also reporting an increase
in first-half profit.  Thales SA  retreated 4.2 percent to 27.23 euros after UBS AG
downgraded shares of Europe’s biggest maker of defense
electronics to “sell” from “buy” and reduced its earnings
estimate by 20 percent.  “We are no longer confident enough to assume Thales can
hit the top of its margin guidance,” London-based analyst  Avi Hoddes  wrote in a report. “Thales sounded cautious on both its
first half and nine month results calls in our view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 