-- Madoff Trustee Sues Ex-Milberg Weiss Lawyers Over False Profit in Scheme
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ex-milberg-weiss-lawyers-sued-by-madoff-trustee-over-ponzi-scheme-profits.html
Two former partners of the Milberg
Weiss law firm were sued by the trustee overseeing the
bankruptcy of  Bernard Madoff ’s investment company to recover
$20.4 million in false profits from the con man’s Ponzi scheme.  The trustee, New York attorney  Irving Picard , sued former
Milberg Weiss name partner  Melvyn I. Weiss  and ex-partner  David J. Bershad  over profits they reaped from the Madoff fraud. Both
Weiss and Bershad pleaded guilty to racketeering charges over a
client-kickback scheme and left the law firm, which has changed
its name to  Milberg LLP .  “This action is brought to recover the fictitious profit
amount so that this customer property can be equitably
distributed among all the victims” of Madoff’s fraud, Picard
said in the suit filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan.  Madoff, 72, was arrested in December 2008 and charged with
securities fraud for directing the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S.
history. He pleaded guilty in March 2009 and is serving a 150-
year prison sentence.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The new suits follow 19 others filed by Picard seeking to
recover more than $15.5 billion from parties related to Madoff,
including his friends and family, and from so-called feeder
funds, which directed most or all of their clients’ money to
Madoff.  Clawback Suit  “I have no prior information about this and I have no
comment,” Weiss, 75, said yesterday in a phone interview from
Boca Raton, Florida.  Bershad, 70, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment yesterday on Picard’s so-called clawback suit, which
also names Weiss’ family foundation and Bershad’s investment
company as defendants. Such suits are designed to recoup Ponzi-
scheme profits to compensate victims.  Both men, who represented plaintiffs in securities-fraud
cases, faced federal charges alleging they secretly paid clients
to bring such lawsuits. Prosecutors argued the men, who
industrialized the filing of securities class-action cases, got
at least $251 million in fees from 1979 to 2005.  The lawyers used intermediaries to pay clients who agreed
to serve as plaintiffs in shareholder lawsuits, the government
said. The practice helped the firm file cases faster than rivals
and potentially gain control of class actions, or group suits.  Bershad was first to plead guilty in Los Angeles federal
court in July 2007 after agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors.
He was followed by  Steven G. Schulman ,  William S. Lerach  and
Weiss, who pleaded guilty in April 2008 to racketeering
conspiracy.  The case is Irvin H. Picard, trustee for the Liquidation of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC v. The M&B Weiss
Family Limited Partnership of 1996 C/O Melvyn I. Weiss, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 