-- Ex-Societe Generale Trader Admits He Stole Secrets
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-17T23:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ex-societe-generale-trader-says-he-stole-secrets-update1-.html
Former  Societe Generale SA  trader
Samarth Agrawal said he shared aspects of the company’s secret
computer code with a Manhattan hedge fund, admitting to at least
one of the crimes he’s charged with, according to the judge in
the case.  Under questioning from his own lawyer, Agrawal said he
discussed information about a secret, high-speed computer
trading system owned by Societe Generale, including technical
aspects of the system, how it sends orders and details of the
system’s architecture in hopes of winning a job to set up a
similar system for the fund,  Tower Research Capital LLC .  “Did you understand that that was wrong?” asked Agrawal’s
lawyer, Ivan Fisher.  “Yes,” Agrawal answered.  “I did it because I had to build the similar system at
Tower,” Agrawal testified. “I did it because I wanted the
job.”  After dismissing the jury for the day, U.S. District Judge
 Jed S. Rakoff  told lawyers he was “puzzled” by Agrawal’s
testimony.  “The defendant has admitted all the essential elements,
certainly of the first count, if not the second,” Rakoff said.  The first count against Agrawal is theft of trade secrets.
He’s also charged with one count of transportation of stolen
property in interstate commerce. He faces up to 10 years in
prison if convicted.  Own Defense  Agrawal took the stand this morning after the government
rested its case against him yesterday. He said his superiors at
Societe General encouraged him to work at home because spending
too many nights and weekends in the office would raise “red
flags” for company security.  Agrawal was hired in 2007 in New York by the Paris-based
bank to be a quantitative analyst in the high-frequency trading
group. He was promoted to trader and given access to the
company’s high-frequency trading software in April 2009,
according to prosecutors.  In his testimony today, Agrawal told jurors that he
originally copied parts of the Societe Generale computer code in
June 2009 to work on it at home. He said he didn’t intend to
steal the code at the time.  Later, during 10 to 12 meetings with Tower executives,
Agrawal said, he shared some aspects of a Societe Generale
trading program called DQS, for “distributed quotation
system.”  The trial began with opening statements Nov. 9. Rakoff told
jurors they will hear closing arguments in the case tomorrow and
then begin deliberations.  “One is driven to the inference that what is really going
on here is a sympathy defense,” Rakoff told lawyers after
sending the jurors home. “One would be very hard-pressed not to
feel some sympathy for this defendant.”  “I find this a curious case,” Rakoff said.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-cr-417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan) , in testimony
at his criminal trial, admitted to misappropriating trade
secrets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 