-- Exxon Mobil to Pay $25 Million to Settle 1978 Brooklyn Oil Spill Lawsuit
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-11-17T23:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/exxon-to-pay-25-million-to-clean-brooklyn-spill-cuomo-says.html
Exxon Mobil Corp.  agreed to pay $25
million to settle a lawsuit over a decades-old oil spill and
related environmental contamination in Brooklyn, New York, state
Attorney General  Andrew M. Cuomo  said.  The settlement includes a payment of $19.5 million for
environmental projects, the largest single payment of its kind
in New York’s history, according to Cuomo’s statement.  The settlement also requires Exxon to pay for the cleanup
of the spill of at least 17 million gallons of oil in Brooklyn’s
Greenpoint area discovered in 1978, according to the statement.
At least 55 acres of the Brooklyn community are now
contaminated, Cuomo’s office said.  “For far too long, residents of Greenpoint have been
forced to live with an environmental nightmare lurking just
beneath their homes, their businesses and their community,”
Cuomo said. “With this settlement, Exxon Mobil will be held
accountable for fully cleaning up this environmental disaster.”  The settlement was filed today in federal court in
Brooklyn. It includes $500,000 in civil penalties and damages,
$1.5 million to compensation the state for past cleanups
associated with the spill, and $3.5 million for future oversight
costs, Cuomo said.  The settlement also resolves a 2004 complaint by the
environmental watchdog group Riverkeeper, which was consolidated
with Cuomo’s case, and a lawsuit by Brooklyn Borough president
 Marty Markowitz , according to  Kristen Hellmer , an Exxon
spokeswoman.  “We’re pleased to reach a mutually agreeable resolution to
the lawsuit, and our focus will continue to be our cleanup
efforts in Greenpoint,” Hellmer said in a phone interview.  Class Actions  Two class-action, or group, suits representing residents
for property value losses and potential health costs related to
the spill remain unresolved.  The Greenpoint neighborhood previously was home to
refineries and storage tanks owned by Standard Oil, an Exxon
predecessor.  The spill was two-thirds larger than the 1989 Exxon Valdez
spill that released 11 million gallons of oil into Alaska’s
Prince William Sound.  The agreement obligates  Exxon  to address soil, groundwater
and air concerns, according to the company.  Exxon Cleanup  Exxon  has been working since 1979 to remediate the site,
according to a statement by the Irving, Texas-based company.
More than 11 million gallons have been removed, the company
said. Hellmer declined to discuss cleanup costs.  The Cuomo suit sought to have the company clean oil from
the soil and groundwater in the Greenpoint neighborhood and
prevent it from leaking into Newtown Creek, a 3.5-mile waterway
that separates the boroughs of Brooklyn and Queens.  The settlement doesn’t incorporate the investigation and
cleanup of Newtown Creek because it is a Superfund site being
dealt with by the federal government, Cuomo said.  “The Exxon settlement and the recent Superfund listing of
Newtown Creek will make it possible for Riverkeeper and local
residents to realize our vision of a Greenpoint that is free of
historic pollution,” Riverkeeper executive director Paul Gallay
said in a statement.  Erin Brockovich  A 2005 suit filed Brooklyn state Supreme Court on behalf of
more than 400 Greenpoint residents by Los Angeles law firm
 Girardi/Keese  is unresolved. The firm’s founder,  Thomas Girardi ,
was lead counsel in  Erin Brockovich ’s suit against Pacific Gas &
Electric, a unit of PG&E Corp.  “Our suit is simply pending,” Girardi said in a phone
interview.  Marc Bern, a partner at  Napoli Bern Ripka LLP , sought
federal class action status in a lawsuit on behalf of residents
for a $58 billion claim against Exxon, BP Plc and other
companies.  “‘Hopefully we will be entering negotiations with Exxon in
the very near future to resolve this matter,” Bern said. “The
Greenpoint controversy has been pending too long, particularly
in light of New York’s desire to reclaim the water views.”  In the late 1800s, the Greenpoint area housed more than 50
refineries, and the contamination may have begun then, Exxon has
said. By 1892, most of the facilities were owned by Standard
Oil. Leaking gasoline caused a sewer explosion in 1950 that sent
manhole covers flying. The site was identified as an
environmental hazard in 1978 when a Coast Guard patrol spotted
an oily plume in Newtown Creek.  Exxon has had no active refinery operations in Greenpoint
since 1963 and no terminal operations since 1993, Hellmer said.  The state’s case is State of New York v. Exxonmobil Corp.,
07-cv-02902, and the Riverkeeper case is Riverkeeper v. Exxon
Mobil 04-cv-02056, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New
York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 