-- Fed's Rosengren Says Inaction Risked `Worsening Pain'
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-11-17T14:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/fed-s-rosengren-says-inaction-risked-worsening-pain-for-jobs.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said that the central bank risked a
worsening outlook for inflation and jobs if it hadn’t embarked
this month on a second round of unconventional monetary
stimulus.  “Not changing policy risked further disinflation, a rise
in the real cost of funds tantamount to monetary tightening, and
risks of continued and possibly worsening pain in labor
markets,” Rosengren said today in a speech in Providence, Rhode
Island. “There are real and significant long-term costs to
individuals and the economy when the unemployment rate remains
stubbornly high.”  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee on Nov. 3
announced it would buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June
to combat too-low inflation and an unemployment rate that’s
hovering near a 26-year high.  The announcement has prompted criticism in the U.S. and
abroad, with a group of 23 people including former Republican
government officials and economists publishing a letter this
week to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  urging him to halt the
expansion of monetary stimulus because it risks an inflation
surge. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has also
called the Fed’s asset-purchase program “clueless” and
suggested it is designed to erode the value of the U.S. dollar.  Fed Strategy  Rosengren, 53, defended the central bank’s strategy, saying
he is “very confident of the Fed’s ability and will to exit,
when necessary.” He also said devaluing the dollar is “not a
goal of our policies,” though it will “stimulate exports and
reduce imports,” which is a “normal consequence” of monetary
easing.  Rosengren reinforced comments made yesterday by St. Louis
Fed President  James Bullard  and Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  that the additional stimulus was warranted. New York
Fed President  William Dudley  also defended the Fed’s decision
this week to CNBC, saying that critics don’t “understand
clearly” the Fed’s ability to tighten monetary policy.  “The policy change we at the Fed just announced was
consistent with the  central bank’s mandate , given how far the
national economy is from our gauges of health,” Rosengren said.
“In short you see unemployment close to double the mandate-
consistent target, and inflation about half of what we consider
consistent with price stability.”  Rosengren also said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg News that he expects the central bank to buy the full
$600 billion of Treasuries in order to create jobs. The Boston
Fed estimates the program will help reduce the unemployment rate
by about 0.5 percentage point by the end of 2012, the equivalent
of creating 700,000 jobs, he said.  Lower Rate  “Instead of relying on the indirect effects of targeting a
lower funds rate, we are opting to more directly affect the
interest rates that have the greatest connection to real
spending; by buying Treasury bonds and creating additional bank
reserves,” Rosengren said. “Like conventional policy, one
would expect that mortgage and corporate rates will fall, and
exchange rates will be impacted, providing additional stimulus
to the economy.”  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate near zero
since December 2008. With interest rates “really low,” fiscal
policy would likely be more effective at spurring growth than
monetary easing, Rosengren said in response to audience
questions after his presentation.  “The textbooks might say fiscal policy would be the more
appropriate tool,” Rosengren said. “An ideal package would be
more fiscal stimulus in the short-run balanced with” addressing
unsustainable longer-term programs, he said.  “Everybody would agree in the long run we have to have a
more sustainable fiscal policy,” Rosengren said. “But what we
don’t want to have is an unemployment rate that goes up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  