-- Fed May Hesitate on More Easing After Critics Question Employment Mandate
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-11-17T20:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/fed-may-hesitate-on-more-easing-after-critics-question-employment-mandate.html
The Federal Reserve is facing the
fiercest political assault on its powers in three decades as it
struggles to help revive the U.S. economy.  The Fed’s plan to expand its purchases of Treasury
securities has triggered criticism from Republican lawmakers,
some economists who wrote an open letter to the Fed protesting
the move, and finance officials in Germany, China and Brazil.  While central bank officials are pressing ahead with the
$600 billion bond-buying program announced this month, analysts
said the criticism may fan dissent within the Fed over the
quantitative-easing policy. That may limit Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s ability to take further measures if the economy
remains weak.  “The Republican economists are reflecting a broad
sentiment within the Republican Party, and I don’t think the Fed
wants to get into a major confrontation with one of the two
parties in Congress,” said  Vin Weber , managing partner of the
lobbying firm Clark & Weinstock and a former Republican
congressman from Minnesota. “It’s not going to kill
quantitative easing 2, but it will curtail further easing.”  Democrats say the adverse reaction is about politics, not
monetary policy.  Alan Blinder , a former Fed vice chairman who
once led President  Bill Clinton ’s Council of Economic Advisers,
 dismissed  charges that the central bank’s step was a “radical
departure,” calling it “garden-variety monetary policy.”  Frank ‘Appalled’  Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat and
chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said he was
“appalled” by the Republican attacks. Blaming the complaints
on a “very rigid ideology,” he accused Republicans of lining
up with China and Germany in opposing the Fed’s credit easing.  In its Nov. 3 statement, the Fed said it intended to buy
the securities by the end of June, yet would “adjust” the
program if circumstances change. Some analysts said the storm
over quantitative easing -- so named because it focuses on
changes in the quantity of money the Fed creates through bond
purchases rather than changes in interest rates -- could cause
the Fed to stop short of the $600 billion mark.  “This is going to just strengthen his internal
opposition,”  Vincent Reinhart , who directed the Fed’s Monetary
Affairs Division from 2001 to 2007, said of Bernanke. “He’s
going to have a harder time in the future.”  Reframing the Job  Some Republican lawmakers are talking of rewriting the
central bank’s job description. A Fed sidelined by legislation
may further restrict the government’s ability to counter the
effects of the worst recession since the Great Depression,
because lawmakers would likely oppose further fiscal stimulus.  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican who serves on
the Banking Committee, said yesterday he favored confining the
Fed’s mandate to promoting price stability, though he said that
wouldn’t preclude bond purchases by the central bank.  Corker became at least the third Republican in Congress to
support trimming the Fed’s responsibilities to eliminate its
task of promoting full employment. Other lawmakers include
Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, who will head the House
Budget Committee in January, and Representative  Mike Pence  of
Indiana, chairman of the  House Republican Conference .  Corker, who also suggested that Congress consider setting
the Fed’s inflation target, dismissed the notion that either
move risked politicizing the central bank.  “We gave the mandate to the Fed in the first place; we
could easily change that,” he said. “That’s not politicizing,
that’s clarifying more fully what the Fed’s role is.”  Bernanke Defends Plan  Bernanke traveled to Capitol Hill today for a closed-door
session with a group of senators to defend the monetary easing.
He said the Fed was determined to avoid letting inflation get
out of control and said the securities purchases will encourage
job growth, lawmakers said.  Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the senior Republican on
the Banking Committee, said Bernanke cited an estimate that the
program may help generate 700,000 to 1 million jobs.  Bernanke’s visit came as the four Republican leaders in
Congress wrote him to express “deep concerns” over the Fed’s
planned bond purchases.  “Such a measure introduces significant uncertainty
regarding the future strength of the dollar,” the letter said.
The purchases could “result both in hard-to-control, long-term
inflation and potentially generate artificial asset bubbles.”  The letter was signed by House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, House Republican Whip  Eric Cantor  of Virginia,
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, and Senate
Republican Whip  Jon Kyl  of Arizona. A copy was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Raising Inflation  The  unemployment  rate is 9.6 percent, and the consumer
price index for all items rose 1.1 percent over the 12 months
ended in September, the Labor Department said last month.  The Fed’s move was also intended to raise inflation.
Expectations of future inflation as measured by government
securities of all types are rising. The difference in yields
between short- and longer-maturity  Treasuries  has widened to the
most since June. Rates on bonds that protect against rising
consumer prices show investors are preparing for an increase.  Open Letter  A group of 23 economists, money managers and former
government officials issued an open letter to Bernanke on Nov.
15 saying the central bank’s planned bond purchases “risk
currency debasement and inflation” and won’t boost employment.
That broadside capped a string of attacks from conservatives
including  Sarah Palin  and  Glenn Beck .  Hostility toward the Fed is strong among Republican voters
and especially followers of the Tea Party, a loose collection of
activists who want to curb government power. Forty-one percent
of Republicans and 55 percent of Tea Party supporters believe
the Fed should be abolished or radically overhauled, according
to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct. 7-10.  The attacks recall previous eras in which Fed policy
sparked political opposition such as in the early 1980s when
then-Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker ’s battle against inflation drove
the unemployment rate to a postwar high of 10.8 percent. Volcker
stood his ground and helped usher in an unprecedented era of
price stability and growth.  ‘Departure From History’  Earlier episodes of populist criticism of the Fed typically
demanded easier monetary policy. This time, the political right
wants a tighter policy. That represents a “departure from
history,” said  Jeffrey Frankel , a professor at Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government.  The Fed said yesterday it was comfortable with the status
quo. “The Federal Reserve is not seeking a change to its
statutory mandate,” Fed spokeswoman  Michelle Smith  said. “The
dual mandate is appropriate.”  Eric Rosengren , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston, said shifting to a single mandate wouldn’t have much
immediate effect on Fed policy.  “Right now, there’s not a conflict,” he said in an
interview. “The unemployment rate is too high and the inflation
rate is lower than we expected to see in the long run.”  Still, Federal Reserve Governor  Kevin Warsh , who voted for
the Treasury purchases, said he’s not sure the quantitative
easing will be completed as planned.  “I am less optimistic than some that additional asset
purchases will have significant, durable benefits for the real
economy,” Warsh said in a Nov. 8 speech in New York. “I
consider the FOMC’s action as necessarily limited,
circumscribed, and subject to regular review.”  The attack on quantitative easing won endorsements from the
presumptive House speaker,  John Boehner , whose spokesman  Michael Steel  said the Republican leader “has grave concerns about the
Fed’s recent actions.”  Yet with the White House and Senate in Democratic hands,
Fed critics’ ability to exert pressure on the central bank may
not go beyond more oversight.  The Republicans have “been trying to politicize the Fed
for as long as I can remember,” said Senator  Ben Nelson  of
Nebraska. “This appears to be one more effort.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Lynch  in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  