-- Fed Issues Guidelines for Bank Dividends, Buybacks After Comerica's Payout
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-17T22:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/fed-issues-guidelines-for-bank-dividends-buybacks-after-comerica-s-payout.html
The Federal Reserve issued
guidelines today on how it will decide whether large U.S. banks
may increase dividends and buy back shares, a day after  Comerica
Inc.  doubled its payout.  Lenders must maintain a Tier 1 common equity ratio of
5 percent after any distributions, in addition to showing they
can absorb losses if the economy sours and how they will meet
Basel III capital rules, the Fed said in documents released
today. Companies must repay or replace any government investment
with preferred or common stock before raising payouts, it said.  Comerica, the Dallas-based bank that posted annual profits
throughout the financial crisis, boosted its quarterly dividend
to 10 cents a share yesterday. Banks including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. ,  U.S. Bancorp  and  PNC Financial Services
Group Inc.  may be next to raise their dividends, said  Jennifer Thompson , an analyst at New York-based Portales Partners LLC.  “You will see a number of the stronger banks increase
their dividends over the next quarter,” Thompson said yesterday
in a phone interview. She has a “hold” rating on Comerica, the
15th-biggest U.S. commercial lender by assets. “The regulators
have put rules in place and now it will be a matter of making
individual decisions for each bank.”  Guidelines  The guidelines apply to 19 of the biggest U.S. banks, which
were involved in the Fed’s stress test last year. The Fed is
asking large banks to submit capital plans by Jan. 7, 2011,
regardless of whether they plan to raise dividends or buy back
stock. The Tier 1 common equity ratio is a regulatory gauge of a
bank’s capital and its ability to withstand losses.  The capital plans must provide expected losses and capital
levels under economic scenarios defined by the bank, as well as
under adverse conditions defined by the Fed. The capital plans
are part of the Fed’s efforts to improve supervision of the
banks and will occur on a regular basis, the regulator said in a
statement.  The capital plans will include expected losses from banks’
different lines of business, including charges related to
mortgage repurchase requests, according to a person briefed on
the program. They will also include any expected impact from the
Dodd-Frank financial reform act, according to the Fed documents.
The plans aren’t likely to be made public, the person said.  Fed Response  The Fed said it expects to begin responding to capital
distribution requests in next year’s first quarter. Banks must
currently maintain a Tier 1 common ratio of 2 percent. The Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision agreed in September to triple
the amount of top-quality capital banks must hold and narrowed
the definition of which capital qualifies. The agreement covers
27 member countries.  “Our approach to considering such requests will be a
conservative one,” Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said in a speech
in Washington last week. “We also expect that firms will have a
sound estimate of any significant risks that may not be captured
by the stress testing.” He cited potential demands for refunds
from investors who bought faulty mortgages, which could run into
billions of dollars for the biggest home lenders.  Bank of America Corp.  had a Tier 1 common equity ratio of
8.45 percent as of Sept. 30, according to a regulatory filing.
JPMorgan’s ratio was 9.5 percent, while Citigroup Inc. had a
10.3 percent ratio and Well Fargo’s was 8 percent, according to
company filings.  Dividend Impact  Concerns that bank capital was under pressure from souring
loans prompted Fed officials in February 2009 to issue a letter
to its regional supervisors telling them banks “should reduce
or eliminate dividends” when earnings decline or the economic
outlook deteriorates. The new guidelines may show the Fed’s
confidence in banks’ health is being restored.  Comerica also authorized the repurchase of as much as 7
percent of stock outstanding, according to a company statement.
In March, Comerica repaid $2.25 billion to the Troubled Asset
Relief Program and in October it redeemed $500 million of trust-
preferred securities, which will be discontinued as a form of
regulatory capital starting in 2013.  Wells Fargo Chief Financial Officer  Howard Atkins , 59, said
last month that a dividend increase is a “top priority” for
the bank. JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 54, said
he was “reasonably hopeful” the firm will be able to raise its
payment in 2011’s first quarter and that regulators were open to
the idea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 Mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 