-- Credit Suisse Banking Research Analysts, Traders Are Said to Depart Firm
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-11-17T17:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/five-credit-suisse-banking-analysts-two-sales-traders-are-said-to-leave.html
Five banking analysts and two
equity sales people focusing on financial-services firms at
 Credit Suisse Group AG  quit, two people with knowledge of the
departures said.  Analysts  Guillaume Tiberghien ,  Jagdeep Kalsi , Santiago
Lopez,  Andrea Vercellone  and  Andreas Hakansson  have left, as
have  Colin Hector  and  Alastair Macintosh , said the people, who
declined to be identified because the departures haven’t been
made public. Hector and Macintosh worked in specialist sales,
sitting on the trading floor and advising clients on the
industry.  Sofia Rehman, a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in London,
declined to comment. Colleagues answering the phones of Hector,
Macintosh, Tiberghien and Kalsi at Credit Suisse said they had
left the firm. The rest weren’t reachable for a comment.  The team at Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s No. 2 bank, came
second in Institutional Investor’s 2010 poll for best European
banking coverage. The team of analysts also includes  Jonathan Pierce , who is staying at the bank in London.  Pierce rates Barclays Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc and Standard Chartered Plc “outperform” and
has a “neutral” recommendation on Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse and UBS AG had the biggest share of the
European equity-trading market earlier this year. Each firm held
11 percent of institutional volume in European stocks, Greenwich
Associates said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net 
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  