-- Frank Sinatra Tried Suicide, His Flack Paid Screaming Girls: Book Review
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/frank-sinatra-tried-suicide-his-flack-paid-screaming-girls-book-review.html
Frank Sinatra  was a bundle of
contradictions: a scrawny artist with a tough-guy image, an
outspoken liberal turned stalwart Republican, a casual actor who
won an Oscar, a notorious womanizer who lost the woman he loved
most, and an American icon accused of dodging the draft in World
War II.  He led such an eventful, fascinating life that author James
Kaplan needs almost 800 pages to cover less than half of it in
“ Frank: The Voice ,”  his lively, anecdote-crammed biography of
the world’s greatest saloon singer.  The book follows Sinatra from his 1915 birth in Hoboken,
New Jersey, to 1954, when his sagging career was revived by a
supporting-actor Oscar for “ From Here to Eternity .” During
those first 39 years, Francis Albert Sinatra embodied the lyrics
of “That’s Life,” his 1966 hit about resilience.  I’ve been a puppet, a pauper, a pirate, a poet, a pawn and
a king  I’ve been up and down and over and out and I know one thing  Each time I find myself flat on my face,  I pick myself up and get back in the race  The only child of Italian immigrants -- his mother, Dolly,
was a midwife who moonlighted as an abortionist, his father,
Marty, a fireman and former boxer -- Sinatra dropped out of high
school to become a singer. He had numerous setbacks -- a jilted
girlfriend had him arrested on trumped-up morals charges --
before joining Tommy Dorsey’s popular band in 1940.  Screaming Bobby-Soxers  Sinatra, who died in 1998 at the age of 82, recorded his
first hits with Dorsey before they had a falling out and he left
the band in 1942.  Rumors that the Mafia helped Sinatra get out of his
contract inspired the famous horse’s head scene in “The
Godfather.” Kaplan doesn’t find a smoking gun on Sinatra’s
reputed organized-crime connections, though he makes it clear
that the singer often enjoyed the company of mobsters. He also
recounts an infamous 1947 trip to Havana, where a newspaper
columnist reported that Sinatra was hanging out with Lucky
Luciano and other gangsters.  In the 1940s Sinatra became the idol of screaming teenage
girls known as bobby-soxers, a precursor to the wild crowds that
later mobbed  Elvis Presley  and the Beatles. Kaplan reveals that
Sinatra’s publicist would select girls who could scream the
loudest and then pay them $5 to stay for multiple shows.  Decline, Comeback  Sinatra hit the skids in the late ‘40s and by 1950; when he
damaged his vocal cords during a performance at New York’s
Copacabana nightclub, many thought his career was over. The
career slump, combined with depression over his rocky love
affair with  Ava Gardner , led to several suicide attempts,
according to the book. (Pinpointing dates is difficult because
Kaplan goes long stretches without mentioning the year he’s
writing about.)  Then came Sinatra’s phoenix-like comeback, fueled by his
gritty performance as the rebellious soldier Maggio in “From
Here to Eternity.” About the same time Sinatra started a
collaboration with arranger/conductor Nelson Riddle that
produced some of his finest albums, including “In the Wee Small
Hours,” “Only the Lonely” and “Songs for Young Lovers.”  Stormy Gardner  Kaplan , who is working on a second volume about Sinatra,
writes with insight and grace about the crooner’s music. He
explains how Sinatra worked to improve his voice, how he made
the transition from lightweight tunes to adult fare and how his
personal experience infused his songs with emotional depth.  He chronicles Sinatra’s troubled first marriage, which
produced three children, and his tumultuous relationship with
Gardner, whose appetite for liquor and sex was just as strong as
Sinatra’s.  Kaplan also writes about Big Frankie, Sinatra’s nickname
for his oversized penis. It was so big, Kaplan writes, that he
had to wear special underwear to contain it.  “Frank: The Voice” is published by  Doubleday  (786 pages,
$35). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 