-- France Telecom’s Richard May Direct Deals Cash to Southeast Asia
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-17T18:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/france-telecom-s-richard-may-direct-deals-cash-to-southeast-asia.html
France Telecom SA  may direct some of
its up to 7 billion euro ($9.45 billion) war chest for emerging-
markets expansion to Southeast Asia as the company’s historic
turf in Africa becomes more crowded.  Europe’s third-largest phone company may look to expand in
Vietnam, Cambodia or Laos, Chief Executive Officer  Stephane Richard  said today on the sidelines of the Morgan Stanley
Technology, Media & Telecoms Conference in Barcelona.  “We said emerging markets, with a focus on Africa and the
Middle East,” he said. “But we don’t exclude, naturally, that
there could be a good opportunity in a region that makes sense
for us we could look at.” The company could weigh deals in
“Southeast Asia, which means the formerly French colonies --
Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos,” he said.  France Telecom is increasingly confronting international
rivals in Africa and the Middle East, including South Africa’s
MTN Group Ltd., U.K.-based  Vodafone Group Plc , France’s Vivendi
SA and Indian operator  Bharti Airtel Ltd. , all looking to offset
slow-growing home markets. Southeast Asia hasn’t seen a similar
push by foreign operators, with the exception of Russian
operator  VimpelCom Ltd. ’s operations in Cambodia and Vietnam.  Separately, Richard today told investors in Barcelona that
the company may consider a share buyback or other form of cash
return to investors if it can’t find productive targets for
increased investment.  Doubling Revenue  While the Paris-based company doesn’t have specific plans
to expand in Southeast Asia, the region has “strong economic
growth, and a penetration rate that is still pretty weak, so of
course these are interesting countries,” Richard added. In
Vietnam, France Telecom is working with the state telecom
operator to install new phone lines in Ho Chi Minh province.  Emerging markets last year accounted for about 3.3 billion
euros of sales at  France Telecom , or about 7 percent of the
total of 46 billion euros. The company is looking to double that
revenue in the next five years. It has operations in Africa,
including in Senegal, Cameroon, and Niger. Expansion in the
Americas and large Asian countries isn’t on the table, he said.  Meanwhile, a decision by the French government, which holds
27% of France Telecom, to sell part of its stake “could be an
opportunity to work also on a share buyback,” although it’s not
clear when or if such a sale would occur, he said.  Home Market  France Telecom had free  cash flow  of 8.3 billion euros at
the end of last year. The company also has projected cash flow
of 8 billion euros for this year and next.  Revenue from its home market slipped below 50 percent of
the total for the first time last year at the one-time state-
owned monopoly, sliding to about 45 percent. France Telecom’s
domestic sales fell 2 percent in the first half of the year to
about 11.6 billion euros.  At home, France Telecom will face an aggressive new
competitor when discount broadband provider  Iliad SA  enters the
mobile market as the fourth French operator. Iliad’s billionaire
owner  Xavier Niel  has pledged to force mobile prices down in
France, where operators charge subscription rates higher than
the European average, according to the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 