-- Franklin Resources Buys 20% Stake in Pelagos to Expand Alternative Funds
-- B y   L a r r y   E d e l m a n
-- 2010-11-17T21:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/franklin-resources-acquires-20-stake-in-pelagos-update1-.html
Franklin Resources Inc ., owner of
the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds, bought a 20 percent
stake in Pelagos Capital Management LLC to offer more
alternative investments. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Pelagos, based in Boston, focuses on commodities, managed
futures and a strategy to mimic hedge funds, Franklin said today
in a statement. The five-year-old firm, run by Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Burke , oversees $377 million.  “One of the ways that we have built Franklin Templeton’s
global business is by making strategic investments in small, yet
highly experienced asset-management companies,”  Greg Johnson ,
chief executive officer of the San Mateo, California-based
company, said in the statement. “This new relationship with
Pelagos is an important step within our overall plan to expand
Franklin Templeton’s alternative strategies platform.”  Franklin in 2008 established an alternative-strategies
business that encompasses global multi-asset allocation, joint
ventures and wholly owned units in countries including Brazil,
China, India, Japan and Vietnam. It offers emerging-market
private equity, mezzanine and infrastructure investing, and real
estate and real assets. The company oversees $664 billion.  Franklin  rose $1.24, or 1.1 percent, to $115.55 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
gained 9.7 percent this year, compared with the 3.3 percent
increase by the Standard & Poor’s 15-member asset manager and
custody bank index.  Before co-founding Pelagos, Burke worked at Boston-based
State Street Corp., where he held posts including senior global
strategist, head of global strategic asset allocation and head
of taxable fixed income at the company’s fund unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Larry Edelman  in Boston at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  