-- Portugal Routs World Soccer Champion Spain 4-0; France Wins 2-1 in England
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-18T00:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/france-beats-england-2-1-in-soccer-exhibition-argentina-defeats-brazil.html
Portugal beat world champion Spain
4-0 in a soccer exhibition, while France won 2-1 in England and
 Lionel Messi  scored the only goal in Argentina’s win over
archrival Brazil.  Goals from Carlos Martins,  Helder Postiga ,  Hugo Almeida  and
an own goal by  Sergio Ramos  gave Portugal the victory in Lisbon
last night in a match organized to help promote the neighbors’
joint bid to host the 2018 World Cup. Spain began with 10 of the
starters from July’s World Cup final win over the Netherlands.  “We have no excuses,” Spain coach  Vicente Del Bosque  was
cited as saying by Efe news agency. “We allowed them too much
space. We could not have played worse.”  Karim Benzema  and Mathieu Valbuena got a goal in each half
at Wembley Stadium in London as France sent England to its first
 home defeat  since 2007.  Peter Crouch  scored with his first touch
in the 86th minute after coming on as a substitute for England.  In Doha, Qatar, Messi’s stoppage-time goal gave Argentina
its first win over Brazil since 2005. FIFA’s 2009 World Player
of the Year weaved past two defenders before shooting into the
bottom-right corner from the edge of the penalty area.  There were also exhibition wins for the Netherlands and
Norway over Turkey and the Republic of Ireland, respectively,
while the games between Romania and Italy, and Sweden and
Germany, were drawn.  In qualifying matches for the 2012 European Championships,
Croatia beat Malta 3-0 to move atop Group F and Mikael Forsell
scored a hat trick in Finland’s 8-0 rout of San Marino in Group
E. It was Finland’s biggest victory in a competitive
international soccer match.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  