-- Friendly Publisher Seeks Classifieds as IPads Boost Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   S i m o n   T h i e l
-- 2010-11-17T23:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/friendly-publisher-seeks-readers-as-ipads-inspire-hunt-for-web-classifieds.html
European publishers, rushing to
develop ever glossier applications for  Apple Inc. ’s iPad, are
turning to an old-fashioned prop for growth: the classified ad.  Hit by falling circulation as readers increasingly get
their information from the Internet, publishers of newspapers
and magazines are buying up online classified-ad sites, mostly
for real estate, jobs and cars. The moves are aimed at regaining
ground in an advertising market they once dominated and that has
been taken over by websites where posts can be placed for free.  “The motivation to develop online classifieds is very
strong,” said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon
in London. “Traditionally, classifieds were what supported the
journalism.”  Germany’s Axel Springer AG, whose publications include
“ Bild ” and “Die Welt,” and Norway’s Schibsted ASA, which
puts out “ Aftenposten ” and “Dagens Medisin,” are among
companies that have been on the prowl for such classified sites.  Schibsted in September bought control of French site
 leboncoin.fr , an online marketplace for cars, apartments and
other sales, in a deal that valued it at about $540 million.
Trinity Mirror in the U.K. last month took full control of
Fish4, adding to its digital classified portfolio, which
includes SmartNewHomes, SecsInTheCity and totallylegal.  Axel Springer offered $629 million for French property site
 SeLoger.com  in September, or 25 times estimated 2011 earnings.
Some shareholders, including Groupe Arnault, the investment
company controlled by billionaire  Bernard Arnault , have rejected
the bid as too low. It is also investing in  two sites  in India.  ‘More to Win’  “We use the reach we have established with the brands in
order to establish strong classified ad platforms,” Axel
Springer Chief Executive Officer  Mathias Doepfner  said at the
Morgan Stanley Technology, Media & Telecommunications Conference
in Barcelona yesterday. “Only six percent of traditional
revenue came from classifieds. We have a lot more to win in the
digital space than we have to lose in the print space.”  U.S. newspapers’ ad revenues plunged to $24.8 billion last
year from $48.6 billion in 2000, according to the Newspaper
Association of America. Classified ads have taken the worst hit
of any ad category, declining 68 percent since Craigslist began
rolling out its business nationwide in 2000.  While publishers want to buy classified-ad sites, they may
be hamstrung by a tendency for sites to be “natural
monopolies,” with advertisers flocking to those with the
greatest number of buyers and sellers, said  Paul Richards , an
analyst at Numis Securities in London.  High Prices  What that means is that there are very few coveted sites
available for sale, and those that are command high prices, he
said.  Rightmove Plc , the operator of the U.K.’s largest
residential property site, for example, currently trades at
about 21 times estimated full-year earnings.  “There still are interesting assets,” said Axel
Springer’s Doepfner.  “On the Internet, the winner takes all,
and in the classified business that really seems to be true.
Perhaps the No. 2 can be profitable, but after that it really
gets difficult.”  The hunt for online ad revenue has also found publishers
rapidly experimenting with new delivery models for news, from
the iPhone and other smartphones to the iPad and other tablets.  Devices like the iPad are “a revolution for the press,”
 Laurent Dassault , whose family holding company owns Paris’s Le
Figaro, said at the Forum d’Avignon media conference in France
this month.  Paywalls  While the new devices may give publishers a small boost,
they are far from a panacea, said Charlie Kim, the head of the
Americas media practice at consulting firm Bain & Company.  “Newspapers are still feeling the crisis every day,” he
said. “The willingness to pay for certain types of content on
the iPad or similar tablets is similar or slightly higher than
the willingness to pay on normal computers.”  Another effort to make money from following readers online
has involved putting up paywalls.  Newspapers with paywalls, such as the Financial Times, say
niche audiences that pay and can be targeted by advertisers are
more valuable than visitors who don’t subscribe and find
articles from search engines such as Google Inc. News Corp.
launched its first U.K. paid-for websites in early July.  “Subscription models are the most attractive for customers
and companies and I think we’ll be pursuing more of these things
by and large,”  James Murdoch , News Corp.’s head of European and
Asian operations, said yesterday at the conference in Barcelona.  ‘Serious Error’  News Corp. is also working on a project that will allow the
company to bundle several digital journalistic subscription
offerings on one platform to create a wholesale marketplac.  The Times and Sunday Times, owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News
Corp., said earlier this month that they attracted more than
105,000 paying online customers to the papers’ websites and
tablet computer applications.  Those developments are encouraging for advertisers, who
will be better able to target marketing efforts,  Maurice Levy ,
chief executive officer of France’s largest advertising company,
Publicis SA, said in an interview.  Sophisticated consumers “expect to be known and to be
catered to,” he said. “Newspapers made a very serious error by
giving away content for free.”  ‘Nature of Beast’  Newspaper groups’ most recent earnings have reflected a
rebound in advertising revenue as well as new sales of digital
editions for tablet computers.  News Corp. earlier this month said first-quarter
advertising revenue rose by an average of 13 percent at its
global newspapers, helping push operating profit from publishing
up 51 percent.  Berlin-based Axel Springer reported a 46 percent increase
in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the first nine months of the year.  Publishers must be “prepared to try things and move on to
the next thing,” said  Douglas McCabe , an analyst at Enders in
London. “That is the nature of the beast at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 