-- Frontier Rare Earths Falls in Stock Trading Debut After $59 Million IPO
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-17T21:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/frontier-rare-earths-falls-in-stock-trading-debut-after-59-million-ipo.html
Frontier Rare Earths Ltd. , a
developer of a South African deposit of metals used in computers
and car batteries, fell on its first day of trading in Canada
after completing a C$60 million ($59 million) initial public
offering.  Shares of the Luxembourg-based company declined 8.2 percent
to C$3.12 by the 4 p.m. close of trading on the Toronto Stock
Exchange, from its IPO price of C$3.40.  Frontier Rare Earths sold 17.65 million units, consisting
of one share and half a warrant, according to a statement today.
The sale, which raised 50 percent more than initially planned,
represents a 19.8 percent stake in the company, based on 89.1
million shares outstanding.  The company aims to become one of the leading producers of
rare-earth metals outside of China and one of the first new
producers of the elements after  Lynas Corp.  and  Molycorp Inc. 
Frontier is developing the Zandkopsdrift deposit in South
Africa’s Northern Cape Province, the company said in a filing
with Canadian regulators.  The rare earths, a group of 17 metals including neodymium,
lanthanum, cerium and europium, have industrial uses such as
petroleum refining, fiber-optic transmission, and military radar
and missile-guidance systems. China dominates the market because
it’s been able to produce the elements more cheaply and with
fewer environmental restrictions than its competitors.  Molycorp  has more than doubled since its July 29 debut on
the New York Stock Exchange, after selling shares for $14 each
in its $394 million IPO. Shares of Sydney, Australia-based  Lynas
Corp.  have more than doubled in the past 12 months.  CIBC World Markets led a group of banks including Canaccord
Genuity, Cormark Securities Inc., Byron Securities Ltd. and
National Bank Financial for the sale. Bankers have the option to
sell another 15 percent of the offering.  Companies have sold $5.29 billion in IPOs in Canada this
year, the highest amount since 2006, according to Bloomberg
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; or
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  