-- Germany's Bafin Battles Scam That Created Fake Financial Regulator Website
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-17T09:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/germany-s-bafin-battles-scam-that-created-fake-financial-regulator-website.html
Germany’s financial regulator Bafin
has for a second time tried to block a scam that exploits
investors by using a website that provides fake authorization
from a made-up regulator.  Bafin  today published  prohibition orders against a
“Frankfurt Financial Supervisory Authority” website and
against Lance Futures, an operation that allegedly employed the
fake regulator to give itself legitimacy as a broker. Lance
Futures tried to sell gold options without a license, Bafin
spokesman  Sven Gebauer  said in an interview.  “The people who set up this scam were using very
sophisticated tools and made the website look like that of a
professional regulator,” said Gebauer. “They made the site
very similar in appearance to ours.”  Lance Futures operated a website which claimed it was a
commodity futures brokerage. Bafin successful shut down their
domain “lancefutures.com” only to see it reopened under
“lance-futures.com,” according to the prohibition order. The
second site has now also been blocked.  It isn’t the first time Germany has experienced investor
fraud. Yesterday, prosecutors charged the founder if K1 group,
 Helmut Kiener  with defrauding about 5,000 investors of 122
million euros ($165 million). Kiener has denied the charges.
Bafin, which has a special illegal operations unit that targeted
the firm, couldn’t stop K1 when it moved its funds abroad.  $200,000 Lost  Bafin was alerted to the Lance Futures scam by an
Australian investor who said he lost $200,000 he paid to a Lance
Futures account in Hong Kong, according to Gebauer. The
regulator first reacted with a  press release  in October and now
issued the prohibitions orders because it was likely that Lances
Futures and the faked regulator website reemerged on a new
domain, he said.  Bloomberg was unable to contact Lance Futures for comment
by phone yesterday or today. There was no answer at the number
listed on its former website.  People who were cold-called by Lance Futures personnel were
told the company was a licensed broker on the Frankfurt
Financial Supervisory Authority’s website, according to Bafin.  “They tried to make people believe that this authority is
Germany’s regulator and the website even had a function allowing
people to search for licensed companies,” said Gebauer.“It
only had the little flaw that it didn’t even list Deutsche Bank
AG as a licensed lender.”  It’s unclear where Lance Futures operates, said Gebauer.
Their website had listed a Frankfurt address, according to
copies provided by Bafin. While using a prominent street in
Frankfurt financial district, the address didn’t refer to an
actual building, said Gebauer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 