-- Ghailani Cleared of All But One Charge in African Embassy Bombings Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-18T01:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ghailani-found-guilty-of-conspiracy-in-embassy-bombings-cleared-of-murder.html
Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , the first
Guantanamo Bay detainee tried in U.S. civilian court, was found
guilty of conspiracy and cleared of 284 other charges stemming
from al-Qaeda’s 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa.  Ghailani, 36, a Tanzanian citizen, was charged in the near-
simultaneous bombings of embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania,
and Nairobi, Kenya, that killed 224 people, including 12 U.S.
citizens, on Aug. 7, 1998. Eleven people died in the Tanzania
attack and more than 4,500 people were injured in both blasts.  Ghailani faced a mandatory life sentence had he been
convicted of any of the 224 murder counts he was acquitted of.
He will get a minimum of 20 years in prison when U.S. District
Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in Manhattan sentences him on Jan. 25.  “You deserve a lot of credit,” Kaplan told jurors as he
dismissed them. “You have demonstrated also that American
justice can be delivered calmly, deliberately and fairly, by
ordinary people -- people who are not beholden to any
government, including this one.”  Testimony in the trial began Oct. 12 and ended Nov. 3. The
six-man, six-woman jury, which was anonymous, began its
deliberations on Nov. 10.  Osama bin Laden  Ghailani, seated at the defense tabled and flanked by five
lawyers, wiped his face after the verdict was announced.  “We respect the jury’s verdict and are pleased that  Ahmed Ghailani  now faces a minimum of 20 years in prison and a
potential life sentence for his role in the embassy bombings,”
Matthew Miller, a spokesman for the U.S. Department of Justice,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Ghailani’s lawyer, Peter Quijano, told reporters the verdict
was a “reaffirmation that this nation’s judicial system is the
greatest ever devised.”  “We are in shadows of the World Trade Center and this jury
acquitted Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani of 284 out of 285 counts,” he
said.  Ghailani was charged with 285 crimes, including being part
of a worldwide terrorist conspiracy with  Osama bin Laden  to kill
U.S. nationals, conspiring to use weapons of mass destruction
and 224 counts of murder.  In its verdict, the jury found him guilty of just one
charge -- conspiring to destroy buildings and property of the
U.S.  Cause of Death  As part of rendering its verdict, the panel was asked to
answer whether prosecutors had also proved that Ghailani’s
actions “directly or proximately caused death to a person other
than a co-conspirator.”  While the panel today answered “yes” to this question on
the verdict sheet, jurors didn’t find Ghailani guilty of any of
the deaths caused by the two blasts.  The jurors didn’t speak to reporters as they left the
courthouse under guard of U.S. marshals.  During a 2001 trial in federal court in New York, four co-
defendants of Ghailani were convicted of all charges, including
joining an al-Qaeda conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals and all
224 counts of murder.  The jury yesterday sent Kaplan a note, asking if it had to
determine that Ghailani “knowingly and willingly” participated
in the five conspiracy charges in the indictment.  Unwitting ‘Dupe’  The defense had argued Ghailani was a “dupe” who had
unwittingly helped collect materials, including metal tanks and
a truck, used in the Tanzania attack. Defense lawyers argued he
hadn’t known the plotters intended to bomb the embassies.  Kaplan today instructed the panel that it must find that
prosecutors had proved beyond a reasonable doubt that Ghailani
knew of “at least one of the unlawful objectives of the
conspiracy.” Kaplan also told jurors they must find that
prosecutors proved the defendant “voluntarily and intentionally
participated in the venture as something he wished to do.”  Prosecutors had sought to call an eyewitness who could
testify about direct dealings with Ghailani in the months before
the blasts. Assistant U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  called the
man, Hussein Abebe, a “giant” and “critical” witness.  Just before trial on Oct. 6, Kaplan blocked prosecutors
from calling Abebe, a Tanzanian miner to testify that he sold
Ghailani five crates of TNT in the weeks before the blast.  Coercive Interrogation  Kaplan ruled the government couldn’t use the evidence
because it had learned the identity of Abebe from Ghailani while
he was undergoing coercive interrogation by the CIA after his
arrest.  Without Abebe, prosecutors mounted a largely circumstantial
case, calling African witnesses who could describe Ghailani’s
actions in the months before the bombing. They testified that
Ghailani and a co-defendant bought a Nissan refrigeration truck
used in the Dar es Salaam attack.  Tanzanian welders also testified that Ghailani negotiated
the purchase of at least seven metal tanks, each about 5 feet
tall and weighing 150 pounds and that he filled them with
acetylene and oxygen. Ghailani paid for tanks with cash out of a
waist pouch he wore, they said.  FBI agents testified they later found TNT residue and metal
fragments from 19 different tanks at the Dar es Salaam blast
site.  Prosecutors argued during the trial that Ghailani was a
knowing participant, or “implementer,” of the al-Qaeda
terrorist plot.  ‘One of Them’  “He wasn’t just with them, he was one of them,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Harry Chernoff  told jurors in closing arguments on
Nov. 8. “He wasn’t along for the ride. He was putting the plans
in motion, getting the bomb built.”  Prosecutors said during the trial that bin Laden dispatched
terrorists to bomb the embassies in retaliation for the
stationing of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia during the first
Persian Gulf War and U.S. alliances with Saudi Arabia, Egypt,
Jordan and Israel.  Other explosives evidence was found in Ghailani’s home in
Dar es Salaam. An FBI agent testified that during an Aug. 29,
1998, search, he found a live explosives detonator in a
padlocked armoire that Ghailani used. Testing determined the
detonator was made of the explosive PETN. Agents also found
traces of the PETN in the armoire and in clothes that were
stored there, the FBI said.  Mobile-Phone Records  Mobile-phone records with Ghailani’s fingerprints found by
the FBI in his house were presented as evidence by prosecutors.  The mobile phone, which was paid for by a person identified
as “Ahmed Khalfan,” was used in August 1998 to make a series
of calls, including to a house in Nairobi where prosecutors said
the bomb for the Kenya attack was made.  Prosecutors said someone also used the phone to call the
Hilltop Hotel in Nairobi, where a guest registry showed that al-
Qaeda members stayed for a meeting on Aug. 1, 1998.  Lawyers for Ghailani argued he was used by associates
involved in the plot. They told jurors Ghailani’s purchases were
“commercial transactions” made by someone who was “duped” and
“used by his friends.”  “Ahmed is that rarest of all accused; Ahmed is innocent,”
Quijano said. “We have no quarrel, we have no dispute that
these monsters plotted to blow up these two embassies, and
willingly killed hundreds of people. The question is, whether
Ahmed knew?”  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 