-- Human Genome Slips as FDA Panel Questions Lupus Treatment's Effectiveness
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-11-17T21:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/glaxo-rises-after-fda-panel-s-backing-of-lupus-treatment-with-human-genome.html
Human Genome Sciences Inc.  dropped
in New York trading after a U.S. advisory panel questioned the
effectiveness of the experimental lupus drug the company is
developing with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc .  While the Food and Drug Administration advisers recommended
approval of  Benlysta  yesterday, they raised enough concerns
about safety that U.S. sales may be limited, said  Yaron Werber ,
a Citigroup analyst in New York, in a note. Rockville, Maryland-
based Human Genome slipped $1.37, or 5.3 percent, to $24.51 at 4
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, and has fallen 20
percent so far this year.  Benlysta, which would be Human Genome’s first marketed
product, works well enough to outweigh risks of suicide,
infection and cancer, the panel said. Two of the 15 members of
the panel voted against recommending approval at the meeting in
Adelphi, Maryland.  The drug’s approval came with “very public criticism of
its modest benefit and lackluster results” in U.S. patients,
Weber said. “The label will likely have noticeable restrictions
and thin efficacy is already drawing a mixed reception from
rheumatologists.”  Citigroup and Bank of America Corp. each downgraded their
rating of Human Genome in separate notes today.  5 Million People  Benlysta would be the first treatment approved since 1958
for  lupus , an incurable condition that causes the immune system
to attack healthy cells and affects about 5 million people
worldwide. Human Genome and London-based Glaxo expect a decision
as early as Dec. 9. If the drug is cleared, sales may surpass
$2.1 billion by 2014, according to the average  estimate  of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The panel’s vote was “terrific for the drug” and “most
of all, terrific for patients,” said  Thomas Watkins , Human
Genome’s chief executive officer, in an interview on CNBC today.  As for the safety concerns, “you have to put that all in
context,” he said. “And I think that’s what the FDA panel did
when it voted” to recommend approval. He declined to comment on
the downgrades.  While the FDA isn’t required to follow the advisory panels’
recommendations, the agency usually does.  “The efficacy is mild, but there is a need for a drug even
with mild efficacy, given the current state of therapies,”
panel member Lenore Buckley, a professor of internal medicine
and pediatrics at  Virginia Commonwealth University  in Richmond,
said before the vote.  Glaxo advanced 29.5 pence, or 2.4 percent, to 1,243 pence
at the close of London trading.  O’Connor, Kuralt  About 1.5 million Americans have lupus, which claimed the
lives of novelist  Flannery O’Connor  and CBS television reporter
 Charles Kuralt . It’s most common in women ages 15 to 45 and
three times more prevalent in black women than white women,
according to the  Department of Health and Human Services .  Benlysta, an intravenous drug also known as  belimumab ,
inhibits the production of antibodies that attack healthy cells
in lupus patients. The treatment, if approved next month, may
become available in the first quarter of 2011,  Thomas Watkins ,
Human Genome’s chief executive officer, said after the meeting.  While Benlysta is “almost certain to be approved,” the
FDA may delay its decision up to three months beyond the Dec. 9
target date,  Geoffrey Porges , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in New York, said yesterday in a research note. The agency
may need extra time to consider labeling requirements, post-
marketing study obligations and risk-management strategies,
Porges said.  ‘New Era’  FDA clearance of Benlysta may “usher in a new era of
enlightenment” in lupus research,  Sandra Raymond , president of
the Washington-based  Lupus Foundation of America , said during a
public-comment session before the vote. Raymond was among more
than 30 speakers who urged the panel to recommend approval of
the drug.  Lupus symptoms range from mild to life-threatening,
complicating the development of drugs and clinical trials, said
Bonnie Bermas, director of the  Brigham & Women’s Hospital Lupus
Center  in Boston.  “One patient may have a low white blood-cell count, fluid
around their heart and skin rashes. Another patient could have
arthritis and central nervous symptoms, and a third patient
could have kidney disease,” Bermas said last month in a
telephone interview. “They can all look like very different
patients.”  Previous Trials  Roche Holding AG and  Biogen Idec Inc. ’s Rituxan, approved
for rheumatoid arthritis, leukemia and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,
failed in a late-stage lupus trial last year.  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. ’s Edratide, Genelabs Technologies
Inc.’s Prestara and Riquent, developed by  La Jolla
Pharmaceutical Co.  and  BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc.  are among
the proposed lupus treatments that also have fallen short.  The FDA is considering Benlysta based on a six-month
priority review. While the agency typically takes at least 10
months to decide drug applications, it grants  priority reviews 
to therapies that may provide major advances in treatment.  Benlysta ’s risks of suicide, infection and cancer were
greater than those in patients taking a placebo in clinical
trials, Food and Drug Administration staff reviewers said Nov.
12 in a preliminary  report . Data showing the drug was effective
lacked “robustness,” the agency staff said.  Likely to Win  The drug is still likely to win approval because it met its
primary goal of reducing patients’ symptoms in two late-stage
clinical trials,  Christopher J. Raymond , an analyst with Robert
W. Baird & Co. in Chicago, said Nov. 12 in a telephone
interview. The FDA’s recognition of an unmet medical need for
more lupus therapies may outweigh agency staff’s concerns that
the drug may not be safe or effective enough, he said.  Benlysta, if approved, would be the first treatment
developed specifically for lupus. The steroid prednisone and
some antimalarial drugs were already approved for different
conditions when the FDA cleared them for use in lupus patients
more than 50 years ago.  The chemotherapy drug cyclophosphamide and Roche’s
CellCept, used in organ-transplant patients, are among
medications prescribed for lupus patients without FDA approval.
While FDA rules allow doctors to prescribe drugs for unapproved
purposes, companies can’t market the treatments for those so-
called off-label uses.  The long-term use of existing lupus treatments can have
debilitating side effects that are worse than the disease
itself, Sandra Raymond said, citing stroke, heart attacks, bone
loss, hypertension, infertility and infections.  Benlysta may not work for all lupus patients, Brigham &
Women’s Bermas said. Candidates may include people who have
failed previous treatments or require high doses of  prednisone 
to control their symptoms and want to lower the amount to
prevent side effects, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 