-- Goldman Selects 110 Partners as Wall Street Rebounds
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n
-- 2010-11-17T19:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/goldman-selects-110-partners-as-wall-street-rebounds.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  selected
110 people to become partners, up from 94 in the last round two
years ago, as Wall Street rebounds from the financial crisis.  Among the employees named this year were  Donald J. Casturo 
from the commodities unit and  Dina H. Powell , the firm’s head of
corporate engagement, according to a list (see full list below)
published in an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News. The
appointments take effect Jan. 1.  David Wells , a spokesman for
Goldman Sachs in New York, declined to comment.  The elections are a vestige of the firm’s days as Wall
Street’s last remaining partnership, before the company ended
130 years of private ownership with its 1999 initial public
offering. Partners, who get a $600,000 salary, share in a
special compensation pool and typically receive most of their
yearend bonuses in restricted stock.  “There are no partners in a corporation, this is an
honorary designation that enables people in it to participate in
a bonus pool,” said  Roy Smith , a finance professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business who was a partner at
Goldman Sachs before it went public. “This is a promotion for
most of them in terms of how much they get paid.”  Goldman Sachs’s  profit  through the first nine months of
2010 was $5.97 billion, down 29 percent from the same period
last year. The company has set aside $13.1 billion for
compensation and benefits this year, 21 percent less than at the
same time in 2009. The stock, up 11 cents to $165.21 at 2:14
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, is down less
than 3 percent this year.  Record Pay  Goldman Sachs set a Wall Street pay record in 2007 when it
doled out more than $20 billion, or 44 percent of revenue, to
30,522 employees at the time. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, was awarded a $67.9 million bonus
that year, the highest ever for a securities industry CEO.  Since the 2008 financial crisis led governments around the
world to supply taxpayer money to keep banks afloat, Goldman
Sachs has cut compensation. Last year the firm slashed the ratio
of revenue paid to employees to 36 percent, the lowest since the
firm went public.  This year Goldman Sachs has set aside 43 percent of revenue
to pay employees, or 45 percent when the cost of a U.K. tax on
bonuses is included. In a presentation yesterday at a New York
conference hosted by  Bank of America Corp.,  Blankfein said the
firm’s decisions on compensation depend on “what the market
requires us to do in most cases, and I think that that is a bit
of an evolving picture.”  Before the financial crisis, Goldman Sachs would publish
its list of partners in a press release. Since the crisis, the
firm has stopped making the list public.  “I can’t imagine why they want to call attention to what
is in essence not an appointment of managers but a transfer of
people into a different compensation category,” Smith said.  The following is a list of the 2010 partner class at
Goldman Sachs:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
 Joshua Fineman  at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 