-- Goldman Sachs Promotes 110 to Partner as Wall Street Rebounds From Crisis
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n
-- 2010-11-17T23:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/goldman-sachs-promotes-110-to-partner-as-wall-street-rebounds-from-crisis.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  selected
110 people to become partners, up from 94 in the last round two
years ago, as Wall Street rebounds from the financial crisis.  Among the employees named this year were  David Kostin ,
chief U.S. equity strategist,  Andre Laport Ribeiro , the Sao
Paolo-based head of Latin America equities, and  Colin Coleman ,
who runs the firm’s South Africa business, according to an
internal memo (see full list below) obtained by Bloomberg News.
The appointments take effect Jan. 1.  David Wells , a spokesman
for Goldman Sachs in New York, declined to comment.  The elections are a vestige of the firm’s days as the last
major investment bank partnership, before the company ended 130
years of private ownership with its 1999 initial public
offering. Partners, who get a $600,000 salary, share in a
special compensation pool and typically receive most of their
yearend bonuses in restricted stock.  “There are no partners in a corporation, this is an
honorary designation that enables people in it to participate in
a bonus pool,” said  Roy Smith , a finance professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business who was a partner at
Goldman Sachs before it went public. “This is a promotion for
most of them in terms of how much they get paid.”  Goldman Sachs had 443 partners after the 2008 class was
elected and 402 after the 2006 round. Wells wouldn’t say how
many partners there will be after the latest round of
promotions. The New York-based company employed 35,400 people at
the end of September.  New Partners  New partners included  Donald J. Casturo  from the
commodities unit,  Dina H. Powell , the firm’s head of corporate
engagement, London-based credit trader  Wayne M. Leslie , and
 Peeyush Misra , a former Bear Stearns Cos. mortgage trader.
 Massimo Della Ragione , a Milan-based merger specialist, also
made the cut, as did China portfolio strategist  Christopher Eoyang ,  Shin Horie , the Tokyo-based head of Japan investment
research, and  Jonathan M. Penkin , co-head of equity capital
markets in Asia.  Wells wouldn’t say how many of the new partners are women.
The firm was sued in September by three women, former employees,
who alleged that they faced discrimination in pay and fewer
opportunities for promotion than men. Goldman Sachs has called
the suit without merit.  Goldman Sachs’s  profit  through the first nine months of
2010 dropped 29 percent to $5.97 billion from the same period
last year. The company has set aside $13.1 billion for
compensation and benefits this year, 21 percent less than at the
same time in 2009. The stock dropped 21 cents to $164.89 as of
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, and is
down 2.3 percent this year.  Record Pay  Goldman Sachs set a Wall Street pay record in 2007 when it
doled out more than $20 billion, or 44 percent of revenue, to
30,522 employees at the time. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, was awarded a $67.9 million bonus
that year, the highest ever for a securities industry CEO.  Since the 2008 financial crisis led governments around the
world to supply taxpayer money to keep banks afloat, Goldman
Sachs has cut compensation. Last year the firm slashed the ratio
of revenue paid to employees to 36 percent, the lowest since the
firm went public.  This year Goldman Sachs has set aside 43 percent of revenue
to pay employees, or 45 percent when the cost of a U.K. tax on
bonuses is included. In a presentation yesterday at a New York
conference hosted by  Bank of America Corp.,  Blankfein said the
firm’s decisions on compensation depend on “what the market
requires us to do in most cases, and I think that that is a bit
of an evolving picture.”  Before the financial crisis, Goldman Sachs published its
list of partners in a press release. The firm has since stopped
making the list public.  “I can’t imagine why they want to call attention to what
is in essence not an appointment of managers but a transfer of
people into a different compensation category,” Smith said.  The following is a list of the 2010 partner class at
Goldman Sachs:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
 Joshua Fineman  at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 