-- Goldman Sachs, 130 Global Bankers to Meet in Tokyo as Japan Outlook Dims
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-11-17T02:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/goldman-sachs-130-global-bankers-to-meet-in-tokyo-as-japan-outlook-dims.html
Global investment bankers operating
in Japan will meet in Tokyo this month as weak economic growth
and tighter banking rules spark concern that their business
prospects may dim, the event organizer said.  About 130 executives of firms including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. ,  Morgan Stanley  and  Nomura Holdings Inc.  are scheduled to
attend the seminar on Nov. 29 to look for growth ideas, said
 Katsunobu Komizo , vice chairman of the non-profit  Society to
Promote Reform of the Financial Human Resources Market .  “Most bankers and managers in Japan are under pressure to
boost revenue next year” even as stricter international
regulations reduce their ability to take risk and global
investors overlook the country, Komizo said in an interview in
Tokyo. “But they shouldn’t be so pessimistic” given Japanese
companies and households’ high level of cash holdings, he added.  Foreign financial firms have cut about 5,000 jobs in Japan
over the past two years and will eliminate more as they question
the country’s growth prospects and deploy staff in China and
elsewhere in Asia, according to  Executive Search Partners Co.   Attendees at the meeting later this month will include
executives and directors in charge of hiring and growth
strategies at their firms, said Komizo, 66, who is chief
executive officer of the Tokyo-based career consulting firm.  The value of mergers and acquisitions in China and Hong
Kong is double the amount recorded in Japan this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tokyo Stock Exchange President  Atsushi Saito  will give a
speech on how to globalize Japanese capital markets and rid the
financial industry of its “sense of stagnation,” according to
the event invitation. Other speakers include  Naoko Nemoto , a
managing director at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  