-- Google, Lagardere's Hachette Agree to Allow Scanning of Out-of-Print Books
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-17T17:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/google-lagardere-s-hachette-agree-to-allow-scanning-of-out-of-print-book.html
Google Inc.  and  Lagardere SCA’s 
Hachette Livre publishing unit reached an agreement to allow the
scanning of Hachette’s out-of-print French books for the search
engine’s digital library project.  Hachette will decide which books Google can scan and will
keep copies for its own non-commercial use, the companies said
in a joint statement. Google can use the works for search and
promotion as well as electronic distribution, receiving an
undisclosed percentage on any sale.  The agreement “was designed as a framework that will work
with other French publishers,” said  Dan Clancy , director of
Google Books, in a conference call today in Paris. “There are a
number of other publishers interested” in replicating the
agreement, he said, without identifying them.  Google and U.S. publishers are awaiting a judge’s final
approval on a settlement to allow scanning of American works.
While that settlement couldn’t be replicated in France because
of differences in the law such as the lack of a fair use
concept, the two accords are “similar,” Clancy and Hachette
Chief Executive Officer  Arnaud Nourry  said.  A court in December said Google violated French copyrights
in its book-scanning project and ordered the company to stop
scanning without agreements with publishers. Google has appealed
the decision.  Digital Formats  French publishers “didn’t like” Google’s past scanning
practices, Nourry said, while acknowledging that they “weren’t
very well organized” to handle the task of converting old works
to digital formats for preservation and returning them to
circulation.  Also in December, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
announced a national project to digitize French works, pledging
750 million euros ($1 billion) in funding. The projects are
“complementary” and Google will provide the French national
library with digital copies of the Hachette works it scans,
Clancy said.  “There is more than enough work to do,” Clancy said.
There are about 1 million out of print works in France, Nourry
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 