-- Greencore Will Merge With Northern Foods to Cut Costs in Convenience Foods
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-11-17T17:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/greencore-northern-foods-to-merge-combining-sandwiches-and-ready-meals.html
Greencore Group Plc  and  Northern
Foods Plc  agreed to merge in an all-stock transaction to cut
costs and increase their bargaining power with supermarkets.  The combination of the food makers, which supply U.K.
retailers including Tesco Plc and Marks & Spencer Group Plc,
will lead to annual savings of 40 million pounds within three
years, the companies said today. Together, Greencore and
Northern Foods have annual sales of about 1.7 billion pounds
($2.7 billion) and a market value of about $795 million.  Northern Foods  surged  25 percent in London trading, while
Greencore jumped 29 percent in Dublin. The merged company will
be the U.K.’s leading supplier of private-label ready meals and
will have “more leverage” in dealing with retailers, said  Alex Sloane , an analyst at Evolution Securities.  “The deal makes eminent sense,”  Clive Black , an analyst
at Shore Capital in London, said in a research report. “It does
reflect to some degree the challenges of the trade, not least
the possible over-demands of the multiple retailers over many
years in the prepared foods space.”  The enlarged business will have strong market positions in
sandwiches and ready meals, sales of which grew 9.8 percent and
7.7 percent, respectively, in the U.K. last year, the companies
said. Northern Foods, based in Leeds, England, also makes
branded goods such as Goodfella’s pizza and Fox’s biscuits.  Merger Terms  The gain in Northern Foods’ shares was the  steepest  since
at least 1988. The stock rose 11.25 pence to 56.5 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close of trading in London, giving the company a
market value of 265 million pounds. Greencore  shares  rose the
most since at least 1991, gaining 30 cents to 1.34 euros for a
market capitalization of 277 million euros ($375 million).  Shareholders in Northern Foods and Dublin-based Greencore
will each own 50 percent of the new company, to be called
Essenta Foods. Northern Foods shareholders will get 0.4479 of a
new Greencore share for each share owned. More than 30 percent
of Greencore’s shareholders and 12 percent of Northern Foods’
investors have already expressed support for the deal.  Patrick Coveney , Greencore’s chief executive officer, will
become the CEO of Essenta Foods, with Northern Foods’  Simon Herrick  keeping his role of chief financial officer.  Greencore  said separately that operating profit from
continuing operations rose 18 percent to 59.7 million euros in
the year ended Sept. 24. “More moderate” sales growth is
expected in the current financial year, after a 6.9 percent gain
in the year just ended, the company said.  ‘Stronger Credit’  The merger is due to complete in the second quarter of 2011
and the new company will be domiciled in Ireland, the companies
said. Greencore will delist from the Irish Stock Exchange,
though Essenta expects to have a secondary listing in Dublin.  At least half of the estimated cost savings from the deal
will be generated in the first year, the food makers said.
Coveney said he doesn’t expect the companies’ workforces to be
“materially” affected and job cuts will likely be “modest.”  The merger will help create a “stronger credit profile
which will help ensure greater financial and strategic
flexibility in future,” according to the statement.  Following completion of the merger, Essenta Foods “will
maintain a progressive dividend policy and target a dividend
cover ratio of 2.0 to 2.5 times calculated on an adjusted
earnings per share basis,” the companies said.  Barclays Capital advised Greencore and UBS AG advised
Northern Foods on the deal, today’s statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  at   fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  