-- Lactalis Confirms It Made Offer for All of Yoplait
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   C e l e s t e   P e r r i
-- 2010-11-17T09:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/groupe-lactalis-confirms-it-has-made-an-offer-for-all-of-yoplait-yogurt.html
Groupe Lactalis made an offer for
all of yogurt maker Yoplait as it seeks to expand the brand
globally.  Lactalis will only pursue a purchase with a majority stake
in Yoplait’s share capital that would allow it to implement a
global strategy, the company said in an e-mailed statement
today. Yoplait is owned equally by private-equity firm PAI
Partners and French cooperative dairy group Sodiaal.  A purchase “would give rise to a major French champion in
the dairy industry on a global scale and would maintain (the)
Yoplait brand within the national French patrimony,” Laval,
France-based Groupe Lactalis said in the statement.  PAI is considering selling its 50 percent stake, and the
deal may value Yoplait at about 1.2 billion euros ($1.62
billion), people involved in the talks said in July. Yoplait has
grown to become the world’s second-largest yogurt brand by
distributing products through  General Mills Inc . in the U.S. and
other partners around the world.  Jacques Caillaud, a spokesman for Sodiaal, said the company
doesn’t intend to sell its 50 percent stake in Yoplait and
declined to comment further.  Lactalis said it’s willing to “involve” Sodiaal in
Yoplait’s development and would maintain existing supply
agreements with the dairy group.  Lactalis has tripled its sales outside of France in the
past 10 years and plans to continue that expansion, it said
today. The company bought Ebro Puleva’s milk unit this year for
630 million euros and makes cheese and butter under the
President brand. It had sales last year of 8.5 billion euros, 40
percent of which were generated in France.  Luc Morelon, a spokesman for Lactalis, declined to comment
on the amount offered. Les Echos earlier reported the bid was
more than 1.3 billion euros.  PAI has owned its stake in Boulogne Billancourt, France-
based Yoplait since 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 