-- Guinea President Konate Declares State of Emergency on Post-Vote Violence
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-11-17T18:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/guinea-s-president-konate-declares-emergency-amid-post-election-violence.html
Guinea ’s interim president, General
Sekouba Konate, declared a state of emergency in the world’s top
bauxite exporter after two days of post-election violence.  The declaration, effective today, was read on state-owned
radio by Konate’s spokesman, Mohamed Kasse. It will last until
the Supreme Court confirms the final results from the Nov. 7
runoff election, won by opposition leader  Alpha Conde .  Three people were reported killed in clashes today in the
capital, Conakry, a stronghold of losing candidate and former
Prime Minister Cellou Dalein Diallo, Agence-France Presse said,
citing a doctor who wasn’t identified.  The West African nation has never had a democratic
transition of government since independence from France in 1958.
It ranks 156th out of 169 nations on the United Nations’ 2010
 Human Development Index , a measure of social well-being.  The country holds as much as half of the world’s reserves
of bauxite, more than 4 billion metric tons of “high-grade” iron
ore and “significant” deposits of diamonds and gold, according
to the U.S. State Department. Bauxite is the ore used to make
aluminum.  Aluminum for delivery in three months rose $28.50, or 1.3
percent, to $2,270.50 a metric ton at 6 p.m. on the London Metal
Exchange.  Ethnic Tension  The clashes are certain to deepen ethnic tension between
members of the pro-Conde Malinke and the Peul, the nation’s
biggest ethnic group, which mainly backed Diallo, said Mohamed
Jalloh, a West Africa analyst at the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group . It may also lead to friction within
the military, he said.  “The Malinke side of the army is being sent to the streets
to shoot at civilians who are mainly Peul,” Diallo said by
phone from neighboring Senegal. “How that will play out in the
military is yet to be seen. It’s a highly dangerous situation.”  Diallo’s party said yesterday he would challenge the
outcome of the vote, in which he won 47.48 percent to Conde’s
52.52 percent, according to the electoral commission.  The Supreme Court, which is expected to render a decision
next week, isn’t expected to overturn the election results
because that will “only result in trouble,” Jalloh said.  Guinea has faced political instability since a group of
military officers took power in December 2008 after the death of
former President  Lansana Conte , who had ruled the country for 24
years.  Both Conde and Diallo pledged during the campaign to
continue a review of mining deals that aren’t favorable to
Guinea that began in 2008 and led to a dispute with London-based
 Rio Tinto Group  over ownership of the Simandou iron-ore project.
Other companies operating in the country include Russia’s  United
Co. Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum producer,  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd ., Africa’s biggest gold miner, and Brazil’s  Vale SA ,
the world’s No. 1 iron-ore producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason McLure  in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 