-- Tibet Lures St. Regis as China's Big Cities Crowded by Luxury Hotel Chains
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-11-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/tibet-lures-st-regis-as-china-s-big-cities-crowded-by-luxury-hotel-chains.html
Expansion in China, the world’s
fastest-growing economy, is causing an urban lodging glut that’s
spurring luxury chains including  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. ’s St. Regis to head to areas as remote as Tibet.  The 162-room  St. Regis Lhasa Resort , which opened this week
as the first international luxury hotel in Tibet’s capital, is
about 12,000 feet (3,680 meters) above sea level and boasts a
five-star spa. Shangri-La Asia Ltd. will open a 350-room hotel
in Lhasa in 2012, and  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc  plans to
add a high-end, 2,000-room hotel in the city within three years.  The surge of hotel development in China has led to an
oversupply, particularly in cities, and it may take five years
for demand to catch up, said Jonas Ogren, a Singapore-based
director for  STR Global , an industry research company. That’s
made Tibet and other regions far from Beijing and Shanghai
increasingly attractive to expanding hoteliers.  “While Tibet isn’t necessarily the first location that
comes to mind for a hotel, these companies usually already have
properties in primary and secondary cities,” Ogren said. “So
more are looking to smaller markets or resort-type places.”  Hotel occupancies in China climbed to 60 percent this year
through September from 51 percent a year earlier, according to
STR Global. This year’s level was the fourth-lowest among the 16
countries in the Asia Pacific region tracked by the company.  In Tibet, ruled as an autonomous region in the People’s
Republic of China, tourism has surged since the opening of the
Qinghai-Tibet Railway four years ago, largely driven by domestic
demand. A total of 5.56 million tourists visited Tibet in 2009,
up 147 percent from a year earlier, according to the Pacific
Asia Travel Association. Of that, 5.39 million were domestic
travelers.  ‘Demand for Luxury’  “There’s a great deal of affluence in China,” said Judy
Reeves, a spokesman for Shangri-La Asia, based in Hong Kong.
“So much wealth has been created. The demand for luxury is
insatiable.”  China, whose population is projected to climb to 1.4
billion from 1.3 billion in the next five years, may account for
a record 30 percent of  global growth  over the next decade, UBS
AG said earlier this month. The country will overtake the U.S.
to become the world’s largest economy by 2020, according to a
Nov. 15 report from Standard Chartered Plc.  Starwood, which partnered with Lhasa Yungao International
Hotel Co. in developing the St. Regis in Lhasa, expects to add
86 hotels to the 62 it has in China, making the country its
largest hotel market after the U.S. The hotelier, based in White
Plains, New York, already has a 102-room Four Points by Sheraton
in Lhasa.  IHG, which operates 137 hotels in China, has 149 more in
the pipeline, the Denham, England-based company said in June.  Olympics in Beijing  “There was something like 52 new hotels opening up for the
Olympics in Beijing,” said  Dave Horton , global head of Hilton
Hotels & Resorts. “They went from 100 percent occupancy during
the Olympics to 20 to 30 percent occupancy now.”  Hilton Hotels & Resorts is the unit of McLean, Virginia-
based Hilton Worldwide that oversees the company’s namesake
brand. The division operates eight properties in China and has
34 more planned. Some of the locations the company is adding are
in regions that attract more domestic and business travelers
than overseas tourists.  “Being first in a market and to build a property where
locals have weddings and events means that, when they come to
America, they will stay with us,”  Horton  said.  Shangri-La, based in Hong Kong, has 33 hotels in China and
15 more in the pipeline, in such remote regions as Diqing in the
Yunnan province to the country’s south and Manzhouli in the
Hulunbuir grasslands in northern China, according to the
company’s  website .  Churned Butter Tea  Shangri-La’s Lhasa hotel will include traditional Tibetan
architectural motifs and interiors. Guest rooms will start at
388 square feet (36 square meters), and many will offer views of
the Potala Palace.  Visitors will be able to experience Tibetan welcome rituals
and the local hand-churned butter tea. The property also will
feature a full-service clinic to attend to guests who suffer
from altitude sickness. Tibet is the highest region on Earth,
with an average elevation of 16,000 feet.  “It’ll likely pay off for these forerunners in Tibet,”
said Ogren of STR Global. “For the immediate future, they’ll
have a competitive advantage in that region. Luxury today is not
about champagne and caviar but about experiencing something your
neighbor hasn’t. It’s about experiencing champagne and caviar at
Everest Base Camp.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 