-- ICAP Rises on First-Half Profit Increase, Volatility Outlook
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-11-17T09:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/icap-first-half-profit-increases-2-buoyed-by-electronic-broking-revenue.html
ICAP Plc , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, rose after reporting an increase
in first-half profit and on its expectation that government
efforts to stimulate economic growth will spur trading.  Pretax profit before one-off items and impairments, ICAP’s
preferred measure of  performance , was 183 million pounds ($291
million) for the six months ended Sept. 30, a 2 percent increase
from a year earlier, the London-based broker said in a
statement. Revenue rose 9 percent to 867 million pounds.  ICAP said its markets have been active since September,
spurred by the Federal Reserve’s efforts to stoke the economic
recovery with a $600 billion bond-buying program known as
quantitative easing. The broker benefits when price fluctuations
increase because more customers use its services.  “ICAP is unquestionably a beneficiary of QE,” Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Spencer  said in a conference call with
journalists today. “There’s been a considerable increase in
volatility, particularly in the foreign-exchange markets.
Volatility is generally good for our business.”  ICAP  jumped as much as 4 percent to 484.4 pence. The stock
was up 1.4 percent at 473 pence as of 9 a.m. in London, valuing
the company at 3.1 billion pounds. ICAP has risen 9.6 percent
this year.  ‘Reasonable’ Forecast  ICAP said the range of analysts’ forecasts for full-year
profit is “reasonable” if the current trading conditions
remain for the rest of the financial year. Analysts are
expecting pretax profit of 333 million pounds to 357 million
pounds for year ending March 31, the broker said.  ICAP’s net income rose 4 percent to 98 million pounds,
helped by a tax rate that’s expected to be 26 percent for the
year, compared with 32 percent last year, according to the
statement.  The pound’s weakness against the dollar and the euro
boosted profit by 19 million pounds in the period. At current
levels, the exchange-rate effect would boost full-year profit by
about 30 million pounds, ICAP said.  ICAP incurred an 11 million-pound after-tax charge as it
“exited a number of associates active in non-core agency voice
markets,” according to the statement.  The company plans to pay a  dividend  of 5.27 pence per
share, a 3 percent increase from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  