-- Vick's NFL MVP Chances Jump on Six-Touchdown Game as Peyton Manning Leads
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/michael-vick-moves-among-favorites-to-win-nfl-s-most-valuable-player-award.html
Eighteen months after his release
from a federal prison, quarterback  Michael Vick ’s odds of
winning the National Football League’s Most Valuable Player
Award are getting lower by the week.  Vick, 30, has helped Philadelphia (6-3) to a first-place 
tie atop its division since replacing  Kevin Kolb  as the Eagles’
starter in Week 3. He’s the NFL’s top-rated passer, throwing 11
touchdowns with no interceptions, and has rushed for four scores
while averaging 7.8 yards a carry.  Vick’s resurgence, after missing the 2007 and 2008 seasons
because he was in federal jail on dog-fighting convictions, has
led online gambling website  BetUS.com  to lower the former No. 1
draft pick’s MVP odds to 5-1 from 25-1 a week ago. Vick’s odds
were 50-1 at the start of the season.  “Vick’s comeback is as stunning a story as his actions off
the field in the past were abhorrent,” BetUS spokesman Reed
Richards said by e-mail. “While nothing can erase what he did,
he has paid a price and been given a second chance, which he’s
making the most of on the field.”  Vick’s odds are now tied for fourth among the top MVP
candidates at Costa Rica-based BetUS. Indianapolis Colts
quarterback  Peyton Manning  won his record fourth NFL MVP Award
last year and is the 2-1 favorite to repeat this season.  Green Bay Packers quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  is the second
choice at 3-1, followed by New York Giants quarterback  Eli Manning  at 4-1. San Diego Chargers quarterback  Philip Rivers  is
tied at 5-1 with Vick, whose Eagles host the Giants this week to
decide first place in the NFC Eastern Division.  Six Touchdowns  Vick yesterday was voted the top offensive player in
the National Football Conference for the second straight week
after accounting for six touchdowns in a 59-28 win over the
Washington Redskins on “Monday Night Football.”  “I’ve had some great games in my day, but I don’t think
I’ve had one quite like this,” Vick said during a news
conference after throwing for 333 yards and four touchdowns. He
also rushed for 80 yards and two scores.  Once the NFL’s highest-paid player with a 10-year, $130
million contract in Atlanta, Vick was a third-stringer for the
Eagles last season after returning to the NFL.  He was suspended by league Commissioner  Roger Goodell  in
August 2007 after he admitted to charges of conspiring to run
Bad Newz Kennels, a ring that bought, trained and fought dogs in
Virginia and other states.  Hanged, Electrocuted  He was described as “cruel and reprehensible” by Goodell
for helping to bankroll Bad Newz Kennels, which drowned, hanged,
shot or electrocuted dogs that lost fights. In April 2007 Vick
took part in the killing of eight animals, one of which was
dispatched by slamming it into the ground, his criminal
indictment said.  Vick was sentenced to 23 months in prison in December 2007
and served 18 months before being released in May 2009.  Since joining the Eagles, he’s worked with the Humane
Society of the United States and talked with children and
community groups about the brutality of dog fighting.  When  Donovan McNabb  was traded to Washington, Vick became
the backup in Philadelphia. When Kolb suffered a Week 2
concussion, Vick led the Eagles to a win and coach  Andy Reid 
decided to stick with him, saying he had an “ex-superstar who’s
regained his abilities.”  Since missing three games because of a rib injury, Vick has
led the Eagles to consecutive wins over the Colts and the
Redskins. He’s connected on a career-high 62.7 percent of his
passes for 1,350 yards.  Best in the League  In an ESPN poll, 90 percent of the more than 20,000
respondents said Vick is a better quarterback now than during
his first six NFL seasons with the Falcons, who made him the
first pick in the 2001 draft. Eagles cornerback  Dimitri Patterson  said Vick is the best quarterback in the NFL.  “Preparing for him, you’re not going to get any sleep at
night, because what are you going to do?” Patterson told
reporters. “He’s efficient, he hasn’t thrown any interceptions
and he’s hitting people in stride. He’s in his prime and it’s
obvious.”  Although he missed almost three full seasons, Vick is three
years younger than New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady ,
who’s the 10-1 fifth choice to win his second MVP award.  Brady said yesterday during his weekly radio appearance
with WEEI in Boston that Vick’s mobility, decision making and
strong, accurate arm are making the Eagles’ offense “damn near
impossible to stop.”  Former NFL coach  Jon Gruden , now an analyst for ESPN, said
during Monday night’s telecast that if Vick “keeps this up,
he’s going to be the NFL Player of the Year.” While Vick’s odds
of winning the MVP continue to drop, he deflects talk of long-
term goals and credits teammates for his success.  “I could have never envisioned this,” Vick said. “I
didn’t even think I would be starting at quarterback. All this
is paramount for me, but at the same time it’s somewhat
surprising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 