-- Microsoft Web-Call Unit Lures Boeing, France Telecom
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-11-17T21:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/microsoft-s-web-calling-unit-lures-boeing-aims-for-1-billion.html
Microsoft Corp.  has lined up
customers such as  Boeing Co.  and France Telecom SA for new
software that handles Web-based calling and videoconferencing,
advancing an effort that may add $1 billion in annual sales.  The software, called Lync, debuted at an event today,
before going on sale Dec. 1. It has the potential to generate
sales on par with Microsoft’s SharePoint business, which makes
about $1.3 billion a year,  Kurt DelBene , president of the
Redmond, Washington-based company’s Office unit, said yesterday.  DelBene’s unit has revamped Web-calling and conferencing
software to gain more of the $50 billion market for products
that help companies replace traditional phone networks with
systems that send communications over the Internet. The new
software is a bid to parlay Microsoft’s personal-computer know-
how in the networking realm dominated by  Cisco Systems Inc.   “Microsoft had a very strong offering in all areas except
the place where they were weakest: the telecom area,” said Bern
Elliot, an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.
“With this release, they’ve used their experience to improve
that. Now, if you wanted to, you could get rid of your existing
phones.”  It will take until the middle of next year to see whether
Lync will be a serious contender, Elliot said. Lync is the third
iteration of  Microsoft ’s software for Internet-based calling and
teleconferencing, which was introduced in 2003.  Tracking Down Co-Workers  The idea is to put Internet messages, video chats and phone
calls on the same platform -- a concept called unified
communication -- and make it easier to reach people wherever
they are.  For instance, if you call a co-worker’s office but he’s
traveling, Lync will try the person in his hotel room in Kuala
Lumpur, DelBene said. Microsoft Office users can right-click on
contact names to call them. If they need a third person to join,
they can drag and drop the name to create a conference call.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  has been using the previous versions
of the software and plans to upgrade to the new one as part of
its effort to switch out traditional phone systems, DelBene
said. Other Lync customers include  Estee Lauder Cos. , Nikon
Corp. and Marquette University, Microsoft said.  Hewlett-Packard Co., whose services business helps
customers install Lync, has orders to deploy Lync to more than
300,000 workers at Fortune 500 companies, Microsoft said.  Microsoft  fell 24 cents to $25.57 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The  shares  have declined 16
percent this year.  Cisco Showdown  When Microsoft bids for customers, it often squares off
with Cisco, International Business Machines Corp. and Avaya
Inc., said  Gurdeep Singh Pall , a Microsoft vice president.  Cisco’s unified-communications business, which has more
than 1,000 customers, includes Internet phones and call-center
products, as well as social-networking tools and mobile
applications.  The unit, which posted revenue growth of 45 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, counts the Abu Dhabi Police and
Bulgarian Ministry of Transport as customers. It sold its 30
millionth Internet phone last month to HSBC Holdings Plc.  DelBene says he isn’t worried about the competition.  “I’m usually a person that is overly fixated on what could
go wrong, but in this space I feel we’re the leaders,” he said.
“There’s not a vendor I’m particularly worried about.”  Cisco built its technology by  buying other companies , which
may give Microsoft an edge, Gartner’s Elliot said.  “Cisco has all the pieces -- they don’t have as strong
integration across the pieces,” he said.  Mix of Technologies  While Skype Technologies SA leads the market for consumer
Internet calling, it isn’t as big a competitor in the corporate
arena. Skype lacks the kind of tools many companies need for
security and auditing purposes, Pall said.  Microsoft  has replaced its own phones and conferencing
services with its technology, resulting in $215 million in
annual savings in the U.S., DelBene said. For now, many
customers are using the software alongside traditional phones.
Eventually, they’ll phase out the older approach, he said.  Besides linking up with Office software, the program can be
embedded in a company’s other applications. For example,
 Schlumberger Ltd. , the world’s largest oilfield-services
contractor, integrated the software with its programs for
monitoring oil rigs. That lets the company quickly call staff on
the affected rig if it notices a problem, Pall said.  Dark Ages  The software stems from more than seven years of work,
beginning with a group assembled by Chairman  Bill Gates . The
team included Pall and Gates’s former technical assistant,  Anoop Gupta , who ran the business before Pall.  Gates was interested because he felt the telecommunications
industry was stuck in the Dark Ages, instead of being
transformed by the PC and the Internet, Pall said. Microsoft
came close to buying a large business in the telecommunications
field in order to jump-start its efforts, he said.  The company discarded that plan in 2005 to focus on
building its own software, Pall said. He declined to say which
company  Microsoft  came close to buying.  “We started building this platform six years ago,” Pall
said. “It takes a long time to build it right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  