-- Hilton Worldwide’s Offering Slashed to $1.56 Billion
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-11-17T22:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/hilton-worldwide-s-bond-offering-said-to-be-slashed-to-about-1-56-billion.html
A bond offering linked to the buyout
of Hilton Worldwide Inc. was slashed in size as investors
demanded additional yield to buy the securities.  The unrated Hilton sale, backed by interest in all of the
assets of the hotel chain, was trimmed to $1.56 billion,
according to people familiar with the transaction who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t public. Bank of America
Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. earlier marketed $2.66
billion of the bonds, people familiar with the transaction said
Oct. 25.  The banks were seeking to unload debt left on their books
from a July 2007 buyout. Blackstone Group LP, the world’s
largest private-equity firm, bought Hilton near the top of the
real-estate market for about $26 billion, including assumed
debt. The transaction was financed with $20.6 billion of
mortgage and mezzanine debt and about $5.7 billion of equity
from New York-based Blackstone.  “There are a lot of investors who require a rating,” said
 Darrell Wheeler , a bond strategist for Austin, Texas-based
Amherst Securities Group LP. “An unrated CMBS deal hasn’t been
done before, so it’s an accomplishment to sell more than a
billion.”  Hilton completed a deal in April to reduce debt by almost
$4 billion and extend the maturity to November 2015.  Goldman Not Listed  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit and Goldman Sachs were
offering the debt with a yield between 6.5 percent and 7
percent, according to marketing materials distributed Nov. 10.
The bonds are now expected to yield 7.5 percent, one of the
people said. Goldman Sachs wasn’t listed in materials
distributed this week.  Bank of America spokeswoman  Kerrie McHugh  and  Michael DuVally  of Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  Sales of bonds tied to commercial mortgages are rising,
with about $8.2 billion in sales, compared with $3.4 billion in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Deutsche Bank AG on Nov. 3 sold $2 billion of bonds,
more than of half of which carried top ratings, tied to Extended
Stay Inc., the hotel operator that exited bankruptcy last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  