-- India Revives 45-Year-Old Trade Zone System China Adopted to Boost Exports
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2010-11-17T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/india-revives-45-year-old-strategy-china-adopted-to-lift-exports.html
It takes more than an hour to drive
the 25 miles of clogged highway linking  New Delhi  to Noida
Special Economic Zone. Inside the gate, a smooth four-lane road
leads to electronics, engineering and textile plants that are at
the heart of India’s plan to imitate China’s export success.  “It’s the kind of place where one can think of doing
business,” said Vishnu Pal Singh, 51, whose Noida-based Optic
Electronic India Pvt. sells night-vision devices for rifles and
tanks to Germany and Poland. “The zone offers top class
infrastructure and tax benefits.”  India is counting on entrepreneurs such as Singh to revive
a system it pioneered 45 years ago: using enclaves that provide
lower taxes, faster permits and even their own power source to
boost  exports . While India switched focus in the 1970s to
industry tax breaks, China adopted the zone idea a decade later.  The system turned the former fishing village of Shenzhen
into an export hub of 8.5 million people in 30 years and made
China, with overseas sales of $1.2 trillion last year, the
world’s largest exporter.  Now India, which shipped $165 billion worth of goods and
services in the same period, is reviving zones as Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  tries to raise manufacturing to 22 percent of the
economy from 17 percent and double exports to 4 percent of
global trade by 2020.  ‘Islands of Excellence’  Investment in the special economic zones may double to
about 3 trillion rupees ($66.2 billion) by 2012, India’s
Commerce Ministry said. Exports from the SEZs more than doubled
in the 2009-2010 fiscal year over the previous year, to 2.2
trillion rupees, a quarter of India’s total.  “Improving infrastructure in the entire country will take
a long time, so if you want to promote industry, you need to
create more islands of excellence, which these SEZs are,” said
 Dharmakirti Joshi , chief economist at Crisil Ltd., the Mumbai-
based Indian unit of Standard and Poor’s. “India needs
manufacturing to grow rapidly now to absorb the growing
workforce.”  India set up its  first zone  in 1965 in Kandla in the
western state of Gujarat and had established another by 1975,
said Lalit Behari Singhal, former director general of the  Export
Promotion Council  of Export Oriented Units and Special Economic
Zones in Delhi. In the next 25 years, six more were set up.  Poor land selection, insufficient fiscal incentives and
inadequate transport ensured that the zones didn’t prosper, said
Rajesh Sonthalia, a founding member of the export promotion
council.  Zones and Jobs  Only since 2005, when the government enacted laws favoring
the zones, have they taken off. About 100 zones have opened
since 2006, attracting 1.6 trillion rupees in investment, 60
times the level four years earlier. That helped create more than
half a million jobs, the  Commerce Ministry  said. About 478 more
SEZs have been approved.  “China spent a lot of money creating infrastructure, which
India did not do,” said Priyankar Bhikshu, head of India
research at  DTZ Holdings Plc  in Gurgaon, near Delhi, and author
of a report called “Special Economic Zones in India: Expanding
Contours.” “As the true spirit of SEZs now emerges, export
competitiveness will unfold in the next couple of years.”  “SEZs have the potential to propel India as a major
exporting nation,” said Aradhana Aggarwal, who teaches
economics at the  University of Delhi  and is writing a book
called “SEZs in India: Past Experience, Present Status and
Future Prospects.”  One Office  The government-sponsored and private enclaves reduce red
tape by offering a single office for environmental, tax and
other government clearances. They also offer a way around power
and water shortages in a nation that produces 10 percent less
electricity than it needs. Companies operating in the zones get
tax breaks for 15 years and don’t have to pay local excise or
customs duties.  “Units can profit from tax and infrastructure benefits,”
said  Kishor Ostwal , managing director of Mumbai-based CNI
Research (India) Ltd. He recommends investors hold stocks of
 Adani Power Ltd. , which co-developed  Mundra Port & Special
Economic Zone Ltd. , one of India’s largest by area at 16,000
acres, and  Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , which is building a
plant in Dahej SEZ, both in Gujarat state.  Adani Power shares have risen 38 percent this year, while
Torrent is up 40 percent. The benchmark  Mumbai Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index  of 30 companies is up almost 14 percent.  Power Plant  Spread over 310 acres, the  Noida zone’s  rows of white, two-
story buildings bustle with workers loading and unloading trucks
with steel pipes, cement, electrical equipment and other
materials. The zone has its own power plant, bus network, mail
center, banks and automatic teller machines. Proposed additions
include a second generator and a six-lane highway to Delhi.  “The biggest benefit is that this is designated as foreign
territory,” said Optic Electronic’s Singh, who invested 100
million rupees to start his factory in unit 4C and is planning
to expand. “I can do business better in here since it is exempt
from local laws.”  Companies, including  Gitanjali Gems Ltd. , India’s biggest
jewelry retailer, have benefitted.  “Our exports have risen after we moved some of our
production to a special economic zone,” said Chairman  Mehul Choksi . Overseas sales have grown between 40 percent and 50
percent, he said, without citing a time period. Gitanjali Gems
shares have almost tripled in the past 6 months.  Export Battle  India’s push to build up exports may exacerbate a battle
between nations from Brazil to South Korea that are trying to
raise their own exports to lift economies after the global
slump. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in
September that a “currency war” had begun as nations tried to
cheapen exchange rates to boost exports.  Brazil, South Korea, Turkey, South Africa and Russia are
among nations that have their own economic zones,  according to 
the World Bank.  “As these zones take off and Indian exports become more
competitive, countries which rely on exports to drive economic
growth will have a tough time,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , an
economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai.  India’s biggest zone by exports, the  Santa Cruz Electronics
Export Processing Zone , covers 100 acres and produced  shipments 
worth $4 billion in the fiscal year to March 31, 2009. China’s
largest SEZ by area is the southern island of Hainan, spread
over 13,100 square miles.  Chinese Scale  “The difference between Indian and Chinese SEZs is one of
scale,” said Rajesh Mohan Joshi, who teaches economics at the
New Delhi-based  Indian Institute of Foreign Trade .  China now has seven economic zones and another 100 smaller
state and high-tech industrial parks. Shenzhen boasts some of
China’s largest companies, including Huawei Technologies Co.,
the nation’s biggest maker of telephone-network equipment.  India’s zones are hindered by difficulty in buying land,
said  N. R. Bhanumurthy , an economist at the Institute of Public
Finance and Policy in New Delhi.  “Unless the government resolves the issue of acquiring
land, India will struggle to match the manufacturing prowess of
China,” he said.  Singh’s government is backing a land acquisition bill that
may be debated in parliament in the session scheduled to end
Dec. 13. By guaranteeing market prices for seized land and
helping resettle displaced residents, the government is trying
to reduce disputes that have blocked companies from expanding.  Fatal Clashes  India suspended its SEZ program in December 2006 after
farmers protested what they said were cheap prices paid for
their land. Clashes in March 2007 left 14 dead in West Bengal
state. The government restarted the system in April 2007 after
prescribing a ceiling on size -- 12,355 acres -- and forbidding
state administrations to take land by force.  More export zones are springing up in India.  Indiabulls Industrial Infrastructure Ltd. , a unit of
India’s  sixth-biggest developer  by market value, plans to
complete a 2,500-acre zone in Nasik, western India, by March
2011.  Sri City Special Economic Zone , 34 miles outside the
southern Indian city of Chennai, held road shows in Malaysia,
Australia, Japan and Taiwan to attract investors. Ravindra
Sannareddy, managing director of Sri City, said he expects to
attract 80 billion rupees in the next three to five years.  “Special economic zones offer unexplored opportunities,”
said Vinay Sharma, who quit his job in 2008 as vice president of
Mumbai-based Reliance Industries Ltd., owner of the world’s
largest oil refinery, to set up a warehouse for oil and gas
companies in Visakhapatnam SEZ on India’s east coast. “It is
the unique set of services they offer that make them
attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 