-- Indian Oil Said to Appoint Citigroup, UBS to Help Manage Record Share Sale
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-11-17T15:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/indian-oil-said-to-appoint-citigroup-ubs-to-help-manage-record-share-sale.html
Indian Oil Corp. , the nation’s
biggest refiner, hired six banks including Citigroup Inc., ICICI 
Securities Ltd. and Merrill Lynch</a> to manage India’s biggest 
share sale, four people with knowledge of the matter said.  The group of banks, completed by Morgan Stanley, SBI
Capital Markets and UBS AG, will split a fee of 600,000
rupees ($13,200), the minimum amount mandated by the state-run
company, the people said, who didn’t want to be identified as
the information isn’t public yet. The sale may raise 189.3
billion rupees, based on yesterday’s closing stock price.  State-owned Indian Oil also declared an incentive of 40
million rupees for the bank that gets the highest number of
retail subscribers, one of the people said.  The refiner will bear regulatory expenses related to the
transaction, the first time in this round of asset sales a state
company has done so, the people said. Still, banks won’t earn
any money on the deal because they will have to pay for costs
such as printing millions of applications and travel, they said.  Indian Oil’s Chairman B.M. Bansal declined to comment.
Spokespeople at five of the banks didn’t immediately respond to
emails seeking comment. It is a public holiday in India today.
Debasis Ghosh, a spokesman at Citigroup in Mumbai, declined to
comment.  The government and the company plan to sell equity in the
first quarter of next year after overseas investments pushed
India’s benchmark Sensitive Index to an all-time high this
month. The offering may be the nation’s largest share sale,
surpassing State Bank of India’s 2008 rights offer, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Budget Deficit  The government, which holds 79 percent of Indian Oil, plans
to sell a 10 percent stake as part of an asset-sale program
aimed at cutting the budget deficit. The refiner will also offer
a similar stake to reduce debt as it builds a new refinery and
looks for possible ventures overseas.  The combined share sale, based on the Nov. 16 closing stock
price, may surpass the previous record of the 167.4 billion
rupees raised by State Bank, India’s largest lender, Bloomberg
data show. It would also beat Coal India Ltd.’s 154.8 billion
rupee initial public sale in October, the data show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG were
among 18 banks seeking to be hired that made presentations to a
panel from Nov. 14 that ended yesterday, according to a
statement on the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.com ;
 Ruth David  in New Delhi at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 