-- Insurers Gave U.S. Chamber $86 Million Used to Oppose Obama's Health Law
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-11-17T21:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/insurers-gave-u-s-chamber-86-million-used-to-oppose-obama-s-health-law.html
Health insurers last year gave the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce $86.2 million that was used to oppose
the health-care overhaul law, according to tax records and
people familiar with the donation.  The insurance lobby, whose members include Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc.  and  Cigna Corp.  of
Philadelphia, gave the money to the Chamber in 2009 as Democrats
increased criticism of the industry, according to a person who
requested anonymity because laws don’t require identifying
funding sources. The Chamber got the money from the  America’s
Health Insurance Plans  as the industry urged Congress to drop a
plan to create a competing government-run insurance plan.  “Clearly the secrecy was important to industry,”  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics, said in an interview. The group tracks
money in politics and isn’t affiliated with a political party.
“Eighty-six million dollars is an astonishing sum,” she said.  The spending on the Chamber exceeded the insurer group’s
entire budget from a year earlier and accounted for 40 percent
of the Chamber’s $214.6 million in 2009 expenditures. The
spending reflects the insurers’ attempts to influence the bill,
which the Congressional Budget Office  estimates  will provide
coverage to 32 million previously uninsured Americans, after
Democrats in Congress and the White House put more focus on
regulation of the insurance industry.  U.S. Disclosure Law  The $86.2 million paid for advertisements, polling and
grass roots events to drum up opposition to the bill, said  Tom Collamore , a Chamber of Commerce spokesman. The Chamber said in
a statement it used the funds to “advance a market-based
health-care system and advocate for fundamental reform that
would improve access to quality care while lowering costs.”  The organizations disclosed the funding yesterday in annual
tax records required under U.S. law. The  Chamber ’s records show
it received $86.2 million from a single group, which a second
person briefed on the transaction by those involved identified
as Washington-based America’s Health group.  Insurers gave the $86.2 million to the Chamber in August
2009, funded by health insurers, said the first person. Early
that month, America’s Health Chief Executive Officer  Karen Ignagni  said Democrats were trying to “demonize” insurers.  Only Amounts Required  Tax forms require organizations to list only the amounts
granted or received from other groups, not the organizations’
identities. Health insurers expressed opposition to parts of the
health-care legislation while they conferred with congressional
Democrats writing the bill and the White House. At the same
time, the Chamber of Commerce was advertising its opposition.  The Chamber spent $45.5 million on a campaign against the
bill in 2009, according to TNS Media Intelligence/Campaign Media
Analysis Group, an Arlington, Virginia-based company that tracks
political advertising.  The Chamber began in March 2010, weeks before the bill
became law, another $10 million effort focused on pressuring
lawmakers to vote against the bill. Blair Latoff, a spokeswoman
for the Chamber, wouldn’t say how much of the money was spent in
2009 and how much, if any, was used in 2010.  “With so much at stake we, like other major stakeholders,
invested in advocacy,”  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for the
insurers, said in an e-mail. “We supported a number of leading
health-care advocacy organizations and coalitions that shared
our views.” He declined to answer other questions on the money.  ‘Breathtaking’ Amount  The amount is “breathtaking,” said  Trevor Potter , the
head of the political activity practice at Washington law firm
Caplin & Drysdale.  The $86.2 million dwarfs other large donations given to the
Chamber, such as a $15.4 million 2008 transaction whose
contributor isn’t identified, as well an anonymous $4.5 million
contribution in 2009, according to records.  By funneling the money through the Chamber, insurers were
able to remain at the table negotiating with Democrats while
still getting the bill criticized. “It enables you to have it
both ways,” Potter said in a phone interview.  “They clearly thought the Chamber would be a more credible
source of information and advertising on health-care reform, and
it would appear less self-serving if a broader business group
made arguments against it than if the insurers did it,” said
Potter, a former chairman of the Federal Election Commission.  Critics Pounce  The Center for Responsive Politics’ Klein said that the
public would have been “better served” by insurers disclosing
the money when they gave it. “Perhaps this key debate would
have progressed differently if the true source of the chamber’s
spending had been known at the time,” Klein said.  The White House criticized the insurer money in a blog
post. Insurers were “desperate to preserve their ability to
discriminate against you if you had a preexisting condition,
drop your care when you got sick and limit the amount of care
you could receive in a year or a lifetime,” wrote  Stephanie Cutter , assistant to the president for special projects.  Representative  Pete Stark , a California Democrat who helped
write the health-care law in the House, criticized the insurer
spending in a letter to fellow members of Congress. “That $86
million in attack ads could have been better spent to reduce
insurance premiums,” he wrote.  U.S. ChamberWatch, a Washington group that has been
critical of the Chamber of Commerce, called the $86.2 million
transaction “breathtakingly” large. “The U.S. Chamber has
given up the right to call themselves the voice of American
business; they are the voice of the insurance industry,”
Christy Setzer, the group’s spokeswoman, said in a statement.  Insurance company members of America’s Health that didn’t
respond to questions about whether they gave money to the 2009
effort were: Jim Turner, a spokesman for Louisville, Kentucky-
based  Humana Inc .;  Tyler Mason , a spokesman for UnitedHealth
Group;  Mohit Ghose , a spokesman for Hartford, Connecticut-based
Aetna.  Kristin Binns , a spokeswoman for Indianapolis-based
 WellPoint Inc ., and Cigna spokeswoman  Gloria Barone  declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  