-- Iowa Official Says Foreclosure Fund Being Considered
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-11-17T21:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/iowa-says-fund-being-considered-as-part-of-foreclosure-crisis-settlement.html
A spokesman for Iowa Attorney
General  Tom Miller , who is heading up the 50-state investigation
of the foreclosure crisis and mortgage lender practices, said a
general compensation fund is being considered as a facet of any
possible settlement.  “That is one of the many options being considered,” said
Geoff Greenwood, Miller’s spokesman, in an interview. “There
are no details that have been hashed out. Any characterization
of it as a done deal is just inaccurate.”  The 50-state coordinated inquiry is investigating whether
banks and loan servicers used false documents and signatures to
justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. The probe,
announced Oct. 13, came after  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Ally
Financial Inc. ’s GMAC mortgage unit said they would stop
repossessions in 23 states where courts supervise home seizures
and  Bank of America Corp.  froze foreclosures nationwide.  The Washington Post reported yesterday that the states and
banks are in talks to establish a fund that would compensate
people who lost their homes through faulty foreclosures.  “It simply has been raised as part of the discussion,”
Greenwood said today.  The attorneys general investigation is on “a fast track”
and any resolution might involve multiple settlements, Miller
told Bloomberg last week. A global settlement of the task force
investigation is unlikely, Miller said. “It would be one bank
at a time.”  ‘Many Options’  A compensation fund “is just one of many options under
discussion at this time,” Sandi Copes, spokeswoman for Florida
Attorney General  Bill McCollum , said today. “No specific
details are available at this time, as the discussions are still
in the very early stages within the multistate group and with
the lenders and servicers,” she said in an e-mail.  “There is no imminent settlement,” she said in an
interview today.  The banks are pushing for a “quick resolution,” Ohio
Attorney General  Richard Cordray  said in an interview today.
“No one is trying to stampede to a resolution that isn’t going
to amount to anything.”  Document problems have created significant legal
vulnerability for the banks in foreclosure cases nationwide,
Cordray said. One purpose of the multistate task force “is to
speed up and render more efficient potential resolution of this
matter rather than have it drag out in tens of thousands of
cases across the country over years,” he said.  ‘Sensible Solution’  Cordray, who has sued Ally’s GMAC under Ohio’s consumer-
protection laws, considers a compensation fund part of any
“sensible solution” for both his suit and the 50-state
investigation.  The attorneys general also want the banks to do more to
modify mortgages and keep people in their homes, Cordray said. A
multistate deal could create a framework for modifications and
accelerate resolution of individual foreclosure cases, he said.  A fund should be “one of the major components” of any
settlement between the banks and the attorneys general, said
 Bernard Nash , a lawyer at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in Washington
and head of the firm’s practice group that represents
corporations in dealings with state legal officials.  “You have a lot of people and a lot of claims,” he said
in a phone interview today. Without a fund, “you could clog the
court system,” he said.  Legitimate Foreclosure  The banks would finance this by “putting money into a
common fund in proportion to their liability or the number of
mortgages,” Nash said. Homeowners would be able to present
their claims “without litigation.”  Borrowers who prove they improperly lost their homes
through faulty foreclosures would be compensated, he said. The
fund might also pay some money to a homeowner where the
paperwork was flawed, yet the foreclosure was legitimate, he
said. “If he really owed the money, he might get a little
bit,” Nash said.  Any settlement won’t be limited to a fund, he said. An
agreement would probably also include an increase in loan
modifications and a promise not to foreclose on homeowners who
are in the process of such modifications, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 