-- Iraq's President Says He Won't Approve Execution of Hussein Adviser Aziz
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-11-17T13:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/iraq-s-president-says-he-won-t-approve-execution-of-hussein-adviser-aziz.html
Iraqi President  Jalal Talabani  said
he won’t agree to the execution of former Deputy Prime Minister
 Tariq Aziz , an adviser in Saddam Hussein’s regime.  "I feel for Tariq Aziz, because he’s an Iraqi Christian and
also he’s an elderly man who is over 70," Talabani told France24
television in  interview  aired today. "I will sign no death
sentence at all because as a social democrat, I’m against the
death penalty."  Aziz, 74, was found guilty on Oct. 26 along with two other
top regime aides “of the liquidation of members of religious
parties” and sentenced to hang. On March 11, the Iraqi High
Tribunal had sentenced Aziz and  Ali Hassan al-Majid , a senior
official in Hussein’s Baath party known as “Chemical Ali,” to
15 years in prison for crimes against humanity in the killing of
Baghdad merchants in the 1990s. Al-Majid, known for his role in
poisonous-gas attacks on Iraqi Kurds, was hanged on Jan. 25.  Talabani is a Kurd from northern Iraq, where Hussein tried
to quash the Kurds’ claims to the city of Kirkuk through their
forced removal and the settlement of Sunni Muslim Arabs during
the 1980s and 1990s. In March 1988, Hussein unleashed a chemical
attack on the northern city of Halabja. It was part of Anfal,
the campaign against the Kurdish rebellion that arose during the
Iran-Iraq War. As many as 180,000 Kurds were killed in the north
from 1987 to 1988, New York-based Human Rights Watch has said.  Aziz, a Chaldean Catholic, was the 8 of spades in a deck of
cards issued by the U.S. to portray the most-wanted regime
leaders after Hussein’s ouster in 2003. The Vatican asked the
Iraqi government to spare Aziz, citing the Roman Catholic
Church’s objection to the death penalty.  This month, some 58 Christian worshippers were killed when
al-Qaeda gunmen stormed the Sayyidat al-Najat Syriac Catholic
Church in the Karrada commercial district of central Baghdad
during evening Mass.  Calls and e-mails seeking comment from Talabani’s party,
the  Patriotic Union of Kurdistan , weren’t immediately returned
because today is an Islamic holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 