-- Ireland's Finance Minister Lenihan Pledges Relief for Mortgage Repayments
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-17T16:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ireland-s-lenihan-pledges-mortgage-repayment-relief-update1-.html
The Irish government says mortgage
holders should be allowed to defer some interest payments for as
long as five years.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said the government accepted
the recommendations of its Expert Group on Mortgage Arrears and
Personal Debt, which today proposed that the program be
established to defer as much as a third of interest payments for
borrowers struggling to meet obligations on home loans.  The plan would give borrowers as long as five years “to
get back on their feet,” the expert group said in a  statement 
published on the Finance Ministry’s website today.  “We are committed to solutions that are fair and
appropriate to the current circumstances of both homeowners,”
Lenihan said in a statement. “The government accepts the
group’s recommendations and wants to see them implemented
without delay.”  Borrowers looking to participate in a deferred-interest
plan must have taken out their home loan before Feb. 27, 2009,
and have been seeking to address repayment difficulties for at
least six months with their lenders, according to the full
 report , published today.  Irish mortgage accounts in arrears by over 90 days rose to
5.1 percent of all mortgages by the end of September from 4.6
percent at the end of June, the country’s central bank said
today, as borrowers grapple with the worst recession on record.
Lenders are working with borrowers to reschedule mortgages to
avoid repossessions,  Matthew Elderfield , the country’s head of
financial regulation, said on Oct. 15.  No Debt Forgiveness  The group is not recommending debt forgiveness, nor a
state-funded mortgage-to-rent plan, it said.  Ireland’s unemployment rate has more than doubled in the
last two years to 13.6 percent in October, according to the
Central Statistics Office in Cork on Nov. 3.  If a borrower’s accumulated deferred interest equals a
total of 18 months interest, or five years of forbearance has
passed, the mortgage may be seemed “unsustainable,” the report
said. Options at this stage include voluntary surrender of the
property, assisted sale of the property or repossession, it
said.  The Icelandic government last month said it may support a
proposal to forgive $2 billion billion of mortgage debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  