-- Ireland Prepares to Open Books as European Officials Weigh Help for Banks
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-11-17T13:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ireland-prepares-to-open-books-as-european-officials-weigh-help-for-banks.html
European Union and International
Monetary Fund experts will start scanning the books of Ireland’s
 debt-laden banks  tomorrow in Dublin in a prelude to a possible
aid package to stem Europe’s widening fiscal crisis.  Finance chiefs from the 16-country euro area said the joint
assessment will determine whether Ireland can fix the banking
system on its own or needs to fall back on the EU-IMF 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund.  “The Irish banking sector has to be made viable and
sustainable,” European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today after finance ministers ended
a monthly meeting in Brussels. It “will require quite some
reorganization and restructuring.”  As Europe struggled to present a united front to maintain
its fiscal credibility, Britain said it would back support for
Ireland, abandoning a hands-off policy toward the  euro region  to
prevent Irish bank woes from spilling over into the U.K. market.  Irish bonds rose, sending the 10-year yield down 8 basis
points to 8.16 percent. The  extra yield  over German bunds fell 5
basis points to 557 basis points. The spread, a measure of risk
of investing in Ireland, peaked at 646 basis points on Nov. 11.  In a blow to Ireland, LCH Clearnet Ltd. raised the margin
requirement for Irish bond trading to 30 percent of net
positions, making it more expensive to buy Irish securities.  Bank Needs  The Dublin consultations with the ECB,  European Commission 
and IMF will “see if the state is able to cover the needs of
the banking sector,” Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders 
told reporters. “If that’s not the case, there will probably
have to be a European intervention.”  Such a package could come together quickly, the officials
said. “Is it six months or a few days away? I’d say it’s closer
to days,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said.  Ministers refused to speculate about Ireland’s financial
needs, estimated by Barclays Capital at about 80 billion euros.
 Klaus Regling , manager of the rescue facility, said the EU could
raise the money in five to eight working days.  “If banking problems are too big for this small country to
manage, Europe has made it clear they’ll help,” Irish Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  told state broadcaster RTE today.  Britain, which didn’t contribute to the 860 billion euros
in loans and pledges in the wake of the Greek crisis, “stands
ready to support Ireland,” U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said today in Brussels.  Clean-Up Cost  Ireland’s five-member  ISEQ Financial Index  of banking
stocks is now worth 2 percent of the peak valuation reached in
February 2007. Officials put the cost of cleaning up the banking
system as high as 50 billion euros, equal to about a third of
Ireland’s economic output.  Ireland nationalized  Anglo Irish Bank Corp . in 2009 and is
preparing to take a majority stake in  Allied Irish Banks Plc ,
the second-largest bank. Ireland’s top two banks --  Bank of
Ireland Plc  and Allied Irish -- are growing increasingly reliant
on the ECB for funding. ECB loans to Irish banks rose 7.3
percent to 130 billion euros in October from the previous month,
Ireland’s central bank said on Nov. 1.  ‘‘I’m quite confident that it will be difficult for the ECB
to go further than now in the providing of liquidity to some
banks in Ireland,’’ Reynders said.  While Rehn said EU aid can’t be funnelled directly to
banks, the government may use it to reduce their reliance on
ECB, said  Ciaran Callaghan , an analyst with NCB Stockbrokers in
Dublin. He also said “restructuring” may mean reducing the
number of state-backed banks from six and luring a foreign
lender to take over an Irish institution.  Irish Budget  To boost confidence, Lenihan may release the 2011 budget
before a planned Dec. 7 publication date and will unveil a four-
year deficit-cutting plan next week.  Steps already taken to salvage Ireland’s banking system,
which is increasingly reliant on ECB funding, will billow the
deficit to 32 percent of gross domestic product in 2010. That’s
a record in the 12-year history of the euro and more than 10
times the bloc’s 3 percent limit.  Investors watched the EU’s handling of Ireland for clues to
the fate of Portugal and Spain, two other countries forced by
the EU to impose spending cuts to rein in excessive deficits.  A declaration released late yesterday mirrored a Feb. 11
show of support for Greece, which ushered in three months of
politicking -- centered on Germany’s reluctance to part with
taxpayer money -- before the bloc crafted a 110 billion-euro
rescue formula.  Greece Payment  Greece  and the EU commission disputed an Austrian claim
that the European share of the next 9 billion-euro disbursement
will be delayed to January. The January payout was in the
original schedule, EU spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said. The Greek
Finance Ministry said the timing “poses no cashflow problems.”  German demands prompted the latest phase in the crisis,
when EU leaders on Oct. 29 agreed to consider German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s demand for a crisis-resolution mechanism that
forces bondholders to share the cost of future bailouts.  That pledge triggered 13 straight days of losses in the
Irish bond market and dragged down Portuguese, Greek and Spanish
securities. To stem the damage, Merkel on Nov. 12 signed up to a
five-country declaration that exempts bonds now on the market
from a restructuring that could be imposed under a permanent
system to be created by 2013.  Merkel wants to penalize bondholders for betting against
fiscally unsound governments after the EU’s temporary rescue
fund runs out in 2013. In Paris on Nov. 15, Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  blamed her for creating a  “self-fulfilling
prophecy”  that hurt peripheral countries.  The Greek criticism drew a German rebuke yesterday. “When
I heard the comments by the Greek prime minister I thought, with
all due respect, that Greece has enjoyed a lot of European and
German solidarity,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said in Brussels. “But solidarity is not a one-way street. That
shouldn’t be forgotten in Greece.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Fergal O’Brien  in Brussels at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling or  jhertling@bloomberg.net  