-- Irish Life Says ECB Funding Rose on Deposits Drop
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-17T17:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/irish-life-says-ecb-funding-rose-on-drop-in-corporate-deposits.html
Irish Life & Permanent Plc , the
country’s biggest mortgage lender, said its banking unit’s
reliance on European Central Bank funding rose to 11.7 billion
euros ($15.8 billion) as deposits fell in the third quarter.  Corporate deposits declined to 4.8 billion euros from 5.4
billion euros in the second quarter, the Dublin-based company
said in a statement today. Deposits have been stable since the
end of September and are expected to remain so, it said. ECB
funding to the unit was 8.1 billion euros at the end of June.  “It’s clear that Irish banks’ funding challenges have
increased significantly in recent weeks as evidenced by” the
drawing from central banks at the end of October, Glas
Securities analysts including  Fergal O’Leary  and Jim Ryan said
in a note to clients today.  Irish lenders have become more reliant on ECB funding after
being frozen out of wholesale markets. The amount of ECB loans
to Irish banks rose 7.3 percent to 130 billion euros in October
from the previous month, Ireland’s Central Bank said on Nov. 1.
The data include both international and domestic banks operating
in Ireland. European finance ministers started work yesterday on
possible aid for the country’s debt-laden banks, while stopping
short of an immediate bailout package.  “The good progress made in the first half of the year in
refinancing long-term debt has been impacted by the
deterioration in debt markets from May,” the company said.  Irish Life  rose 5 percent to 86 cents at the 5:10 p.m.
close in Dublin trading, giving the company a market value of
238 million euros.  Irish Life’s retail deposits continued to “record good
growth” in the second half and inflows are “expected to be at
similar levels as the first half at between 700 million euros
and 800 million euros,” the company said.  The lender currently has 5.5 billion euros of net “ECB
eligible securities” and this will be increased “as further
loan pools are securitized,” it said today.  Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s largest lender, said on
Nov. 12 it has 20 billion euros of net borrowings from
“monetary authorities,” compared with 8 billion at the end of
June.  Irish Life said today it forecasts full-year impairment
provisions for the banking unit will be about 10 percent to 15
percent below that of 2009 and group operating earnings will be
“significantly better” than last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  