-- Israeli Biotechnology Start-Ups Flock to Ohio on State Incentives, Experts
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-11-17T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/israeli-biotech-start-ups-flock-to-ohio-on-funds-expertise.html
As the Tel Aviv representative of
the  Ohio Department of Development , Rick Schottenstein said he’s
barely able to keep up with his e-mail.  “It’s a total avalanche,” Schottenstein said, as Israeli
biotechnology companies seek to link up with Ohio medical
experts, clinics, and investors,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports
in its Nov. 19 edition. “Each week I meet two, three companies
interested in finding a connection. It just doesn’t stop.”  Buttressed by state incentives and an Ohio venture capital
fund dedicated to investing in Israel, biotechnology companies
from that nation are flocking to Ohio, the  seventh-most-populous 
state in the U.S. In the past eight years, at least 14 Israeli
technology start-ups raised funds from Ohio-based backers, and
at least six of these opened offices in the state, said  Michael
Goldberg , founder and managing partner of Cleveland-based  Bridge
Investment Fund LP.   Israel and Ohio are helping each other in ways that may
link them as business partners for decades. Ohio’s health-care
industry more than doubled during the past four decades, to more
than  600,000 employees . The  Cleveland Clinic , a multispecialty
academic medical center, alone has 2,000 physicians and
scientists, according to its website. While Israel has almost
200 biotechnology companies, it doesn’t always have a big enough
market to consume these products or raise funds.  About five Israeli biotechnology companies have plans to
move to Ohio, and dozens more cooperate with Ohio-based groups
in clinical research, Goldberg said.  “While many Israelis still look to Boston or Silicon
Valley for support, Ohio has done more than other states to
attract Israeli start-ups,” he said.  Innovation Center  Israeli biotechnology companies have also benefitted from
funding and recruitment efforts from government-backed
foundations and Ohio-based health-care institutions.  The  Global Cardiovascular Innovation Center , a partnership
backed by the state of Ohio that funds development of health-
related products, invested at least $3 million during the last
eight years in five Israeli health-sciences companies, said
Thomas Sudow, director of the center.  “Israeli companies provide the leading hospitals here the
opportunity to work with leading innovators,” Sudow said. “For
Israeli companies, they get connected to the top doctors in the
U.S.”  BioEnterprise Corp ., founded by Cleveland research
institutes to support biosciences in the region, helps connect
the Israeli companies with capital, medical expertise, and
management teams in the state. The group helped Simbionix USA
Corp., a maker of medical devices, transfer its headquarters to
Cleveland from Israel in 2002. The company, with about 80
employees, has enlarged the base in Cleveland and moved into an
expanded research center outside Tel Aviv.  Treating Tumors  With an office in Tel Aviv, Goldberg’s Bridge fund invested
in five Israeli companies.  IceCure Medical Ltd ., based just
north of Tel Aviv, plans to soon start U.S. sales of a device
for treatment of benign tumors. The closely held company plans
to open a U.S. office and hire four employees there, Chief
Executive Officer  Hezi Himelfarb  said.  “For us, Ohio is an area where there are very reputable
hospitals and institutions,” Himelfarb said. “There’s a high
level of medical care with lots of small private clinics and
hospitals.”  EarlySense , the developer of a device that helps nurses
track crisis situations, dispatched a team of researchers to
Cleveland for clinical trials.  Bridge has “been instrumental in introducing us to
hospitals that are potential partners,” said EarlySense Chief
Executive Officer  Avner Halperin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 