-- Israel Offered More F-35 Fighter Jets at Pentagon Meeting, Ashkenazi Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-17T21:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/israel-offered-more-f-35-fighter-jets-at-pentagon-meeting-ashkenazi-says.html
The U.S. has offered Israel
additional F-35 fighter jets, Israel’s military chief of staff,
Lieutenant General  Gabi Ashkenazi , said today.  The Israeli general’s comments, at a Pentagon meeting with
the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral  Michael Mullen , is the first public statement confirming news reports
that the U.S. has offered additional  Lockheed Martin Corp.  F-35s
as part of a diplomatic effort to revive direct peace talks
between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.  The offer is “still under negotiation,” Ashkenazi told
reporters. “We’d be more than happy to get them.”  The U.S. has proposed that Israel freeze West Bank
settlement construction for 90 days in exchange for the 20
warplanes and a pledge to block any independent attempt by
Palestinians to declare statehood in the United Nations,
diplomats familiar with the deal have said. Peace talks stalled
after a previous settlement moratorium ended Sept. 26.  “We continue to work with the parties to create conditions
for a resumption of direct negotiations,” U.S. State Department
spokesman  Philip Crowley  said in an e-mail.  “On the Israeli side, we know that security is a paramount
concern and we remain committed to help ensure Israel’s
security,” Crowley said. “Beyond that, we will not comment on
our current discussions with the parties.”  The aircraft would be in addition to 20 jets the Israeli
government contracted in October to buy for about $2.8 billion.  Lockheed Martin spokesman  John Kent  said in an e-mail that
delivery of the initial order is scheduled for completion in
2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ; 