-- Israel Offered More F-35 Fighter Jets at Pentagon Meeting, Ashkenazi Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-11-17T15:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/israeli-cabinet-backs-pullout-from-lebanon-border-town-captured-in-67-war.html
Israel’s Security Cabinet gave
preliminary approval for a withdrawal from the northern part of
a former Syrian village on the border with Lebanon.  The 15-member inner cabinet ordered the Foreign Ministry to
complete details of a new arrangement for the village of Ghajar
with the United Nations “as soon as possible,” the government
said today in an e-mailed statement. The plan would insure full
access between northern and southern parts of the village and a
final agreement will be brought back to the Security Cabinet for
approval, the statement said.  “Both the security of Israel’s citizens and the normal
life of the residents of Ghajar” will “continue to be
maintained while the new arrangements are being put in place,”
Cabinet Secretary  Zvi Hauser  said in the statement.  Israel captured the Golan Heights village of Ghajar from
Syria in the 1967 Middle East War. In subsequent years, the
village grew northward into Lebanese territory. The expansion
became an issue after Israel in 2000 withdrew its troops from a
swath of territory it had been occupying in south Lebanon and
the UN delineated the Israeli-Lebanon border which runs through
the village.  A UN resolution that ended fighting between Israel and the
Shiite Muslim Hezbollah in south Lebanon in 2006 urged Israel to
withdraw its army from northern Ghajar.  Throughout negotiations over the withdrawal from Ghajar,
Israel has sought guarantees that the Iranian-backed Hezbollah
won’t be allowed to take control of the northern part of the
village. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  discussed a
withdrawal last week with UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon 
during his visit to New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  