-- Japan Bond Sales to Rise at Slower Pace Next Year, Tokai Tokyo, MUFJ Say
-- B y   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a
-- 2010-11-17T23:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/japan-bond-sales-to-rise-at-slower-pace-next-year-tokai-tokyo-mufj-say.html
Japan’s bond sales may increase at a
slower pace next fiscal year, easing concern supply will
outstrip demand, according to Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. and
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  Bond and note sales will likely grow by 3.6 trillion yen
($43 billion), or about 2.5 percent, in the year starting April
2011, according to the companies, which are among the 24 primary
dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.  The Ministry of Finance will hold meetings with  primary
dealers  today and  institutional investors  tomorrow to discuss
the size of debt issuances for fiscal 2011. The government said
in its  initial plan  released last December that it would boost
bond sales to investors such as banks and life insurers to a
record 144.3 trillion yen in the current fiscal year, an
increase of 31 trillion yen from the prior year.  “If bond sales increase by just several trillion yen next
fiscal year, the market will judge that the impact will be
limited,” said  Jun Ishii , chief fixed-income strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley in Tokyo.  The ministry will use the meetings with primary dealers and
institutional investors to gauge how much debt will be absorbed
by the market, said  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist at Tokai
Tokyo Securities. The market’s baseline will be an increase of
3.6 trillion yen, and a rise of 6 trillion yen or 7 trillion yen
will upset the supply-demand balance, he said.  The government will likely boost issuances of two-year,
five-year, 30-year and 40-year securities in fiscal 2011,
according to Mitsubishi UFJ’s Ishii and  Eiji Dohke , Tokyo-based
chief strategist for Japanese debt at Citigroup Inc.  Planned monthly debt issuance for the current fiscal year
was 2.6 trillion yen and 2.4 trillion yen for two-year and five-
year maturities respectively, and 600 billion yen and 300
billion yen for 30-year and 40-year maturities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nobuyuki Akama  in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 