-- Japanese Stock Futures, Australian Shares Are Little Changed on Oil, Yen
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-11-17T23:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/japanese-stock-futures-australian-shares-are-little-changed-on-oil-yen.html
Japanese  stock   futures  and
Australian shares were little changed as oil fell for a second
day, while copper and nickel rose and the dollar weakened
against the yen.  American depositary receipts of Canon Inc., a Japanese
camera maker that gets more than 80 percent of its sales abroad,
dropped 0.2 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo as the
exchange rate dimmed the outlook for export earnings. Those of
Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s biggest commodities trader, sank 0.8
percent. BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the world’s No.
1 and No. 3 mining companies, moved less than 0.1 percent in
Sydney.  “Commodity markets are slowing down as concerns about
inflation in emerging nations increase,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,
who oversees about $450 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225  Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 9,820 in Chicago yesterday, the same level as
in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-market at that price
today in Osaka, Japan, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index increased 0.3 percent in Wellington.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed today. The index was little changed yesterday in New
York, while most stocks advanced as earnings at Target Corp., an
operator of general merchandise discount stores, and speculation
that Ireland will receive aid offset concern that technology
spending is slowing.  Commodities Are Mixed  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 7.8 percent this year
to yesterday, compared with gains of 5.7 percent by the S&P 500
and 5.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14.4 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.9 times for the S&P 500 and 12 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Crude oil for December delivery tumbled 2.3 percent
yesterday to $80.44 a barrel in New York, the lowest settlement
since Oct. 19. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum rose 0.9 percent.
Copper in London rebounded yesterday from the biggest loss in
six months, gaining 0.5 percent.  The yen appreciated to 83.04 against the dollar about
midnight in Tokyo, compared with 83.43 at yesterday’s close of
stock trading. A stronger yen cuts the value of overseas income
at Japanese companies when converted into their home currency.  China’s cabinet confirmed yesterday evening that the
government may impose temporary price controls on “important
daily necessities” and production materials to counter the
fastest inflation in two years. Price caps will be used if
necessary, the State Council said in a statement yesterday after
a meeting chaired by Premier Wen Jiabao.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 