-- Kayak Software, a Travel Company Owned by Sequoia and Accel, Files for IPO
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-11-17T20:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/kayak-files-for-50-million-ipo-to-take-advantage-of-online-travel-demand.html
Kayak Software Corp., the Norwalk,
Connecticut-based provider of online travel information, filed
for an initial public offering worth as much as $50 million.  Banks led by Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG will
underwrite the IPO, Kayak said in a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission today. The company, which didn’t
disclose a price range or the number of shares it will offer,
plans to use the proceeds for general corporate purposes.  Kayak, backed by venture capital firms including Sequoia
Capital and Accel Partners, filed to sell shares after
 MakeMyTrip Ltd. , India’s largest online travel company, surged
89 percent following its U.S. IPO in August. Kayak, which lets
shoppers looking for flights, hotels and vacation packages
search multiple sites at the same time, had a 48 percent
increase in sales in the first nine months of the year.  A total of 33 American companies backed by venture capital
firms have completed initial sales this year, raising $3.64
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shares of venture
backed-IPOs have risen 11 percent in the first day of trading on
U.S. exchanges, more than twice the average for all other
offerings, the data show. IPOs backed by private equity firms
have posted an average gain of 1.1 percent.  Kayak’s sales rose to $128.3 million in the nine months
through Sept. 30, from $86.6 million in the same period a year
earlier, the company said in its filing. Net income fell 41
percent after marketing expenses, which include television and
billboard advertising, almost doubled.  Sequoia Capital  of Menlo Park, California, Accel Partners,
the Palo Alto, California-based firm that also backs Facebook
Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts-based General Catalyst Partners,
and Oak Investment Partners in Westport, Connecticut, own 69
percent of Kayak, according to its filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 