-- New Zealand Says Kiwifruit Disease to Cost Growers, Government $58 Million
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-11-18T00:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/kiwifruit-disease-to-cost-growers-government-58-million-minister-says.html
New Zealand estimates the kiwifruit
vine  disease  infecting orchards across the country will cost
around NZ$75 million ($58 million) with two-thirds of that being
borne by growers.  The country is planning a NZ$50 million rescue package for
the kiwifruit industry, funded by the government and growers,
Biosecurity Minister  David Carter  told reporters in Wellington
today. Growers are likely to incur losses of a further NZ$25
million in the next two years to three years, he said.  The government and growers are fighting one of the biggest
threats yet to the country’s NZ$1.4 billion kiwifruit industry.
The disease Pseudomonas syringae pv actinidiae was found in a
Bay of Plenty orchard in the North Island 12 days ago and has
since spread to 37 sites, including some in the country’s South
Island, according to  Zespri Group Ltd. , the world’s largest
marketer of the fruit.  “Today’s announcement is a major funding commitment by the
government and a decision not taken lightly,” Carter said.
“This is an immediate and aggressive response.”  The package will cover grower compensation for loss of
income, management techniques and more research into the
disease, Carter said. Some growers will be forced to
“aggressively” cut back affected vines which could see some
lose up to three years of production, he said.  Consultation Needed  The kiwifruit industry is yet to agree to the package.
Carter said he’s confident of an agreement by tomorrow night
following further consultation with growers. The infected
orchards represent less than 1 percent of the industry,
according to Zespri.  The disease was today confirmed as being in eight sites
growing the green variety of kiwifruit, which accounts for about
75 percent of New Zealand’s crop, said Zespri. It was previously
reported as being found only in the gold product, which makes up
the rest, according to a statement from Seeka Kiwifruit
Industries Ltd yesterday.  New Zealand  is the world’s third-biggest kiwifruit grower,
accounting for about 21 percent of global production. The
country earned NZ$1.4 billion from kiwifruit in the year ending
in March, according to Zespri figures.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Chris Bourke  in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  