-- Kiwifruit Disease Spreads to South Island, Threatening New Zealand's Crop
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-11-17T04:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/kiwifruit-disease-spreads-to-south-island-threatening-new-zealand-s-crop.html
The kiwifruit disease that is
infecting orchards in New Zealand has spread beyond the North
Island town where it was first discovered and has been found on
the nation’s South Island.  Two orchards on the South Island and five orchards
elsewhere in the North Island have tested positive for the
bacterial disease Pseudomonas syringae pv actinidiae,
Biosecurity Minister  David Carter  told reporters in Wellington
today. The infection was first discovered in the town of Te Puke
in the Bay of Plenty area.  There are now 28 orchards in New Zealand that have the
disease, which infects kiwifruit vines, according to the
statement. Some growers have begun culling their vines to stop
the spread of the infection that threatens the country’s NZ$1.4
billion ($1.07 billion) industry,  Zespri Group Ltd , the world’s
largest marketer of the fruit, said yesterday.  “There is an urgency to deal with the current situation,”
said Carter. “We simply don’t know how the disease got here.”  Members of the kiwifruit industry asked the government for
financial support in meetings held today to discuss a response,
Carter said. While he declined to comment on the amount
involved, it could be “tens of millions” of dollars, Zespri
spokeswoman Andrea Brady said an interview yesterday.  ‘Fast Changing’  “Confirmation this morning that PSA disease has spread
outside of the Te Puke area is a blow and shows how fast-
changing the situation is,” Carter said in an earlier
statement. The new cases don’t “mean the disease is spreading
wildly. Rather it could indicate that it may have been here for
some time.”  New Zealand is the world’s third-biggest kiwifruit grower,
accounting for about 21 percent of global production. The
country earned NZ$1.4 billion from kiwifruit in the year ending
in March, according to Zespri figures.  Seeka Kiwifruit Industries Ltd. , New Zealand’s largest
grower of the fruit, said six orchards that supply its fruit,
including two it leases and manages, have PSA.  The affected sites were in Te Puke and represented about 2
percent of its total supply, the company said in a statement
sent to the stock exchange.  Seeka’s shares rose 5 cents, or 2.3 percent, to NZ$2.20 at
the 5 p.m. market close in Wellington, after falling 31 percent
in the previous two days.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Chris Bourke  in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  