-- KV Pharmaceutical's Hermelin Resigns After U.S. Ban, Will Sell Stake
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2010-11-17T21:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/kv-pharmaceutical-s-hermelin-resigns-after-u-s-ban-will-sell-stake.html
KV Pharmaceutical Co.  said  Marc Hermelin  resigned as a director and will sell his controlling
interest after being banned from doing business with the U.S.
government for two decades. KV rose in New York trading.  Hermelin left the board on Nov. 10 and will sell his
shares, said  Catherine Biffignani , vice president of investor
relations, in a telephone interview today. Hermelin, 68, had
been fired as chairman and chief executive officer of Bridgeton,
Missouri-based KV in December 2008. He held about a 52 percent
voting stake, either in his own name or through trusts,
according to a company filing on May 7. KV didn’t specify the
timing of the stock sales.  The ban takes effect tomorrow. Hermelin will become the
first drug-company owner or executive barred from doing business
with the government in an antifraud push involving Medicare, the
insurance program for seniors and the disabled, and Medicaid,
the health program for the poor, according to the Health and
Human Services Office of Inspector General’s website. A KV
subsidiary, Ethex Corp., pleaded guilty to two felonies and paid
a $23.4 million fine in March, the Justice Department said.  “The company believes it has resolved its remaining issues
with respect to HHS OIG and is positioned to continue to
participate in federal health care programs now and in the
future,” KV said in a statement. The company also said it
agreed with lenders on a financing package that may total as
much as $120 million, and named  Greg Divis , who had been interim
CEO, as permanent chief.  ‘Material Weakness’  In a filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the company said its financial statements for the
year ended March 31 were still being prepared, and that a report
to regulators will tell of “material weaknesses in internal
controls over financial reporting.” KV “believes there is
substantial doubt” that it can “continue as a going concern,”
the company said in the filing.  KV, a maker of women’s health products and generic drugs,
rose 31 cents, or 15 percent, to $2.42 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have declined 34
percent in 12 months.  The company said in a June filing that if a shareholder
with ownership interest of 5 percent or more is prohibited from
participation in federal programs, the company may be banned as
well. KV said in a statement today that the settlement required
Hermelin to divest himself of all voting interests in the
company.  Inspector General  As long as Hermelin and KV comply with the settlement with
the inspector general, the agency agreed not to ban KV from
doing business with the government, KV said. The company also
agreed to dissolve Ethex and dispose of its remaining assets by
April 28.  In March, Ethex also paid a $23.4 million fine in
connection with making oversized prescription generic-drug
tablets, the Justice Department said. The government said Ethex
intentionally withheld data from the Food and Drug
Administration and put patients at risk.  KV said in a statement in December 2008 that its board had
fired Hermelin as CEO and chairman after investigating
allegations of unspecified misconduct. Hermelin said he retired
four days earlier.  McCarty Thornton, senior counsel at SNR Denton in
Washington and Hermelin’s attorney, didn’t return requests for
comment.  Hermelin had been chief executive since 1974 and is the son
of  Victor Hermelin , who started the business KV is based on in
1942.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Edney  in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 