-- `National Enquirer' Publisher Files for Chapter 11
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-11-17T21:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/national-enquirer-tabloid-publisher-american-media-files-for-bankruptcy.html
American Media Inc. , the publisher
of the  National Enquirer  and Star supermarket tabloids, filed
for bankruptcy protection with a previously negotiated
reorganization plan.  The Boca Raton, Florida-based publisher listed assets of
less than $50,000 and debt of as much as $1 billion in its
Chapter 11 filing today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. A
separate petition of operating subsidiary American Media
Operations Inc.’s lists assets of $100 million to $500 million
and debt of more than $1 billion.  American Media  terminated a previously proposed debt-
exchange offer and announced on Nov. 1 that it would undertake a
pre-packaged Chapter 11 filing. The company said today that
holders of notes and bank debt would receive either cash, new
notes or stock. American Media said it would try to emerge from
court protection against creditors in 60 days or less.  The company “is engaging in this strategy from a position
of financial strength and confidence,”  David Pecker , the
chairman and chief executive officer of American Media, said in
a statement today.  Among the company’s largest unsecured creditors listed in
court papers is  Wilmington Trust Corp. , indenture trustee for
holders of $355.8 million in 14 percent senior subordinated
notes due in 2013.  American Media  has been trying to restructure its debt at
least since February 2009. That month, it completed a tender
offer that reduced debt by about $230 million. Last July, it
began another exchange offer that would have cut debt by at
least $200 million. The offer was extended several times through
Nov. 1, when it was terminated in favor of the pre-packaged
Chapter 11.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service placed  American Media ’s ratings
on review for a possible upgrade in July when the company was
proceeding with its debt exchange. It cited the “soft, albeit
improving, demand for magazine advertising, secular declines in
magazine circulation and strong competition within the
celebrity, health and fitness publishing segments.”  Moody’s, in a report today, said the reorganization will
lower American Media’s debt by 40 percent. The company’s sales
were $404 million for the 12 months ended Sept. 30, according
to Moody’s.  The company’s publications include Shape and Men’s Fitness.
Total circulation, including subscriptions and newsstand sales,
is 6.8 million, according to its website.  The National Enquirer’s average estimated circulation in
September was 695,000, compared with 778,000 in October 2009.
The Star’s circulation fell to 940,000 in September from 1.1
million in October 2009.  Shape Circulation  American Media’s largest circulation magazine is Shape, at
1.65 million in September, unchanged from a year ago.  Under a November 2009 agreement with  Playboy Enterprises
Inc. , American Media took responsibility for Playboy magazine’s
operations except for the editorial product. Those functions
include production, circulation, advertising sales, marketing
and other support services for Playboy magazine and the
company’s other U.S. publications, according to a statement.  American Media also owns Distribution Services Inc., which
provides in-store marketing and merchandising.  The case is In re American Media Inc., 10-BK-16140, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 