-- Natural Gas Rises in New York on Speculation of Below-Average Storage Gain
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-11-17T18:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/natural-gas-rises-in-new-york-on-speculation-of-below-average-storage-gain.html
Natural gas rose in New York on
speculation that an Energy Department report tomorrow will show
that stockpiles gained less than the five-year average, eroding
an inventory surplus.  The Energy Department may say that supplies rose 8 billion
cubic feet last week, according to the median of 19 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average gain for
the week is 18 billion.  “There’s cold temperatures on the rise, and there’s the
possibility that they may report a net storage withdrawal
tomorrow,” said  Teri Viswanath , director of commodities
research at Credit Suisse Securities USA in Houston, who
estimated that inventories dropped by 5 billion cubic feet.  Natural gas for December delivery rose 13.7 cents, or 3.6
percent, to $3.955 per million British thermal units at 1:41
p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Gas has declined 29 percent this year as inventories
reached record highs.  Stockpiles  increased 19 billion cubic feet
in the week ended Nov. 5 to 3.84 trillion cubic feet, the Energy
Department said last week.  The U.S. is nearing the end of the shoulder before heating
demand picks up as temperatures fall. About 52 percent of U.S.
households use natural gas for heat.  More Cold in Forecast  Forecasters are calling for below-normal temperatures in
the 11- to 15-day outlooks, bolstering demand for the fuel.
Below-normal temperatures will span the East Coast from Florida
to Maine, Commodity Weather Group forecasters led by  Matt Rogers 
said in a report today.  “If anything, today’s forecast is looking colder over the
eastern half of the country than it was yesterday” for Nov. 28
through Dec. 2, the Weather Channel’s WSI Corp. said in a
forecast today.  “What you’ve got is a few different things pushing up that
price,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “It’s weather
and this week’s inventory number.”  Cumulative heating degree days increased by seven last
week, while injections into storage dropped 22 percent,
indicating that storage may have already begun its seasonal
period of withdrawals, Viswanath said in a note to clients.  The heating-degree days value, calculated by subtracting
the average daily temperature from a base of 65 degrees, is
designed to show energy demand, according to the National
Weather Service. The higher the value, the colder the weather,
indicating more energy is probably consumed to heat homes and
businesses.  Natural gas has closed near or above the 50-day moving
average of $3.80 for the past three days, indicating support at
that level and attracting traders who are looking for a bargain-
price investment, said  Michael Rose , director of trading at
Angus Jackson Inc. in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  “Natural gas is the only one that did not follow all the
rest in the huge bull run in commodities, and people are
reaching out and buying stuff they deem is cheap,” Rose said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 