-- Nazis Who Hid in U.S. Still Get Government Cover: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-11-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/nazis-who-hid-in-u-s-still-get-government-cover-ann-woolner.html
To whatever degree the U.S.
knowingly or carelessly sheltered Nazi murderers after World War
II, it’s a national shame.  “America, which prided itself on being a safe haven for
the persecuted, became -- in some small measure -- a safe haven
for persecutors as well,” according to a 607-page Justice
Department  report  made public this week by the New York Times
and National Security Archive, a private research group.  Astonishingly thorough and readable, the 2006 draft report
tells the story of how hundreds of Nazis came to be admitted
into the U.S. following the war and what the government did
about it.  It lays out how Otto von Bolschwing, a former deputy to
Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann, went to work for the Central
Intelligence Agency abroad and then entered the U.S. with the
CIA’s help.  The report offers details on the case of Arthur Rudolph,
who brought forced labor into the munitions factory he ran in  Germany . He later worked as a U.S. rocket scientist, helping to
make the first moon landing possible.  In both cases, Justice investigators finally uncovered the
extent of their wartime past and acted to have both men stripped
of their citizenship and deported.  The  Justice Department ’s failures and successes in some two
dozen individual cases are described, along with efforts to
track Nazi gold in  Switzerland  and seek help from other
countries, some recalcitrant. The report provides the historical
context and legal framework in which these cases were at first
ignored and then pursued, thanks in large part to the
persistence of New York Democrat Elizabeth Holtzman, then a
freshman in Congress.  It is a story of historic significance, well worth telling.  Known Secrets  But what is most astonishing about the report is how hard
the U.S. government tried to keep it hidden. The central facts
of these cases have already been reported. And it’s not as if
the Justice Department had anything to fear from its release.  The department’s failures are there, to be sure. But we
already knew about those. The fact that Nazis who committed
atrocities wound up in the U.S. is hardly news. Newspapers and
television networks have said so for decades, and the CIA has
released  information  on it, too.  If anything, the thoroughness, the extensive footnotes and
the historical and legal contexts given show the department’s
Office of Special Investigations on the whole did a remarkable
job under difficult circumstances to find Nazi persecutors and
throw them out of America’s sheltering arms.  And yet, the department  refused  to turn the report over
last year when the National Security Archive asked for it,
saying it was merely a draft and therefore exempt from
disclosure. So the group went to  court  in May.  Perhaps sensing they would lose that battle, Justice
Department lawyers whited-out whole passages and turned the
draft over to the  National Security Archive  in October.  Thousand Redactions  The group figures there are more than 1,000 redactions in
all, according to Tom Blanton, director of the Washington-based
organization.  If the edited draft were all we had, then the report
wouldn’t be of much value. But the unexpurgated report was
leaked to that group and to the New York Times. Both
organizations posted it online.  Now, you can see what the Justice Department lawyers
whited-out. And a lot of it is material that was already
publicly known.  Information from newspaper stories, court decisions and
congressional testimony were all kept out, as were footnotes
citing those sources.  ‘It’s Outrageous’  “We know precisely what was being withheld,” says David
Sobel, a Washington lawyer representing the National Security
Archive. “It’s outrageous seeing the types of material they are
prepared to tell a court must be withheld.”  Sobel said he can discern no pattern that would point to an
overarching motive for the edits.  “I can’t figure out what the rationale is,” he said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Blanton said some of the redactions may be aimed at keeping
internal conflicts secret.  Whatever the reason, the attempted censorship was self-
defeating and, in Sobel’s opinion, illegal under the Freedom of
Information Act.  Had the Justice Department simply handed over the full
document, it’s unlikely the New York Times would have run the
story on the front page of its Sunday edition, Blanton
speculates.  ‘Privacy’ Concerns  The Freedom of Information Act, which the group used to
seek the report, allows the government to withhold certain
material. But the two reasons the Justice Department cited,
privacy and “opinion,” simply don’t hold water when you see
what its lawyers deleted from the version that was finally
turned over.  Nor does the Justice Department offer much explanation.
“Attorneys with FOIA expertise make determinations about
certain redactions based on privacy and other considerations
under the law,” spokeswoman  Laura Sweeney  said in an e-mailed
statement.  She also said the department considers the report merely
an unfinished draft which contains errors.  But in its unedited version, this is a heavily footnoted
account is based on extensive interviews with key officials,
documents, published reports and court rulings. Whatever its
imperfections, its value surely outweighs them.  It has sparked news coverage in  Australia , for example,
because of claims that officials there had been recalcitrant in
going after war criminals.  The story of Nazis in America isn’t pretty. But nor is it
as ugly as sensational conspiracy theorists have claimed.  This report is an important contribution to history. The
shame of it is that an administration that claims to be devoted
to transparency tried to hide it.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  