-- Netherlands Returns Brueghel Oil to Heirs of Jewish Art Dealer
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-11-17T13:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/netherlands-restitutes-brueghel-oil-to-heirs-of-nazi-persecuted-art-dealer.html
The Netherlands returned an oil
painting by Jan Brueghel the Younger to the heirs of a Jewish
art dealer persecuted by the Nazis and forced to flee Germany
more than 70 years ago.  “Allegory of Life and Water” by Brueghel (1601-1678)
shows two ladies reclining under a tree, the towers of a town
visible in the distance. The work belonged to Max Stern, the
owner of a Dusseldorf art gallery who was banned by the Nazis
from exercising his profession in 1935, and until now it hung in
the  Noordbrabants Museum  in Den Bosch.  “It is important to continue to contemplate the World War
II period, pose questions from a current perspective and make
restitution where possible,” Judith van Kranendonk, a Dutch
Culture Ministry official, said in an e-mailed statement sent
before a ceremony today in The Hague to return the painting.  The Nazis stole countless artworks from across Europe -- at
least 650,000, according to estimates. After the war, the Allies
handed the looted works whose rightful owners could not be
identified to the government of the presumed country of origin.
In the Netherlands, the returned artworks -- among them, the
Brueghel painting -- entered the National Art Collection.  The Netherlands was one of 44 countries that, in 1998,
endorsed  international principles  on returning art stolen from
the mainly Jewish collectors who were victims of  Adolf Hitler ’s
regime. To implement the guidelines, the Dutch government
founded a Restitutions Committee in 2002. The panel since has
made recommendations on 93 claims for art in state hands.  Liquidated Gallery  Stern, the proprietor of the Dusseldorf Galerie Julius
Stern, was banned from business and forced by the Nazis to
liquidate his gallery and auction the contents -- more than 200
paintings, many of them Old Masters -- in a sale managed by the
Cologne auction house  Lempertz  in 1937.  Though the Brueghel painting was in Stern’s possession in
1936, it wasn’t part of that sale. There is no documentation for
its whereabouts until 1943, when it was purchased by the
Kunsthalle Hamburg museum from an Amsterdam dealer.  Three years ago, the heirs filed a claim for the painting
to the Dutch government. The  Restitutions Committee  recommended
in May that the work should be returned. The panel said Stern
may have sold it to help his mother escape Germany, or it may
have been among the possessions he left when he fled, which were
all later seized and sold by the Nazis.  Involuntary Loss  Stern’s predicament at the time of the loss was “so
menacing and dangerous that, had he succeeded in selling the
claimed painting during this period, it should be considered to
have been under duress,” the Dutch panel said.  It reached the conclusion that “the loss of possession was
involuntary, as a result of circumstances directly related to
the Nazi regime,” and that the painting should be fully
restituted to the heirs.  Max Stern’s estate is managed by three universities:
 Concordia  and  McGill  in Montreal and the Hebrew University in
Jerusalem. The art dealer fled Germany shortly after the forced
sale at Lempertz and reached Paris in December 1937 with nothing
but a suitcase.  He set up a new business, first in Britain and then later
in Montreal. He died in 1987 without children, leaving the bulk
of his estate to the universities.  Missing Paintings  In 2002, the universities began a campaign to recover the
lost art, creating the  Max Stern Art Restitution Project ,
administered by Concordia. The Brueghel painting is only the
eighth of about 400 missing paintings to be returned. From next
month, it will be loaned to the  Montreal Museum of Fine Arts .  “Hundreds of Stern’s works were looted,” Judith
Woodsworth, the president of Concordia, said in the statement.
“It is our hope that the recovery of many of them -- most
notably, those currently hanging in other European museums --
will follow.”  The Flemish painter Jan Brueghel the Younger devoted his
career to continuing his father’s painting style, sometimes
copying his works to meet demand for big, decorative landscapes.
Born in Antwerp, he was part of a dynasty of painters which
included his father, Jan Brueghel the Elder, and his
grandfather,  Pieter Brueghel  the Elder.  The highest price paid for a painting by Jan Brueghel the
Younger at auction is almost $3 million, according to the Artnet
database.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  