-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Climb for Second Day on Prospects Ireland to Get Aid
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-18T16:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/new-zealand-dollar-advances-as-producer-prices-rise-faster-than-expected.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars gained for a second day as speculation Ireland will
accept aid boosted demand for higher-yielding assets by stemming
concern the European nation’s banking crisis may spread.  The Aussie rose against most of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg as Reserve Bank of Australia
Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino  said inflation pressure is
likely. The New Zealand dollar also rose as a report showed the
nation’s producer prices increased in the third quarter more
than economists forecast.  “The major influence on the market over the next few days
is going to be the Ireland debt issue,” said  Joseph Capurso , a
currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in Sydney.
“Ireland will soon accept a package of aid. That should see a
bit of a rally in the euro and also in commodity currencies like
the Aussie and kiwi.”  Australia’s currency advanced 0.8 percent to 98.79 U.S.
cents at 11:25 a.m. in New York, from 97.97 cents yesterday. New
Zealand’s dollar gained 0.8 percent to 77.67 U.S. cents, from
77.03 cents.  European Union, International Monetary Fund and European
Central Bank officials started today to study the books
of Irish banks battered by the country’s property slump.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.1 percent, following
four days of losses. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased
1.7 percent.  Aussie Rate Outlook  Swaps traders are betting the Reserve Bank of Australia
will keep its cash target unchanged at its next meeting on Dec.
7, before raising it by 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage
point, over the next year, according to an  index  compiled by
Credit Suisse Group AG.  With money continuing to flow into Australia “over the
next couple of years as a result of the resources boom, the
challenge will be to manage the economy in a way that keeps
economic growth on a sustainable path, with inflation
contained,” Battellino said in prepared remarks in Perth today,
reinforcing the decision on Nov. 2 to end a five-month pause in
raising interest rates.  He also said the strong Australian dollar is “a natural
consequence of a resources boom and, at the aggregate level, is
helpful in allowing the economy to adjust.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose versus the dollar after a
government report showed producer  input prices  increased 0.7
percent from the second quarter, compared with the median
forecast for a 0.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Producer output prices rose 1.2 percent, said
Statistics New Zealand, compared with predictions for a 0.6
percent advance.  ‘Upside Surprise’  “Given the extent of the upside surprise, we’ve seen
markets sit up and take notice as it’s really a reminder that
inflation pressures in New Zealand aren’t dead,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “It’s another factor strengthening the case for
Reserve Bank of New Zealand rate hikes from early next year.”  Swaps traders are betting that Reserve Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  will increase the official cash rate by 78 basis points
over 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse  index .  Benchmark interest rates are 3 percent in New Zealand and
4.75 percent in  Australia , compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  