-- New England Leads U.S. in `Precarious' Recovery, Economists Group Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-17T18:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/new-england-leads-u-s-in-precarious-recovery-economists-group-says.html
New England’s six states are leading
the U.S. in a “slow and precarious” economic recovery
threatened by deep cuts to government spending, economists said.  The region’s economy, which in the first quarter of 2009
shrank more than 10 percent, will expand at an annualized rate
of more than 5 percent by the end of next year, led by job
growth in  Massachusetts  and  New Hampshire , the  New England
Economic Partnership  said in a report today. The U.S. recovery
will be slowed by weak housing markets outside New England, with
gross domestic product achieving a growth rate of more than 5
percent by 2012, the economists said.  Deep spending cuts or a change in federal economic policy
could derail the rebound, they said. Government employment in
the states -- Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
Rhode Island and Vermont -- is forecast to drop 2 percent,
according to the report. That’s equal to 21,000 jobs during the
next year as states, cities, and the federal government cut jobs
to combat budget deficits, the Walpole, Massachusetts-based
forecasting group said.  “The recovery in the New England states is expected to be
slow and precarious,” the economists wrote in a report released
today at an annual conference at the Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston. “It is dependent on continued aggressive federal
economic policy and a sustained recovery in the national
economy.”  The  unemployment rate  in New England peaked at the
beginning of this year at 9.1 percent and will fall to 8.6
percent next year, below the U.S. average of 9.9 percent,
according to the report.  Rhode Island , the first state in the
region to begin slipping into recession in 2007, will struggle
to recover, with its jobless rate having touched 12.7 percent
this year, the economists said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net  Client.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  