-- New York City Subway to New Jersey Studied After Christie Ends Tunnel Plan
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-17T19:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/new-york-city-subway-to-new-jersey-studied-after-christie-ends-tunnel-plan.html
New York City officials are studying
a proposal to extend the No. 7 subway line from Manhattan under
the Hudson River to Secaucus after New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  killed plans for a new tunnel linking the states.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s administration said the subway
plan would double commuter capacity and spur regional economic
growth. Christie on Oct. 27 canceled the train tunnel, saying
New Jersey couldn’t afford as much as $5 billion in potential
overruns on the $8.7 billion initial cost of the project.  Running the subway line from Manhattan’s far west side to
the Secaucus rail station might reduce the project’s cost to
about $5.3 billion, officials said. It also promises billions of
dollars in new jobs and increased home values by linking
Manhattan and Long Island City, Queens, with the New Jersey
suburbs, proponents said.  “Extending  the 7 line  to New Jersey could address many of
the region’s transportation-capacity issues at a fraction of the
original tunnel’s cost, but the idea is still in its earliest
stages,” said  Andrew Brent , a spokesman for Deputy Mayor for
Economic Development  Robert Steel .  The line is  undergoing an extension  from its current run
from Flushing, Queens, to Times Square, with a planned terminus
at 34th Street and 11th Avenue. The original goal of the $2.1
billion, city-funded extension was to open Manhattan’s far west
side to development.  ‘Very Clever Idea’  “This is the very beginning,” Bloomberg said of the
proposal at a news conference in lower Manhattan today. “This
is a very clever idea, and a big chunk of the cost wouldn’t
exist here because they wouldn’t need to purchase New York real
estate.”  Rezoning and future growth in midtown Manhattan’s office
market may add 30 million square feet of space with 120,000 new
workers in the next 30 years, according to an  Economic
Development Corp.  memo obtained from a person familiar with its
details, who declined to speak publicly before it is released.  The area on the far west side, called  Hudson Yards , was
described by Bloomberg administration officials as Manhattan’s
last underdeveloped neighborhood.  Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for
 Related Cos. , the chief developer of office towers, apartment
buildings and cultural amenities planned for the area, declined
to comment on the plan.  The already completed tunnel work under Manhattan would
drive down the cost of extending it across the river to the
Secaucus station, which is about six miles (10 kilometers) from
the Meadowlands sports complex, planners say. It would also
eliminate $4 billion required for property acquisition in the
original New Jersey rail plan, dubbed  ARC , an acronym for Access
to the Region’s Core.  ‘Fair and Equitable’  “As the governor indicated when he ended ARC, he’s open to
new ideas to resolve the trans-Hudson transportation dilemma,”
said  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie. “But any plan
that is first feasible would need to be fair and equitable to
New Jersey in that all jurisdictions benefitting from the tunnel
would share the costs appropriately.”  Jay Walder , chairman and chief executive officer of the
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which operates the
region’s subways and commuter rail lines, described the idea as
“very exciting.” At the same time, he said his agency had no
money to support the project.  Second Avenue Subway  The MTA’s $26.3 billion five-year capital spending program
still requires more money to maintain the existing system and
complete construction of a new  Second Avenue subway  line in
Manhattan and a  connection  of the Long Island Rail Road’s
commuter line into Grand Central Terminal on Manhattan’s east
side by 2016, Walder said.  “The primary focus of this organization right now is on
bringing those projects in, in the budget and on the schedule
that we have,” Walder told reporters at a briefing following a
regularly scheduled meeting of the MTA board.  The benefits of the proposed link between New Jersey and
Manhattan include that it delivers the “same capacity as ARC
for half the cost,” “facilitates economic growth” and
“provides infrastructure we can afford,” the Economic
Development Corp. memo states.  It also has the added advantages of avoiding the already
overcrowded Penn Station at a time when officials expect
ridership from New Jersey to increase to 62,000 from 39,000 per
day over the next three decades, the memo said.  North Jersey  New Jersey’s northern suburbs may be the major growth area
in the region, with a projected 1.36 million population increase
by 2035, the memo stated, citing studies by the New York
Metropolitan Transportation Council, an organization of regional
governments that coordinates transit financing.  Christie’s killing of the ARC project means  the state  may
have to repay the U.S. government $350 million already spent on
the project, forgo $3 billion in additional federal aid and lose
3,000 construction-worker jobs federal and Port Authority
officials said the tunnel would generate for the next decade.  It also may have cost New York and New Jersey 44,000 jobs
and $4 billion in additional income that would have come through
economic growth, according to a 2008 study by New Jersey
Transit.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall, at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  