-- News Corp.'s James Murdoch Says Probe May Jeopardize BSkyB Investment
-- B y   S i m o n   T h i e l   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-17T15:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/news-corp-s-james-murdoch-says-probe-may-jeopardize-bskyb-investment.html
James Murdoch , News Corp.’s head of
Europe and Asia, said the U.K. should back the company’s 7.8
billion-pound ($12.4 billion) bid for  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc  or risk losing the investment.  “The government needs to assess the benefits of having a
world-leading digital TV business centered in the U.K.
marketplace versus potentially jeopardizing an 8 billion-pound
investment in the U.K. with a prolonged plurality process,”
Murdoch said today at a Morgan Stanley conference in Barcelona.
Murdoch is also chairman of BSkyB.  News Corp., which owns the U.K. Times and Sunday Times
newspapers, bid in June for the 61 percent of  BSkyB  it doesn’t
already own to gain access to the increasing cash flows of the
U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator. BSkyB, which last week hit its
target of 10 million subscribers, spurned the 700 pence a share
bid and said it wanted at least 800 pence. BSkyB Chief Executive
Officer  Jeremy Darroch  said today that the renewed offer could
extend into 2011 if additional government reviews are ordered.  “At the earliest it could be resolved at the end of this
calendar year, and if it goes further out it’s the middle of
next calendar year,” Darroch said. The company is now
undergoing first-stage reviews in the U.K. for competition and
plurality of media.  U.K. newspapers, the British Broadcasting Corp. and phone
company BT Group Plc signed a joint letter to U.K. Business
Secretary  Vince Cable  calling for the bid to be challenged.  Cable this month demanded a review of the proposed offer,
potentially delaying the deal.  Government Dilemma  Cable’s decision may create a dilemma for the coalition
government of Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose Conservative
Party was backed by News Corp. newspaper the Sun in Britain’s
May general election.  Cable will decide on the bid based on the “rule of law
rather than the commercial noise and lobby of competitors,”
BSkyB Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Griffith  said last month.  James Murdoch said today News Corp. hasn’t considered
making disposals to gain regulatory approval for its bid for
full ownership. Newspapers including the Guardian have said that
News Corp. might consider selling the Sky News channel in order
to gain approval.  The proposed deal hasn’t affected business operation or
plans, Darroch said today. BSkyB is expanding programming and
delivery platforms, and may make “sensible bolt-on
acquisitions,” he said. Even with a tougher consumer
environment and competition from new platforms, the company sees
potential to increase subscribers in the U.K., he said.  European antitrust regulators have asked television
companies whether News Corp.’s offer would limit their access to
viewers and raise advertising prices, according to a
questionnaire obtained by Bloomberg News. The EU document didn’t
include questions about the effect of the merger on the news
media.  -- Editors:  Robert Valpuesta ,  Vidya Root .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Thiel  in Barcelona at  sthie1@bloomberg.net ;
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  