-- Nomura Turns `Bearish' on Chinese Stocks on Outlook for Tightening Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T09:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/nomura-turns-bearish-on-chinese-stocks-on-outlook-for-tightening-policy.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. is turning
“bearish” on China’s yuan-denominated shares, saying that the
government may order price controls and “more draconian’”
measures to curb accelerating inflation.  “The likelihood of a re-introduction of price controls on
food is growing,”  Sean Darby , a Hong Kong-based strategist at
Nomura, which was ranked first in China research by
Institutional Investor magazine in its All-China Research Team
poll this year, said in a report today. “The recent run-up in
agriculture prices worldwide and signs of hoarding appear to
have pushed the authorities to reconsider draconian measures.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  plunged 4 percent yesterday,
contributing to the steepest loss for a three-day period since
September 2009, on speculation policy makers may raise interest
rates and introduce measures to control rising food prices. The
stocks measure dropped 1.9 percent to 2,838.86 today, after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on state television the cabinet is
drafting measures to counter overly rapid price gains.  “Command style economic principles generally mean much
lower multiples over time on the sector and stocks,” said Darby,
who had a “bullish” rating on  China’s A-shares  since June 23.
The Shanghai measure has gained 13 percent since then.  China in January 2008 temporarily froze prices for oil
products, natural gas and electricity, as well as daily goods
and school and transportation fees, to counter inflation that
surged to the fastest pace in more than a decade.  Darby said China’s “underground economy,” which may
represent up to 10 percent of gross domestic product, isn’t
dependent on monetary support and may see “little impact” from
policy tightening.  Price Controls  The central bank raised interest rates last month for the
first time in three years and this month increased lenders’
reserve requirements as cash from October’s larger-than-forecast
$27.1 billion trade surplus threatened to add to the risk of
asset bubbles and accelerating inflation.  Wen’s comments at a Guangzhou, Guangdong, supermarket were
broadcast on state television. He didn’t elaborate, beyond
urging local governments to ensure market supply and order.
China will introduce measures to control rising food prices,
including limits on how much products may be sold for and
subsidies, the China Securities Journal reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified person. Corn prices in China jumped to a
record yesterday while rice reached an all-time high.  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 13 percent this year
after the government raised bank reserve requirements and curbed
lending growth to cool the economy. Stocks on the measure trade
at an average 19.2 times reported  earnings , compared with 26.4
times at the beginning of the year, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowing Costs  China’s consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent in October, the
fastest pace in two years, and more than the 4 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists. The
government’s full-year inflation target is 3 percent.  The People’s Bank of China boosted its benchmark one-year
lending rate on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a percentage point to
5.56 percent, the first increase since 2007.  The central bank may raise rates due to sustained
inflationary pressure, the Beijing-based China Securities
newspaper said in today’s edition. China may increase borrowing
costs for a second time this year as soon as Nov. 19, the
newspaper said, citing an unidentified analyst.  China will likely experience abnormally low temperatures
this winter because of the La Nina weather pattern, the official
Xinhua News Agency said in August.                  ‘  “The difficulty for investors is that unpredictable
weather during winter may lead to shortages as was seen in
2009,” Nomura’s Darby said. “This may mean more draconian
measures than investors are discounting.”  -- Chua Kong Ho , Shiyin Chen. Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  