-- Norway Becomes Investor Haven on World's Lowest Default Risk
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-11-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/norway-becomes-european-haven-for-investors-on-world-s-lowest-default-risk.html
Norway may become Europe’s next
investor haven as the region’s fiscal turmoil raises the appeal
of debt and currency markets in an economy with the world’s
smallest default-risk.  The Nordic country’s budget surplus equaled 10.3 percent of
gross domestic product last year as oil revenue and the lowest
 unemployment  rate in Europe protected government finances from
the drain suffered by deficit-laden countries such as Greece and
Ireland. Norwegian bonds with maturities of one to 10 years
returned 6.197 percent this year, compared with 4.747 percent
for similar German debt and 2.931 percent for Swiss bonds.  “Because Norway is the best sovereign credit in the world,
it’s such a safe haven,” said  Par Magnusson , chief Nordic
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, in an interview.
The current “risk aversion is euro-centric,” he said.  Norway is the world’s seventh-biggest oil exporter and
avoids the unpredictable swings that other energy-rich nations
suffer by investing oil revenue offshore through its sovereign
wealth fund. The $305 billion mainland economy will grow 3
percent in 2011, the central bank estimates, outpacing expansion
rates in Switzerland and Germany. Norway’s budget surplus will
stay close to 10 percent of GDP this year and next, according to
the government.  Investor focus on fiscal health will benefit the whole
Nordic region for “a long time,” according to  Carl Hammer ,
chief currency strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm. Both Norway
and Sweden offer “strong fundamentals, better growth prospects
than Europe,” he said in an interview.  Lowest Default Risk  Norway’s $505 billion wealth fund means the country’s
default risk is lower than that of the U.S. or Germany. Credit
default swap contracts show the cost of insuring against a
Norwegian default dropped to 21.5 basis points this week,
compared with 39 for German debt, 42 on Swiss debt and 41 for
U.S. debt, according to data provider CMA.  Irish bonds led a market rout from Portugal to Greece this
month amid concern Ireland won’t be able to contain its fiscal
and banking crisis without a bailout. Even France is feeling the
contagion as investors punish countries with high debt levels.  “Because of the oil wealth, the fiscal situation in Norway
is as far away as you can get from the peripherals,” said  Olav Chen , a senior portfolio manager who oversees about $6 billion
at Storebrand Asset Management, in an interview.  “We have not been influenced very much by” Europe’s debt
crisis “and the reason is that our fiscal position is very much
different,” central bank Governor  Svein Gjedrem  said in an
interview yesterday.  Different Path  Though Gjedrem said liquidity in Norway’s currency and debt
markets in the past has kept some investors away, “new on the
table is of course all the fuss about the fiscal situation, so
that is a new argument for the krone having a different path and
potentially being looked at as a safe haven,” Chen said.  The krone’s 11 percent appreciation against the dollar
since a June low still leaves room for gains, said Magnusson at
RBS and Hammer at SEB.  Camilla Viland , a currency analyst at DnB NOR ASA,
Norway’s biggest bank, said the krone’s 6 percent drop against
the euro since a May high could offer a buying opportunity. For
long-term investors, the krone’s exchange rate “may seem like
good levels to buy,” she said.  The bullish predictions come as the central bank takes
steps to minimize the krone’s gains. Norges Bank said last month
it will push back tightening plans by about six months to the
middle of 2011.  Currency War  “Norway is also in the currency war,” Chen said.  Sweden’s currency and debt markets also may offer investors
refuge from Europe’s debt woes as the government predicts the
economy will deliver the European Union’s biggest rebound this
year. Sweden had the second-smallest budget deficit last year in
the EU after Luxemburg at 0.9 percent of GDP, the European
Commission said on Nov. 15. The largest Nordic economy will grow
4.8 percent this year, the government estimates.  That’s prompted the Riksbank to raise rates three times
since July. The central bank expects the benchmark to reach 3.4
percent by the end of 2013, up from 1 percent today.  Riksbank Deputy Governor  Lars Nyberg  said in a Nov. 12
interview the country is facing a capital influx as low
borrowing costs and sluggish growth prospects in the U.S. and
Europe force investors to seek higher returns elsewhere. He also
indicated his bank won’t take policy steps to stem those flows.  ‘Less Euro, More Scandi’  Sweden’s krona has appreciated 12 percent against the
dollar since the end of June, making it the third-best performer
in the period of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Australian and New Zealand dollars. Swedish bonds
returned 4.264 percent this year, compared with the 6.667
percent for U.S. Treasuries.  Swedish government debt will narrow to 29 percent of GDP by
2012, compared with 35 percent this year, the country’s debt
office said on Nov. 16.  “That’s a very, very good figure and very strong finances
means that the risk of losing money is almost zero,” said  Bo Lundgren , the head of Sweden’s National Debt Office, in an
interview. “So Sweden is a safe haven.”  SEB considers the “long-term trend as beneficial for both
Sweden and Norway,” Hammer said. That means the bank is buying
“less euro papers and more Scandinavian paper,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  