-- Barclays, NRG Make First California Cap-and-Trade Deal
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 2010-11-17T19:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/nrg-energy-barclays-make-first-california-cap-and-trade-deal.html
Barclays Plc  and  NRG Energy Inc .,
the largest U.S. independent power producer, have completed the
first deal for carbon-dioxide permits under California’s planned
cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gases.  Under terms of the trade announced today, permits or carbon
allowances will be delivered in December 2012, said  Kedin Kilgore , head of U.S. emissions trading for London-based
Barclays. The state’s cap-and-trade program begins in 2012 for
utilities and manufacturers and in 2015 for cars and trucks.
Eventually, 85 percent of California emissions will be covered.  The most populous U.S. state is moving ahead with its
program to curb global-warming gases after federal cap-and-trade
legislation championed by President  Barack Obama  stalled in
Congress this year. Republicans and some Democrats called the
plan an energy tax in disguise.  “California is the eighth-largest economy on the planet,”
Kilgore said in an interview. “Trying to cover and reduce 85
percent of the emissions in California is significant.”  Kilgore declined to say whether Princeton, New Jersey-based
NRG was a buyer or seller in the deal, or the price of the
permits traded.  California pollution permits for delivery in December 2012
were offered today at $11.50 a ton, according to  Eric Klein ,
director of coal and environmental markets at broker Tradition
Financial Services in New York.  ‘Live Market’  “There’s a live market,” Klein said in an interview.
“We’re pretty much going to go forward in California.”  The permits, each representing one metric ton of carbon
dioxide, may cost $15 to $30 each by 2020, according to an
analysis from the  California Air Resources Board , the agency
that will run the program.  “We do not believe market fundamentals will begin to
support increased carbon pricing until we see the broader
economy begin to improve,” Kilgore said.  The trading program is authorized under California’s Global
Warming Solutions Act, which requires the state to cut its
greenhouse gases to 1990 levels by 2020. The agency’s 11-member
board will meet Dec. 16 to decide whether to approve the cap-
and-trade plan.  This month, voters in California rejected a ballot measure
backed by oil refineries that would have suspended the global-
warming law signed by Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger .  Oil refiners  Tesoro Corp .,  Valero Energy Corp . and Flint
Hills Resources LLC, a subsidiary of Koch Industries Inc.,
helped fund efforts to delay the law through a proposition on
the Nov. 2 ballot. The measure, which would have suspended the
law until California’s unemployment rate is cut by more than
half, was defeated with 62 percent of voters opposed, according
to state election records.  Gates, Brin, Doerr  Supporters of the global-warming law, including Microsoft
Corp. founder  Bill Gates , Google Inc. co-founder  Sergey Brin  and
venture capitalist  John Doerr , raised more than $30 million to
campaign against the ballot measure with radio, television and
print advertising.  The program will cover almost 400 million metric tons of
carbon dioxide from power plants, factories, refineries and the
tailpipes of cars and trucks once fully phased in by 2015.
That’s more than double the emissions covered by a carbon market
for power plants in the U.S. Northeast, called the Regional
Greenhouse Gas Initiative, and almost one-fifth the current size
of Europe’s cap-and-trade program, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  State-Run Auctions  By 2015, refiners in California would probably have to buy
permits in state-run auctions and would be able to pass on
higher costs to consumers, the air resources board said in a
report last month. Gasoline prices may increase 4 percent to 8
percent if permits are priced from $15 to $30 each, the agency
said in a report. If carbon allowance prices climbed to $75
each, gasoline prices would be 19 percent higher in 2020.  Higher fuel prices “may induce some consumers to switch to
smaller vehicles that are both more fuel-efficient but less
expensive than the larger vehicles chosen without cap-and-
trade,” according to the agency’s economic analysis. Others may
respond by driving less, the agency found.  California will try to expand its carbon market by
persuading other U.S. states and some Canadian provinces to set
up similar cap-and-trade programs, which could be linked, the
air resources board said in its report.  “Lower transaction costs and market efficiency are the
best tools for managing carbon risk,” Brannen McElmurray,
director of environmental commodities at NRG, said in a
statement.  Farms, Forests  California’s cap-and-trade program would also let companies
buy a limited number of offsets, which are pollution cuts from
unregulated sources such as farms, instead of state-issued
carbon allowances.  U.S. forests, farms that capture methane from livestock
manure and projects that destroy ozone-depleting industrial
gases, such as hydrochlorofluorocarbons used in refrigeration,
would be the approved sources of carbon offsets at the beginning
of the cap-and-trade program, the air resources board said last
month.  Schwarzenegger announced partnerships yesterday with state
governments in Brazil and Mexico to protect tropical rainforests
that store large volumes of carbon. The partnership aims to
create an additional source of offsets -- saving tropical
rainforests in developing countries -- that companies can use in
California’s carbon market, Schwarzenegger said in a  statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Washington at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 