-- Crude Oil Tumbles to Four-Week Low on Signals China Will Increase Rates
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-17T21:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/oil-snaps-three-days-of-declines-after-report-shows-drop-in-u-s-supplies.html
Crude oil declined to a four-week
low on speculation that China will raise interest rates, slowing
economic growth in the world’s biggest energy-consuming country.  Oil fell 2.3 percent after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
the government was drafting measures to counter inflation.
Prices also dropped on concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening
as ministers considered a rescue package for Irish banks.
Futures rebounded briefly after an Energy Department report
showed U.S. crude  supplies  slid 7.29 million barrels last week.  “Fears about Ireland and China are trumping inventories at
the moment,” said  Andre Julian , chief financial officer and
senior market strategist at OpVest Wealth Management in Irvine,
California. “Under normal circumstances prices would rally
after a 7 million-barrel drop.”  Crude oil for December delivery fell $1.90 to $80.44 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since Oct. 19. Futures have dropped 9.2 percent from
the two-year intraday high of $88.63 a barrel on Nov. 11.  Oil slipped as Wen’s comments, broadcast on state
television, stoked speculation the government will raise
interest rates to damp economic growth. The Bank of Korea
increased borrowing costs yesterday after inflation surged past
the central bank’s ceiling.  Interest Rates  The People’s Bank of China raised its benchmark interest
rates in October for the first time since 2007 and boosted
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios last week by as much as 1
percentage point, seeking to tame the fastest inflation in two
years. Consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, exceeding all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  European finance ministers started work on possible aid for
Ireland’s debt-laden banks, stopping short of an immediate
bailout package. The country’s crisis is stoking concern that
Europe’s debt problems are spreading, weakening the euro versus
the dollar and reducing investor demand for commodities priced
in the U.S. currency.  Total consumption of  petroleum products  averaged 19.3
million barrels a day in the past four weeks, up 3.7 percent
from 18.6 million during the same period a year earlier,
according to the Energy Department’s supply report.  “Demand will outstrip supply next year, so we expect the
price is going to rise to $90 to $95 a barrel next year and
could reach $100,”  Boone Pickens , the billionaire energy hedge-
fund manager, said today during an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York.  Pickens, chairman of Dallas-based BP Capital LLC, said oil
consumption will reach 88 million barrels a day in 2011,
compared with 86 million in supply.  Peak Output  Global crude output probably peaked in 2006, and increasing
demand will have to be met from forms of oil such as tar sands
that are more difficult to extract, International Energy Agency
Chief Economist  Fatih Birol  said at a conference in Madrid
today. “The age of cheap oil is over,” Birol said.  Crude-oil stockpiles dropped 10.6 million barrels, or 2.9
percent, to 357.6 million in the past two weeks, the
department’s report showed. Inventories were forecast to be
unchanged in the week ended Nov. 12, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. Imports tumbled 2.8 percent to 7.86 million barrels
a day, the  lowest level  since December.  “We’ve now had two big draws in a row,” said  Sean Brodrick , a natural resource analyst with Weiss Research in
Jupiter, Florida. “This is a sign that the economy is
improving. As it improves, you will see greater demand for oil
and gasoline, putting downward pressure on stockpiles.”  Refineries operated at 84 percent of capacity, up 1.6
percentage point from the previous week, the report showed.  Gasoline Inventories  Gasoline supplies  slipped 2.66 million barrels to 207.7
million, the lowest level since the week ended Oct. 16, 2009.
Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, dropped 1.11 million barrels to 158.8 million.  Crude-oil supplies at  Cushing, Oklahoma , the delivery point
for New York futures, increased 1.27 million barrels to 33.1
million, the biggest gain since April.  Brent crude oil for January settlement declined $1.45, or
1.7 percent, to end the session at $83.28 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  West Texas Intermediate oil, the grade deliverable against
the New York futures contract, is trading at a discount of $2.84
a barrel to Brent, the most since Sept. 29.  The differential between the two contracts is growing
because of the Cushing supply gain and increasing European
demand after the end of a French refinery strike last month,
said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in
Houston.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 869,946 contracts as of 3:23
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 900,827
contracts yesterday, 27 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.4 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 