-- Oil Snaps Three Days of Declines After Report Shows Drop in U.S. Supplies
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-17T12:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/oil-declines-a-fourth-day-on-china-rate-speculation-europe-debt-concerns.html
Oil fell for a fourth day as
speculation that Chinese fuel demand may slump outweighed signs
that U.S. consumption is increasing.  Futures retreated as much as 1.4 percent after Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the government was drafting measures to
counter inflation in the world’s biggest energy consumer. Prices
also fell on concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening as
ministers considered a rescue package for Irish banks. U.S.
crude inventories dropped the most since September 2008 and
gasoline demand increased, reports showed yesterday.  “Risk is being taken off the table across the entire
commodities complex,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst with
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “In such an environment
fundamentals such as the sharp drop in crude stockpiles don’t
matter.”  Crude for December delivery fell as much as $1.16 to $81.18
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. It was at $81.98 at 12:50 p.m. London time. Brent
crude for January settlement traded at $84.48, down 25 cents, on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. Yesterday, the New
York contract fell $2.52 to $82.34, the lowest settlement since
Oct. 29, while the Brent futures lost $2.03 to $84.73.  Oil dropped as Wen’s comments, broadcast yesterday on state
television, stoked speculation the government may raise interest
rates to damp economic growth. The Bank of Korea yesterday
increased borrowing costs after inflation surged past the
central bank’s ceiling.  Europe’s Crisis  European finance ministers started work on possible aid for
Ireland’s debt-laden banks, stopping short of an immediate
bailout package. The country’s crisis is stoking concern that
Europe’s debt problems are spreading, weakening the euro versus
the dollar and reducing investor demand for commodities priced
in the U.S. currency.  The dollar climbed as much as 1 percent to $1.3448 against
the euro yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 28. It was at
$1.3483 against the European currency at 12:50 p.m. London time.  Crude inventories dropped 7.7 million barrels last week,
the American Petroleum Institute said yesterday. An Energy
Department report today will  probably show  that supplies were
unchanged, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Oil-supply
estimates from the two organizations have moved in the same
direction in seven of the past eight weeks.  “Finally we have some good news on the fundamental front
and everything else is undermining it,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Melbourne. “Part of it seems to be some concern that China
might tighten policy. You have what markets perceive to be an
increased probability of a further loss of global confidence
with the European debt concerns resurfacing.”  Holiday Demand  U.S. travel during the Thanksgiving holiday weekend will
rise 11 percent from last year on improved economic conditions,
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization, said yesterday.
 Gasoline  consumption at the pump climbed for the first time in
four weeks,  MasterCard Inc.  said in its SpendingPulse report.  U.S. gasoline inventories dropped 1.65 million barrels to
214.6 million last week, the API report showed. Supplies
probably fell by 750,000 barrels, according the survey of the
Energy Department report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  