-- Home Buying Gets Tougher as Lenders Restrict FHA Loans
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-11-17T19:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/home-ownership-gets-harder-for-americans-as-lenders-restrict-fha-mortgages.html
Home ownership  may be falling out of
reach for more Americans as lenders toughen their standards for
Federal Housing Administration-insured loans beyond what the
agency itself requires.  Mortgage lenders including Wells Fargo & Co. and  Bank of
America Corp. , the two largest, have raised the minimum credit
score on FHA-insured loans that they will buy to 640 from 620.
About 6.3 million people fall within that range, according to
 FICO , which created the formula for the ratings.  The higher hurdles for FHA loans, used in about a fifth of
U.S. home purchases, add to challenges for a housing market
already struggling with  record -low sales and surging
foreclosures. While lax lending fueled the bust that led the
U.S. into recession, the new requirements will stifle the real
estate recovery needed to revive the economy, said Ron Phipps,
president of the National Association of Realtors.  “We’ve gone from silly to stupid,” Phipps, principal
partner of  Phipps Realty Inc. , said in a telephone interview
from his home in Warwick, Rhode Island. “People who should be
getting credit can’t get it. To have a healthy real estate
market, you need activity. You need transactions.”  FHA Rules  The FHA, which previously didn’t have minimums for FICO
scores, began in October to  require  grades of at least 500, and
more than 580 for loans with down payments of as little as 3.5
percent. Borrowers with scores between those levels must put 10
percent down. Several lenders moved minimums to about 620 at the
start of 2009, the companies said then.  FICO scores range from 300 to 850. The grades are based on
data such as whether borrowers have missed debt payments,
balances on their credit cards relative to borrowing limits, and
the length of their credit history, meaning consumers who’ve
never fallen delinquent can have lower scores, according to the
company’s  website .  The 6.3 million people with grades between 620 and 640
equate to about 3.7 percent of U.S. consumers with credit
information available, according to FICO, the Minneapolis-based
company formally known as  Fair Isaac Corp.   Requiring a 640 credit score excludes as much as about 15
percent of FHA borrowers,  David Stevens , the agency’s
commissioner, said in an interview yesterday. Minorities and
borrowers in communities hardest hit by the recession are most
likely to lose based on FICO scores, he said.  Finding Better Way  “We are restricting opportunity and access for those who
can least afford it,” Stevens said. “We need to find a better
way to provide access to these families who are being cut out
simply because lenders are putting arbitrary overlays on top of
our requirements.”  FHA insurance covers lenders or debt investors when
borrowers default. One of every five U.S. home purchases relied
on the loans in the fiscal year through July, the agency said in
a  report  yesterday. They accounted for a third of purchases by
first-time homebuyers in the year ended Sept. 30.  The FHA, the Department of Veteran Affairs and Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, the companies taken over by the government in
2008, have been providing about 95 percent of new mortgage
financing after falling home prices sparked retreats by banks
and by investors in  mortgage bonds  without U.S.-backed
guarantees, according to Inside Mortgage Finance newsletter. The
 S&P Case-Shiller Index  of property values in 20 cities fell as
much as 33 percent from its 2006 peak.  Larger Role  “It’s absolutely clear that, today, FHA is playing a
larger role than it should,” Stevens said during a conference
call with reporters yesterday. “But it’s a counter-cyclical
force providing  liquidity  in a market where private capital
still is completely absent.”  Mortgage companies are tightening FHA standards partly
because of the higher costs they face in servicing delinquent
loans, said  Luke Hayden , president of the mortgage unit of Mount
Laurel, New Jersey-based  PHH Corp.  By keeping defaults low, they
can also boost the prices they fetch for bonds filled with the
loans and thus offer lower rates, he said.  When FHA-backed loans go  into default , the lender bears a
greater share of the expenses than when the mortgage is backed
by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Hayden said. Lenders whose
delinquency rates stray too far from averages can also face
being cut off by the FHA or other sanctions from the agency,
said  David Lykken , president of Mortgage Banking Solutions, an
Austin, Texas-based consulting firm.  Lender Buybacks  With Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgages, lenders are
forced to buy back bad mortgages that were improperly
underwritten, which has also prompted them to adopt tougher
guidelines for those loans.  More banks  tightened standards  on prime residential
mortgages in three months ending Oct. 31 than loosened them, a
switch from the prior period, a Federal Reserve  survey  found.  Hayden’s company, the country’s seventh-largest home
lender, gets some of its business through a joint venture with
its former affiliate Realogy Corp., owner of the Coldwell
Banker, ERA and Century 21 realty brokerage brands. The company
is still tightening some standards for government-insured loans,
he said.  Wells Fargo , the largest mortgage originator, has stopped
buying FHA loans with FICOs below 640 from other lenders, said
Vickee J. Adams, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based bank.  The minimum score for mortgages it makes through its own
loan officers remains 600 with “no plans for an increase,” she
said. These types of loans accounted for 57 percent of its
first-half originations, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.  Bank of America  Bank of America, the second-biggest lender, also stopped
buying new FHA loans with FICOs below 640 last month, said  Terry H. Francisco , a spokesman. About half of its originations in the
first half of this year came through purchases from such so-
called correspondents.  The bank, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, also requires
scores at least that high on FHA mortgages for refinancing when
making loans directly to borrowers. It still allows scores as
low as 620 for home-purchase mortgages in its retail business
because it thinks they perform relatively better and “we want
to stay competitive” with those loans, Francisco said.  While Bank of America and Wells Fargo are keeping their
retail credit standards in place, the changes to their loan
buying affects other lenders’ requirements. Quicken Loans Inc.,
the ninth-largest lender, has ended most of its FHA lending to
borrowers with scores below 640 because of the new rules.  ‘Huge Effect’  “When the big companies change their standards and rules,
it has a huge effect on the market,” said  Bob Walters , chief
economist at the Detroit-based company.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the third-largest lender, had already
been generally requiring credit scores of at least 640 on FHA
loans before the tightening by competitors, said Tom Kelly, a
spokesman for the New York-based company.  Matt Hackett, underwriting manager at  New York-based Equity
Now Inc. , said higher requirements among buyers of its FHA loans
cut off about 5 percent of his potential customers. A 640 score
disqualifies about 15 percent of customers who were getting FHA
loans through Chris Murphy, a loan originator at  Main Street
Home Loans LLC , an independent mortgage bank based in
Alpharetta, Georgia.  “It’s bad from the originator’s standpoint because fewer
people qualify,” Murphy said in a telephone interview from his
office in Charlotte. “But it’s less likely they’re going to
default and so, from the standpoint of the economy, it’s
probably a good thing.”  Mortgage Delinquencies  About 9.8 percent of U.S. home mortgages were  delinquent  at
the end of the second quarter, with an additional 4.6 percent in
the foreclosure process, according to the Mortgage Bankers
Association. The Washington-based group releases figures through
Sept. 30 tomorrow.  FHA lending to the riskiest borrowers has declined in the
past two years. Only 3.8 percent of FHA loans had scores below
620 or no score in the quarter ended Sept. 30, down from a peak
of 50.4 percent in the period through Dec. 31, 2008, according
to a Nov. 4 agency report to Congress. A score below 620 was
typically considered subprime before the credit crisis, meaning
the borrower had a bad or limited credit history.  More Than Expected  “Mortgage credit availability has tightened even more than
we expected,” Morgan Stanley analysts  Oliver Chang ,  Vishwanath Tirupattur  and  James Egan  said today in a report.  At the same time, the recession and unemployment has
spurred a decline in borrower credit scores, they said. There
has been about a 23-point drop in FICO scores among current
borrowers who took loans without government backing in 2006 and
2007, they said.  The U.S. home-ownership  rate  remained at a 10-year low of
66.9 percent in the quarter ended Sept. 30, in part because of
rising foreclosures, the U.S. Census Bureau reported Nov. 2. The
rate reached a  record high  of 69.2 percent in the second and
fourth quarters of 2004.  Sales of existing homes were at an  annual pace  of 4.53
million in September, compared with the average rate of 5.82
million for the past decade, according to the Chicago-based
National Association of Realtors. The pace in July was 3.84
million, the lowest in data going back to 1999.  Restricting access to credit threatens to slow a rebound
even as reduced home prices and  interest rates  near record lows
boost affordability, said Stevens, the FHA commissioner.  “This has a broad potential impact to the economic
recovery in total,” he said. “We’re not asking for lenders to
be reckless. In fact, we believe we have prudent policies for
the market. But we do believe that lenders need to put more work
into making certain that they provide accessibility for families
who can qualify for a mortgage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 