-- Hong Kong Quarantines Bird Flu Woman, Will Check Poultry Markets
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   T a t i a n a   L a u
-- 2010-11-18T09:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/hong-kong-woman-catches-bird-flu-possibly-visiting-china-poultry-market.html
A Hong Kong woman who contracted
H5N1 bird flu, the first case in the city since 2003, has been
quarantined in intensive care and the government will inspect
poultry markets over the next few days.  There was no indication of human-to-human transmission of
the influenza and eight close contacts of the 59-year-old woman
are showing no symptoms, Secretary for Food and Health  York Chow 
told reporters in Hong Kong today.  The woman visited China Oct. 23 to Nov. 1 with her husband
and daughter, and didn’t have contact with live poultry or farms
there, the  Centre for Health Protection  said in a statement
posted on the government website. The Hong Kong  government 
raised its flu response level to “serious,” Chow said
yesterday.  “We think the risk of avian influenza in Hong Kong is not
that significantly higher than before,” Chow said. “But since
there is one case, we have to be very careful as it might
actually point out its source of infection, which might give
rise to another case.”  While health officials cannot be certain about where the
woman caught the disease, they see a “high probability” it was
outside of Hong Kong, Chow said.  The women visited a poultry market in China and ate chicken,
according to her husband,  Thomas Tsang , controller of the Centre
for Health Protection, said yesterday.  The patient visited Shanghai, Nanjing and Hangzhou on her
trip. She returned to Hong Kong Nov. 1, showed flu symptoms one
day later and entered hospital on Nov. 14 with persistent fever,
the government said.  Her 60-year-old husband recovered from a runny nose and
cough, the statement said.  Six people died in Hong Kong in a 1997 bird flu outbreak
that prompted health authorities to cull all of the chickens and
ducks in the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marco Lui  in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dirk Beveridge at 
 dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net  