-- Ontario Bonds Gain on Government Debt as Borrowing Reduced: Canada Credit
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-17T12:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ontario-bonds-gain-on-government-debt-as-borrowing-reduced-canada-credit.html
Yields on Ontario 10-year bonds are
the tightest relative to federal benchmarks in seven months as
foreign and domestic investors seek higher returns and Canada’s
largest province forecasts reduced borrowing next year.  Ontario’s 4.2 percent bonds due in June 2020 yielded about
70 basis points over the equivalent-maturity federal government
bond at the end of last week, the narrowest spread since April
14, according to Bloomberg data. Only Quebec and Saskatchewan
spreads have narrowed faster since May than those of Ontario,
whose finance minister is due to release a budget update
tomorrow.  Canadian provincial spreads are tightening as the quickest
economic growth among Group of Seven nations and relative
stability attract foreign investors ruffled by the Federal
Reserve’s monetary-easing policies and Europe’s debt crisis.
Foreigners bought a net C$9.9 billion ($9.68 billion) of
provincial debt in the second quarter, the most in five decades,
according to data from Statistics Canada, which releases
September figures tomorrow.  “Seventy basis points of incremental yield for a nice,
safe province that people understand in Canada like Ontario is
pretty attractive,”  Andrew Hainsworth , director of debt capital
markets at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. “We’ve
had a lot of international guys hop on the Canada bandwagon.
They like Canada in the context of U.S. and Europe.”  Ontario Borrowing  Ontario 10-year spreads widened to 98 basis points on May
21 on concern about the European sovereign debt crisis. The 30
basis points of tightening since means Ontario would save $3
million in interest costs per year to issue C$1 billion in debt.  Hainsworth predicts Canada’s 10 provinces will borrow about
C$76 billion in the fiscal year starting April 1, down from an
estimated C$81 billion this year. Quebec and British Columbia,
Canada’s second and third largest provinces by population, may
have lower borrowing requirements next year, while Alberta, the
fourth largest, may post a budget surplus, he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s corporations rather than its
federal government, remained yesterday at 134 basis points, or
1.34 percentage points, the narrowest gap since May, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Relative yields on U.S. corporate bonds ended Nov. 15 at
176 basis points, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data showed.
Global corporate spreads were 166 basis points. Canadian
corporate bonds have lost investors 0.9 percent this month,
compared with declines of 1.5 percent for U.S. company debt and
1 percent for global corporates.  Muni Spreads  In provincial bond markets, relative yields were unchanged
at 51 basis points, the tightest spreads since April, from as
wide as 71 basis points on May 21. Yields fell to 3.18 percent,
from 3.23 percent the day before.  Provincial bonds are outperforming U.S. municipal bonds,
returning 6.5 percent this year, compared with 4.9 percent for
municipals.  Quebec sold C$250 million in a reoffering of its 4.5
percent bonds due in December 2019, bringing the total
outstanding to C$4.75 billion. The debt priced to yield 75.5
basis points over federal benchmarks.  Canada Housing Trust plans to sell C$1 billion in floating-
rate notes maturing in March 2016. The financing arm of the
federal housing agency is also selling C$2.15 billion in 3.35
percent bonds due in December 2020. The 10-year bonds are being
marketed at 33.5 basis points above federal benchmarks and
should price by 12 p.m. Toronto time.  Yield Decline  Canada will auction C$1.4 billion in 30-year bonds today.
The 4 percent bonds will mature in June 2041. The previous
auction of 30-year bonds, on Sept. 1, drew an average yield of
3.489 percent and a bid to cover ratio of 2.27 times.  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell 0.07 percentage point
yesterday to 3.08 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security
due in June 2020 climbed 60 cents to C$103.50.  Canada’s 10-year bonds yielded 23 basis points more than
the equivalent maturity U.S. security. The so-called  yield
advantage  in Canada’s favor has declined from 37 basis points on
Oct. 7, which was the most since January 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. It has averaged about 12 basis points in
Canada’s favor over the past decade.  Canada’s government bonds have lost 1.4 percent in
November, headed for the worst performance since March, the
Merrill data show. Treasuries are down 1.4 percent this month,
compared with a loss of 1 percent for global sovereigns.  The rising yields on government debt are pushing mortgage
rates higher. Toronto-Dominion Bank and Royal Bank of Canada
raised their five-year closed rate by 25 basis points to 5.44
percent effective today.  Foreign Buyers  The share of provincial debt held by non-residents could
pass 40 percent by 2013, from about 30 percent now,  Warren Lovely , a government-debt strategist for Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce in Toronto, said in a Nov. 10 note to clients.
Purchases of Canadian bonds are at a record high, equal to 7
percent of gross domestic product during the past four quarters.
He said that foreigners snapping up Canadian bonds would leave
domestic investors vulnerable to offshore sentiment.  “A rapidly growing share of Canadian bonds in foreign
hands risks displacing domestic investors and adding volatility
in the event Canada’s current shine dulls,” Lovely wrote.  Net  flows  into provincial bonds totaled C$13.9 billion
through August, compared with C$15.7 billion in all of 2009,
which was the highest annual tally since C$17.5 billion in 1993,
Statistics Canada data show.  Ontario in March  lowered  its projected borrowing
requirements for next fiscal year to C$38.8 billion from C$39.7
billion this year. Provincial Finance Minister  Dwight Duncan  is
due to present an economic update tomorrow in Toronto.  Gap Widens  Borrowing to replace maturing debt and fund its existing
deficit, plus spending to stimulate the economy, saw Ontario’s
budget gap balloon from just C$18 billion in fiscal 2007-08,
Hainsworth said.  “You put refinancing existing debt, some new deficit
financing, plus ongoing large capital projects and it’s not
surprising you have pretty high borrowing needs,” he said.  Even so, foreign investors are attracted to Ontario as
their first stop when moving into the provincial sector, CIBC’s
Lovely wrote in an e-mail.  “In some cases, investors prefer a minimum credit rating of
‘double-A,’ which Ontario now possesses,” he wrote. “Ontario
is obviously the provincial benchmark.”  Provincial Borrowing  Ontario, whose 13.2 million people generate more than a
third of Canada’s output, accounts for about half of all
provincial borrowing. It has sold C$27.5 billion of debt this
fiscal year, or about 69 percent of its forecast borrowing
program of C$39.7 billion, according to data on the Ontario
Financing Authority’s Web site. Sales include C$16.4 billion of
domestic bonds, C$4.6 billion under the province’s Euro medium
term note program and C$6.4 billion in international currencies
such as U.S. dollar, euro, yen and Swiss franc.  Demand from foreign investors targets Canada mortgage bonds
and provincials because of their high-quality ratings, yield,
and liquidity, according to  Jean-Francois Godin , vice president
of fixed income at Desjardins Securities Inc. in Montreal.  “There hasn’t been much supply of 10-year provincials
lately and domestic demand is still very strong,”  Godin  wrote
in an e-mail. “This is supportive for spreads.”  Lovely’s note to clients said investor demand would be
strong even as concern remained over volatility, a rising
currency and outflows of interest payments.  “The biggest concern may very well be there simply aren’t
enough Canadian bonds to go around,” he said.  Ontario debt overall has narrowed 23 basis points since May
21, as has that of Prince Edward Island, Canada’s least-populous
province, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
through Nov. 15. Spreads on Saskatchewan’s and Quebec’s debt
have tightened more than Ontario’s, or 25 basis points each.  British Columbia’s yields are 22 basis points tighter, as
are Manitoba’s and New Brunswick’s. Newfoundland and Alberta
spreads are in 21 basis points, and Nova Scotia’s have tightened
19 basis points during that period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  