-- Loomis Plans Europe, Latin America Acquisitions as 2014 Profit Goals Set
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-11-17T09:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/loomis-plans-europe-latin-america-acquisitions-as-2014-profit-goals-set.html
Loomis AB , the armored-car unit spun
off from  Securitas AB , plans to expand into more eastern
European countries and may add western European markets as the
Swedish company strives to reach a newly set profit target.  Loomis is also considering “increasing density” in U.S.
areas where Loomis is already present, as well as adding Latin
American markets, Chief Executive Officer  Lars Blecko  said today
in a phone interview from Stockholm.  “We have a strong balance sheet, so within reasonable
limits we feel comfortable making acquisitions immediately if
the right opportunity arises,” Blecko said. “So far, it has
been natural for us to expand in eastern Europe.”  Securitas , the world’s second-largest security-services
company, separated from Loomis in late 2008 by giving stock in
the unit to shareholders. The armored-car operator, based in the
Stockholm suburb of Solna, operates in 14 countries after buying
Czech cash-handling company Fenix in October. The U.S. is its
only market outside Europe.  Loomis  rose  as much as 0.5 krona, or 0.6 percent, to 90.50
kronor and was unchanged at 90 kronor as of 10:50 a.m. in
Stockholm trading. The shares have gained 15 percent this year,
valuing the company at 6.57 billion kronor ($944 million).  The company said today that it’s aiming for earnings before
interest, taxes and amortization of at least 10 percent of sales
by 2014, compared with 7 percent in 2009. The margin in the
first nine months of this year was 7.8 percent.  Loomis may add Germany, Italy and Ireland, and is looking
at Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, to build up its
western European business, Blecko said. The company, which also
has operations in Slovakia, isn’t interested in entering Russia
or other former Soviet republics, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net ;
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 