-- Cataract Surgery Using 3-D Laser May Be More Precise, Safer, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-11-17T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/optimedica-laser-with-3-d-makes-cataract-surgery-precise-safer-in-study.html
Lasers guided by 3-D imaging for
cataract surgery on the eye may be more precise and safer than
manual cutting in the prevailing treatment, according to a study
of the new procedure developed by  OptiMedica Corp.   Researchers said 50 patients undergoing the laser treatment
showed no adverse effects and their vision improved more than
from traditional surgery, though not enough to be statistically
significant.  The study, published today in the journal  Science
Translational Medicine , was funded by closely held OptiMedica,
of Santa Clara, California.  Each year, more than 1.5 million  cataract  procedures are
performed in the U.S., making the operation the most common
surgery in the nation, researchers said. The new technology
represents a “significant step forward” for patients, said
 Michael Rosenberg , chairman of the ophthalmology department at
Hackensack University Medical Center in Hackensack, New Jersey,
in telephone interview on Nov. 16.  “It certainly seems to be an area of tremendous progress
to treat patients with cataracts and to provide better outcomes
for improved vision,” said Rosenberg, who wasn’t an author on
today’s paper.  About one in three people in developed countries undergoes
cataract surgery in his or her lifetime, according to the study
authors from Stanford University near Palo Alto, California,
OptiMedica, and Bascom Palmer Eye Institute in Miami.  Cloudy Lens  A cataract occurs when a cloud forms in the lens, the clear
part of the eye that helps to focus light or an image on the
retina, according to the  National Institutes of Health , based in
Bethesda, Maryland. That results in blurred and double vision,
as well as sensitivity to light.  To remove cataracts today, surgeons make a circular cut in
the eye by hand. They break up the cloudy eye lens using an
ultrasound probe and suction it out. Doctors replace that with
an artificial lens, said  Mark Forchette , chief executive officer
and president of OptiMedica, in a telephone interview on Nov.
16.  The new technology allows for more precision in the size,
shape and position of the circular opening by using 3-D imaging
of the eye, as well as shorter use of the ultrasound because the
laser helps to break up the cataract and lens, Forchette said.  The laser procedure is “even safer than manual because
it’s much more reliable and not dependent on surgical skills,”
said  Daniel Palanker , the lead author of the study and an
associate professor of ophthalmology at Stanford, in a telephone
interview on Nov. 16. The study showed that the laser’s
precision cut allowed a new lens to be centered in the eye,
reducing a risk it will shift and affect vision.  Laser Companies  Palanker and six other authors of the study own stakes in
OptiMedica, and seven of the authors are company employees,
according to a statement from Stanford.  Other companies with laser-equipped procedures for
cataracts include LensAR Inc. of Winter Park, Florida, and
 Novartis AG  of Basel, Switzerland. Novartis owns a majority
stake in Alcon Inc., a developer of laser technology. Alcon’s
technology has Food and Drug Administration clearance for use in
the U.S., according to the website of LenSx Lasers, a closely
held company in Aliso Viejo, California, that Alcon has agreed
to acquire.  LensAR has applied to the FDA for approval, according to
that company’s  website .  OptiMedica is seeking FDA clearance for this technology,
Forchette said. The study findings will be part of the company’s
application. Forchette said he expects the device to be
available next year.  The researchers looked at 50 patients, 20 of whom had the
laser surgery in one eye. The other 30 had that procedure in one
eye and the traditional operation in the other eye.  ‘More Precise’  “By automating the manually performed parts of the
procedure, it leads to more precise outcomes and less dependence
on surgical skills to achieve an uncomplicated outcome,” said
 William Culbertson , the senior researcher for the study, who is
an ophthalmology professor at the University of Miami and head
of OptiMedica’s medical advisory board, in a telephone interview
on Nov. 16.  While the researchers found that vision improved more in
those who had the laser surgery compared with the traditional
approach, there weren’t enough people in the trial for it to be
a statistically significant difference, Culbertson said. Larger
studies are needed after the technology is approved to show
whether better vision occurs, Culbertson said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  