-- Lorillard Says Menthol Ban Will Create Black Market
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2010-11-17T21:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/lorillard-says-menthol-ban-will-create-minty-brands-black-market.html
Lorillard Inc. , trying to stop the
U.S. government from outlawing its Newport cigarettes, will tell
a Food and Drug Administration panel tomorrow that banning the
mint flavor will create a black market for menthol brands.  The Greensboro, North Carolina-based producer has joined
other U.S. cigarette companies this year in telling an FDA
 advisory panel  that most scientific evidence shows menthol
cigarettes to be no more dangerous than regular ones. Lorillard
now plans to argue that banning menthol would push smokers to
regular varieties and create a black market for menthol ones.  Newport generates about 92 percent of Lorillard’s sales.
 Revenue  from the top-selling menthol cigarette totaled about
$4.8 billion in 2009. Lorillard introduced a non-menthol version
of Newport earlier this month as “we prepare for all
outcomes,” Chief Executive Officer  Murray Kessler  told a Morgan
Stanley conference in New York yesterday. He said he doesn’t
expect the FDA to ban menthol.  “The black market is likely to be large and the reduction
in smoking is likely to be small,” said Rick Flyer, a Chicago-
based senior vice president for Compass Lexecon, an economic
consulting firm hired by Lorillard to assess the effect of
banning menthol. Menthol cigarettes yielded U.S. retail sales of
$26.2 billion last year, or 30 percent of total cigarette
revenue, according to Lorillard.  FDA Advisory Panel  The FDA’s Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee
convenes in Silver Spring, Maryland, tomorrow.  Lorillard provided Bloomberg News with the presentation
that Flyer is scheduled to deliver to the panel. The findings
are based on smoking patterns in 20 U.S. cities including New
York, Philadelphia and Atlanta.  The company fell 9 cents to $86.75 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. It has gained 8.1 percent this
year.  Many consumers of menthol cigarettes prefer that flavor,
raising the possibility that some of them would quit smoking if
menthol were banned or restricted, said  Matthew Myers , president
of the  Campaign  for Tobacco-Free Kids, an anti-smoking group in
Washington.  “Lorillard is concerned about this issue precisely because
of its fear that it will dramatically reduce the number of
tobacco users,” Myers said. Raising the threat of a black
market is “a self-serving mechanism to prevent progress in
reducing tobacco use,” he said.  Jeffrey Ventura, an FDA spokesman, declined to comment on
Lorillard’s presentation. The panel has until March 2011 to
advise the agency on the public-health implications of menthol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at 
1348 or  cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello in New York at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 