-- Osborne Says Britain Is Ready to Give Support to Ireland Amid Bank Concern
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-11-17T16:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/osborne-says-britain-is-ready-to-support-ireland-amid-concern-about-banks.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Britain is willing to contribute to an aid package
for Ireland in what would be its first financial foray into the
euro area’s debt crisis.  U.K. banks have the biggest exposure to the Irish financial
industry, making it important for Britain to support its
struggling neighbor, Osborne told reporters today in Brussels,
where he’s attending a meeting of European Union finance chiefs.  “It’s in Britain’s national interest that the Irish
economy is successful and we have a stable banking system,”
Osborne said. “Britain stands ready to support Ireland in the
steps it needs to take.”  The comments may stir opposition at home for Prime Minister
 David Cameron , who is slashing government spending to reduce
Britain’s own record budget deficit. In Parliament today,  Peter Bone , a lawmaker from Cameron’s Conservative Party, called on
the government to rule out participating in any bailout for
Ireland.  Britain’s banks had $222 billion exposure to their Irish
counterparts by end of the first quarter, according to the Bank
for International Settlements. Germany’s exposure was $206
billion and the U.S.’s was $114 billion, BIS data showed.  Osborne said he has had no approach from British banks, the
Bank of England or the Financial Services Authority to pledge
support for Ireland. Yesterday, the central bank’s governor,
 Mervyn King , said the exposure of Britain’s banking system to
Ireland’s economy is “by no means trivial.”  ‘Stress Tests’  “U.K. banks have passed stress tests, the banking system
is well capitalized and our engagement in this is because we are
good neighbors of Ireland, not because we have particular
concern about any U.K. bank,” Osborne said. “The Bank of
England and the FSA have not expressed to me any particular
concern with U.K. banks.”  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told reporters in
Brussels that Britain is “anxious to help,” saying the
decision is “a matter for the British authorities themselves to
decide.”  The U.K. already is committed to the EU’s 60 billion-euro
($81 billion) Financial Stability Mechanism. It would be liable
for 13 percent, or about 7 billion euros, should Ireland use and
fail to repay the whole facility.  Osborne refused to give details on what type of assistance
he is considering giving Ireland and declined to say whether any
aid would be made through bilateral loans.  Policy Shift  “I am not going to speculate on what that support might be
or indeed if it will be required,” Osborne told reporters after
his meetings in Brussels.  The decision to support Ireland marks a shift in British
policy toward assisting EU countries facing potential financial
hardship. Osborne’s remarks today contrast with the U.K.’s
decision to avoid paying into the euro-area rescue of Greece in
May.  “When it comes to supporting the euro, that is for the
euro-group countries,” the then chancellor,  Alistair Darling ,
said at the time.  European finance ministers agreed late yesterday to start
work on possible aid for Ireland’s debt-laden banks.  “If banking problems are too big for this small country to
manage, Europe has made it clear they’ll help,” Lenihan said in
an interview with state broadcaster RTE today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Brussels on  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  