-- DAX Index Advances; Infineon, Lufthansa, Stada Shares Rise in Frankfurt
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-17T16:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/most-german-stocks-rise-infineon-stada-arzneimittel-advance-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks  advanced, with the
benchmark DAX Index trimming the biggest decline in three
months, as the European Union started work on possible aid for
Ireland’s banks.  Infineon Technologies AG extended yesterday’s advance as
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc recommended buying the shares.
MAN SE and Deutsche Lufthansa AG both rose more than 2 percent.
Stada Arzneimittel AG followed European healthcare shares
higher.  The  DAX  rose 0.6 percent to 6,700.07 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt. The gauge retreated 1.9 percent yesterday amid
concern that China will have to take measures to cool inflation
and as Ireland held talks over a financial rescue amid the
resurgent sovereign-debt crisis. The broader HDAX Index also
gained 0.6 percent today.  “The Irish situation is a bit of a confusing situation for
investors and it’s better to wait and see what politicians will
do,” said  Andreas Lipkow , an equity trader at  MWB Fairtrade
Wertpapierhandelsbank AG  in Frankfurt. “We have a technical
correction today with investors buying carefully. There is still
uncertainty in the market with a risk of sideways trading
between 6,650 and 6,750 in the DAX.”  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said talks with the
European Commission, the European Central Bank and the
International Monetary Fund on potential aid for the country’s
banks will start tomorrow.  Cost of Living  A report today showed the cost of living in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in October, indicating higher prices for
commodities such as fuel aren’t filtering through into other
goods and services.  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent after a 0.1
percent rise the prior month, the Labor Department said in
Washington. A 0.3 percent gain was forecast by economists,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg News survey.  A separate report showed builders in the U.S. began work on
fewer homes than forecast in October as the industry remained
mired near the depths reached during the recession. Housing
starts fell 12 percent to a 519,000 annual rate, the fewest
since a record low reached in April 2009, Commerce Department
figures showed.  Infineon , Europe’s second-biggest chipmaker, climbed 1.4
percent to 6.31 euros as RBS raised its recommendation on the
stock to “buy” from “hold.” The shares jumped the most since
August yesterday after the company reported fiscal fourth-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  MAN, Stada  MAN SE, Europe’s third-largest truckmaker, surged 2.5
percent to 88.31 euros, while Lufthansa, the region’s second-
biggest airline, advanced 2.3 percent to 15.98 euros.  Stada, a generic-drug maker, added 1.3 percent to 24.52
euros. European healthcare shares posted the best performance
among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 today after two people
familiar with the matter said Amgen Inc., the world’s largest
biotechnology company, is considering a takeover offer for
Switzerland’s Actelion Ltd.  Wincor Nixdorf AG  fell 0.8 percent to 55.1 euros as Equinet
AG downgraded the company’s shares to “accumulate” from
“buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 