-- Toughest U.K. Job Gives Theresa May Linchpin Role in Cameron's Government
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-11-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/toughest-u-k-job-gives-theresa-may-linchpin-role-in-cameron-s-government.html
Theresa May  has what former Prime
Minister  Tony Blair  described as the toughest job in the British
government. And it just got harder.  Confronted with terrorist threats from inside and outside
the U.K., the home secretary is fending off skeptics from her
Conservative Party’s coalition partner about laws on security
and immigration, and criticism of the police from Prime Minister
 David Cameron  after a London protest turned violent last week.  “We need to strike the right balance between the right we
have to live our lives in safety and security, and the other
rights which we enjoy in our society,” May said during a Nov. 3
 speech  in London. “But let me make clear: I will do absolutely
nothing which will put at risk Britain’s national security.”  Keeping that equilibrium is May’s biggest challenge. The
54-year-old, who came to international prominence on Oct. 29
after a plane from Yemen carrying a bomb to the U.S. was
intercepted at a British airport, is in a job that many of her
predecessors struggled to retain.  The position has changed hands seven times since May
entered parliament in 1997, more than any of the four most
senior cabinet posts. May took over as her government prepared
to implement the biggest budget cuts in British history.  “Most people can count on the fingers of one hand the home
secretaries who’ve come out of the job with their reputations
intact, let alone enhanced,” said  Tim Bale , professor of
politics at the University of Sussex. “Theresa May, to the
surprise of some, has made a solid start.”  58 Arrests  May declined to be interviewed for this story in the week
that police were criticized for their handling of a student
demonstration in central London that saw 58 people arrested and
windows smashed at the Conservative Party’s offices.  Police said they hadn’t expected the protest to be so
large, with organizers estimating that at least 50,000 people
turned up to march against government policies aimed at raising
tuition. Metropolitan Police Commissioner  Paul Stephenson  said
Nov. 11 it was an “embarrassment for us.” Cameron added that
“we need to learn the lessons very rapidly.”  Public protests may increase as the government proposes
cuts of as much as 68 percent to ministry budgets. At the same
time, May’s department is reducing the number of  police officers 
on the beat. The Home Office budget, set at 10.1 billion pounds
($16.3 billion) for the current fiscal year, is being lowered by
 25 percent  to tackle Britain’s  record deficit .  ‘Tough Job’  As Home Secretary, May, who had no previous ministerial
experience, oversees 29,050 civil servants in Whitehall’s fifth-
biggest department, according to the Office for National
Statistics. She also has responsibility for 140,000 police
officers, the 3,800-member security service MI5 and the U.K.
Border Agency.  “It is a very tough job because by definition you are
trying to stop bad things happening,”  Jacqui Smith , who held
the post from June 2007 to June 2009 under the Labour
administration that lost office in elections this year, said in
a telephone interview. “When it goes well, you don’t get much
credit and you get the blame when there is a failure.”  May also has to contend with dissent from inside her
government over restrictions on the movement of terrorists
without trial and the length of detention of suspects.  Cameron’s Conservatives were forced to form the first U.K.
coalition government since World War II after failing to win
enough seats in parliament. The Liberal Democrats, the party it
joined with, are against some measures to tighten security.  Senior Liberal Democrat lawmakers wrote to Cameron pledging
their  opposition  to control orders under which terror suspects
who have not stood trial can have their movements restricted.  Liberty Debate  “We have been delighted by the coalition government’s
commitment to re-claiming our civil liberties,” Liberal
Democrats  Tom Brake ,  Sally Hamwee  and  Martin Thomas  wrote on
Oct. 27. “The continuance of control orders is quite
inconsistent with the thrust of those assurances.”  Cameron said the conflict is “heading for a f***ing car
crash,” the  Observer newspaper  reported Oct. 31, without saying
where it got the information. The security services say control
orders should be kept, while  Ken MacDonald , a Liberal Democrat
in the House of Lords and former director of public prosecutions
who is  reviewing anti-terror laws , says they must go.  May’s diplomatic skills and the fact that she has avoided
grandstanding over policy might allow her to cope with the
challenge, said Bale at the University of Sussex in Brighton.  “Her reasonable, emollient style may help her manage the
fallout from divisions with the Liberal Democrats better than
some of the slogan-mongering traditionalists that both main
parties have picked in the past,” Bale said.  Stand Firm  Smith  said May needs to stand firm against the Liberal
Democrats and keep control orders, introduced by Labour, which
enable the Home Office to impose curfews and restrictions on
people who are suspected of terrorism when not enough evidence
is admissible in court to pursue a prosecution.  “Theresa May handled the Yemen plot well, but she needs to
come to the right conclusion about control orders,” Smith, 48,
said. “That will be the test. It’s a question of whether she
can resist the pressure from other parts of the coalition.”  May suspended unaccompanied air freight from Somalia on
Nov. 1 and imposed restrictions on transporting toner cartridges
in response to the Yemen plot, which was foiled when a device
hidden inside a computer printer and timed to explode over the
eastern U.S. was found and defused at the U.K.’s East Midlands
Airport. Another device was found in Dubai. The current  threat
level  in the U.K. from international terrorism is “severe,”
meaning an attack is “highly likely.”  13 Years  May, who was work and pensions spokeswoman before the May 6
election, was a surprise choice as home secretary. When she came
into parliament 13 years ago, the Conservatives were entering
their longest period in opposition  since 1762 .  What’s more, the post of home secretary has a reputation
for blighting political careers.  Blair told his party conference in 2002 that “I don’t have
the toughest job in government,” the home secretary does. When
 John Reid  was appointed to the role four years later, he said
the department wasn’t “fit for purpose.” It was Reid’s last
job in government.  May has helped steer her party, shaped in the 1980s by
 Margaret Thatcher , back into power. In 2002, when May was party
chairman, she said it must no longer be the “nasty party.”  Vicar’s Daughter  The daughter of a clergyman, she was best known in
Britain’s tabloid press for her taste for leopard print kitten
heel shoes before she was appointed to her current job. She
started her working life at the Bank of England before becoming
head of European affairs for the  Association for Payment
Clearing Services , a financial services trade association.  As well as navigating her way through anti-terror
legislation, May has to enact Cameron’s promise to put a cap on
immigration from outside the European Union, a policy that was
lampooned by Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , leader of the
Liberal Democrats, during the election campaign.  The Conservatives have made concessions, with Cameron
telling lawmakers that intra-company transfers will not be
included and promising an “entrepreneur’s visa,” which will
enable people with new ideas backed by capital to move to the
U.K. May will have to steer through the rest.  “It will take hard work and a great deal of political
courage, but we will do it,” May said on Nov. 5. The future of
the coalition may depend on it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net 
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  