-- Pelosi Thwarts Challenge, to Remain House Democrat Leader After Poll Loss
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/house-democrats-vote-to-keep-pelosi-as-leader-after-midterm-election-loss.html
Outgoing U.S. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  overcame a challenge led by Democrats from Republican-
leaning areas to remain her party’s leader in the chamber after
a loss of majority status she said wasn’t her fault.  House Democrats yesterday elected Pelosi to be minority
leader over Representative  Heath Shuler  of North Carolina on a
150-43 vote that reflected divisions over their best path
forward when they cede control to Republicans in January. The
vote, in a closed-door meeting, came as Republicans in their own
gathering united to designate  John Boehner  of Ohio to be the
next House speaker.  Pelosi, of California, was selected after some Democrats
made an unsuccessful effort to delay the leadership selections
to allow the party more time to consider the message delivered
by voters. That effort lost 129-68.  At a news conference, Pelosi said she was not the cause of
the Democrats’ ballot-box beating on Nov. 2, in which they
suffered a net loss of at least 61 House seats. Pelosi said the
party was dragged down by a national  jobless rate  at or above
9.5 percent for the last 14 months and waves of attack ads by
pro-Republican outside groups who often focused their criticism
on her.  “How would your ratings be if $75 million were spent
against you?” Pelosi, 70, said when a reporter questioned her
about her standing among independent voters.  Shuler, 38, said his challenge to Pelosi helped highlight
the views of Democrats who want their leaders to take a more
middle-of-the-road approach on policy.  ‘Having a Voice’  “It wasn’t about winning the race, it was about having a
voice within our caucus,” he said after yesterday’s vote.  Shuler, a former quarterback in the National Football
League, won a third term in the midterm elections from a
district that Republican presidential candidate  John McCain  won
in 2008. Like Shuler, many of the House Democrats who publicly
opposed keeping Pelosi as their leader come from districts
McCain carried and are members of a group called the Blue Dog
Coalition.  The coalition numbers about 24 after about half of its
members lost in his month’s elections. Noting the 50 votes cast
against Pelosi yesterday, Shuler said, “It was a message that
it is more than just the Blue Dogs that have a concern about
what’s going on.”  One of Pelosi’s supporters, though, said her win signals
that President  Barack Obama  needs to be more of a fighter for
party principles. “Now, Nancy Pelosi’s No. 1 job is to hold the
line on the Obama administration’s back-pedaling on some basic
core Democratic values,” Representative  Tim Ryan , an Ohio
Democrat, told reporters.  Other Leaders  Along with Pelosi, Democrats decided to retain all their
current leadership team when the new session of Congress begins
in early January.  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland, 71, was selected minority whip by
acclamation, putting him again in the No. 2 job. He has served
as majority leader during Pelosi’s speakership.  James Clyburn  of South Carolina, 70, was elected assistant
leader, a job Pelosi created days ago to avert a leadership
battle between him and Hoyer. Clyburn, who has been the majority
whip, initially planned to seek the minority whip post.  Representative  John Larson , 62, of Connecticut, was re-
elected to lead the House Democratic Caucus.  Boehner Comeback  Among Republicans, Boehner’s designation as speaker --which
the full House must ratify in January -- caps a 20-year
congressional career and a comeback from an exile from
leadership after he was on the fringes of a 1997 plot to depose
then-Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a Georgia Republican.  Boehner, who turned 61 yesterday, has been minority leader
since Democrats took power in 2007.  Representative  Eric Cantor , 47, of Virginia was chosen as
the new majority leader. He is currently minority whip.
Representative  Kevin McCarthy , 45, of California was picked to
succeed Cantor as the Republican whip.  Boehner had put McCarthy in charge of recruiting House
candidates to challenge Democrats this year. The Republicans
needed a net gain of at least 39 seats to take control of the
chamber; their pickups in the elections were the biggest for
their party since 1938.  Pelosi’s Record  As speaker, Pelosi muscled through the House an overhaul of
the U.S. health-care system, an economic stimulus package, the
biggest changes in financial regulations since the Great
Depression, and legislation that would curb greenhouse-gas
emissions. The health-care overhaul, the stimulus and the
financial regulation measure became law; the climate bill
stalled in the Senate.  Pelosi, first elected to her San Francisco-based seat in
1987, moved quickly after the midterm elections to end
speculation she would give up her position as the top House
Democrat. She announced on Nov. 5 through a Twitter message that
she would seek the minority leader’s job as some Democrats began
to call for her to step aside, arguing that she had become a
political liability.  On election night,  exit polls  showed Republican candidates
dominated among voters in House races who described themselves
as independents. Poll results compiled by the Associated Press
found that 56 percent of independents voted for a Republican,
while 37 percent supported a Democrat.  A test of Pelosi’s influence will come today when the
Democratic caucus votes on a series of rules changes that would
dilute her power to make committee assignments.  Representative  Jim Matheson , a Utah Democrat who supported
Shuler yesterday, has proposed that members of the Democratic
Policy and Steering Committee be elected by the caucus.
Currently, Pelosi names the committee members.  Matheson similarly wants the chairman of the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee to be elected, rather than
appointed by Pelosi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 