-- Houston Saves on Costs Even as Tax-Exempt Rout Propels Yields: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/houston-saves-on-costs-even-as-tax-exempt-rout-propels-yields-muni-credit.html
Houston, the fourth most-populous
U.S. city, sold $494 million in debt amid surging municipal
yields as the calendar of scheduled offerings reached the
 highest level  in almost six years.  Ten-year  top-rated tax-exempt  yields, which move inversely
to prices, yesterday climbed 12 basis points to 2.75 percent,
the highest since July 7, according to a Bloomberg Valuation
index. Yields rose at almost all maturities, with the biggest
increases, ranging from 24 to 28 basis points, on debt due in 22
to 27 years, BVAL indexes show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  States and local governments plan to offer  about $26.3
billion  in debt during the next 30 days, according to the
Bloomberg visible supply index, the most since February 2005.
About $16.7 billion is scheduled this week, the most in  at least
seven years . Houston reduced its offering by $20 million because
of the glut in sales, Controller  Ronald Green  said.  “In light of the supply it went fairly well,” he said in
a telephone interview. “We thought we’d do a little better on
yield. Obviously if the market wasn’t as bad it could have been
better but it’s still good for us.”  Houston’s $303 million tax-exempt sale included serial
maturities from 2 to 13 years, at yields ranging from 0.72
percent to 3.81 percent. The city saved $20 million on its
refinancing, according to Green. Borrowing costs shrank 17 basis
points from a previous offering in August 2009, Bloomberg data
show.  Taxable Tranche  Another $192 million of the deal was taxable Build America
Bonds, which provide a 35 percent federal subsidy on interest
costs. With the program set to expire Dec. 31, Green said he
wanted to lock in the savings for the city. Yields on the
securities reached a six-month high of  6.22 percent  on Nov. 15,
according to a Wells Fargo index.  “We didn’t want to wait until too much later and come up
with more competition,” Green said. “We pulled $20 million
back because everybody is getting in before the subsidy ends,
and we couldn’t get all the bites we wanted.”  Further illustrating the effect of municipal-market
turbulence on issuers’ financing plans, Prince George’s County,
 Maryland , postponed this week’s $177 million sale until January.  “The county is waiting until January when it can take
advantage of lower borrowing costs,” Jim Keary, a spokesman for
the county, said in a telephone interview.  Dallas Schools  Dallas Independent School District issued $950 million in
taxable Build America Bonds, boosting its offering by $79
million, Bloomberg data show. Two of the four bids received on
the competitive deal fell below the average yield, including the
6.19 percent true-interest cost from  Barclays Plc , which won the
deal.  “We’re ready to go and build some schools,” said Steve
Korby, executive director of financial services for the
district. “The taxable market was much more stable than it had
been the last few weeks.”  About $3.4 billion in Build Americas are set for sale this
week, a 14 percent decline from last week, Bloomberg data show.  Prices on Treasuries rose, recovering from the biggest two-
day decline in almost two years, as two Federal Reserve regional
bank presidents defended its $600 billion asset-purchase program
against criticism from economists and politicians that it’s
inflationary.  Yields  on 10-year notes fell 12 basis points to
2.84 percent as of 5:10 p.m. last night in New York, according
to BGCantor Market Data.  Meanwhile the muni market “is under significant stress,”
 Tony Shields , principal in the public-finance department at
Williams Capital Group in New York, said in an e-mail. Even with
rates on the rise, buyers are scarce, he said.  “There’s selling pressure in the primary market, and
selling pressure in the secondary market,” said  Michael Zezas ,
a municipal strategist with  Morgan Stanley  in New York. “That’s
all coming as there’s waning demand.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  TEXAS PUBLIC FINANCE AUTHORITY, which is responsible for
issuing debt for state agencies, plans to sell about $1.2
billion in tax-exempt bonds for the Texas Workforce Commission
tomorrow. The revenue bonds, backed by a tax on the state’s
570,000 employers, will replenish the Texas unemployment trust
fund and help pay back almost $2 billion in advances from the
federal government, according to an Standard & Poor’s report.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch will lead the group marketing the
bonds, which mature in July 2011 through January 2018 and are
rated AAA by S&P and one level lower by Fitch Ratings and
Moody’s Investors Service. (Updated Nov. 17)  NORTH TEXAS TOLLWAY AUTHORITY, a regional Texas agency that
serves Denton, Dallas, Tarrant and Collin counties, plans to
sell $491 million in tax-exempt revenue bonds today. The issue,
backed by tolls and other revenue sources, will refinance
outstanding debt. Underwriters led by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch will market the bonds, with maturities ranging from 2017
to 2043. Moody’s rates them A2, its sixth-highest grade, one
step above S&P’s rating, A-. (Updated Nov. 17)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  