-- Panamericano Funding Assured by State-Owned Caixa After Redemptions Spike
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-17T21:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/panamericano-funding-assured-by-state-owned-caixa-after-redemptions-spike.html
Banco Panamericano SA , the Brazilian
bank under investigation for alleged fraud, will stay afloat
with “all the necessary support” from its state-owned
shareholder, Caixa Economica Federal, Caixa’s president said.  “There is no funding problem for Panamericano to continue
functioning,” Caixa President  Maria Fernanda Ramos Coelho  said
in an interview at the bank’s headquarters in Brasilia today.
“Caixa will give Panamericano all the necessary support for its
operations to be carried out normally.”  Panamericano, a Sao Paulo-based lender that focuses on
providing credit to lower-income clients, was losing as much as
200 million reais ($115 million) a day from redemptions of
certificates of deposit and investment funds after last week’s
2.5 billion-real bailout financed by the nation’s deposit
insurance fund, according to a bank official who asked not to be
named in accordance with company policy. The pace of redemptions
slowed this week, he said.  The probe by central bank officials and state prosecutors
began after Banco Central do Brasil discovered about 2.1 billion
reais of losses from improper accounting of sales of credit
portfolios, while the bank identified another 400 million reais
owed to it from the credit-card unit of its controlling
shareholder, Grupo  Silvio Santos , central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  said in an interview today in Brasilia.
Coelho said Caixa could purchase Panamericano loan portfolios to
provide funding if necessary.  Stock Decline  Panamericano bonds due in 2020 rose for the first time in
nine days, pushing down the yield to 10.06 percent from 10.07
percent, according to prices from Trace. The stock gained 0.8
percent to 5.01 reais in Sao Paulo. Panamericano plunged about
30 percent last week after the bank disclosed the rescue loan.  Grupo Silvio Santos, owned by the Brazilian media mogul,
said last week it took out the loan from the deposit insurance
fund to rescue Panamericano. The fund is financed by banks
operating in Brazil.  Meirelles told lawmakers last week that the group may sell
its majority stake in the bank to help repay the loan. Coelho
said she’s unaware of any negotiations underway for the group’s
stake. After the bailout, Caixa, which owns a minority stake of
Panamericano, took over a majority of the lender’s board, naming
five directors. Coelho will serve as chairwoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  