-- Panamericano Advances for Second Day on Purchase Bets
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-17T21:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/panamericano-leads-brazilian-small-cap-bank-gains-on-rival-purchase-bets.html
Banco Panamericano SA , the Brazilian
bank being investigated for alleged fraud, rose for a second day
on speculation it may be bought a by a larger rival, shoring up
its finances and boosting investor confidence in the industry.  The  stock  gained 0.8 percent to 5.01 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo at 3 p.m. New York time. The two-day
advance of 5.3 percent trims last week’s 37 percent plunge.  Panamericano, based in Sao Paulo, is being probed after the
central bank found accounting inconsistencies that prompted last
week’s 2.5 billion-real ($1.45 billion) bailout by controlling
shareholder Grupo Silvio Santos through a loan from the nation’s
deposit insurance fund. Investors are betting one of Brazil’s
largest banks may purchase Panamericano, said  Joao Pedro Brugger , who helps oversee 60 million reais at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil.  “Anyone who’s buying Panamericano in the past few days is
betting that it’s going to be bought by a bank that brings
credibility,” Brugger said by phone today.  Banco do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul SA , known as Banrisul,
climbed 4.2 percent to 19.80 reais while Banco Indusval SA rose
1.7 percent to 7.85 reais. Their shares have dropped since the
Panamericano rescue on concern it will raise other lenders’
borrowing costs and that accounting irregularities may not be
confined to Panamericano.  Caixa Economica Federal President Maria Fernanda Ramos
Coelho said in an interview today that Panamericano will stay
afloat with “all the necessary support” from its state-owned
shareholder. Caixa owns a minority stake in Panamericano.  Panamericano Redemptions  Panamericano, a lender that focuses on providing credit to
lower-income clients, was seeing redemptions of as much as 200
million reais a day from certificates of deposit and investment
funds after last week’s bailout, according to a bank official
who asked not to be identified in accordance with company
policy. The pace of redemptions slowed this week, he said.  Banco BMG SA, based in Belo Horizonte, yesterday denied a
report by O Estado de S. Paulo that it may buy Panamericano.  Some of Panamericano’s peers fell. Banco Daycoval SA lost
1.7 percent to 11.75 reais. Banco Pine SA dropped 1.7 percent to
13.13 reais.  “The industry is going to be volatile,” Brugger said.
“These medium-sized banks may suffer a bit on account of the
market uncertainty until the situation is sorted out. Investors
will be more cautious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  