-- Pay-TV Suffers Second Straight Subscriber Loss, SNL Kagan Says
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-11-17T18:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/pay-tv-suffers-second-straight-subscriber-loss-snl-kagan-says.html
Subscription television in the U.S.
lost customers for the second straight quarter amid a weak
economy and a transition to digital broadcasts on government-
controlled spectrum, according to research firm SNL Kagan.  Net subscribers fell by 119,000 in the third quarter,
compared with a gain of 346,000 a year earlier, SNL Kagan said
in a statement today. Cable-TV operators such as  Comcast Corp. 
led the decline with a loss of 741,000 accounts. Satellite
companies, helped by DirecTV, gained 145,000 customers, while
telephone companies offering TV service added 476,000.  New video options like Hulu.com and Netflix Inc. online
streaming services are proliferating, offering a potentially
cheaper alternative to traditional pay-TV. While Comcast and
 Time Warner Cable Inc. , the largest U.S. cable companies, said
on their third-quarter earnings conference calls that there is
no evidence of so-called cord-cutting, the second straight
decline industrywide may alarm investors, SNL Kagan said.  “It is becoming increasingly difficult to dismiss the
impact of over-the-top substitution on video subscriber
performance,” Ian Olgeirson, senior analyst at Charlottesville,
Virginia-based SNL Kagan, said in the statement.  Cable- and satellite-company profits were buoyed in the
third quarter by higher monthly bills as existing customers paid
more for add-on features including digital-video recorders.
Cable companies’ sales were also lifted by adding broadband
Internet customers.  Some customers who abandoned their pay-TV subscription were
those who rolled off promotional offerings from last year’s
digital-broadcast transition, according to SNL Kagan.  Dish
Network Corp. , the second-largest U.S. satellite-television
provider, and Comcast were among the companies that used
discounts to attract customers during the government-mandated
switch from analog service.  The companies said the cost to keep those customers at the
lower promotional rates was too great.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 