-- Philadelphia's Bond Rating Cut to A2 by Moody's on City's Fiscal Weakness
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l   a n d   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-11-17T22:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/philadelphia-s-bond-rating-cut-to-a2-by-moody-s-on-city-s-fiscal-weakness.html
Philadelphia’s credit rating was
reduced to A2 from A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, which said
the sixth most-populous U.S. city is financially weak and has
limited budget options.  The one-step downgrade, to the firm’s sixth-highest
investment grade, affects $3.85 billion of general-obligation
bonds and similar debt. The outlook for the city of 1.5 million
is stable, according to Moody’s.  Philadelphia is rated BBB by Standard & Poor’s, ninth-
highest out of 10 investment-grade levels; and A- by Fitch, its
seventh-highest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The city has little budgetary margin over its five-year
plan which includes significant repayment of deferred pension
contributions in 2013 and 2014,” the Moody’s report says.  Philadelphia, which increased property taxes and the local
sales tax during the past year, plans to issue $268 million in
general-obligation bonds, including $69 million in taxable Build
America Bonds, Moody’s said.  “The timing is a bit odd with the downgrade, because we
feel like we’ve turned the corner,” said  Rebecca Rhynhart ,
Philadelphia budget director. The city had an operating surplus
in the year ended June 30, after two years of deficits, and
projects another surplus in the current year, she said.  “Our tax revenue is beginning to stabilize,” Rhynhart
said. Sales-tax collections in the quarter ended Sept. 30 were
higher than the year-ago period, “the first time that’s
happened in two years,” she said.  The Moody’s action possibly “won’t have much of an impact
on the pricing” of bonds scheduled for sale later this month,
Rhynhart said. Other rating companies have assigned lower grades
to the city’s debt and “investors tend to look to the lowest
rating” when yields are set for new bonds, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  