-- Poland May Return to International Market With Euro Bond Offer Next Year
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-11-17T14:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/poland-may-return-to-international-market-with-euro-bond-offer-next-year.html
Poland may return to international
bond markets with an issue of euro-denominated bonds early next
year as the European Union’s largest eastern member seeks to
match its best year for foreign issuance in five.  The government hasn’t decided on the “final terms nor the
tenor” for the offering, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  told reporters in Tokyo today. Ministry
representatives are in Japan to market the sale of Samurai bonds
after raising the equivalent of $9.44 billion in international
markets this year, the most since 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Probably next year we will start international funding
with the euro issue,” Radziwill said. The government raised a
total of 5.25 billion euros ($5.25 billion) from the sale of 15-
year bonds, 7-year notes and debt maturing in 2021 this year.  Poland has boosted sales of foreign currency bonds in 2011
as borrowing costs for emerging-market issuers declined and one
of the EU’s fastest economic growth rates lured investors.
Poland also sold bonds in dollars and Swiss francs.  The 2011 plan for foreign bonds “is almost or just the
same as this year,”  Anna Suszynska , deputy director at the
ministry’s public debt department, told reporters today. “The
supply on the domestic market will be much lower” next year.  Poland filed with Japan’s finance ministry yesterday to
sell three- and five-year Samurai bonds. Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co., Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co. and Mizuho Securities Co. are helping the ministry to sell
the bonds, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
transaction.  $500 Million  Poland may sell about $500 million worth of Samurai bonds,
 Piotr Marczak , the head of the Finance Ministry’s public debt
department, said on Oct. 29. Samurai bonds are yen-denominated
notes sold in Japan by overseas borrowers.  The ministry told investors it plans to price three-year
bonds to yield between 70 basis points to 90 basis points more
than yen swaps, said the person, who declined to be identified
as the information is private. Poland is seeking to price five-
year bonds at a spread of between 85 basis points and 105 basis
points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net 
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  