-- Poland Not Ready to Suspend Pension Payments Amid EU Talks, Rostowski Says
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-11-17T14:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/poland-not-ready-to-suspend-pension-payments-amid-eu-talks-rostowski-says.html
Poland isn’t ready to consider
suspending payments to private pension funds while it is trying
to persuade the European Union to change accounting rules
governing such transfers, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said.  The government is considering reducing or suspending
payments to privately managed pension funds to narrow the
country’s budget deficit, the Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita
reported today, citing comments Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  made
at a recent Cabinet meeting. When asked about the story,
Rostowski said he had no knowledge of the proposal.  “We’re not at the stage of considering suspension of these
payments as Poland just isn’t in the same precarious situation
as some other EU states that have decided on this step,”
 Rostowski  said today at a news conference in Brussels. “An
important thing for us is to win a satisfying enough solution on
pension costs in the EU forum that will not place Poland in a
worse position than other countries.”  Poland and eight other EU members have asked the bloc to
change accounting rules so countries that have shifted workers
into private pension funds aren’t penalized in debt and deficit
calculations. Economy and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in October the EU would reject the request.  Hungary and Bulgaria have said they may roll back some
pension reforms and suspend transfers to private funds to keep
their deficits from widening. Lithuania reduced contributions to
private pension funds last year, and Estonia froze mandatory
contributions in April 2009.  Coalition Proposal  Polish Labor Minister  Jolanta Fedak , a member of the Polish
Peasants’ Party, the governing coalition’s junior partner, said
Nov. 4 that transfers to private pension funds should be
suspended to keep Poland’s public debt from breaching the legal
limit of 55 percent of gross domestic product.  This proposal would “be very important for the stability
of the budget” as the state would gain 24 billion zloty ($8.2
billion) that would otherwise be paid to the private funds,
Economy Minister  Waldemar Pawlak , who heads the Peasants’ Party,
said today in Warsaw.  The proposal became necessary after the EU “refused to
exclude” transfers to the private funds from public debt,
Pawlak said.  Poland’s general government deficit may reach 7.9 percent
of gross domestic product this year, almost three times the EU
limit of 3 percent. Rostowski said in September that Poland’s
deficit was some 2.4 percent higher as a result of the reform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  