-- Polish Debt Costs May Climb to 5-Month High at Auction on Europe Debt Ills
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-11-17T09:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/polish-debt-costs-may-climb-to-5-month-high-at-auction-on-europe-debt-woe.html
Polish borrowing costs may rise to a
five-month high in today’s 10-year bond sale as Europe’s debt
crisis saps demand for longer-dated notes and investors lift
bets the central bank will increase interest rates, according to
five banks.  The government will offer as much as 3 billion zloty ($1
billion) of bonds maturing in October 2020 after reducing the
supply by 500 million zloty from an earlier plan. ING Bank
Slaski SA predicts an average yield ranging from 5.78 percent to
5.80 percent while PKO Bank Polski SA and Societe Generale SA
estimate it at 5.73 percent. Bank Millenium SA’s projection is
5.78 percent, Bank Pekao SA’s is 5.75 percent. Those yields
would be the highest since a June auction.  Poland sold 3.6 billion zloty of 10-year bonds priced to
yield 5.456 percent at the last auction on Sept. 15.  The yield on Poland’s 10-year bond has climbed 30 to 5.77
percent, compared with a low this year of 5.33 percent reached
on Aug. 20, as investors shun European bonds on concern the
region’s most-indebted nations will struggle to cut budget
deficits and repay borrowings. Spain, Portugal and Ireland,
among the so-called peripheral nations, led a surge in the cost
of insuring debt to a record in western Europe this month.  “The risk of investing in Europe has risen and Poland has
suffered accordingly,” said  Miroslaw Budzicki , analyst at PKO,
one of the 12 primary dealers at government bond sales. “In the
longer term, bonds may benefit as Poland’s fiscal situation is
better than on the periphery but a knee-jerk reaction is to sell
the longer end.”  Raising Bets  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments climbed 36 basis points to an all-time high of 177.5
basis points on Nov. 11 from a month earlier.  Traders raised bets Poland’s central bank will increase
interest rates within the next year from a record low as
inflation and economic growth accelerate. Twelve-month  forward
rate agreements  that investors use to wager on changes in
borrowing costs within a year rose to 5.02 percent this week.
That was 1.17 percentage points higher than the three-month
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate of 3.85 percent. The spread has
widened from 82 basis points on Oct. 11.  Poland’s  inflation rate  rose to 2.8 percent last month, the
highest since February.  Growth  in the European Union’s only
economy to avoid recession through the global credit crisis
quickened to 3.5 percent in the second quarter, the fastest pace
since 2008.  European finance ministers meeting started work on possible
aid for Ireland’s debt-laden banks, stopping short of an
immediate bailout package. Ireland said it doesn’t need European
Union money.  ‘Good Candidate’  “Poland remains a good candidate to take some of the bond
flows once the dust settles in Ireland,” said  Grzegorz Ogonek ,
an economist at ING Bank Slaski SA in Warsaw. “For now though
the uncertainty has given the market a pause.”  The government is reducing supply of bonds in the fourth
quarter after foreign investors bought more domestic debt in the
first nine months of this year than in the previous five full
years, helping to finance the widening budget deficit.  Poland has “no need” to sell bonds to finance road
building next month despite earlier plans and may not offer the
debt in the first quarter of next year,  Piotr Marczak , the head
of the Finance Ministry’s public debt department, said today.
The government has covered 92 percent of its 2010 borrowing
needs through the end of last month, he said on Oct. 29.  Foreign investors’ holdings rose by 45 billion zloty this
year through the end of September to a record high of 123.6
billion zloty. They increased their holdings of medium- and
long-dated bonds, reducing positions with maturities up to two
years “in the past two months,” according to Marczak said.  Poland “doesn’t have its back against the wall in terms of
financing and can pick and choose among the offers,” said
 Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist at Bank Millennium in
Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  