-- Porsche Wins Dismissal of Suit to Overturn 2009 AGM From German Court
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-17T15:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/porsche-wins-dismissal-of-suit-challenging-shareholders-meeting-decisions.html
Porsche SE , the maker of the 911
sports car, won dismissal of investor lawsuits seeking to
overturn decisions made at a 2009 shareholder meeting during the
manufacturer’s bid to take over  Volkswagen AG .  The Stuttgart Higher Regional Court in Germany rejected the
bid by two minority shareholders, who also targeted decisions
discharging directors from liability for the 2008 fiscal year,
backing a lower tribunal’s May 28 ruling in favor of Porsche.  “The Higher Regional Court, just like the Regional Court,
couldn’t determine that the questions listed in the suits were
insufficiently answered during the annual meeting on Jan. 30,
2009,” the court said today in an e-mailed statement.  Porsche’s failed takeover bid led to Chief Executive
Officer  Wendelin Wiedeking ’s ouster in July 2009, regulatory
probes and lawsuits in the U.S. and Germany. Wolfsburg, Germany-
based VW agreed to merge with Stuttgart-based Porsche in August
2009 after the sports-car maker’s debt tripled to more than 10
billion euros ($13.5 billion).  Porsche welcomes the ruling which fully backs its position,
company spokesman  Albrecht Bamler  said in an interview.  Martin Weimann, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said he will
ask Germany’s top civil court to allow him to appeal today’s
decision.  The plaintiffs argued  Porsche’s management  should have
answered a host of questions they asked at the meeting about the
strategy leading up to an October 2008 announcement that it
controlled 42.6 percent of VW shares and had so-called cash-
settled options for another 31.5 percent.  Strategy, Pay  The court said it didn’t have to rule on whether Porsche
was right to use the strategy or whether it paid executives too
much in the process. Porsche didn’t have to answer all questions
about derivatives it used, because such disclosures could have
hurt the company’s interests, the judges wrote.  In January 2009 these transactions weren’t complete and
other market participants could have used the information to
follow the trade or speculate against Porsche, they said.  The case is OLG Stuttgart, 20 U 2/10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karin Matussek  at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 