-- Possible Chinese Inflation Curbs Offer `Buying Opportunity,' JF Asset Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/possible-chinese-inflation-curbs-offer-buying-opportunity-jf-asset-says.html
Chinese stock declines spurred by
government measures to curb inflation offer a “buying
opportunity,” said  Howard Wang , head of the Greater China team
at JF Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Wang, whose team at the  JPMorgan Asset Management  unit
oversees more than $50 billion, said he may add shares tied to
the strength of the world’s second-biggest economy, including
consumer and health-care companies, without naming any
individual stocks.  China’s cabinet said yesterday that the government may
impose temporary price controls on “important daily
necessities” and production materials to counter the fastest
 inflation  in two years. The  Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen
10 percent from an almost seven-month high on speculation
efforts to cool prices will be a drag on growth, creating a
window for investors in Chinese stocks. The government is
wrestling with inflation that accelerated to a 4.4 percent
annual pace in October.  “This is a buying opportunity as fundamentals are solid
but the rebound may take time as the consumer prices are not
going to ease off that quickly and the market probably will want
a better sense of the government toolbox,” Wang said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. “The market
is attempting to price this in.”  The State Council also pledged to stabilize natural gas
prices, crack down on speculation in agricultural goods and
ensure the supply of vegetables, grain, cooking oil and sugar.
Price caps will be used if necessary, the council said in a
statement after a meeting chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  ‘Inflationary Psychology’  “Policies like this are aimed at inflationary
psychology,” Wang said. “The actual impact tends to be
negative but I presume the authorities have decided the balance
of risks warrants them.”  The Shanghai index fell 1.9 percent yesterday, bringing the
gauge’s decline since Nov. 8 to 10 percent, a so-called
correction. Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a report yesterday that
it is turning “bearish” on China’s yuan-denominated shares,
saying that the government may introduce price controls and
“more draconian’” measures to curb accelerating inflation.  China may increase borrowing costs for a second time this
year as soon as Nov. 19, the China Securities Journal reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified analyst. The People’s Bank of
China boosted its benchmark one-year lending rate on Oct. 19 by
a quarter of a percentage point to 5.56 percent, the first
increase since 2007.  Importance, Urgency  The government should recognize the “importance and
urgency” of tackling prices, the State Council said yesterday.  October’s  inflation  rate was higher than any of the
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
government is also seeking to cool property prices as money
flows into the economy from the trade surplus and investors
abroad betting on a strengthening yuan and economic gains.  China in January 2008 temporarily froze prices for oil
products, natural gas and electricity, as well as daily goods
and school and transportation fees, to counter inflation that
surged to the fastest pace in more than a decade.  The price restrictions caused a 65 percent slump in the
Shanghai Composite that year after the gauge had more than
 quadrupled  during 2006 and 2007.  “The last time China enacted price controls, they ended
the Shanghai bull market,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director
of Parry International Trading Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The knock-on
could be larger this time given the global focus on China.”  -- Darren Boey . Editors:  Linda Shen ,  Peter Branton .  To contact the reporter for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net . 