-- Prince Charles Rewards Art Dealer D’Offay, Wolfson for Charity
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-11-17T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/prince-charles-rewards-art-dealer-d-offay-wolfson-for-giving-to-charity.html
Prince Charles , heir to the British
throne, rewarded five U.K. philanthropists including the art
dealer Anthony d’Offay and the late retail executive  Leonard Wolfson  for their cultural giving.  Honorees or their representatives will receive the Prince
of Wales Medal for Arts Philanthropy from the prince at St.
James’s Palace on Nov. 22, said an e-mailed statement from Arts
& Business, the nonprofit organization that manages the prize
giving and has the prince as its patron.  D’Offay in 2008 sold 725 postwar and contemporary works to
the nation at the price he paid for them, or 26.5 million pounds
($42 million), forgoing an estimated profit of some 100 million
pounds. At his request, they have been touring the country,
giving people access to art free of charge.  Leonard Wolfson, a peer in the House of Lords who died in
May, formerly chaired retailer Great Universal Stores, which
became GUS Plc, and his family’s charitable Wolfson Foundation.
GUS Plc split its retail unit from Experian Group Plc in 2006,
creating  Home Retail Group Plc , owner of Britain’s Homebase do-
it-yourself stores.  “The five honorees being recognized today epitomize the
philanthropic spirit,”  Jeremy Hunt , U.K. Culture Secretary,
said in the e-mailed release. “I congratulate them and hope
others will be encouraged to follow their lead.”  Hunt has said he would like to see U.K. arts bodies raise
more and more money through private donations, and reduce their
reliance on state support.  This year’s other recipients are:  Richard Broyd , Helen
Thorpe, and David Seligman. D’Offay’s wife Anne, a former Tate
curator, is also honored, as is the Wolfson family as a whole.  In 2009, the medal’s inaugural year, philanthropists
including  John Sainsbury  and  Vivien Duffield  won.  As a result of government spending cuts,  Arts & Business 
will see its annual 3.8 million pound grant halved in 2011-12,
then axed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London   farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 