-- QE2 Pits Bernanke Against Obama Export Plan: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-11-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/qe2-pits-bernanke-against-obama-export-plan-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
If President  Barack Obama  and
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  are serious about
nurturing the U.S. economy back to health, they should start by
getting their signals straight.  Take the issue of trade, for example, a subject near and
dear to the hearts of the leaders of the Group of 20 largest
economies meeting in Seoul last week.  Obama wants the U.S. to export its way to prosperity. Too
bad every other country on earth wants to do the same thing.  The U.S. is a  net importer  and has been for three decades.
It buys more goods and services from abroad than it sells.  Viewed another way, Americans consume more than they
produce, borrowing the difference from foreigners willing to
hold dollar assets.  Obama wants the U.S. to become an export powerhouse. In
other words, he’d like the country to be more like China.  “Export growth leads to job growth and economic growth,”
Obama  said  in announcing his export council in July. “At a time
when jobs are in short supply, building exports is an
imperative.”  How does the U.S. become a net exporter? What will it take
for the country to sell more goods and services abroad than it
buys from others, increasing employment and adding to gross
domestic product in the process?  Simple: It has to boost national savings.  Somebody tell Bernanke. The Fed chairman just embarked on
another round of quantitative easing in order to encourage
borrowing and spending.  Lower Interest Rates  Bernanke explained the Fed’s actions and expectations for
QE2 in a Washington Post  op-ed  column on Nov. 4, the day
following the meeting where the intention to purchase $600
billion of mostly two- to 10-year Treasuries was announced.  The central bank wants to lower longer-term interest rates
so buying a home becomes more affordable and existing owners can
 refinance . The money saved will enable consumers to spend more.
Easier financial conditions will increase  stock prices , making
consumers feel wealthier. That wealth effect will spur more
spending in what Bernanke calls a “virtuous circle.”  Virtuous for whom? Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  got
taken to the woodshed a few weeks back when he tried to get his
overseas counterparts to sign on to a reduction in their
countries’ trade surpluses or deficits to 4 percent of GDP.  Need to Save  “G-20 countries running persistent deficits should boost
national savings by adopting credible medium-term fiscal targets
consistent with sustainable debt levels and by strengthening
export performance,” Geithner said in an Oct. 20 letter to his
G-20 colleagues.  Oops.  If the objective is to raise GDP through net exports, or
the difference between exports and imports, it requires an
increase in national savings as Geithner suggests. All things
equal, lower interest rates increase the incentive to spend, not
save, because the return to savings is so minimal.  So which is it? More  spending  or more  saving ? The Treasury
and Fed appear to be working at cross purposes.  Policy makers would probably say the timing, or sequence,
is important. The recommended cure for the  housing  and credit
bubbles in the first part of this decade is deleveraging. When
the boom turned to bust and the economy cratered, monetary and
fiscal policies dedicated themselves to creating incentives to
borrow and spend, at least in the short run.  The incentives are still stacked in that direction, as the
Fed made clear with the implementation of QE2.  Dollar Policy  Obama was forced to defend the Fed’s actions at the G-20
summit as a means of boosting economic growth, not an attempt to
devalue the dollar to increase  exports .  While it’s true that a weaker  dollar  will make U.S. exports
cheaper and imports more expensive in the near term, policy
makers never explain how they know when short-run remedial
solutions start to infringe on the long-run health of the
economy. The Fed’s doctrine of asset bubble identification
(impossible) and response (ex post) comes to mind.  Besides, a weaker dollar might not be what it’s cracked up
to be in terms of its job-creation capability.  “The exchange rate elasticity of U.S. exports is
relatively small,” said  Neal Soss , chief economist at Credit
Suisse, referring to the modest effect a weaker dollar has on
exports. “It’s much better to get foreign economies to grow
faster.”  Mixed Message  To the extent that the foreign central bank response to
increased capital inflows is easier monetary policy to temper
domestic currency appreciation, those countries will grow faster
and buy more of our exports, Soss said.  There’s another problem. “There isn’t very much employment
elasticity in the things the U.S. is good at exporting,” he
said.  Take agriculture production, at which the U.S. excels but
which boasts a high rate of productivity. Increasing farm
exports isn’t going to produce many new jobs. The same is true
for high-end capital goods, according to Soss.  It sure sounds as if U.S. policy makers are confusing a
symptom with a problem, trying to address the manifestation
rather than the cause. With that kind of an approach, no wonder
the Fed and Treasury are transmitting contradictory messages.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  