-- Rapping Hamsters Help Kia Allay Quality Concerns as Sales Soar
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-17T23:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/rapping-hamsters-help-kia-alleviate-quality-concerns-as-sales-in-u-s-soar.html
Rapping hamsters  and unemployment
near a 26-year high are helping  Kia Motors Corp.  log record
sales in the U.S. even as its cars plummet in quality surveys.  Kia’s U.S. sales gained 15 percent this year through
October, outpacing General Motors Co.,  Toyota Motor Corp.  and
Honda Motor Co. That rate would push Kia, whose lineup sells for
about $8,000 less than the industry average, to its highest
annual U.S. sales ever.  South Korea’s second-largest carmaker is defying a drop in
quality rankings by J.D. Power & Associates as 9.6 percent
 unemployment  spurs demand for inexpensive cars. Commercials
featuring rodents driving the boxy Soul and characters from the
children’s show  Yo Gabba Gabba!  have also raised the company’s
profile in the U.S.  “People are looking for value in this market, and they’re
looking at brands they might not have considered in the past,”
said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with IHS Automotive, based in
Boston. “The advertisements are so good and are helping to
create a buzz for the models.”  Kia’s cars sell for an average of $21,598, compared with
the industry average of $29,494, said  Edmunds.com , an auto-
industry data provider based in Santa Monica, California.  The company’s stock has more than doubled so far this year,
making it the  best-performing member  of the benchmark Kospi 50
index. The shares were unchanged at 50,000 won in Seoul
yesterday.  Electrical Recall  Kia dropped 10 places to 25th in J.D. Power’s  initial
quality survey  of mass-market and luxury brands, and Consumer
Reports magazine recommended only three of eight models. The
company recalled about 104,000 vehicles worldwide this year
because of an electrical wiring problem that can cause fires,
prompting Jeong Sung Eun to resign as vice chairman in September.  Kevin Reglein, of Cedar Falls, Iowa, bought a 2011 Sportage
LX because of a roomy rear seat and a design that “set it
apart.” After 200 miles, the SUV’s engine light came on.  A dealership mechanic installed new wires, and three days
later the vehicle was towed back, Reglein said. It stayed there
nine days while parts were shipped from South Korea, he said.  Still, “Kia fixed the problem and so far I love the
vehicle,” Reglein said.  Customers also complained about wind noise and the interior
design in Kia’s Forte compact, said  Raffi Festekjian , director
of automotive product research for Westlake Village, California-
based J.D. Power.  A separate survey on vehicle dependability, assessing the
quality of models on the road for three years, rated Kia 20th.  Behind Hyundai  Those ratings lag behind affiliate  Hyundai Motor Co. , South
Korea’s largest automaker, which placed seventh in quality and
11th in dependability. The two companies share vehicle platforms,
engines, parts suppliers and a  chairman .  Consumer Reports, published by Yonkers, New York-based non-
profit Consumers Union, recommends five of seven Hyundais.  “The image of Kia’s old models with poor quality hasn’t
completely disappeared,” Charles Bang, director of the division
overseeing quality at Hyundai and Kia in Seoul, said in an e-
mail.  “But it’s not correct to say there’s a huge quality gap
between Hyundai’s and Kia’s cars because both carmakers now
build their vehicles based on the same platforms, under the
supervision of the same quality-management controlling center.”  The automakers opened a new center in Namyang, 48
kilometers (30 miles) southwest of Seoul, this year to
complement one in the capital. The companies said they plan to
produce 40 models with six shared platforms by 2013, an increase
from 32 models with 18 platforms last year, said  Michael Choo , a
Kia spokesman in Seoul.  Most October Sales  In 1999, a year after Hyundai bought a controlling stake in
 Kia , they shared 18 percent of 740 parts suppliers. By 2009,
they shared 78 percent of 400.  “The new cars they’re bringing out are much more
competitive, but it takes time to change that perception,” said
 Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer of Edmunds.com.  Kia’s revamped U.S. lineup is led by the new Sorento and
Sportage sport-utility vehicles, the Soul wagon, and the Forte
and Optima cars. It sold 299,223 vehicles in the first 10 months,
with its best October ever, it said Nov. 2.  GM ’s sales through October increased 6.6 percent,  Honda ’s
4.3 percent and Toyota’s 0.6 percent.  Kia’s market share of 3.1 percent is up 0.1 percentage
point from a year earlier, according to sales statistics
compiled by Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based researcher Autodata
Corp.  Kia may sell about 359,000 cars and light trucks in the
market this year, based on its current sales rate. Its U.S.
sales peaked at 305,473 units in 2007.  Yo Gabba Gabba!  In South Korea, Kia’s market share through October this
year is 33 percent, compared with 22 percent during the same
period in 2007, according to Korea Automobile Manufacturers
Association data. It has sold 395,247 vehicles this year.  “I am very much satisfied with Kia cars’ performance and
durability,” Kim Kyong Ryol, 67, said after signing a contract
this month in Seoul for a new Forte.  In the U.S., brand awareness is “probably the biggest
issue” for Kia,  Tom Loveless , vice president of U.S. sales,
said in an interview last month.  The company expects the 2011 Optima sedan, sold in Korea as
the K5 and due in the U.S. in December, and revamped Sportage
and Sorento to enhance its image with younger buyers and
families, Loveless said. The commercials are also part of that
push, he said.  Michael Mincey of Orlando, Florida, said Soul’s design,
“peppy” driving feel and affordable price led him to buy his
first Kia this year. The Soul’s interior is comparable to his
Jeep from Chrysler LLC, and its fuel economy is better, he said.  “A friend mentioned the Soul because he liked the
commercials,” Mincey said. “I took a look, went for a test
drive, did my research and I was sold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at +1= 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
 Sookyung Seo  in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  