-- Treasury 10/30-Year Yield Spread Near Two-Week Low Before Inflation Report
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-17T12:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/treasuries-hold-gains-on-outlook-for-slower-inflation-china-tightening.html
The difference in yield, or spread,
between 10- and 30-year Treasuries held near the lowest in two
weeks before a U.S. government report that economists said will
show inflation remains in check.  Treasuries fluctuated as European finance ministers started
work on aiding Irish banks while stopping short of an immediate
bailout. The Fed today is scheduled to  buy  as much $9 billion of
government debt. Yields slid yesterday as Federal Reserve
officials defended the central bank’s $600 billion program of
Treasury purchases.  “The inflation data will be benign,” supporting
government debt, said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker
for money managers. The debt crisis in Europe “provided further
support for Treasuries,” he said.  The  yield  on the 10-year note fell 1 basis point to 2.84
percent as of 7:47 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 2.625 percent security due in October 2020 rose
1/32 or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount to 98 5/32.  The difference in yield or spread between the securities
and those due in 30 years was at 143 basis points, after
narrowing yesterday to as little as 140 basis points, the least
since Nov. 3. A narrowing in the spread reflects investor demand
for longer-dated bonds, which are more sensitive to the outlook
for inflation.  Producer Prices  The cost of goods and services excluding food and energy in
the U.S. rose 0.7 percent in October from a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey before today’s Labor Department
report. The figure would be the smallest year-over-year gain
since 1961. Overall consumer prices increased 0.3 percent in
October from the previous month, according to the survey.  The producer price index climbed 0.4 percent in October
from September, the Labor Department said yesterday. Economists
forecast a 0.8 percent increase.  “The inflation numbers coming out don’t necessarily
justify a Treasury sell-off on inflation concerns,” said
 Guthrie Williamson , a portfolio manager in Sydney at Principal
Global Investors, which manages $213 billion in assets globally.  Treasuries rose earlier, and Asian stocks dropped for a
fourth day, after China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday the
government is drafting measures to counter rapid price gains.
His comments at a Guangzhou, Guangdong, supermarket were
broadcast last night on state television.  “Anything that indicates that Chinese growth may be
contained has an impact on world growth expectations, which all
else being equal means lower yields,” said Williamson.  Euro Region  Finance chiefs from the 16-country euro area lauded
Ireland’s budget cuts. Ireland said it won’t plead for money
when European and International Monetary Fund officials arrive
in Dublin tomorrow to begin talks on the banking system’s needs.
Still, if “banking problems are too big for this small country
to manage, Europe has made it clear they’ll help,” Irish
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told state broadcaster RTE today.  The Fed will buy debt every day this week as part of its
quantitative easing, or QE, program to cap borrowing costs. The
central bank will purchase government securities maturing from
February 2018 to November 2020 today, according to its  website .  Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  said yesterday he expects the
central bank to buy the entire amount of purchases announced in
a bid to reduce unemployment.  “Certainly if the economy were to weaken substantially and
further disinflation were to occur, we should take more
action,” and officials could also make “adjustments” if the
economy turned out to be much stronger than expected, he said in
an interview with Bloomberg News.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  told reporters after
a speech late yesterday the asset purchases won’t cause “undue
disruption.” The central bank will likely complete the entire
$600 billion program as planned, he said.  Differing Views  Gains in Treasuries were tempered on speculation Fed
officials will give different views on the effectiveness of the
asset-purchase program in speeches this week.  Fed Bank of Philadelphia President Charles Plosser,
scheduled to talk on monetary policy tomorrow, said in October
he doubted the benefits of further easing would outweigh the
costs. Governor  Kevin Warsh , who has expressed concern that
stimulus will fuel too much inflation, also speaks tomorrow
followed by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s address at a European
Central Bank conference on Nov. 19.  “An awful lot had been priced in for QE,” said  Grant Hassell , who helps oversee $3.5 billion in assets as head of
fixed income at AMP Capital Investors in Wellington, New
Zealand. “The conflicting comments we’re getting out of the Fed
aren’t showing a lot of unison or commitment to continue to
deliver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  