-- Yield Curve Steepens as Republican Lawmakers Question Fed Stimulus Policy
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-17T22:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/treasuries-fluctuate-after-housing-starts-fall-consumer-price-gains-small.html
The difference between yields on 2-
and 10-year Treasury notes approached the steepest level since
July as the four top Republicans in Congress joined in
criticizing the Federal Reserve’s bond-purchase plan.  Yields on the longer-maturity debt are rising faster as
investors demand a greater premium against the risk that Fed
officials won’t be able to control increases in inflation after
completing $600 billion in purchases under the so-called
quantitative easing policy that began last week. A report today
showed annual core inflation slowed to the smallest gain since
1958. The Fed bought $8.2 billion in Treasuries today.  “The debate is not whether or not the Fed is going to do
it,” said  Thomas L. di Galoma , head of U.S. rates trading at
Guggenheim Capital Markets LLC, a New-York based brokerage for
institutional investors. “The real debate is that because the
Fed is in the middle of doing QE2, somehow it will produce
inflation. The jury is still out on that.”  The 10-year  note  yield rose four basis points to 2.88
percent at 5:02 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
data. The 3.625 percent security due in November 2020 fell
10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face value, to 97 25/32. Two-year
note yields declined two basis points to 0.48 percent.  The difference between yields on 2- and 10-year debt rose
to 2.39 percentage points and was near the 2.45 percentage
points it touched yesterday, the highest since July 16.  Mail Call  The letter to Fed Chairman  Ben S Bernanke  was signed by
House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, House Republican
Whip  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, and Senate Republican Whip  Jon Kyl  of
Arizona. A copy of the letter was obtained by Bloomberg News.  “While intended to improve the short-term growth of the
U.S. economy and help maintain a stable price level, such a
measure introduces significant uncertainty regarding the future
strength of the dollar,” the letter said. The purchases could
“result both in hard-to-control, long-term inflation and
potentially generate artificial asset bubbles.”  The cost of living in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
October, indicating higher prices for commodities such as fuel
aren’t filtering through into other goods and services. Boston
Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said the central bank risked a
worsening outlook for inflation and jobs if it hadn’t embarked
this month on extended unconventional monetary stimulus.  “Not changing policy risked further disinflation, a rise
in the real cost of funds tantamount to monetary tightening, and
risks of continued and possibly worsening pain in labor
markets,” Rosengren said today in a speech in Providence, Rhode
Island. “There are real and significant long-term costs to
individuals and the economy when the unemployment rate remains
stubbornly high.” Unemployment was at 9.6 percent in October,
near a 26-year high.  Core Inflation  Consumer prices excluding food and fuel, the gauge
followed by central bankers, increased 0.6 percent from October
2009, the smallest gain in year-over-year data going back to
1958, the Labor Department said today in Washington. Builders
began work last month on the fewest homes since a record low
reached in April 2009, according to figures from the Commerce
Department.  Builders in the U.S. began work on fewer homes than
forecast in October as the industry remained mired near the
depths reached during the recession.  Housing starts fell to a 519,000 annual rate, the fewest
since a record low reached in April 2009 and down 12 percent
from a revised 588,000 in September that was less than
previously estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today
in Washington. Work on multifamily units, which is often
volatile, plunged 44 percent, swamping a 1.1 percent drop in
single-family homes.  Fed Plans  The Fed will buy debt every day this week as part of its
quantitative easing. The program has become misperceived as a
government bailout, said Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard .  “What is really only ordinary monetary policy got
conflated, I think, with other kinds of government programs,
bailout programs,” Bullard told reporters today after speaking
at a housing finance conference in St. Louis. “It is up to us
to try to communicate better about monetary policy.”  Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser ,
scheduled to talk on monetary policy tomorrow, said in October
he doubted the benefits of further easing would outweigh the
costs. Governor  Kevin Warsh , who has expressed concern that
stimulus will fuel too much inflation, also speaks tomorrow
followed by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s address at a European
Central Bank conference on Nov. 19.  The U.S. may sell $35 billion in 2-year notes, $35 billion
in 5-year debt and $29 billion in 7-year securities on three
consecutive days beginning Nov. 22, according to the average
forecasts of nine of 18 primary dealers that are required to bid
at Treasury auctions in a Bloomberg News survey.  The amounts would match the total sold at the October
auction of the securities, which was the lowest since March 2009
when the government sold $98 billion. The figures will be
announced tomorrow by the Treasury at 11 a.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  