-- Three Pulled Bank Bond Sales in Three Days Show Probe Pain: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2010-11-17T11:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/three-pulled-bank-bond-sales-in-three-days-show-probe-pain-brazil-credit.html
Banco Bradesco SA  and Banco
Industrial e  Comercial SA  withdrew bond offerings as a global
market rout and an investigation into alleged bank fraud pushed
Brazilian corporate borrowing costs to a seven-week high.  Average yields on Brazilian  company bonds  climbed 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, yesterday to 6.07 percent, the
highest since Sept. 24, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
CEMBI bond index. Russian corporate bond yields rose 10 basis
points while borrowing costs for Indian companies increased
three basis points. Emerging-market bonds tumbled and global
stocks sank on speculation the debt crisis in Ireland, Greece
and Portugal is worsening.  The sales were put on hold after Banco BVA SA, a Brazilian
bank specializing in loans to mid-sized companies, delayed an
overseas issue last week as an accounting probe of Banco
Panamericano SA, a Sao Paulo-based lender, curbed demand for
debt from the country’s lenders. Yields on Panamericano’s dollar
bonds due in 2020 have surged to 10.1 percent from 7.4 percent
since the bank was rescued with a 2.5 billion real ($1.44
billion) loan from the deposit insurance fund.  “What we’re seeing in the market is a combination of risk
aversion as the markets are selling off and the concern over
Panamericano,” said  Jack Deino , who oversees about $1.6 billion
of emerging-market debt at Invesco Inc. in New York. “Obviously
there’s uncertainty around Panamericano. Investors are taking a
look at this whole sector and realize it should be priced wider
and there’s a knee-jerk reaction to sell bank bonds.”  The extra  yield  investors demand to own developing-nation
debt instead of U.S. Treasuries swelled 19 basis points, the
most since June 4, to 2.56 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  The MSCI World Index , a gauge of global
stock markets, sank 1.3 percent. The spread on Brazil’s dollar
debt jumped 16 basis points to 187, the highest since Oct. 20.  Volatility’  Banco Bradesco, Brazil’s second-largest bank by market
capitalization, put on hold an overseas real bond sale because
of market “volatility,”  Marlene Millan , a bank director, said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. She said the bank had a
“robust” book for the sale before emerging-market bond yields
rose. The yield on Bradesco’s 5.9 percent bonds due in 2021 rose
two basis points to 5.82 percent.  “We were ready to close and price the transaction this
afternoon, but the market became very volatile,” she said.
“Then we decided to pull the transaction, so that we would give
the investor the opportunity to look at it in a scenario of less
volatility, in a normal market condition. We chose to wait for a
more favorable moment.”  BicBanco  Banco Industrial e Comercial , the Sao Paulo-based lender
known as BicBanco, halted its planned local bond sale, citing
“market conditions” in a regulatory filing. Calls to BicBanco
in Sao Paulo after business hours weren’t answered. Yields on
the company’s 5.25 percent debt due in 2015 soared 29 basis
points to 5.62 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The pulled deals are “a response to the drop in risk
appetite across the globe,” said  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-
markets strategist at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.  Panamericano’s controlling shareholder, Grupo  Silvio Santos , took a 2.5 billion real loan from the country’s deposit
insurance fund to boost the bank’s capital last week. Public
prosecutors said last week they’re conducting a criminal
investigation of the bank after regulators uncovered accounting
inconsistencies.  Bradesco, based in Osasco, planned to sell a five-year real
bond at a yield of about 10.5 percent, said a person familiar
with offering who declined to be identified because he’s not
allowed to speak publicly.  Itau Sale  BicBanco said Oct. 31 that its leasing unit planned to sell
as much as 200 million reais of two-year bonds in Brazil.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA, the biggest Brazilian bank by
market value, sold 500 million reais of five-year bonds to yield
10.5 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Deutsche Bank AG, Itau and Morgan Stanley arranged the overseas
sale.  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell 1 basis point to 11.60 percent today at 6:26
a.m. New York time. The real rose 0.3 percent to 1.7362 per
dollar.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 6 basis points
yesterday to 111 basis points, according to data compiled by
CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Opportunities’  Panamericano may be bought by Banco BMG SA, O Estado de S.
Paulo columnist  Sonia Racy  reported on the newspaper’s website,
without saying how she got the information.  Banco BMG , based in
Belo Horizonte, denied the report in an e-mailed statement after
the market closed. The bank is “open to new opportunities,”
according to the statement.  State-run Caixa Economica Federal owns a minority stake in
Panamericano.  Maria Fernanda Coelho , the president of Caixa
Economica who will become Panamericano’s chairwoman, said there
are no talks to sell control of the bank to Banco BMG, O Estado
de S. Paulo reported, citing an interview with the executive.  “Everyone is questioning what the endgame is on
Panamericano,” said Invesco’s Deino. “There’s a lot of
uncertainty how all this is going to unfold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Helder Marinho  at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  