-- Three Reasons Global Talks Hit Dead End: Mohamed A. El-Erian
-- B y   M o h a m e d   A .   E l - E r i a n
-- 2010-11-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/three-reasons-global-talks-hit-dead-end-mohamed-a-el-erian.html
“Obama’s Economic View Is Rejected
on World Stage,” the New York Times  declared  on its front page.
The Financial Times’  headline  was “G-20 Shuns U.S. on Trade and
Currencies,” while the Wall Street Journal  proclaimed  “U.S.
Gets Rebuffed at Divided Summit.” In short, the media’s
reporting on the Group of 20 summit in Seoul was brutal.  The meeting of government leaders was certainly a
disappointment for those looking for coordinated policy actions
to place the world economy on a more secure path to high growth,
job creation and financial stability. It also highlighted the
growing leadership vacuum at the center of the global system.  The focus now shifts to what comes next. Will the summit be
a catalyst for more constructive discussions outside the
spotlights and beyond the attention of the world media? Or will
it seriously undermine a G-20 process that was successful in
avoiding a global depression but has since failed to ensure a
lasting economic recovery?  Absent some appropriate changes in mindset and behavior,
the latter interpretation may well prevail for three reasons
that may seem counterintuitive to some.  First, the summit played down disagreements by  producing a
statement  that has something for everyone. This attempt at
short-term expediency can easily backfire. After all, it is hard
for China, Germany, the U.S. and others to make a solid case at
home for compromises to meet global responsibilities when
opponents can quote reassuring sections from the communique.  On the Defensive  Second, what should have been a collective discussion on
global rebalancing veered too much in a direction that placed
the U.S. on the defensive. And attempts at unilateralism by the
U.S. before the summit -- through policy actions and widely
circulated letters, which I suspect were meant to encourage
others to fall in line behind American leadership -- served only
to display an unusual degree of isolation and foster even more
questioning of the world’s biggest economy.  Third, with France set to assume the G-20 leadership, the
summit opens the door wide for a government that is naturally
inclined to greater intervention. In the past, this has tended
to irritate the U.S. in terms of both content and process.  French leadership of the G-20 also comes at a time when
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government is eager to secure
visible quick wins on the global stage. It is under political
pressure at home on account of budget austerity, and it also
faces regional tensions due to the expanding debt crisis in the
peripheral economies of the euro area.  Economic Diplomacy  This rather downcast analysis of what possibly comes next
should ring alarm bells in Washington and in other capitals. It
is a call for intensifying international economic diplomacy with
a view, first and foremost, to reaching rapid convergence on a
common analysis of what ails the global economy. Without that,
any other step can’t be productive.  Global economic cooperation has been weakened by a
disappointing G-20 summit. But coordination is still the only
way to secure the collaborative outcome that is so critical for
the wellbeing of so many around the world.  “Uneven growth and widening imbalances are fueling the
temptation to diverge from global solutions into uncoordinated
actions,” the G-20 statement said, adding that “uncoordinated
policy actions will only lead to worse outcomes for all.”  Without common analysis and purpose, we will all find that
a rather bland G-20 statement will, unfortunately, become very
prescient.  ( Mohamed A. El-Erian  is Pimco’s chief executive officer and
co-chief investment officer, and the author of the book “When
Markets Collide.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
 Mohamed A. El-Erian  at  Mohamed.El-Erian@pimco.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  