-- Regions Cut for Second Time in Month by Moody's on Risk Managers' Ouster
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2010-11-17T05:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/regions-ousted-risk-managers-amid-slow-turnaround-cfo-says.html
Regions Financial Corp. , Alabama’s
biggest bank, had its credit rating cut for the second time this
month by Moody’s Investors Service after the lender ousted three
managers who oversaw risk and souring assets.  The firm’s senior debt rating was lowered two notches to
Ba3 from Ba1, Moody’s said in a statement late yesterday.
Regions’ board wanted personnel changes amid “slow” progress
in improving credit quality, the bank’s finance chief,  David Turner , said yesterday at a New York investment conference.
Chief Risk Officer  Bill Wells  resigned and two other executives
retired and left the company, he said.  Their exit, as the bank deals with souring loans, “raises
serious concerns regarding the firm’s controls and the path of
future asset-quality charges,” Moody’s said, adding that all
long-term ratings are on review for possible downgrade. On Nov.
1, Moody’s cut the senior debt rating one level from Baa3.  Regions last reported an annual profit in 2007, and since
the start of last year has written off more than $3 billion in
loans, mostly tied to developers, home builders and mortgage
borrowers in Georgia and Florida. In the third quarter, charge-
offs for uncollectible loans jumped to $759 million from $651
million in the previous three months because of more bad
commercial real-estate loans.  “It’s never a good time to make changes like this,”
Turner, the bank’s fourth finance chief since 2006, said of the
departures.  Pace of Change  Chief Executive Officer  Grayson Hall  and directors made
the decision because they think “our pace of change needed to
pick up with regards to our credit environment as well as
bringing in somebody new with a different perspective,” Turner
said. The decision wasn’t imposed by regulators, he said.  The Birmingham-based lender has yet to repay $3.5 billion
in taxpayer funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. In
cutting the rating on Nov. 1, Moody’s cited a decreasing
expectation that the government would again offer Regions and
other U.S. local banks emergency support.  Shares of Regions  slumped  yesterday to the lowest since
January, falling 4.5 percent to $5.92 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The exit of executives who monitor potential losses
“certainly signifies substantial risks toward future
performance and valuation of their current assets,” said
 Christopher Gamaitoni , an analyst at Compass Point Research &
Trading LLC in Washington.  ‘Slow’ Progress  The personnel moves weren’t prompted by additional reserves
or charge-offs for bad loans, Turner said.  “We’ve made progress, but it has been slow, it’s been
slower than we wanted, slower than what our board wanted, slower
than what you guys wanted,” he told the audience of investors.  The bank doesn’t “see any likely scenario” in which it
would have to  raise capital  to cover losses, Turner said. It has
$5 billion in capital exceeding minimum levels to be considered
“well capitalized,” he said, plus $3.2 billion in allowance
for loan losses.  Gulf Coast banks were beginning to rebound from hundreds of
millions of dollars of losses on real estate, when BP Plc’s
offshore oil well exploded April 20, unleashing a record spill
that crimped the local economy. Regions’ stock, which had
climbed 66 percent in 2010 until the disaster, has since pared
the gains and is now up 12 percent this year. Its $155 million
loss in the third quarter exceeded some analysts’ estimates.  The firm announced the departures in a statement after the
close of trading Nov. 15. Its director of credit risk,  Michael Willoughby , retired while the head of problem-asset management,
 Tom Neely , left, the company said.  Interim Appointees  Neely declined to comment. Phone numbers for Willoughby and
Wells couldn’t be found.  Tim Deighton , a spokesman for the
company, declined to comment on Moody’s decision and on the
departures beyond the Nov. 15 announcement and Turner’s remarks.  Wells joined Regions’ predecessor, AmSouth Bancorp, as
chief risk officer in 2004, after having the same post at
SouthTrust Corp., a Birmingham-based bank acquired by Wachovia
Corp. Willoughby, 65, was the company’s chief credit officer
from 1997 through 2009, when he was named director of credit
risk.  Their responsibilities are being handled on an interim
basis by the bank’s head of credit operations,  Barb Godin , and
the risk analytics chief,  John Haley , who will also oversee
areas including regulatory affairs and compliance risk,
according to the bank’s statement. They will report to Turner
until Wells’s successor is appointed, possibly before the end of
the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net ;
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 