-- Resverlogix Falls on Safety Concerns, Merck Success
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-11-17T21:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/resverlogix-cholesterol-pill-fails-to-boost-de-clogging-protein-in-trial.html
Resverlogix Corp. , a drugmaker with
no approved medicines, plunged the most in nine years in Toronto
trading after its lead experimental treatment missed a study
goal and raised questions about liver safety.  Resverlogix  fell  C$1.77, or 39 percent, to C$2.73 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Toronto Stock Exchange trading, the shares’
biggest drop since October 2001. The Calgary-based company’s
stock gained 13 percent this year.  Resverlogix’s medicine, RVX-208, aims to increase levels of
 apolipoprotein A-1 , a protein associated with good cholesterol.
The drug boosted that protein in research reported today from
the second of three stages of tests generally needed for U.S.
approval, though the result wasn’t statistically significant.
The trial also showed some patients had increased liver enzymes,
which can signal a potential for damage to the organ.  Resverlogix’s “drug had modest efficacy, but it came with
safety concerns,”  Simos Simeonidis , an analyst with Rodman &
Renshaw LLC, said in a telephone interview today. “That’s
troubling for a drug that’s supposed to be used chronically.”  The study, of 299 coronary artery-disease patients, showed
that people on the highest dose of RVX-208 --300 milligrams a
day -- had an 8.3 percent increase in HDL levels by the end of
12 weeks compared with those taking a placebo. Some patients
treated with the drug had significant increases in liver
enzymes, which were reversible and showed no evidence of liver
damage, the researchers said.  Liver Damage  “It was reversible, but only if you stop taking the
drug,” Simeonidis said.  Patients on RVX-208 had an increase in laboratory tests
for enzymes that can signal damage to the liver, the data
showed. While none of the patients taking a placebo had elevated
levels, there were three people in the 100 milligram-dose group,
eight in the 200 milligram group and seven in the 300 milligram
group, the study found.  “We don’t know if it’s because of damage to the liver,”
said Maria Rosa Costanzo, a cardiologist at Midwest Heart
Specialists in Naperville, Illinois, and an American Heart
Association spokeswoman. “It appears to be dose-dependent. It
may be a matter of finding the dose that causes an increase in
HDL without causing liver abnormalities. Obviously that needs to
be looked at in a larger trial.”  ‘Pales in Comparison’  Merck & Co., based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, today
said its drug anacetrapib raised good cholesterol and cut bad
cholesterol.  “This study pales in comparison” to Merck’s results, said
 Anthony DeMaria , professor of medicine at the University of
California in San Diego and editor in chief of the Journal of
the American College of Cardiology. “If you asked me do I think
this company should go forth with a definitive phase three
trial, I would say it’s 50/50 at best.”  Researchers said Resverlogix’s drug boosted good
cholesterol, or HDL, which helps decongest arteries, though
raising HDL wasn’t the primary goal of the trial.  “It was a very successful study,” Resverlogix Chief
Executive Officer  Donald McCaffrey  said today in a telephone
interview. “Everything we wanted to see in this particular
trial, we saw. It’s very good news for us.”  McCaffrey said the company wanted to see a liver enzyme
reaction.  ‘New Compound’  “The drug is functioning in the liver,” he said on a
conference call today. “It’s a new compound in the liver --
you’d expect to see the liver wake up a bit, say that’s ok, and
trend down.”  Resverlogix has started another phase two trial of RVX-208,
using intravascular ultrasound to measure changes in plaque in
patients with coronary artery disease treated with the drug. The
company will be able to fund that trial itself, McCaffrey said.  The CEO also said he is seeking funding for final-stage
trials. “We’re in detailed discussions with pretty much every
major pharmaceutical company,” he said in the interview. “They
understand our data was highly successful today.”  Merck’s anacetrapib had a 40 percent drop in bad
cholesterol and a 138 percent rise in the good cholesterol that
ferries fat from the blood, a study today found. Sixteen people
on the drug died, had heart attacks or strokes, compared with 21
on placebo.  Merck shares rose 37 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $34.47 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has dropped
5.7 percent this year.  “The Merck trial is very impressive -- it’s a huge success
for them,” Simeonidis said.  Resverlogix and Merck each reported study results at the
American Heart Association meeting in Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 