-- Ringgit May Weaken 1.4% After Break of Ichimoku Cloud: Technical Analysis
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-11-17T05:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ringgit-may-weaken-1-4-after-break-of-ichimoku-cloud-technical-analysis.html
Malaysia’s ringgit may decline 1.4
percent in the next two weeks after the currency fell beyond a
key technical level on the so-called ichimoku chart, according
to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  The ringgit today weakened beyond 3.1375 per dollar in
offshore trading, the upper end of the so-called ichimoku cloud,
which is a bearish signal for the Southeast Asian currency, said
 Hiroyuki Tanaka , chief technical analyst at Mizuho. The ringgit
also fell below a parabolic stop-and-reversal-point last week
and has remained weaker since, indicating further declines are
likely, he said.  “There seem to be quite a good chance for the dollar to
extend gains versus the ringgit after it broke the resistance on
the ichimoku cloud,” Tokyo-based Tanaka said. “Some people may
want to take profit from the recent gains, but after taking out
such orders, the dollar may rise against the ringgit again.”  The ringgit traded at 3.148 per dollar this week as of 1:43
p.m. in Tokyo, down 1.1 percent from last week’s close,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It may this month reach
the Aug. 12 low of 3.1925, the weakest level since July, Tanaka
said. Onshore financial markets are closed for a holiday today.  An ichimoku chart analyzes the midpoints of historic highs
and lows. The cloud is the area between the first and second
leading-span lines on the chart and is used to show areas where
buy or sell orders may be clustered. The parabolic system is
similar to a moving average and is shown as a series of dots
above and below the price.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 