-- Rivlin Proposes 6.5% National Sales Tax as Part of Deficit-Reduction Plan
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-11-17T16:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/rivlin-proposes-6-5-national-sales-tax-as-part-of-deficit-reduction-plan.html
Alice Rivlin , a member of President
 Barack Obama ’s deficit-reduction commission, is trying to stir
a debate over imposing a national sales tax to reduce the
 deficit  as part of a plan that includes steep Medicare cuts and
a one-year payroll-tax holiday to spark economic growth.  Rivlin, as part of a separate 19-member group sponsored by
the  Bipartisan Policy Center  in Washington, offered a plan for
a 6.5 percent sales tax. Her recommendation comes as the
president’s panel prepares a Dec. 1 report on options for
Congress to trim the national debt.  “We are proposing a very drastic tax reform,” said
Rivlin, a Democrat and former Federal Reserve vice chairwoman.
“It would give us a slightly more progressive tax system than
we have now and is definitely simpler and more pro-growth.”  Like the proposals offered last week by the chairmen of
the president’s panel, the Rivlin plan would lower income tax
rates while eliminating most deductions and credits. It would
replace the home mortgage and charitable contribution
deductions with 15 percent refundable credits.  The Rivlin plan may help the presidential panel sell
unpopular remedies by painting an even starker picture of the
measures needed to tame the debt. All 19 members of the outside
group, from former Oklahoma Governor  Frank Keating , a
Republican, to former Washington Mayor  Anthony Williams , a
Democrat, signed off on the plan. Rivlin said she’s sharing it
with the president’s commission and members of Congress.  Economic ‘Tsunami’  Former New Mexico Republican Senator  Pete Domenici , the
co-chairman of the policy center group, said the bipartisan
consensus on the panel demonstrates the ability of Democrats
and Republicans to come together when politics are put aside,
and he urged Obama to consider the plan.  “Nothing that we have ever done comes close to the
tsunami that is part of the economic problem we have,” said
Domenici. “We won’t be a leader any longer if we don’t fix
this.”  Alan Simpson , a Republican former senator from Wyoming who
is co-chairman of the president’s commission, was skeptical
that the official panel would adopt the sales tax proposal.  “There’s no need to get into it about their plan versus
our plan,” he said. “We’ve pissed enough people off in
America to last forever. We don’t need any more people.”  Proposal Criticized  Simpson and the presidential panel’s other chairman,
 Erskine Bowles , former President  Bill Clinton ’s chief of staff,
drew criticism when they proposed their $3.8 trillion report on
Nov. 10.  Jim Horney , director of federal fiscal policy at the
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  in Washington, said the
Rivlin group may be “somewhat more realistic” about how much
revenue is needed to close the  deficit .  The Rivlin-Domenici plan would immediately freeze domestic
discretionary spending and defense spending. It makes $756
billion in cuts to health care through 2020, including raising
 Medicare  premiums from 25 percent to 35 percent over five
years, and starts a premium-support program to limit growth in
federal spending on the health-care program for the elderly.  It attempts to increase economic growth with a one-year
Social Security payroll-tax holiday designed to create 2.5
million jobs.  “It is a fundamental difference” with the Bowles-Simpson
plan, said  Steve Bell , a scholar at the Bipartisan Policy
Center. “They assume that this deficit-reduction plan in and
of itself is sufficient. We don’t.”  Payroll Tax Cap  On Social Security, instead of raising the retirement age,
as would the Bowles-Simpson plan, the Rivlin group proposes a
gradual increase in the amount of wages subject to payroll
taxes, currently $106,800, over the next 38 years to cover 90
percent of all wages. It would also trim the annual cost-of-
living adjustments and reduce the growth in benefits for the
top 25 percent of beneficiaries.  The Rivlin-Domenici plan seeks to illustrate why a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases is the only way
to  stabilize the debt  by 2020.  Targeting domestic discretionary spending cuts alone would
require eliminating almost everything from law enforcement and
border security to education and food and drug inspection,
according to the policy center.  Growing Out of Deficit  The nation also can’t grow its way out of the deficit, the
group’s report says. Just to stabilize the debt at 60 percent
of gross domestic product, the economy would have to grow at a
sustained rate of more than 6 percent a year for at least the
next 10 years, it says. The economy hasn’t grown by more than
4.4 percent in any decade since World War II.  Finally, the problem also can’t be solved simply by
boosting taxes on wealthy Americans, the report says. Reducing
deficits to manageable levels by the end of the decade would
require raising rates on the top two income brackets to 86
percent and 91 percent, the report says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  