-- Roche to Cut 4,800 Jobs in Plan to Reduce Expenses by About $2.4 Billion
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2010-11-17T17:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/roche-to-cut-4-800-jobs-in-plan-to-reduce-expenses-by-about-2-4-billion.html
Roche Holding AG , the world’s
biggest maker of cancer medicines, will cut 4,800 jobs in a 2.4-
billion Swiss franc ($2.4 billion) cost-reduction plan to offset
the impact of health reform and drug setbacks.  The plan will affect about 6 percent of Roche employees,
mostly in the pharmaceutical division, and lead to costs of
about 2.7 billion francs through 2012, the Basel, Switzerland-
based company said today in a statement. Employment will be cut
in Nutley, New Jersey; Madison, Wisconsin; Graz, Austria, and
Burgdorf, Switzerland, among other sites.  Health-care reform will strip 500 million francs from
revenue in 2010 and 1 billion francs from sales next year, Chief
Executive Officer  Severin Schwan  said in an interview. The
experimental T-DM1 breast cancer medicine and the taspoglutide
diabetes treatment have been delayed, while Avastin, the
company’s top seller, failed in studies in prostate, stomach and
early colorectal cancer.  “The cuts are quite deep and the market should be pleased
that the company has taken a serious look in the mirror and did
what was required,” said  Carri Duncan , an analyst at Macquarie
Group in Zurich. “That was drastically cutting the sales force
following the taspoglutide setback and also giving cost savings
that reflect the new market environment.”  Roche expects to generate savings of 1.8 billion francs in
2011 and of about 2.4 billion a year from 2012. Roche shares
rose 1.90 francs, or 1.3 percent, to 144.40 francs at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Zurich.  Government Spending  Pricing has been hurt by government efforts in Europe to
limit health spending, Schwan said. He said the company also has
felt the effect of the U.S. health-care law, which expanded the
number of hospitals serving low-income patients eligible for
reduced prices on medicines and increased discounts to Medicaid,
the U.S. health program for the poor.  “We have seen a markedly increased price pressure in the
U.S. and in Europe,” Schwan said. “The price pressure was
stronger than we had originally anticipated.”  In addition to the planned job cuts, the company expects to
transfer 800 jobs internally and about 700 positions to “third
parties.” About 6,300 jobs will be affected overall, with most
of the reductions in the U.S., the company said. The sales and
marketing workforce will be cut by a total of 2,650 jobs, mainly
because of the setback with taspoglutide, Roche said.  Primary Care  About 1,200 jobs will be cut in the company’s North
American commercial operations, mostly in its primary-care
business, while 700 positions will be lost in commercial
operations in Europe, Schwan said. The company plans to seek
buyers for sites in Florence, South Carolina, and Boulder,
Colorado.  While Roche plans to discontinue development of some
preclinical research programs “across the board,” including in
cancer, the company will remain in its current therapeutic
areas, Schwan said. Just one clinical compound in early-stage
development will be axed, he said.  Roche also plans to discontinue research into an emerging
technology, RNA interference, and may spin off or find a partner
for those operations, Schwan said. That will lead to job losses
in Madison, Nutley and Kulmbach, Germany.  Roche’s rivals have been cutting jobs as well.  Merck & Co. 
has said it will axe 15 percent of the company’s workforce, or
15,000 jobs, and cut 2,500 vacant positions by 2012 as part of
the first phase of restructuring following its purchase of
Schering-Plough Corp. Merck plans to save $3.5 billion by 2012.  Roche’s Forecast  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest drugmaker, has been firing
workers and shutting facilities following its $68 billion buyout
last year of Madison, New Jersey-based rival Wyeth. It has said
it will cut 19,000 jobs, close eight manufacturing plants and
eliminate six research centers as it seeks to lower costs.  Roche reiterated its forecast for this year, saying
earnings per share, which excludes exceptional items and
amortization and impairment of intangible assets, will probably
increase at a double-digit pace at constant exchange rates.
Sales are expected to grow in the mid-single-digit range in
local currencies. The company declined to be more specific. The
outlook excludes revenue from the Tamiflu influenza treatment. 