-- Tronox Wins Confirmation of Plan to Exit Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-18T01:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/tronox-wins-confirmation-of-reorganization-may-exit-bankruptcy-in-january.html
Tronox Inc. , the chemical maker that
sued  Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  over environmental liabilities
that it said drove it to bankruptcy, won approval of a plan that
paves the way for it to exit court protection in January.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper  in Manhattan confirmed
Tronox’s Chapter 11 plan today, subject to a final draft after
lawyers for  Anadarko  and its  Kerr-McGee  unit negotiated for four
hours in the hallway to resolve disputes about how directors and
officers would be shielded from lawsuits. The U.S.’s legal
dispute with Anadarko is continuing.  Jonathan Henes , a lawyer for Tronox, said the company will
probably exit bankruptcy in the first two weeks of January due
to the public notice period required for its settlement with the
U.S. over environmental liabilities.  Tronox, the world’s third-largest maker of whitening
pigment used in paper, plastics and paint, filed for bankruptcy
in January 2009. A dispute over whether Oklahoma City-based
Tronox was destined to fail after being given liabilities of
Kerr-McGee in a 2006 spinoff has dominated the case.  The U.S. also sued Tronox and Anadarko to recover
environmental cleanup costs at the most polluted sites
designated by the Environmental Protection Agency. The U.S. gave
 Anadarko  a sheet on Aug. 7 that listed 2,801 sites for which
it’s conducting a liability analysis, according to court papers.  Settlement Plan  Tronox  filed an outline of a reorganization plan on
Sept. 1, settling its dispute with the U.S. by setting aside
$320 million to cover what it estimates are $1.4 billion to
$5 billion in environmental claims. U.S. agencies, including the
EPA, had asserted as much as $10.5 billion in liabilities, which
 Tronox  said were overstated.  The proposed settlement called for the U.S. to get
$270 million, and tort claimants to get $12.5 million.  The U.S. also would get 88 percent of proceeds from
anything Tronox wins in its lawsuit seeking to recover cleanup
costs from  Anadarko  and Kerr-McGee. Tort claimants would get the
remaining 12 percent.  “This case was incredibly complex,” Henes told Gropper
today.  Most creditors voted in favor of the plan, while equity
holders rejected it, Henes said. In November, Tronox’s committee
for  shareholders  negotiated an improvement in the warrant
package, giving them more of the new stock in the reorganized
company.  Insurance Dispute  Chartis Specialty Insurance Co., which had sued Tronox
yesterday in an adversary proceeding in its bankruptcy, resolved
its dispute with the company, lawyers for Chartis and Tronox
told Gropper. Chartis had said that by assigning insurance
policies that covered environmental cleanup costs to a trust to
pay claims, Tronox had invalidated the policies.  Tronox’s exit from bankruptcy will be funded with a
$425 million loan approved by Gropper in October.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 