-- Fed Will Complete $600 Billion Bond Plan, Three District Bank Chiefs Say
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-11-17T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/rosengren-bullard-lockhart-expect-fed-to-complete-asset-purchase-plan.html
Three Federal Reserve district bank
presidents said they expect the central bank to buy the entire
$600 billion of Treasuries in a program aimed at spurring growth
and reducing unemployment.  “Given my forecast, I fully anticipate we will purchase
the entire amount,” Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , 53,
said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg News.  James Bullard  of St. Louis said in a separate interview the Fed would
buy less than planned only after a big improvement in the
economy, while  Dennis Lockhart  of Atlanta told reporters the
purchases will probably go ahead as scheduled.  The three regional bank chiefs expressed confidence in the
program amid criticism over the purchases from outside and
inside the Fed. A group of 23 people including former Republican
government officials and economists urged Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week to halt the expansion of monetary stimulus.  Republican lawmakers who have voiced opposition include
Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan , who said Nov. 7 the Fed’s
move is a “big mistake” that will cause an “inflation
problem.” He is set to chair the House Budget Committee.  “Certainly if the economy were to weaken substantially and
further disinflation were to occur, we should take more
action,” and officials could also make “adjustments” if the
economy turned out to be much stronger than expected, Rosengren
said.  Treasuries Rise  Treasuries rose yesterday after the comments, recovering
from the biggest two-day decline in almost two years. Yields on
10-year notes fell 12 basis points to 2.85 percent in New York
after jumping 31 basis points over the previous two trading days.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Asked about the rise in 10-year Treasury yields over the
last two weeks, Rosengren said that “ideally” the Fed would
like to see rates stay low, “but we don’t control all the
things that affect these markets,” such as investor
expectations for fiscal deficits in the U.S. and abroad.  The Boston Fed estimates the renewed large-scale asset
purchases will help reduce the U.S. jobless rate by an
additional 0.5 percentage point over the next two years,
equivalent to adding 700,000 jobs, said Rosengren, who supported
the action as a voting member this year on the Fed’s Open Market
Committee.  That would mean an unemployment rate at the end of 2012 of
“around” 8 percent, “which means we’re still not where we
want to be,” and inflation excluding food and energy may not be
“drastically different” than now, he said.  Complete Program  Lockhart told reporters after a speech in Montgomery,
Alabama that his “working assumption” is that the Fed “will
in all probability complete the program in the eight months it’s
been designed for.”  “We will be reviewing it at essentially every FOMC
meeting,” he said. “I wouldn’t totally eliminate the
possibility that there will be a mid-course change in
direction.”  Bullard, 49, said he favored a rule, similar to the Taylor
rule for setting the federal funds rate, that would adapt the
level of the Fed’s easing to incoming data on the economy and
inflation. He said he didn’t favor setting a $600 billion asset
purchase target, preferring a smaller number that would be
adjusted at each Fed meeting, although he voted for the policy.  “The economy would have to improve a fair amount before
the whole committee would pull back on” the purchase program,
Bullard said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage,” with  Kathleen Hays . “I think that is a possibility,
but it would depend on hard data that would force us to reassess
where the economy is going in the future.”  Disinflation Concern  Bullard reiterated his concern about slowing inflation.  “Even though the economy has been recovering all year, we
have seen inflation coming down,” he said. “There is some
threat of getting into a Japanese-style malaise” with falling
prices.  Rosengren, the Boston Fed’s president since 2007, said
private forecasters see inflation staying below 2 percent for
the next year, and “most of the interest rates do not seem
consistent with a hyperinflation story or even a high inflation
story.”  “Congress had made very clear what they want us to focus
on,” Rosengren said. “This policy focuses on trying to get the
economy growing fast enough that we bring the unemployment rate
down more quickly than we otherwise would and bring the
inflation rate back to what we think is financial stability.”  Several policy makers have expressed opposition or
skepticism about the stimulus. Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  said
last week that he is “less optimistic than some that additional
asset purchases will have significant, durable benefits for the
real economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Montgomery, Alabama at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  