-- Rothschild Heir Joins Indonesian Billionaire to Mine Coal Boom
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y ,   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-11-17T10:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/rothschild-heir-joins-indonesian-billionaire-to-dominate-asia-s-coal-boom.html
Nathaniel Rothschild ’s $3 billion
deal to list Indonesia’s largest coal miner in London marries a
centuries-old British banking dynasty and a family-owned
commodity trader started in Sumatra in 1942.  Bakrie Group, a palm oil-to-property empire controlled by
billionaire politician  Aburizal Bakrie  and his brothers, and
Rothschild announced plans yesterday to create a miner that will 
almost double production to 140 million metric tons of coal 
by 2013, as much as South Africa last year.  “This alliance with Rothschild gives them access to
European financiers, bankers, investors and markets as they want
to double coal production,” said Jakarta-based  Adrian Rusmana ,
a director at broker PT Sucorinvest Central Gani. “They just
can’t rely on Indonesian banks for borrowing. They must, must
seek funding from outside Indonesia.”  Bakrie is the first major Indonesian business to tap the
 U.K. equity market , where miners make up about 23 percent of the
benchmark index’s market value. Rothschild, whose ancestor
Nathan helped bankroll Britain’s war against Napoleonic France,
sees coal as a bet on growth in China and India, which together
burned more than half the world’s supply of the fuel last year.  Indonesia, which overtook Australia as the largest exporter
of power-station coal in 2005, is closer to Asia’s largest
markets than competitors, making the cost of shipping lower.
Global trade will grow 4 percent next year to 651 million tons
as Indian imports increase 17 percent and China’s by 9 percent,
according to shipbroker Clarkson Plc.  Prices Gain  Bakrie’s PT Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s largest coal miner
by volume with a market value of 54 trillion rupiah ($6
billion), produced 60 million tons of coal last year. Asian
benchmark prices at Newcastle, Australia, have gained 22 percent
to $113 a ton this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We’re giving U.K. investors the opportunity to
participate in this extraordinary growth story,” Rothschild
said yesterday on a conference call. “Indonesia is probably the
least well recognized of the major Asian economies. Today it’s
remarkable to me that there is no Indonesian company listed on
the main market in London.”  Bumi’s Jakarta-traded shares have underperformed versus
coal prices this year, gaining 7.2 percent. They’ve also trailed
the Jakarta Composite Index, up 45 percent since the start of
the year. Production this year will miss an initial target of 64
million tons after heavy rain disrupted mining.  Rothschild’s Vallar  Rothschild’s investment vehicle  Vallar Plc  will use shares
to acquire 25 percent of Bumi. It will also buy 75 percent of PT
Berau Coal Energy, the fifth-biggest producer. The company will
be renamed Bumi Plc and Bakrie Group will be the biggest
shareholder with a 43 percent stake.  “They will control a large part of global seaborne traded
coal,” said  David Chang , a director at PT UOB Kay Hian
Securities Indonesia. “This will give them some influence on
coal supply and therefore coal prices.”  Rothschild sold shares in Vallar this year to fund
investments in mining companies. Before yesterday’s deal he was
the biggest shareholder with 11 percent of the company.
Rothschild said he first met Bakrie’s brother Nirwan three weeks
ago in Los Angeles after an introduction by JPMorgan Cazenove
Ltd. banker  Ian Hannam .  Aburizal Bakrie, 64, is head of Indonesia’s Golkar party.
Founded by former dictator Suharto who ran the country for 32
years, Golkar survived the 1998 transition to democracy and
became a coalition partner in President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s first government. Bakrie served as economics
minister in 2004 and welfare minister the following year.  Bakrie graduated from Bandung Institute of Technology in
1973 and together with his brothers expanded the business set up
by his father, Achmad Bakrie in 1942. Another of Aburizal’s
brothers, Indra, will become chairman of Bumi Plc.  BHP Billiton  Bumi Resources purchased coal miner PT Arutmin Indonesia
from  BHP Billiton  Ltd. in 2001. Since then, the company has
borrowed to expand its mines. Long-term debt surged to $3.8
billion in June from $634 million in 2007.  Rothschild, former co-president of New York hedge-fund firm
Atticus Capital LLC, raised 707.2 million pounds ($1.13 billion)
in Vallar’s initial public offering in London in July and had
considered deals of as much as 5 billion pounds ($8 billion).  “This acquisition should be well received by investors
since this is a good price for high-quality coal assets,”
Liberum Capital analysts wrote in a report. “A London-listed,
large scale, pure Indonesian coal play should offer a unique
commodity exposure and have strong investment appeal.”  Berau , the other coal miner in the deal, has a market value
of 18.2 trillion rupiah and is 75 percent owned by PT Bukit
Mutiara, a unit of PT Recapital Advisors. Mutiara will end up
owning 25 percent of Bumi Plc, yesterday’s statement said.  Berau expects to produce 17.9 million tons of coal this
year, rising to as much as 22 million tons by 2012, President
Director Rosan Roeslani said in Auguest. The Jakarta-based
company raised $152 million selling shares in an August IPO.  JPMorgan Cazenove advised Jersey, Channel Islands-based
Vallar and Credit Suisse Group advised Bumi and Bakrie Group on
the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 