-- Ruble Battered as Irish Crisis, Oil Slump Spur Bearish Bets: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-11-18T08:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ruble-battered-as-irish-crisis-oil-slump-spur-bearish-bets-russia-credit.html
Traders are increasing payments to
limit ruble losses faster than any other European emerging-
market currency as the Irish debt crisis and China’s vows to cut
inflation cause a slump in oil, Russia’s biggest export earner.  Options traders are paying more than double the rate at the
end of October for the right to sell the ruble rather than buy
it, with the one-week risk-reversal rate against the dollar --
the premium of put options over calls -- climbing to 1.25
percent from 0.5 percent on Oct. 29. The increase is the biggest
among Europe’s emerging-market currencies and topped the 0.5
percentage point rise in the rate for Brazil’s real and a
decline of 0.2 percentage point for China’s yuan.  Russia, which depends on oil and gas for 25 percent of
economic output, is losing investor support as fuel prices slump
to a four-week low on speculation higher Chinese borrowing costs
will erode demand and as Ireland’s fiscal woes drive a selloff
in riskier assets.  VTB Group , the second-largest Russian bank,
cut its economic growth forecast yesterday, citing lower oil
prices. The ruble slid to its weakest level in five months
against the dollar, the worst performer among the 25 developing-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Depreciation pressures on the ruble have intensified,”
 Alexander Morozov , chief Russia economist at HSBC Holdings Plc,
said in a phone interview in Moscow yesterday. “With lower oil
prices and higher global volatility, the ruble will naturally
weaken.”  Russia’s currency slid as much as 1.2 percent yesterday,
its biggest drop in more than a month, and ended the day 0.9
percent lower at 31.37 per dollar, the weakest closing price
since June 11. It is rebounding today, adding 0.6 percent to
31.1856 per dollar by 11:51 a.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to currency movements
and allow companies to hedge, yesterday showed the ruble at
31.4346 per dollar in three months, after also hitting a five-
month low yesterday.  Dollar Demand  Investors are seeking refuge in the safety of the dollar as
Ireland moves toward a possible European Union bailout that
Barclays Capital has estimated may cost about 80 billion euros
($108 billion). The Irish government agreed yesterday to a
review of the finances of its debt-laden banks.  The  average yield  on dollar-denominated Russian corporate
bonds jumped 7 basis points today to 5.78 percent, the highest
since Sept. 23, as investors shunned emerging market assets.  Market volatility is “characteristic” of the post-credit
crisis world, Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said in a
phone interview in Moscow yesterday.  Fleeing Risk  “There are periods when it seems there is a mass of money
that’s just looking for a home and then a moment comes, whether
it’s Portugal, Dubai, now Ireland, that spurs outbursts and
nervousness on the market,” Pankin said. “Positions are being
closed, investors are fleeing to risk-free assets and are no
longer able to soberly measure the risk level of any given
country.”  Crude lost as much as 2.8 percent in New York trading
yesterday after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the government
of the world’s fastest growing economy is drafting measures to
counter inflation, which at 4.4 percent last month is the
fastest in two years. Energy accounts for about 75 percent of
Russian exports to the Baltics and countries outside the former
Soviet Union, government data show. Urals crude, Russia’s chief
export blend, declined 0.2 percent to $84.73 a barrel yesterday.  The ruble would have weakened further had the central bank
not intervened in the market to stem the drop, HSBC’s Morozov
said. Bank Rossii, which has managed the ruble against a basket
of dollars and euros since February 2005, is selling about $300
million of foreign currency a day to limit the ruble’s decline,
Morozov said. The Moscow-based regulator doesn’t comment on its
day-to-day actions in the currency markets.  Currency Basket  Russia’s currency snapped a four-day decline against the
 basket  today, adding 0.2 percent to 36.2365 in Moscow. The
basket is made up of about 55 percent dollars and 45 percent
euros and is used to limit swings in the currency that
disadvantage Russian exporters. The ruble weakened 0.2 percent
to 42.4175 per euro today, a one-week low.  Russia’s federal ruble bonds, or OFZs, have declined, with
the yield on notes due 2016 jumping 20 basis points in November
to 7.37 percent. Government dollar bonds due 2020 have also
dropped this month, sending the yield 19 basis points higher to
4.70 percent since Oct. 29.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 1 basis point to 146
today, down 71 from this year’s peak of 217, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
debtor fail to adhere to its agreements.  Depreciation Pressure  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 13
basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is ranked
four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis
points less on April 20. Brazil stood at 109 yesterday and China
at 62.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 209 basis points
today, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 146 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 176 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  Concern Russia’s economic recovery after the global
financial crisis may falter is spurring foreign investors and
local companies to switch from rubles and invest their money
outside the country, stoking depreciation pressures, said
 Aurelija Augulyte , a Russia economist at Nordea Bank AB, the
Nordic region’s biggest lender.  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s largest bank, said Nov. 16 it will
seek a $2 billion loan to help meet client demand for U.S.
currency.  Slowing Growth  Russia’s economy expanded at its slowest pace this year in
the third quarter at 2.7 percent as the worst drought in 50
years cut agricultural output and reduced consumer demand,
according to government data published Nov. 12. China grew three
times faster at 9.6 percent in the three months to Sept. 30.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is also being
outpaced by the other so-called BRIC economies, with Brazilian
and Indian GDP growing 8.8 percent in the second quarter,
compared with 5.2 percent for Russia.  “Russia’s clearly not the strongest link in the emerging-
market basket right now,” Nordea’s Augulyte said by phone from
Copenhagen yesterday. “The overall picture of Russia in
investors’ eyes is just not that attractive.”  Capital Outflows  Net capital outflows from Russia will reach $22 billion
this year, the central bank said in monetary policy guidelines
published Nov. 16, more than doubling its previous forecast of
$8.7 billion. Russian bond funds took in $166 million so far
this month, half the $326 million invested in Brazilian debt
funds, according to  Cameron Brandt , an analyst at EPFR Global, a
Boston-based research firm.  Russian companies and the government have a total $17.1
million of  foreign-currency denominated debt  coming due in
December, the most since at least July, according to central
bank data. Repayments and the resulting demand for dollars will
further depress the ruble until the end of the year, said HSBC’s
Morozov, who forecasts the currency will weaken 6 percent to
33.40 per dollar by the end of 2011.  VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of VTB Group, cut
its forecast for economic growth to 4 percent from an earlier
estimate of 4.3 percent, according to its note e-mailed
yesterday. It also lowered its ruble forecast to around 30 per
dollar by year-end from a previous estimate of 29.30 per dollar,
as oil trades at an average $85 a barrel, from previous
forecasts of $92, the note said.  “All this noise about the euro area debt crisis and risk
coming off is not going to just die away,”  Ivan Tchakarov ,
chief economist for Russia and the former Soviet Union at BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research in Moscow said by phone from
London yesterday. “December is going to be a challenging month
for the ruble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  