-- Rules May Help to Stem U.S. TV Blackouts, Senators Say
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-17T22:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/rules-needed-for-cable-broadcast-negotiations-u-s-senators-say.html
News Corp. ’s dispute with
 Cablevision Systems Corp.  that left 3 million homes without
World Series games last month shows a system that needs to be
overhauled, U.S. senators said today.  “Our constituents should not be the pawns in these
corporate negotiations,” Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts
Democrat, said at a hearing in Washington today.  Kerry, speaking before the Senate subcommittee on
communications, technology and the Internet, which he leads,
said federal regulators should draft rules to ensure programming
isn’t blocked from pay-TV subscribers during fee negotiations.
He didn’t offer specifics and said he wasn’t committed “to any
one alternative.”  Lawmakers are considering how to react to rising tensions
as broadcasters seek payments for signals that they beam to
cable and satellite-television providers. Cablevision customers
in the New York and Philadelphia markets lost News Corp.’s Fox
programming, including Major League Baseball’s championship
games, during two weeks in October while the two companies
debated pricing.  Disputes over fees have caused seven blackouts of cable and
broadcast channels this year, the most in at least a decade,
affecting about 19 million pay-TV subscribers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s wrong to hold viewers hostage,” said Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat. “We’ve got to put a stop to
these programming blackouts once and for all.”  Cooling-Off Period  He called for a cooling-off period when programming must be
kept on the air during a negotiation impasse.  Talks take place in a regulated environment that “heavily
favors the broadcasters,” Cablevision Chief Operating Officer
 Tom Rutledge  told lawmakers.  Broadcasters negotiating to have cable systems carry their
programs demand that operators add other channels, and
regulators should forbid such coupling, he said.  News Corp. Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said at the
hearing the relationship between free- and pay-TV is facing
“growing pains” because broadcasters for the first time are
seeking cash compensation for their programs.  “The good news is, actual interruptions in service are few
and far between,” he said. “This period of adjustment will be
short-lived once distributors accept that they have to pay a
fair price.”  Cablevision “simply did not want to pay,” Carey said.  Hold Rates Low  Rutledge said Cablevision “is trying to hold its rates as
low as it can.”  Cable companies want to limit broadcasters’ ability to
block signals in fee disputes,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based
analyst with MF Global, said in a note today. Broadcasters favor
the status quo, which favors them, and oppose any action by
Congress, he said.  The  Federal Communications Commission  has said it doesn’t
have the power to intervene in fee disputes and “it now appears
only Congress can alter the current balance of power,” Gallant
said.  Passage of legislation is “an uphill battle” in part
because some Republicans oppose interfering in private
negotiations, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 