-- Russian Arms Dealer Bout Pleads Not Guilty, Is Ordered Held by U.S. Judge
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-11-17T20:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/russian-arms-dealer-pleads-not-guilty-is-ordered-held-by-federal-judge.html
Viktor Bout , dubbed the “merchant
of death” for allegedly trafficking in arms, pleaded not guilty
to U.S. terrorism charges and was ordered held without bail by a
federal judge in New York.  Bout, a former Soviet air force officer, arrived in New
York yesterday aboard a chartered plane after his extradition
from Thailand, U.S. prosecutors said. He is charged with
plotting to kill American citizens in a 2008 indictment filed by
the office of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  in Manhattan.  At an arraignment today that lasted about 10 minutes, Bout
entered a not guilty plea through his court-appointed lawyer,
Sabrina Shroff. He was ordered held without bail by U.S.
District Judge  Shira Scheindlin , who set his next court
appearance for Jan. 10.  “Today in Manhattan federal court, Viktor Bout begins to
face American justice,” Bharara said today at a news conference
announcing Bout’s arrival in the U.S. “The so-called Merchant
of Death is now a federal inmate.”  Bout is charged with conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals,
conspiracy to kill U.S. officers or employees, conspiracy to
acquire an anti-aircraft missile and conspiracy to provide
material support to a designated foreign terrorist group.  He has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, saying he was
framed by U.S. undercover agents posing as Colombian rebels.  If convicted of all charges, he faces as long as life in
prison, Bharara said.  Thai Arrest  Bout, a Russian citizen, was transferred to a high-security
jail in Lower Manhattan where he will be held until trial. He
has been in custody in Thailand since his arrest there on
March 6, 2008, after U.S. prosecutors said he plotted to sell
arms to a guerrilla group in Colombia.  “His extradition is a victory for the rule of law
worldwide,” U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said last night
in a statement. Bout has “long been considered one of the
world’s most prolific arms traffickers.”  Russia’s foreign ministry, on its  website , called Bout’s
removal to the U.S. an “illegal extradition” that resulted
from “unprecedented U.S. political pressure on the government
and judiciary of Thailand.”  Bout controlled a fleet of as many as 50 cargo planes
capable of transporting weapons and military equipment to
Africa, South America and the Middle East, the U.S. said.  FARC Guerillas  He agreed to sell millions of dollars worth of weapons to
 Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia , FARC, a
revolutionary group dedicated to overthrowing the government of
Colombia, the U.S. said. FARC is also the world’s biggest
supplier of cocaine, according to the U.S.  Bout agreed to provide the group with surface-to-air
missiles, armor-piercing rocket launchers, AK-47 rifles, anti-
personnel mines and C-4 plastic explosives, the U.S. said.  In a meeting in Thailand, Bout indicated he understood the
weapons would be used against U.S. personnel in Colombia,
telling undercover agents that the U.S. was his enemy, the
government said.  “The U.S. needs a scapegoat because they can’t find  Osama bin Laden ,” Bout’s brother Sergei said.  The government’s evidence against Bout includes “audio
recordings conducted in various locations, in English and
Spanish,” Assistant U.S. Attorney  Anjan Sahni  told Scheindlin
today. Sahni said investigators searched Bout’s laptop computer.  Bout, wearing a brown prison-issued T-shirt and track pants
with pull-on tennis shoes, appeared to understand some English
when addressed by the judge today.  ‘Good Day’  He answered “Good day” in English when Scheindlin greeted
him. When the judge notified him of his rights, Bout answered,
“Yes, your honor.”  A court-appointed Russian-speaking interpreter was also at
the hearing.  Scheindlin said Bout said in an affidavit filed with the
court that he is married, has a 16-year-old child and hasn’t
earned any money in the past year.  The case is U.S. v. Bout, 08-cr-0065, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 