-- Russia-NATO Arms Deal in Reach Once Ties Cemented at Summit, Rogozin Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-11-18T06:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/russia-nato-arms-deal-in-reach-once-ties-cemented-at-summit-rogozin-saysr.html
Russia may soon sign an agreement to
trade arms with NATO’s procurement agency in a sign of improving
relations between the former adversaries, said  Dmitry Rogozin ,
Russia’s envoy to the alliance, before a summit this week.  An accord with the NATO Maintenance and Supply Agency may
come after President  Dmitry Medvedev  meets with leaders of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Nov. 19-20 in Lisbon, Rogozin
said. State-owned companies, including St. Petersburg-based
United Shipbuilding Corp. and Moscow-based AO Russian
Technologies, are also in talks with NATO, he said.  “You can trade grain with an enemy but not arms,” Rogozin
said Nov. 15 in a phone interview from Brussels.  Russia and NATO are repairing relations strained by the
alliance’s eastward expansion and the 2008 war between Russia
and Georgia. During the summit, the two sides plan to adopt
joint positions on common concerns, including Afghanistan,
terrorism, nuclear non-proliferation, the fight against piracy
at sea and protecting infrastructure from natural disasters.  While links are improving, Russia still considers NATO
“unpredictable” because its policies can shift depending on
the sometimes contradictory views of its 28 members, Rogozin
said. He highlighted Russia’s concern by comparing NATO to a “a
rhino with poor eyesight.”  “That is a problem not for the rhino, but for the one who
does not want to be trampled,” said Rogozin, 47, who started
his career by speaking out on the concerns of ethnic Russians in
former Soviet states.  START Ratification  Russia got a firsthand view of shifting priorities in the
U.S. this week when Senator  Jon Kyl , the Senate’s second-ranking
Republican, said he didn’t think an arms control treaty with
Russia would be voted on this year. President  Barack Obama  told
Medvedev on Nov. 14 that getting the Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty ratified in 2010 was a “top priority.”  “Everybody understands that the START treaty is in the
best interests of the U.S. and Russia,” Rogozin said before
Kyl’s comments. “It would be very strange if it becomes a
hostage to any internal intrigues.”  Russia’s main concern about NATO is its possible expansion,
Rogozin said. The alliance will confirm this week that former
Soviet republics Georgia and Ukraine can join once they fulfill
necessary criteria, Secretary-General Fogh Rasmussen said Nov. 3
in Moscow. The move isn’t directed against Russia, he said.  Georgia, Ukraine  Rogozin said NATO’s relations with Georgia and Ukraine are
“provocative,” though he doesn’t think the two countries will
ever join the alliance.  “There are many people who dream of marrying supermodel
 Claudia Schiffer  and they are ready to write down their
dreams,” he said. “The same is true of the NATO dream about
Georgia and Ukraine. I think these dreams will stay as dreams.”  The Kremlin is seeking more tangible benefits from a deal
with the NATO procurement agency, known as Namsa.  Russia, the world’s second-biggest arms exporter, is
turning to overseas defense contractors after Medvedev ordered
the military to triple the proportion of “state-of-the-art”
weapons in its arsenal by 2015.  The Defense Ministry expects companies from France, Spain
and the Netherlands to compete with Russian suppliers for
contracts to supply helicopter carrier ships, Defense Minister
 Anatoly Serdyukov  said in a September interview. Russia has
discussed buying Mistral class vessels made by Paris-based DCNS.  Namsa Deal  An accord with Namsa would let Russia deal directly with
NATO instead of individual countries, and make it easier for the
alliance to buy equipment from Russian companies, according to
 Konstantin Makienko , deputy director of the Center for Analysis
of Strategies and Technologies in Moscow.  “This agreement, if signed, will be revolutionary,”
Makienko said. “Such an agreement will mean a complete new
political reality.”  Russia is in talks with the U.S. about delivering 20 Mi-17
helicopters to Afghanistan. NATO members may create a trust fund
to finance maintenance of Russian-built aircraft operated by
Afghanistan’s air force, Rogozin said.  The Kremlin is also considering an agreement for “reverse
transit,” which would allow NATO forces to ship non-lethal
cargoes from Afghanistan back to their home countries across
Russian territory, Rogozin said. The government already permits
goods to be shipped across Russia to Afghanistan.  “Russia is ready to give NATO what it asks for,” Rogozin
said.  Missile Defense  Russia and NATO will also discuss plans for a missile
defense system during the Lisbon summit.  Obama in September 2009 scrapped former President  George W. Bush ’s proposal to build the missile shield in Poland and the
Czech Republic in the face of Russian opposition. He promised a
more flexible system to protect the U.S. and its European
allies, providing an opportunity to revisit Russian proposals.  Rasmussen said in Moscow that he thought NATO and Russia
would find a way to work together on missile defense.  While cooperation in this area is a “key issue,” Russia
needs details on the NATO proposal, Rogozin said. A common
assessment of threats may help the parties agree on what type of
shield to build, he said.  “If we can reach the common ground then we can go further
and discuss how to block these common threats,” Rogozin said.
“Then cooperation on an anti-missile defense system is
possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at  iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  