-- Russian Arms Dealer Arrives in U.S., Faces Life in Jail on Terror Charges
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-11-17T05:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/russian-arms-dealer-arrives-in-u-s-faces-life-in-jail-on-terror-charges.html
Viktor Bout , dubbed the “merchant
of death” for allegedly trafficking in arms, will stand trial
on four terrorism charges in the U.S. and faces a sentence of
life in prison, the Justice Department said.  Bout arrived in New York yesterday evening following his
extradition from Thailand. The former Soviet air force officer
was transferred to a high-security prison in Manhattan where he
will be held until trial, the justice department said. He’s
scheduled to appear before a federal judge later today.  “His extradition is a victory for the rule of law
worldwide,” U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said in a
statement last night. Bout has “long been considered one of the
world’s most prolific arms traffickers.”  Bout is charged in the U.S. with conspiracy to kill U.S.
nationals, conspiracy to kill U.S. officers or employees,
conspiracy to acquire an anti-aircraft missile and conspiracy to
provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist
group.  He has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, saying he was
framed by U.S. undercover agents who posed as Colombian rebels.  Bout’s case has fueled a diplomatic dispute between the
U.S. and Russia.  The “illegal extradition” resulted from “unprecedented
U.S. political pressure on the government and judiciary of
Thailand,” Russia’s foreign ministry said on its  website .  Bout had assembled a fleet of cargo planes capable of
transporting weapons and military equipment to Africa, South
America and the Middle East, the U.S. said.  Colombian Revolutionaries  He agreed to sell millions of dollars worth of weapons to
 Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia  (FARC), a
revolutionary group dedicated to overthrowing the government of
Colombia, the U.S. said. FARC is also the world’s biggest
supplier of cocaine, according to the U.S.  Bout agreed to provide the group with surface-to-air
missiles, armor-piercing rocket launchers, AK-47 rifles, anti-
personnel mines and C-4 plastic explosives, the U.S. said.  In a meeting in Thailand, Bout indicated he understood the
weapons would be used against U.S. personnel in Colombia,
telling undercover agents that the U.S. was his enemy, the
government said.  “The U.S. needs a scapegoat because they can’t find  Osama bin Laden ,” Bout’s brother Sergei said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  