-- RWE May Turn Tilbury Plant in U.K. Into Largest Biomass Burner in Britain
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-11-17T17:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/rwe-may-turn-tilbury-plant-in-u-k-into-largest-biomass-burner-in-britain.html
RWE AG,  Germany’s second-largest
utility, may convert its 1,050-megawatt coal-fired power station
in Essex, southeast England, to run on wood pellets, which would
make it the largest biomass plant in the U.K.  RWE’s  Tilbury  plant could operate solely on biomass by the
fourth quarter of 2011, Dan Meredith, a spokesman for RWE Npower
in Swindon, England, said by e-mail. The company hasn’t yet
decided whether to make the switch.  “We are developing proposals to convert our existing power
station at Tilbury to use 100 percent biomass in place of
coal,” Meredith said. “If taken forward, all three of the
station’s operational units would generate power from
sustainably sourced renewable wood pellets until the scheduled
closure of the power station, by the end of 2015.”  The British government supports burning biomass to help it
reach a European Union target of getting 15 percent of its
energy from renewable sources. Britain changed its subsidy to
give long-term certainty for biomass in July through the so-
called Renewables Obligation, Britain’s subsidy program.  The existing coal-power station at Tilbury is due to close
once it has used up hours allotted under the EU’s so-called
Large Combustion Plant Directive, or at the latest by the end of
2015. The directive aims to curb gasses blamed for acid rain.  Largest Biomass Plant  Burning biomass to make electricity is technology that
“can be deployed today” Will Rolls, a Surrey, south England-
based information office at the  Biomass Energy Centre , a
government established group based near Farnham, said by e-mail.  Tilbury would probably rank as the world’s largest biomass
plant, according to Rolls. Biomass plants in Britain “could
help create new markets” for wood from the U.K.’s currently
unmanaged forests, Rolls said. Large plants will likely get
biomass from overseas, he said.  Since January 2008, the coal plant, comprised of three
units, has used about half of its allotted 20,000 hours of
operation. Unit 8 generated for 10,245 hours in the period
through the end of October, while units 9 and 10 have used
10,503 hours, according to National Grid Plc  data submitted  by
power generators. The plant must close by the end of 2015.  RWE is looking at ways it can “maximize the value” of
plants that are due to close, Meredith said. “First technical
trials seem to indicate significant reductions in sulfur
dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust, as well as significant carbon
saving over coal.” Sulfur dioxide and nitrous oxides are
pollutants limited under the EU laws tackling acid rain.  Drax Group Plc,  owner of a 4,000-megawatt coal plant in
Selby, northern England, western Europe’s largest, has the
ability to mix biomass in with the coal, meaning up to 500
megawatts of the plant’s capacity can come from biomass. Drax
also has plans to build three biomass plants in the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  