-- Samsung Electronics Says Chairman Lee to Promote His Son to President
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-11-17T11:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/samsung-chairman-lee-kun-hee-will-promote-his-son-to-run-electronics-unit.html
Samsung Electronics Co.  Chairman  Lee Kun Hee  will promote his son, a move that would elevate the
scion closer to running the world’s largest maker of memory
chips, televisions and flat screens.  The chairman told reporters today he plans to promote  Lee Jae Yong  to president from executive vice president during the
annual management reshuffle next month, said a Samsung Group
spokesperson, who declined to be named, citing company policy.
There are 17 presidents at Samsung, including Chief Executive
Officer Choi Gee Sung.  The promotion may increase investor scrutiny of the 42-
year-old Lee’s ability to lead Asia’s largest electronics
company, which generates more than $100 billion in annual sales.
Since Lee Kun Hee took over from his father in 1987, Samsung’s
market value has jumped more than 70-fold to surpass  Hewlett-
Packard Co .,  Sony Corp . and  Texas Instruments Inc .  “This is all part of the widely expected management
succession story at Samsung,” said Kim Sun Woong, executive
director at the Center for Good Corporate Governance in Seoul.
“The chairman must be wanting to promote Lee Jae Yong to
president quickly and get his management abilities recognized.”  Samsung Electronics fell 2 percent to close at 795,000 won
in Seoul, compared with the 0.1 percent drop by South Korea’s
benchmark Kospi stock index.  Harvard, Keio University  Lee Jae Yong, who studied at Harvard Business School and
Japan’s Keio University, joined Samsung Electronics in 1991. His
roles in the company have included being the chief customer
officer and vice president at the strategic planning division.
He was promoted to executive vice president and chief operating
officer last December, three months before the elder Lee
returned as chairman.  His father, 68, returned to Samsung in March after he
received a presidential pardon from a conviction of tax evasion
to help South Korea’s bid to host the 2018 Winter Olympics. He
stepped down in 2008 after being charged with tax evasion and
breach of fiduciary duty for causing losses at Samsung Group.  The promotion comes at a time when a family feud between
Hyundai Group and Hyundai Motor Group over control of Hyundai
Engineering & Construction Co. is reviving investor concern
about the South Korean business model of family-run
conglomerates, known as chaebols.  Hyundai Feud  Hyundai Engineering and Hyundai Group’s  Hyundai Merchant
Marine Co . both fell for a second day in Seoul trading after
plunging by the 15 percent daily limit yesterday.  The International Monetary Fund cited the chaebol and their
debt-driven practices as part of the reason why South Korea’s
economy fell into financial crisis at the end of 1997.  LG Electronics Inc . brought in a member of the founding
family in September by naming Koo Bon Joon, a younger brother of
 LG Group  Chairman Koo Bon Moo, as the chief executive officer.  Samsung Electronics, based in Suwon, last month reported
third-quarter profit rose 17 percent to a record 4.46 trillion
won ($3.9 billion), led by sales of semiconductors. The company
forecast earnings will weaken in the fourth quarter amid falling
prices of chips, screens and televisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 