-- San Miguel Brewery Shares Surge in Manila on Speculation of Property Sale
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   A l c u a z   J r .   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2010-11-17T06:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/san-miguel-brewery-shares-surge-in-manila-on-speculation-of-property-sale.html
San Miguel Brewery Inc. , which makes
more than 90 percent of beer in the Philippines, gained the most
in 22 months in Manila trading on speculation it will develop or
sell some of its property assets.  San Miguel Brewery  climbed  11 percent to 14 pesos at the
midday close of trading on the Philippine Stock Exchange. That’s
the biggest gain since January 2009 and the highest level since
the stock’s 2008  initial public offering.   “I understand that there’s going to be revaluation of all
its property,” said Nestor Aguila, president of DA Market
Securities Inc. in Manila. “Whatever property the brewery has
can be used for development. I understand there are
counterparties offering for their properties.”  The brewer also climbed on speculation Tokyo-based  Kirin
Holdings Co.  will increase its 48 percent stake in the company.  “Kirin is on a buying spree,” said Lawrence de Leon, an
analyst at Accord Capital Equities Inc. “Increasing its
holdings in San Miguel Brewery or furthering investments in the
Philippine beverage market, through the brewery, is a
possibility.”  Ramon Ang , president of parent company San Miguel Corp.,
denied the brewer plans to sell property and said he doesn’t
know if Kirin intends to buy more shares. Kirin spokesman Jun
Sato declined to comment on the Japanese company’s stake in San
Miguel Brewery.  “There’s always a possibility” with Ramon Ang of a deal,
said Ali Yu, president of Manila-based brokerage R.S. Lim & Co.
“There could be a brewing deal.”  San Miguel Brewery this month said it bought  San Miguel
Corp. ’s 40 percent stake in the company that owns the
brewer’s production facilities and sales offices for 6.83
billion pesos ($156 million). In May, Ang said the brewer will
work with Kirin to expand in Asia.  Kirin is expanding abroad as Japan’s population shrinks.
The company has spent more than $8 billion on acquisitions in
the past three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . in Manila at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net  