-- Sands China Drops as Xinhua Reports Macau Casino Curbs
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-17T09:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/sands-china-drops-by-the-most-in-almost-a-year-in-hong-kong.html
Sands China Ltd. , Asia’s second-
biggest casino operator by market value,  dropped  the most in
almost a year in Hong Kong after Xinhua News Agency said Macau
will tighten control of its casino industry.  Sands China  fell 7.1 percent to HK$15.86 in Hong Kong
today, the biggest decline since Nov. 30 and trimming its gain
this year to 68 percent. Billionaire Stanley Ho’s  SJM Holdings
Ltd. , Asia’s biggest casino operator by revenue, declined 6.3
percent to HK$9.91.  Macau’s government  will tighten control of the number of
new  casinos , gaming tables and slot machines, state-run Xinhua
reported yesterday, citing the city’s Chief Executive Fernando
Chui. Regulators in the only place in China where casinos are
legal will also enhance supervision, especially the auditing of
financial records, it said.  The  Las Vegas Sands Corp.  unit in 2007 opened the Venetian
Macao, the world’s biggest casino by floor area, leading the
development of gambling resorts on reclaimed land referred to in
Macau as the Cotai Strip. Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. last
year opened the City of Dreams across the street and Galaxy is
building a $2 billion casino project in the area.  Macau will exclude casinos from allowed uses for land newly
filled in from the sea, instead earmarking it for public housing
and industries that will help the economy expand beyond
gambling, Chui was cited by Xinhua as saying.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. , the casino operator part-
owned by Permira Advisers LLP, dropped 5.6 percent to HK$7.15
and  Wynn Macau Ltd.  retreated 4 percent to HK$15.22.  Melco International Development Ltd. , part owner of Melco
Crown, fell 4.9 percent to HK$4.50.  Melco Crown  is a Nasdaq-
listed joint venture with Australian billionaire James packer’s
Crown Ltd.  Las Vegas Sands  fell 5.8 percent to $46.24 in New York
trading yesterday, the most in more than four months.  Melco
Crown  declined 4.2 percent and  Wynn Resorts Ltd.  slid 3.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Leung in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  