-- Sexism That Irks Goldman Is Boon for Savvy CEOs: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-11-17T22:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/sexism-that-irks-goldman-profits-savvy-ceos-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Gender was absent from the Group of
20’s talks. That’s odd because it was on display everywhere.  The G-20’s summit in Seoul last week featured what must be
the biggest number of female leaders ever assembled for top-
level economic talks. There, I moderated panel discussions with
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  of Argentina,  Julia Gillard  of
Australia and  Christine Lagarde , the French finance minister. I
chatted briefly with  Angela Merkel  of Germany and at least
caught a glimpse of  Dilma Rousseff , president-elect of Brazil.  If ever there were a sign that women are in the ascendancy,
Seoul was it. And yet South Korea is an ideal place to make a
bigger point about women: Economies that underutilize them do so
to their detriment.  Korea ranked a dismal 104th in a report last month by the
World Economic Forum on the gender gap between men and women. It
trailed the United Arab Emirates, Suriname, Senegal and
Azerbaijan. That’s quite a blemish on an otherwise highly
successful economy.  Now, there are signs companies are profiting from this
discrimination -- and they’re not Korean, but foreign ones.  A  study  by U.S. and Korean researchers including Harvard
Business School’s Jordan Siegel found that if you operate in a
sexist country full of educated, talented women, it makes good
business sense to tap them for management roles. They argue that
a growing number of multinationals are loading up on Korean
women and reaping the benefits.  One-Engine World  It’s depressing how governments don’t realize that failing
to harness half of populations holds back growth. Planes that
need two engines to fly don’t take off when one isn’t working,
so why do nations think they can thrive in our madly competitive
world with one engine?  In their communiqué last week, the G-20 found time to
mention the tiniest of details about everything from fossil-fuel
subsidies to the average cost of transferring remittances to
fostering “smallholder” agriculture. And yet nothing about
empowering women.  Korea doesn’t have a monopoly on sexism. Japan relegates
all too many educated women to the role of tea-girl.  Kathy Matsui  of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in recent years has urged a
greater focus on “womenomics.” The Tokyo-based strategist says
that if Japan’s female employment rate matched that of males --
one of the highest anywhere at about 80 percent -- gross
domestic product would get a boost of as much as 15 percent.  Never mind the pervasive evidence that women are a key cure
for what ails deflationary Japan. Still, the men who control the
nation have as much use for gender equality as they do increased
immigration.  Male-Female Divide  Korea must close its male-female divide to keep up with
Asia’s upstart economies. Drafting more women for senior and
middle management may be just what  Korea Inc.  needs. The same
goes for encouraging more women to run for political office.  One of the paradoxes of Korea is education. Its
institutions of higher education are meritocratic and produce
legions of bright, qualified workers of both sexes. Even so,
Korean women are chronically underemployed by  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development  standards.  Siegel and researchers from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Hanshin University looked at hundreds of medium-
sized and large companies operating in Korea. In the last decade,
they found, a 10 percent increase in female managers was good
for a 1 percent jump in profits generated by assets.  Samsung’s Women  To me,  Samsung Electronics Co.  demonstrates the point. In
the early 2000s, it had no women executives; today, female
employees make up 40 percent of the total workforce of 187,800
and 10 percent of managers. Samsung is now the world’s largest
television maker and is eating Sony Corp.’s lunch.  Womenomics can be linked to many of  Korea ’s biggest
challenges. Rigid mindsets, for example, make it difficult for
women to have both a fulfilling career and a family. Many end up
putting off childbirth or having fewer kids, the result of which
is one of the lowest birthrates anywhere.  Gender will grow in importance as developing Asia thrives.
From China to Malaysia, many business cultures are less apt to
let gender decide who gets big promotions. It’s something Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  should be thinking about early and often
as he ponders how to compete.  Korea’s export-led model worked spectacularly. Many
executives in Seoul told me how impressed they were by how the
nation of 49 million people has evolved and boomed.  Fresh Air  Yet Korea’s growth strategy has outlived its usefulness.
The next phase must be about ideas and innovation, not factories.
Korea will need all the collective brainpower it can muster --
male and female. If Korea doesn’t begin making the most out of
its women, multinationals will.  G-20 gender dynamics offer a breath of fresh air. Perhaps
having so many women at the boy’s table will shake leaders out
of their complacency and help unleash Goldman’s womenomics.  Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh represented his nation
proudly in Seoul. Still, I kept wishing he had brought Congress
Party President  Sonia Gandhi  with him. It would have gone even
further to remind us that it’s no longer a man’s world. If only
our hiring practices reflected it.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Seoul at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  