-- Singapore Exchange's Takeover of ASX Will Benefit Australians, Fraser Says
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-17T02:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/singapore-exchange-s-takeover-of-asx-will-benefit-australians-fraser-says.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. ’s proposed
takeover of  ASX Ltd.  should be supported to give Australian
investors greater access to Asia, former Reserve Bank of
Australia governor  Bernie Fraser  said.  “It should be supported with the right guidelines,” said
Fraser, central bank chief from 1989 to 1996 and who is now on
AustralianSuper Pty. Ltd.’s investment committee, with A$33
billion in managed funds. “It will benefit Australian
shareholders enormously and give them greater access to the most
dynamic part of the global economy.”  Singapore Exchange on Oct. 25 offered to buy Australia’s
exchange for A$8.4 billion ($8.2 billion) in a cash and share
deal that would create the world’s fifth-largest listed exchange
company. The merger faces scrutiny from the Foreign Investment
Review  Board , the Reserve Bank, the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission and the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  “It would be the driving force to greater investment by
shareholders,” Fraser, 69, said in a telephone interview from
his cattle ranch near the national capital of Canberra. “There
is no reason, if the right safeguards and regulations are in
place, that this partnership shouldn’t happen.”  Based on SGX’s closing share price in Singapore yesterday,
the value of the deal was A$45.98 a share or A$8.05 billion.  The planned merger faces opposition from Australian
lawmakers who have cited so-called national interest reasons.
Treasurer  Wayne Swan , whose minority Labor government needs the
support of four non-party members to pass laws through the lower
house, would need to amend the Corporations Act through
parliament if he wanted to approve it.  ‘Ill-Placed Nationalism’  Fraser said the nationalist argument was “ill-placed” and
cited Canada’s rejection of  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion bid
for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.   “There is always that risk from this idea of nationalism,
like what we saw in Canada’s refusal of the BHP bid,” Fraser
said. “This ASX bid should be considered without the
nationalist idea  -- we should not succumb to that argument.”  Fraser, who is also a director of United Super Pty. Ltd.,
said the nation’s A$1.35 trillion in pension savings would also
benefit from the planned partnership.  “Funds would benefit from a stronger link with Asia, with
easier access to companies,” he said. “We are already strong
investors in Asia and this would increase that.”  ASX Ltd. spokesman  Matthew Gibbs  said yesterday an
application should be submitted to the Foreign Investment Review
Board by the end of November or early December. Gibbs said the
transaction would take six to seven months to conclude.  Listing Rules  The proposed takeover needs no modification,  Malcolm Starr ,
ASX’s head of regulatory policy, said last week, responding to
concerns the deal may reduce the fairness of listings rules.  “A merger of the two groups in no way undermines the
Australian government’s ability to regulate the country’s stock-
market operations,” Starr, executive general manager of
regulatory and public policy, said a telephone interview on Nov.
12.  Singapore Exchange’s bid will struggle to win parliamentary
approval unless the deal is supported by Australia’s two main
political parties, the ruling Labor Party and opposition
Liberal-National coalition, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said
in a research note today.  “We believe the transaction will be difficult to pass
through parliament without bipartisan support from the two major
parties,” analysts led by  Russell Gill  said in the note.  While the takeover is struggling for political approval, it
may gain investor support as ASX Ltd. gets a 42 percent premium
and owners of the bidder pay no more than the average of
comparable deals.  Bocker Revolt  Singapore Exchange Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker 
faced a revolt from his own shareholders on Oct. 25 when he
unveiled the agreement to acquire ASX at twice the average
premium for financial services acquisitions in the past year.  Now, Tokyo Stock Exchange, with a 4.9 percent stake in the
Singapore bourse, is dropping its criticism, citing growth
prospects for the combined company. The bid values the Sydney-
based Australian company at 19.5 times earnings before interest
and taxes, compared with the 22.8 times earnings before interest
and taxes that NYSE Group Inc. paid for Euronext NV in 2007 and
the 21.4 times EBIT at which CME Group Inc. valued Nymex
Holdings Inc. a year later, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “On the face of it, it looks like a pretty juicy multiple
that SGX is paying,”  Chris Hall , who helps manage $3.7 billion
at Argo Investments Ltd. in Adelaide, Australia, said in a
telephone interview on Nov. 11. “But if you look at some of the
other global deals on exchanges, on a raw valuations basis
they’re at the same sort of level.”  SGX Shares Fall  SGX’s shares fell 6.2 percent, the most in two years, the
day the merger was announced. They have since retreated 1.1
percent through yesterday. ASX shares jumped 19 percent the day
of the announcement, but have since retreated 11 percent as
opposition from politicians mounted.  Australian lawmakers including two Greens party members,
opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  and two independents
said they are against Singapore Exchange’s bid, claiming it’s
unlikely to be in the best interests of Australians. Independent
rural MP Bob Katter called it “lunacy.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government doesn’t
hold a majority in the lower house as the result of an election
on Aug. 21 that delivered the closest result in 70 years.  ASX’s Chief Executive  Robert Elstone  said at a media
briefing announcing the takeover that the merger was in the
interests of both countries, and that the companies are
confident that they’ll win regulators’ approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net .
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  