-- Sojitz to Produce Soybeans, Other Crops in Argentina for Export to Asia
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2010-11-17T07:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/sojitz-to-produce-soybeans-other-crops-in-argentina-for-export-to-asia.html
Sojitz Corp. , a Japanese trading
company, will start producing soybeans and other crops in
Argentina for export to Asia to take advantage of rising demand,
it said in a statement.  The company has set up a venture to produce 30,000 metric
tons of staples, according to the website  statement . Sojitz
plans to increase production to as much as 1 million tons of
soybeans, corn and wheat by 2017 with sales of about 1.5 billion
yen ($18 million), Kuniyuki Wada, deputy director of Sojitz’s
agribusiness department, told reporters today in Tokyo.  Sojitz and other Japanese trading companies including
Marubeni Corp. and Mitsui & Co. are expanding into agriculture
in South America as demand for staples rises in China and other
Asian countries. World food production has to increase by 70
percent by 2050 to meet the needs of a rising population,
according to a United Nations forecast in September 2009.  Corn futures are up 26 percent this year, while wheat and
soybeans have risen 23 percent and 12 percent respectively.  Sojitz  shares  fell 0.7 percent to close at 148 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange today. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average rose 0.2 percent.  The company identified agriculture as a priority area in
its mid-term business  plan  announced in April 2009. The
Argentine investment will be the first project for the new
agribusiness department it started last year.  Supplying Sojitz  Sojitz’s venture, Sojitz Buenas Tierras del Sur S.A., will
lease 11,000 hectares (21,181 acres) of farmland cultivating
soybeans, corn, wheat and other crops in the Pampas region in
central-eastern Argentina, according to the statement. Sojitz
has invested about 500 million yen in the venture.  The company will export produce to Asian countries, mainly
China, India, and Vietnam, Wada said.  It may expand the area under cultivation to 200,000
hectares in Argentina, Brazil and other South American countries
by 2017, Wada said. Sojitz may also purchase farmland, he said.  State-backed  Nippon Export and Investment Insurance  will
provide insurance for Sojitz to cover overseas investment risks,
according to the statement.  Soybean imports to China, the world’s most populous nation,
may rise 27 percent to more than 54 million tons this year, the
National Grain and Oils Information Center said today.  Processors increased purchases of new-crop South American
soybeans by 25 percent from a year earlier, the grain center
said on Oct. 25.  Marubeni , Japan’s fifth-biggest trading company by market
value, and Molino Canuelas of Argentina last year agreed to
cooperate in exporting soybeans, soybeans meal and grains.  Mitsui , Japan’s second-largest trading house by market
value, invested $124 million in Multigrain AG to raise its stake
in the world’s second-largest grower of soybeans in October
2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 