-- Sophie B. Hawkins Sings for Lazard's Golub, Helps Save Hurt Kids, Animals
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-11-17T16:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/sophie-b-hawkins-sings-for-lazard-s-golub-helps-save-hurt-kids-animals.html
Sophie B. Hawkins  had a big secret
when she shot to fame in 1992 with her hit single, “Damn I Wish
I Was Your Lover.” Her music was a form of therapy, easing the
pain of ongoing sexual abuse from the age of 10.  “The biggest thing you feel,” said Hawkins, 43, during a
phone conversation from Los Angeles, “is the incredible lack of
confidence -- and shame.”  When the  New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children  asked her to perform at its gala tomorrow at
Manhattan’s Plaza Hotel, Hawkins offered to sing free.  The 135-year-old nonprofit, the first of its type, helps
victims recover from the trauma of abuse and counsels child care
professionals. It also set up a program in the New York City
schools that teaches some 1,700 children the difference between
proper and harmful touching.  “This gala is very important for me because the society
really knows how to take care of children,” said Hawkins, whose
emotional struggles were chronicled in “ The Cream Will Rise ,”
a 1998 documentary directed by her manager and filmmaker, Gigi
Gaston. “I didn’t have that until I was in my 30s,” she said
of the therapy provided by the society.  African Drum Beat  Gravitating to music and learning how to play African drums
in her teens helped Hawkins. “Drumming saved my life,” she
said. “The minute I put my hands on that African drum, I put
away drinking.” She learned the art of African drumming from
two masters, Godson and Babutune Olatunji, and went on to
perform with such icons as Bryan Ferry. Later, she would begin
channeling her pain into song lyrics.  In the last decade, the platinum record-selling Hawkins has
emerged as an advocate for abuse victims, animal rights and
environmental causes. She’ll help the society raise $500,000.  After moving to California from New York in the late 1990s,
Hawkins started contributing to environmental and animal causes
including  Ocean Conservancy ,  Sierra Club ,  Union of Concerned
Scientists  and Heifer International Foundation, the Little Rock,
Arkansas-based organization that helps the poor become self-
sufficient through farming.  At the gala, Hawkins will sing “As I Lay Me Down,” one of
her biggest hits, “Savior Child” and “Lose Your Way.”  Her audience will include gala honorees  Steven J. Golub ,
 Lazard Ltd .’s vice chairman, and “Dateline” correspondent
Chris Hansen, whose “To Catch a Predator” series for the NBC
News program exposed Internet sexual predators. “Inside
Edition” anchor Deborah Norville will be the evening’s host.  “In the last album she released, Sophie was very candid
about the abuse she had experienced,” said Mary Pulido, the
nonprofit’s executive director. “For her to donate her time is
inspiring and a logical fit for a nonprofit that’s trying to
make inroads into child sexual abuse.”  Now a mother and owner of three long-haired daschunds,
Hawkins said she takes a grass-roots approach to finding homes
for strays and shelter animals.  “When I go out with my son, we might find a cat under a
car, and we’ll take it in,” she said. “Saving animals has
become part of my life.”  Hawkins performs at the New York Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Children’s Annual Gala tomorrow night at the Plaza
Hotel, Fifth Avenue at Central Park South in Manhattan. Tickets
begin at $600; $300 for those under 35. Information: +1-212-843-
1714;  http://www.nyspcc.org/nyspcc   To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 