-- South African Bond Yields Rise to Highest in Month on Ireland Debt Crisis
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-17T10:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/south-african-bond-yields-rise-to-highest-in-month-on-ireland-debt-crisis.html
South African bonds fell, pushing
yields to the highest level this month, as concern Ireland’s
debt crisis will spread roiled markets and measures by China to
slow its economy eroded demand for higher-yielding assets.  The benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015
dropped for a fourth day, losing 23 cents to 125.61 rand by
12:14 p.m. in Johannesburg, raising the yield by 4 basis points,
to 7.12 percent, the highest since Oct. 26.  European finance ministers have begun work on providing aid
to Ireland’s debt-laden banks after the nation declined an
immediate bailout package, risking a renewed sell-off in
government bonds. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said his government
is drafting measures to counter price gains, spurring concern
that the measures will slow the fastest-growing major economy.  “Ireland has real concerns about sovereignty, reputation
and above all whether it needs a bailout,”  John Cairns , head of
research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a
client note today. “When we add concerns about policy
tightening in China, where the latest talk is about price
controls, then markets are coming in for a beating.”  The rand strengthened 0.4 percent to 7.0400 per dollar,
from a previous close of 7.0655.  South African retail sales rose an annual 6.1 percent in
September from a 4.6 percent increase in August as a series of
interest rate cuts continued to support a rebound in consumer
spending, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its
website today. The median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 4.3 percent.  Central-Bank Decision  The central bank announces its next decision on interest
rates tomorrow and may lower its 6 percent  benchmark interest
rate .  “The market is fully primed for a rate cut,” Standard
Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by  Michael Keenan  in Johannesburg,
wrote in a client note today.  The bank will probably reduce its rate by 50 basis points,
according to 17 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Five
expect the rate to remain unchanged.  Forward-rate agreements , or FRAs, showed money-market
investors pared bets that the bank will cut the benchmark rate.
The cost of three-month contracts for cash due in one month
climbed 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.75
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  