-- South African Retail Sales Rose 6.1% in September on Interest Rate Cuts
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-17T10:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/south-african-retail-sales-rose-6-1-in-september-on-interest-rate-cuts.html
South African retail sales rose more
than expected in September as a series of interest rate cuts
supported a rebound in consumer spending, while a rally in the
rand cut import costs.  Sales  growth accelerated to an annual 6.1 percent from 4.6
percent in August, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said
on its website today. The  median estimate  of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.3 percent. Sales rose a seasonally
adjusted 0.4 percent in the month.  “The consumer is in reasonable shape,”  Kevin Lings , an
economist with Stanlib Asset Management, said by telephone from
Johannesburg. “Wages are rising faster than inflation. Debt
servicing costs are low. I’m expecting that the retail numbers
will hold up in the final quarter of the year.”  The retail figures may weaken the case for an interest rate
cut tomorrow, Lings said. The Reserve Bank has reduced its key
 rate  eight times to 6 percent since December 2008 and is likely
to cut it again tomorrow, according to 17 of 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before today’s announcement. A 33 percent
rally in the rand against the dollar since the beginning of last
year has pushed the inflation rate to the lowest in more than
five years, opening the door to further rate cuts.  “Over the past few months we have seen the consumer take
on a little bit more credit,” Lings said. “In terms of raw
consumer activity, there is no need for more stimulus.”  The rand strengthened to 7.0385 per dollar at 11:52 a.m. in
Johannesburg, from 7.0541 before the release of the inflation
data.  Consumer Confidence  The  Foschini Group Ltd. , a clothing retailer, yesterday
said sales rose 12 percent in the six months through September,
as it opened 42 new stores.  JD Group Ltd. , a furniture and
electrical goods retailer, on Nov. 15 said its sales rose 3
percent in the year through August, as consumer spending
rebounded following the country’s first recession in 17 years.  South African consumer confidence was little changed in the
fourth quarter, close its highest level since the last three
months of 2007, according to a survey released yesterday.  The FNB/BER consumer confidence index was 14, compared with
15 in the previous three months, First National Bank and the
Bureau for Economic Research said on their websites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 