-- Spain Boosts Interest Payments as Irish Slump Infects Region: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   P a u l   T o b i n
-- 2010-11-17T09:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/spain-boosts-interest-payments-as-irish-slump-infects-region-euro-credit.html
Spain’s borrowing costs may rise at
tomorrow’s auction of as much as 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion)
of bonds as the European Union’s squabbling with Ireland over
emergency aid threatened to infect neighboring countries.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds over German bunds of similar maturity rose 3 basis points
to 201.4, up 29 basis points from Sept. 16 when Spain last sold
debt maturing in 2010 and 2041. Spain priced 3.7 billion euros
of 12-month bills yesterday to yield 2.363 percent, compared
with 1.842 percent a month earlier.  European Finance Ministers met in Brussels yesterday to
begin work on a financial package for Ireland’s debt-laden banks
that the government has been reluctant to accept. Yield premiums
in Ireland and  Portugal  rose to euro-era records last week as
Germany pressured Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  to accept
funds in a bid to calm markets as the EU prepares to turn the
750 billion euro-financial lifeline enacted after Greece’s near
default in May into a permanent bailout mechanism.  “A credible plan for Ireland would alleviate tension in
the market and Spain could benefit from that,” said  Jose Carlos Diez , chief economist in Madrid at Intermoney SA, the country’s
largest bond broker. “However, plans take time and it’s not an
easy process. Tensions will persist if there is no solution.”  Germany has been pushing for bond investors to help cover
the costs of bailouts after 2013 when a permanent EU bailout
mechanism takes effect. The talk of “burden sharing” prompted
a debt market selloff for high-deficit nations that are
perceived as most likely to tap the fund.  The jump in borrowing costs has the most immediate impact
on Spain, which has two more bond sales this year after
tomorrow’s auction. Ireland is fully funded through the first
half of next year and Portugal has completed its 2010 bond
sales.  Deficit Doubling  The growing costs of shoring up Ireland’s banks will push
Ireland’s deficit to 32 percent of gross domestic product this
year, more than twice last year’s level, while Spain’s declines
to less than 10 percent. EU leaders and central bankers are
urging Ireland to accept aid now to protect its lenders and
prevent the fallout from spreading. Portugal, with an economy
about the same size as Ireland’s and a deficit of 9.3 percent
last year, is seen as the next weakest link.  Spanish and Portuguese officials are among those urging
Ireland to accept help. Spain’s Central Bank governor and
European Central Bank council member  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said Nov. 15 that Ireland had contributed to the market
turmoil by not making “a final decision on accepting aid.”
Portugal’s  Vitor Constancio , the former central bank head who
now serves as ECB vice president, said an Irish agreement would
“stabilize” the situation.  Burden Sharing  Yield premiums  have fallen from euro-era highs reached on
Nov. 11 after Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the U.K. issued
a statement the next day saying current bondholders would not be
affected by burden sharing in any bailout after 2013.  “If Europe doesn’t solve the uncertainty that lies behind
the proposals for the debt restructuring mechanism, there is a
risk that spreads will start widening again soon afterwards even
if Portugal and Ireland tap the fund,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a
fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in London.  Spain, with a GDP of more than three times Portugal and
Ireland combined and more than 500 billion euros in outstanding
debt, would pose a much bigger challenge for the EU’s current
750 billion-euro bailout fund and the future permanent mechanism
that will replace it. So far, Spanish bonds have suffered less
than those of Ireland and Portugal as investors rewarded Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ’s efforts to trim the
deficit with wage cuts and tax increases.  Eyes on Spain  Spain is poised to lower the shortfall to 9.3 percent of
GDP this year. An EU-led rescue of Ireland and Portugal would
leave Spain with less margin for error, said  Juan Jose Figares ,
chief analyst at Link Securities in Madrid.  “If both Portugal and Ireland are bailed out, all eyes
will be on Spain and any deviation to their commitments would be
a threat,” Figares said.  Austerity measures are choking economic growth, threatening
to damp revenue increases the government is counting on to meet
its deficit target. The economy stalled in the third quarter as
 household  spending contracted, a government report showed today.  Household spending shrank 1.1 percent from the previous
three months, when it expanded 1.5 percent, the  National
Statistics Institute  in Madrid said today.  “GDP will look much weaker in 2011 and 2012 than the
government’s current projection -- 1.3 percent in 2011 and 2.5
percent in 2012 for real GDP -- implying that additional fiscal
measures will likely be needed next year to meet the deficit
target of 6 percent of GDP,”  Giada Giani  of Citigroup Global
Markets Ltd. in London said in a Nov. 12 note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tobin  at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  