-- Duffie Proposes Stress-Test Matrix to Monitor Risk
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-11-17T19:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/stanford-s-duffie-proposes-stress-test-matrix-to-monitor-risk.html
The world’s largest banks and
investment firms should undergo quarterly stress tests to
identify risks that could sink the financial system, according
to a proposal by Stanford University finance professor  Darrell Duffie .  “I’m not talking about the ordinary, matter-of-course,
risk management of institutions,” Duffie said during a
presentation  today  in New York at a conference attended by
officials from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Senate
Banking Committee, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
representatives of Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
“We’re looking at what are the sources of risk and how are they
flowing through the system. We want to connect the dots.”  U.S. and European governments are working to overhaul the
banking system after the housing collapse froze credit markets,
helped drive Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to bankruptcy and
spurred more than $1.8 trillion in losses and asset writedowns
worldwide. The U.S. government also had to engineer a $182.5
billion rescue of American International Group Inc. after the
insurer sold credit-default swaps to most Wall Street banks in
the unregulated private derivatives market.  Duffie calls his plan “10-by-10-by-10” because it’s based
on 10 financial firms undergoing 10 stress tests that expose the
banks’ 10 largest trading partners. For example, institutions
would be tested on their ability to withstand the default of a
single firm that they do business with, an idea replicating the
2008 Lehman bankruptcy.  ‘Alert Regulators’  “The objective is to alert regulators and the public to
potential sources of financial instability before they reach
dangerous levels,” Duffie wrote in a paper outlining the
proposal.  The tests, which would be adjusted over time to cover
different scenarios, could flush out new systemically important
firms as they arise, Duffie said.  Central bankers could opt to conduct some of the stress
tests using average financial numbers over a given timeframe
“to mitigate period-end ‘window dressing,’” Duffie said.
Regulators should also audit the way the banks measure the data
they present, he said.  Collecting Data  “It’s safe to say we don’t have all of the information,”
said Stacy Coleman, a vice president at the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York who is leading the central bank’s efforts to curb
risks in the privately negotiated derivatives markets. “We have
been collecting a lot of information to give us insight into
some of these issues, but we don’t have it comprehensively.”  Coleman, who spoke on a panel of regulators and bank and
money manager executives to discuss the proposal, said
regulators also would need to ensure they have the ability to
properly analyze the data.  “Even if we had all the data, I’m not sure we necessarily
could run the models in as realistic or likely an outcome as we
would want,” she said.  The stress tests should be adopted by all major financial
regulators worldwide, Duffie said, adding that the Fed would be
a natural choice to lead the examinations in the U.S. because it
already monitors the nation’s largest banks. The professor said
he sent copies of the proposal to regulators including the
European Central Bank, the Bank of England and the Bank of
France.  The cost of his plan should be “mitigated by using risk
measurement principles that conform whenever possible to best
practices in the financial industry,” Duffie said.  JPMorgan Tests  JPMorgan  already conducts stress tests that assume rising
credit risks, falling stock prices and interest rate changes,
Duffie said at the conference, held at New York University’s
Stern School of Business and co-sponsored by the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a global repository for
credit derivatives trades.  The data obtained through stress testing could also be sent
to the Office of Financial Research, created through the Dodd-
Frank financial reform act that became U.S. law in July, Duffie
said. Once analyzed by regulators, the data should be aggregated
and disclosed to the public so that financial markets could
identify and react to risk concentrations that build up in
certain asset classes, he said.  Some of those in attendance expressed concern that
identities of bank trading partners could be leaked or otherwise
made public.  “The audience seemed a bit concerned if this information
should be revealed to the market,” said  Viral Acharya , a
professor of finance at NYU who moderated the panel.  Anonymous Data  To guard against runs on banks or market speculation that
could topple a financial institution, the information released
would be “not only anonymous, but in very large buckets,” so
that specific firms couldn’t be identified, Duffie said.  Other potential stress tests include analyzing a
simultaneous 4 percent change in the yield investors demand to
hold all kinds of corporate debt rather than government bonds; a
25 percent shift in the value of the dollar or Euro compared
with other currencies; and a 50 percent change in a global stock
index.  Duffie said such a monitoring system could encounter
problems outlined in the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle, which
states that “increasing the precision of one’s measurement of
one aspect of a system merely increases uncertainty regarding
other dimensions of the system.”  Thus, employees of a bank may have an incentive to adjust
risk-taking to evade standards set by regulators.  “By limiting the stress measures to a small number of
extremely broad asset classes, as I have proposed, the
‘Heisenberg uncertainty effect’ is significantly mitigated, but
is not eliminated,” Duffie said.  Duffie wrote a research paper in January with  Theo Lubke ,
then the New York Fed official responsible for over-the-counter
derivatives oversight; and Ada Li, a New York Fed bank examiner.
He is a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic
Research’s Systemic Risk Measurement Initiative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 