-- State Street Unit Aided in Looting of Michigan Cemetery Trust, Suit Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-17T21:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/state-street-unit-aided-in-looting-of-michigan-cemetery-trust-suit-says.html
A  State Street Corp.  unit,
 International Fund Services Ireland Ltd. , was sued by a Michigan
cemetery operator alleging the company aided in the theft of $60
million in trust assets intended for maintaining burial sites.  Midwest Memorial Group LLC, in a lawsuit filed in federal
court in Manhattan yesterday, claimed Clayton Smart and Mark
Singer stole the money from the trusts.  Smart obtained financing to buy the cemeteries from a
brokerage firm that he and Singer allegedly gave documents
backdated by the State Street unit to reflect assets he didn’t
have.  “This is a modern-day case of grave robbery,”  Midwest
Memorial  said in its 21-page complaint. The company, which
purchased the cemeteries from the state after they were placed
in conservatorship, said it has also filed suit against Singer,
who is a former financial adviser, Smart and the brokerage firm
in a Michigan state court.  A spokeswoman for Boston-based State Street,  Carolyn Cichon , said the suit is “completely without merit.”  Singer’s attorney, Joseph Rogowski of Farmington Hills,
Michigan, declined to comment.  Memphis Jail  Smart is in a Memphis, Tennessee, jail awaiting a March
trial on theft and money laundering charges in connection with
the cemetery trust, said Lee Gerald, his criminal defense lawyer
in Memphis. Because Gerald had been in plea negotiations,
prosecutors tried Singer alone this year. That trial ended with
a hung jury and Singer will be retried with Smart next year.  Authorities in Michigan and Tennessee investigated Smart’s
cemetery ownership in 2006. The Michigan conservatorship was
filed later that year.  Among the cemeteries involved in the case are the burial
sites of Ford Motor Co. founder  Henry Ford  and U.S. civil rights
protester  Rosa Parks , according to the complaint. The money
allegedly stolen had been set aside for perpetual grave-site
care and purchase of headstones and related items.  Alleging the State Street unit aided and abetted the
thefts, which left the cemeteries “in financial ruin,” Midwest
Memorial is seeking unspecified money damages.  Smart, aided by Singer, purchased the cemeteries from
Michigan businessman Craig Bush. Smart used the allegedly
backdated IFS documents to win $30 million in credit from
Singer’s employer without assets to repay it.  That loan was collateralized by the later-stolen trust
funds, which the backdated documents showed were under Smart’s
control before he actually purchased the burial grounds,
according to the Midwest Memorial complaint.  The case is Midwest Memorial Group LLC v. International
Fund Services Ltd., 10cv8660, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 