-- Supergrids, Caspian Gas Pipeline Listed as Energy Priorities for EU Bloc
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-11-17T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/supergrids-caspian-gas-pipeline-listed-as-energy-priorities-for-eu-bloc.html
The European Union outlined today
its energy infrastructure priorities for the next two decades,
paving the way for aid for supergrids to integrate renewable
energy and routes to deliver natural gas from the Caspian Sea.  The strategic “corridors” for the transport of
electricity, gas and oil will help the 27-nation EU meet its
climate-protection goals and boost the security of energy
supply, reducing its dependence on Russia. Based on this map of
priorities, the EU will in 2012 identify concrete projects that
require urgent development, the European Commission, the bloc’s
regulator, said in a statement in Brussels.  The EU must invest about 200 billion euros ($270 billion)
in energy transport, gas pipelines and power grids to attain its
targets of cutting greenhouse gases by a fifth by 2020 compared
with 1990 levels, increasing the share of renewable energy to 20
percent of consumption and raising energy efficiency by 20
percent, according to the commission. Only part will come from
private investors, leaving a 100 billion-euro financing gap, it
said.  “Energy infrastructure is key to all our energy goals:
from security of supply, the integration of renewable energy
sources and energy efficiency to the proper functioning of the
internal market,” Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  said
in the statement. “It is therefore essential that we pull
together our resources and accelerate the realization of EU
priority projects.”  The electricity priorities also include linking the North
Sea offshore grids with northern and central Europe and building
interconnections to transport electricity from wind, solar and
hydropower from the southwest to the rest of the continent.
Strengthening the regional network in eastern Europe and
integration of the Baltic energy market are also on the list.  On top of the “southern corridor” to deliver gas from the
Caspian sea to Europe, the EU gas industry priorities include
connecting the Baltics with central and southern Europe as well
as developing the north-south link in western Europe to remove
internal bottlenecks, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  