-- Surging China Volatility Means ‘Stay Put,’ CICC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-17T09:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/surging-china-volatility-means-stay-put-cicc-strategist-says.html
China stocks  volatility  jumped to
the highest in six months, spurring China International Capital
Corp. to recommend that investors refrain from buying equities
as the government intensifies measures to contain inflation.  “Investors should stay put,”  Hao Hong , a Beijing-based
global strategist at CICC, the top-ranked brokerage for China
research in Asiamoney’s annual survey, wrote in a report.
“Fundamental volatility hasn’t been reflected yet. Inflation
risks haven’t been priced in.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 1.9 percent today,
extending losses to 10 percent since reaching an almost seven-
month high on Nov. 8, amid speculation the government will raise
rates for the second time in a month and introduce price
controls to combat the fastest inflation in two years. The slump
followed a 12 percent rally in October, the biggest gain since
July 2009, on optimism the U.S. Federal Reserve would increase
purchases of debt.  The Shanghai  index ’s volatility surged to the highest since
May, while implied volatility, a gauge of investor fear, rose to
a three-month peak. The  AlphaShares Chinese Volatility Index ,
which tracks the implied volatility of options on the Hang Seng
Index, the benchmark for Hong Kong stocks, and the FTSE/Xinhua
China 25 Index, a gauge of the nation’s 25 largest companies by
market value, climbed to the highest since July on Nov. 15,
after dropping to a four-year low initially in August.  Volatility is surging and volumes are climbing as investors
pour money into stocks. Combined  trading value  on the Shanghai
Stock Exchange rose to the highest level in at least four years
on Nov. 2, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors last week
opened 565,972 accounts to trade equities, the  most  in 15 months,
according to clearing data.  Price Controls  Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday China
is under “pressure” from capital inflows as a state newspaper
said price controls could be imposed to cool the fastest
inflation in two years.  October’s inflation rate of 4.4 percent was higher than any
of the estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
Federal Reserve’s decision to buy $600 billion of Treasuries
came as China raised benchmark lending and deposit rates for the
first time since 2007.  “Inflation is very high and the government acknowledges
that,”  Andy Xie , an independent economist, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “They will raise
interest rates soon.”  Implied volatility is a measure of expected price swings
and the key gauge of options prices. Options are derivatives
that give the right though not the obligation to buy or sell a
security at a set price and date. Investors use options to guard
against fluctuations in the price of securities they own,
speculate on share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock
swings, will increase or decrease.  “Volatility is going to rise much further from here,”
CICC’s Hong said.  -- Allen Wan . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Darren Boey .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Allen Wan  in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  