-- Default Swaps Improving Faster Than BRICs as SBI Plans Sale: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-11-18T07:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/swaps-improve-faster-for-sbi-than-benchmarks-in-other-brics-india-credit.html
The risk of default by State Bank of
India is falling more than similar BRIC nation benchmarks as the
company, a proxy for the government in the global bond market,
sells debt in Europe for the first time in five years.  Credit-default swaps on SBI, the nation’s largest lender,
dropped 32 basis points over the past six months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That outpaced the 27 basis point decline for
Bank of China Ltd., the largest in China, and compares with a 14
basis-point increase for Sberbank, the biggest in Russia. Bond
risk for sovereign debt in Brazil, whose banks have no similar
swaps, fell 23 basis points.  Stronger-than-forecast earnings in India are bolstering
investor appetite for SBI’s 500 million euro ($680 million) bond
sale, even as concern that Ireland’s banking industry needs a
further bailout pushes up global yields, according to UBS AG.
Net income at 17 of the 30 companies in India’s benchmark
 Sensitive Index  exceeded analyst estimates in the quarter ended
Sept. 30, rising an average 8 percent from a year earlier, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Improved corporate earnings in the September quarter,
which met analysts’ expectations, instill confidence in
investors to buy Indian debt,”  Ajay Mahajan , managing director
at UBS in Mumbai, said in an interview on Nov. 16. “The risk of
a loan delinquency blow-out in India is very low.”  Improved Earnings  The Reserve Bank of India said in a report on Nov. 8 that
non-performing assets of the nation’s banks, after deducting
bad-loan provisions, were 1.1 percent of the total as of March
31. SBI has reduced debt due this year to about 20 billion
rupees ($440 million), from 60 billion rupees on March 31. It
increased borrowings that mature in 2015 to 110 billion rupees,
from 60 billion rupees, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Total profit for Sensex companies rebounded last quarter
after declining 1.8 percent from a year earlier in the three
months to June 30.  ICICI Bank Ltd. , India’s second-biggest
lender, said last month that second-quarter profit climbed 19
percent, as loans rose for the first time in two years.  State-run Indian Oil Corp. said Nov. 13 that net income
rose more than 18-fold. SBI’s earnings were little changed from
a year earlier at 25 billion rupees, largely because of stricter
central bank provisioning rules.  “We should see an 18 percent to 20 percent earnings growth
in Sensex companies in the year ending March 2011,” said  Ravi Gopalakrishnan , chief investment officer for equities at
Pramerica Asset Managers Pvt. The firm is the local unit of
Prudential International Investments Advisers LLC., which
manages $750 billion in assets globally.  European Crisis  State Bank’s credit-default swaps jumped 13 basis points
last week, the largest advance since May 21, as concern
intensified that the debt crisis in Ireland and Greece was
worsening. The contracts climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, this week to 169 basis points yesterday. That
level compares with 129 for Bank of China, 197 for Sberbank and
110 for Brazil’s government.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point
equals $1,000 a year on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt for five years.  “We’re now in a situation where some Indian banks are
offering some value relative to other banks in the region,”
said  Philippe Petit , senior investment manager in Singapore at
Pictet Asset Management, in an interview on Nov. 16. SBI “is
considered a quasi sovereign” and its default-swap price is
likely to be “rangebound” depending on global risk appetite,
said Petit, whose firm oversees more than $17 billion of
emerging-market debt.  Rupee, Yields  SBI plans to start its euro debt sale next week, Deputy
Managing Director  Pratip Chaudhuri  said in an interview Nov. 15.
The lender sold $1 billion of bonds in July. The yield on the
4.5 percent notes, which mature 2015, has fallen to within 225
basis points of government debt rates from 277 on July 23,
Bloomberg data show.  This year’s 2.3 percent advance in the rupee against the
dollar and 8.4 percent gain versus the euro makes it cheaper for
companies that raise funds in the currencies to repay loans.
India’s rupee weakened 0.4 percent today to 45.47 per dollar.
The domestic markets were closed yesterday for a public holiday.  Local borrowing costs have become more expensive. The  yield 
on India’s benchmark 10-year rupee bond fell two basis points to
8.05 percent today, for a year-to-date increase of 46 basis
points. The  difference  between the yield and that of similar
maturity U.S. Treasuries was 518 basis points, shrinking from
the high this year of 567 on Oct. 20.  Corporate Risk  The  difference  in yield between India’s top-rated five-year
rupee company debt and similar-maturity government bonds
narrowed to 65.3 basis points on Nov. 16, from 68.2. The gap has
shrunk from 86 at the start of the year.  Crisil Ltd., the Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s, raised
the ratings of 253 local borrowers in the six months ended Sept.
30, the most since it started business in 1987, it said on Oct.
20. The company downgraded 111 borrowers.  “Most of our rating actions for companies this year have
been upgrades,” Mehul P. Sukkawala, a Mumbai-based credit
analyst at S&P, said in an interview on Nov. 16. “An improved
global economic environment has helped companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  