-- U.K. Pound Trades Near Eight-Week High Against Euro on Irish Banks Concern
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-17T17:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-k-pound-trades-near-eight-week-high-against-euro-on-irish-banks-concern.html
U.K. government bonds rose for the
first day in four as Ireland’s bank crisis drove investors to
seek a haven from turmoil in so-called peripheral European bond
markets.  The gains pushed 10-year gilt yields down from the highest
in three months. European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials will start scanning the books of Irish banks tomorrow
in a prelude to a possible aid package. Minutes from the Bank of
England’s last meeting released today showed the Monetary Policy
Committee remains split, with  Adam Posen  renewing his call for
more asset purchases, known as quantitative easing.  “As long as people are worried about the outlook for the
euro-zone, and people are worried about the prospects of growth
fading away in the U.K. next year and needing a reintroduction
of QE, that’s all a pretty supportive environment for gilts,”
said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  The yield on the 10-year bond fell two basis points to 3.27
percent at 4:58 p.m. in London. The yield reached the highest
since Aug. 4 yesterday. The two-year yield dropped two basis
points to 1.06 percent.  The Irish yield spread over German bunds widened to a
record on Nov. 11 on concern the nation will have to restructure
its finances. While the spread has narrowed, it remains the
widest in the euro-zone other than that of Greece, which
received a rescue package worth 750 billion euros ($1 trillion)
in May.  ‘Balancing Act’  Minutes published today from the Bank of England’s Nov. 4
meeting showed policy makers split three ways for a second
month.  Posen  kept up his demand to increase the 200 billion-
pound ($318 billion) stimulus plan by 50 billion pounds, while
 Andrew Sentance  voted to raise the  key interest rate  for a sixth
month. Policy makers kept the main rate at a record low 0.5
percent and the bond-buying program unchanged.  Yesterday, Governor Mervyn King told the House of Lords
Economic Affairs Committee that the bank faces “a difficult
balancing act.”  “We could do further quantitative easing if that turned
out to be necessary,” he said. If the bank’s judgment is wrong,
then “we will find ourselves in the position two years from now
where we will have seriously undershot the inflation target.”  Pound Climbs  The pound rose 0.3 percent against the dollar to 1.5937,
after tumbling as much as 1.3 percent yesterday, the most since
Aug. 11. The U.K. currency traded at 85.05 pence per euro, near
the strongest since Sept. 21.  “If I had a choice between only euros and only sterling,
it would definitely be sterling, and I think there’s a
reasonable chance that euro-sterling will continue to head
lower,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. in London. The U.K. “has the
independence of action that countries like Ireland, Portugal,
Italy and Greece simply don’t have.”  The pound’s gains versus the euro may be limited given
risks that Ireland’s debt crisis may hurt U.K. banks, according
to Citigroup Inc.  “Positives have been priced in already in the latest leg
higher of the pound,”  Valentin Marinov , a London-based currency
strategist, said in a research report today. “Additional
factors like the exposure of the U.K. banks to peripheral, read
Irish, debt is likely to limit euro-pound downside should the
situation in the euro-area periphery deteriorate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 