-- U.K. Financial Watchdog to Keep Powers to Prosecute Insider-Trading Cases
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-17T18:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-k-s-financial-watchdog-to-keep-powers-in-market-abuse-cases.html
Britain’s soon-to-be overhauled
financial regulator will have power to prosecute insider trading
and market abuse, in a reversal of plans announced in May by the
U.K. government.  Both civil and criminal market abuse will be enforced by
the Consumer Protection and Markets Authority, the U.K. Treasury
said today. The CPMA will be an independent regulator retaining
many of the powers of the Financial Services Authority.  The FSA, which the government plans to abolish by 2012 and
split into two new regulators, had lobbied against losing its
prosecution powers to a new economic crime agency.  “After much consideration we have decided that for the
moment the FSA’s powers of prosecution will lie with the new
CPMA rather than the new economic crime agency,” the Treasury
said in a statement.  The CPMA, like the FSA, will be funded by the financial
services industry, while the crime agency will be government
funded. The treasury said in May the white-collar crime agency
would encompass powers of the Serious Fraud Office, which
prosecutes overseas bribery and corruption, the Office of Fair
Trading, the antitrust regulator, and the FSA.  “This makes a lot of sense,” said Tony Woodcock, a
regulatory lawyer at Stephenson Harwood in London. The
enforcement unit “runs better in parallel with the CPMA’s
other objectives. It’s best to have them under the same roof.”  Jeopardy  The move may put the future of the economic crime agency in
jeopardy, Woodcock said.  It “throws into question how worthwhile it is to have the
agency when a chunk of it is now missing,” Woodcock said. The
OFT could also argue that it should retain its enforcement
powers because they run in tandem with their regulatory
oversight, like the FSA, he added.  The treasury said it “remains committed” to creating “a
strong and powerful new ECA to tackle serious economic crime
coherently and effectively.”  “The government recognizes the importance to the City of
London of a strong markets division being established within the
CPMA and giving it these powers will make it a stronger and more
credible regulator,” the Treasury said.  The FSA is currently prosecuting 11 people for trading with
insider information and has convicted six men for the crime
since March 2009. It has levied about 85 million pounds ($135
million) in fines so far this year, up from 35 million pounds
last year. The agency hadn’t prosecuted a criminal insider-
trading case before 2008.  ‘Shadow’ Divisions  In a speech last week, Margaret Cole, the FSA’s head of
enforcement, said that the “vast majority” of the regulator’s
enforcement work will stay with the CPMA when the FSA splits
into two “shadow” divisions next year to prepare for the
structural changes before it is abolished.  The CPMA “must maintain a strong and effective enforcement
function with the full range of powers,” Cole said. “We agree
that there needs to be substantial improvement to the way the
U.K. approaches the investigation and prosecution of white
collar fraud.”  FSA spokesman Chris Hamilton declined to comment.  To contact the reporter for this story: Lindsay Fortado in
London at   lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 