-- U.K.'s `Untouched' Power Market Relies Too Much on Natural Gas, Huhne Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-17T11:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-k-s-untouched-power-market-relies-too-much-on-natural-gas-huhne-says.html
Britain’s electricity market, “left
untouched” by government regulations, would rely too much on
gas and neglect other fuels needed to limit emissions and price
volatility, the minister in charge of energy said today.  The U.K. government said it will set out steps later this
year, such as guaranteeing electricity capacity, establishing a
minimum cost of emitting carbon-dioxide and obliging energy
suppliers to source low-carbon power such as wind and nuclear,
to help attract investment.  “The current market framework is not fit to deliver the
investment we need,”  Chris Huhne , U.K. secretary of state for
energy and climate change, said today in published remarks from
a speech later today in London to the Confederation of British
Industry. “Left untouched, the electricity market would allow a
new dash for gas, increasing our dependence on a single fuel,
and exposing us to volatile prices.”  Britain committed to cutting its CO2 emissions by 80
percent by 2050 compared with 1990 levels. The country needs to
ensure sufficient energy supplies as it prepares to shut as much
as 30 percent of its aging nuclear and fossil-fueled power
capacity within the next decade. Power consumption may double by
2050 as the nation plans to encourage electric-powered cars.  “This will be a seismic shift, securing investment in
cleaner, greener power,” said Huhne, a Liberal Democrat in the
coalition led by Conservative David Cameron.  Delaying CO2 Cutbacks  The U.K. also proposed today to delay the second phase of
its  Carbon Reduction Commitment  plan until 2013. The first
phase, which started in September, covers about 10 percent of
U.K. emissions and encompasses 5,000 companies and organizations
such as Tesco Plc and Cambridge University, which aren’t
included in the European Union Emissions Trading System.  “This will create a window for us to engage in a proper
dialogue with participants about what we need to do to improve
it,” Huhne said. “We can also reduce the administrative burden
on businesses.”  The second phase of the plan, which caps emissions and
obliges participants to buy additional allowances if needed,
initially required organizations to register by September 2011.
The government proposed to exempt 12,000 companies and
institutions from submitting data on their emissions.  Editors: Mike Anderson, Reed Landberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  