-- U.K. Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Fell in October
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-17T14:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-k-jobless-claims-unexpectedly-fell-in-october-update1-.html
U.K.  jobless claims  unexpectedly
fell in October, suggesting the labor market is recovering
momentum as the prospect of a record budget squeeze looms.  The number of people receiving unemployment benefits
declined by 3,700 from September to 1.47 million, the first drop
since July, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median of 23 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a rise of 6,000. Unemployment measured by International
Labour Organization methods fell 9,000 to 2.45 million people in
the quarter through September.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is relying on private
companies to keep creating work as his coalition government axes
as many as half a million jobs to tackle the largest budget
deficit since World War II.  “Overall, a mildly positive tone to this data and it
brings to an end the deteriorating trend we’ve seen in the
unemployment rate since the summer,”  Alan Clarke , an economist
at BNP Paribas in London, said in a telephone interview.
“Private-sector job creation won’t completely offset the
public-sector job losses, so we’re going to have very sluggish
employment growth over the next year.”  Policy Debate  The figures come as policy makers debate whether to raise
interest rates to curb consumer prices or add stimulus to aid
the recovery. The Monetary Policy Committee split three
ways for a second month in November with the majority voting to
maintain the benchmark rate at 0.5 percent and the bond-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds ($318 billion), minutes released
today showed.  The pound was trading 0.2 percent higher at $1.5912 as of
1:45 p.m. in London. The yield on the 10-year U.K. government
bond fell 4 basis points to 3.25 percent.  The U.K.  unemployment rate  based on ILO standards fell to
7.7 percent in the three months through September from 7.8
percent in the period through June. That compares with 10.1
percent in the euro region, 9.6 percent in the U.S. and 5
percent in Japan, the statistics office said.  Employment increased during the period by 167,000, taking
the total of people in work to 29.2 million, the ONS said.
The rise was driven by self-employment and part-time
employees as companies proved reluctant to add full-time staff.  The claimant count rate was unchanged at 4.5 percent in
October. In September, jobless claims rose 1,300 instead of the
5,300 first reported.  ‘Good News’  Weekly pay including bonuses accelerated to 2 percent in
the three months through September from a year earlier, compared
with a 1.7 percent gain in the previous three months, the
statistics office said. Regular pay growth accelerated to 2.2
percent, the fastest pace since March 2009, from 2 percent.  In his weekly questions session in Parliament, Cameron
hailed the labor-market figures as “good news,” saying they
showed that “the private sector-led recovery is under way.”  The opposition Labour Party seized on a 27,000 drop in job
vacancies in the three months through October, including a
10,000 decline in education. “It’s worrying that the number of
vacancies is falling at a time when there are five unemployed
people searching for every job,”  Douglas Alexander , Labour’s
work and pensions spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.K. labor market has only recently shown signs of
recovering from a recession that destroyed almost a million
private-sector jobs and pushed unemployment to its highest rate
in 14 years.  The slump has opened up a degree of spare capacity that
will put downward pressure on  inflation , which accelerated
further above the 3 percent government limit in October, Bank of
England Governor Mervyn King said in evidence to lawmakers
yesterday.  While the U.K. economy posted its strongest two consecutive
periods for a decade in the second and third quarters, recent
data shows a mixed picture of the recovery, although King told
lawmakers last week that it’s “feasible and not entirely
implausible” that private job creation can offset the  loss  of
public jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  