-- U.S. Economy Would Be `Dust' Without Intervention, Rattner Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-17T18:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-s-economy-could-have-been-dust-rattner-says-tom-keene.html
The U.S. economy would be “a big
pile of dust” had the administrations of Presidents  George W. Bush  and  Barack Obama  not stepped in, according to  Steven Rattner , former head of the government’s auto task force.  “If the Bush and then the Obama administration had not
done what they’ve done with all the banks, the auto companies,
and various other things, this economy would be a big pile of
dust at the moment,” Rattner said in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  General Motors Co. ’s initial public offering may raise
$15.8 billion after the Treasury and United Auto Workers’
retiree health-care trust increased the shares they are selling,
a regulatory filing said.  The IPO was expanded by 31 percent to 478 million shares,
GM said today in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, a day after boosting the offer price to as much as
$33 a share. An overallotment and an offering of preferred
shares may increase the total amount raised to about $22.7
billion. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s  $22.1 billion  initial
sale is the largest common-stock IPO in history.  The initial sale, scheduled for today, will bring Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  closer to his goal of returning
the $49.5 billion GM received in a taxpayer bailout last year.
The Treasury, which is taking a loss on its portion of the sale,
will break even only if the shares climb at least 60 percent,
Bloomberg data shows.  Only $5 Billion  The government is likely to come within $5 billion to $7
billion from recouping the $82 billion it invested in reviving
the auto industry, Rattner said.  “The government, and I think prudently, has made a
decision in the context of the increased size of the GM IPO that
it wants to get out as quickly as possible and not necessarily
maximize every last dollar,” he said.  Overhauling GM management was essential to the success of
the company, Rattner said.  Under former CEO  Richard Wagoner  “the market cap of GM
went during 10 years from $37 billion, its all-time high, to
zero,” he said.  “In the last 15 months of his tenure, the company burned
through $30 billion of cash,” Rattner said. “The plan that they
presented on Feb. 17, 2009, was not viable. And perhaps most
significantly Ford went through this entire crisis without
needing a government handout, or without needing bankruptcy. And
the difference there I believe was management.”  GM’s underwriters stopped taking orders for the IPO
yesterday, which was more than seven times oversubscribed,
according to a person familiar with the deal.  Rattner’s Settlement  Rattner won’t be first on line to buy GM stock, he said.
“Legally I certainly could, but I think I want to be able to be
free to talk about GM without people wondering whether I have
some ulterior motive, so I will financially stay on the
sidelines,” he said. “But I’m certainly cheering the company
on.”  The co-founder of investment firm Quadrangle Group LLC is
the subject of state and federal investigations of corruption at
the New York state pension fund, is near a settlement with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Rattner arranged to retain Henry “Hank” Morris, the former
chief political consultant to ex-New York Comptroller  Alan Hevesi , as a placement agent. Rattner also is accused of setting
up a DVD distribution deal for a movie produced by the brother
of a pension fund official. Hevesi pleaded guilty last month.
Morris reached a plea deal with prosecutors Nov. 5  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  