-- U.S. Consumer Prices Excluding Food, Fuel Record Smallest Gain on Record
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-17T21:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-s-consumer-prices-rose-0-2-in-october-core-rate-unchanged.html
The cost of living rose less than
forecast in October and housing starts dropped, validating
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s decision to give the
U.S. economy another dose of monetary stimulus.  Consumer prices excluding food and fuel, the gauge followed
by central bankers, increased 0.6 percent from October 2009, the
smallest gain in year-over-year data going back to 1958, the
Labor Department said today in Washington. Builders  began work 
last month on the fewest homes since a record low reached in
April 2009, according to figures from the Commerce Department.  The reports underscore why Fed policy makers this month
announced plans to buy another $600 billion in Treasuries, a
decision that has sparked criticism from finance officials in
Germany and China, Republican lawmakers and some economists. The
central bank is aiming to avert deflation, or a prolonged drop
in prices, by keeping borrowing costs low to spur growth.  The numbers “provide some vindication for the Fed’s
decision,” said  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in New York. “It’s not going to
be a very robust economy.”  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in October
from the previous month, less than the 0.3 percent gain
projected by the median forecast of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Excluding food and fuel, so-called core costs
were  little changed  for a third consecutive month.  Bernanke’s View  “You don’t want inflation to be too high but you also
don’t want it to be too low,” Bernanke said in a Nov. 6 speech.
“Our purpose is to provide additional stimulus to help the
economy recover and to avoid potentially additional
disinflation, which I think we all agree would be a worse
outcome.”  Plans by retailers such as  J.C. Penney Co.  to use discounts
to lure shoppers during the holiday season as a stagnant labor
market restrains demand signals prices will remain subdued in
coming months.  “There is no indication of inflation pressure,” said
Chris  Low , chief economist at FTN Financial in New York. “Given
the criticism the Fed has taken recently, especially over the
potentially inflationary aspects, it’s very market friendly in
that it should help push back against some of that criticism.”  Treasury securities were little changed after top
Republicans expressed “deep concerns” over the Fed’s actions,
wiping out and earlier rally. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note was at fell to 2.84 percent at 4:33 p.m. in New
York, the same as late yesterday. The yield reached a low of
2.80 percent after the inflation data.  Housing in Slump  Housing starts fell to a 519,000 annual rate, down 12
percent from a revised 588,000 in September that was lower than
previously estimated, the Commerce Department report showed.
Work on multifamily units, which is often volatile, plunged 44
percent, overshadowing a 1.1 percent drop in the single-family
component.  Economists  forecast  housing starts would decrease to a
598,000 pace from a previously estimated 610,000, according to
the median of 75 projections in a Bloomberg survey.  Record-low  mortgage rates  have failed to boost demand,
highlighting the limits of Fed policy in undoing the damage from
the bursting of the housing bubble. Companies like  D.R. Horton
Inc.  are bracing for the worst in early 2011 as unemployment
hovers near 10 percent and the lifting of foreclosure
moratoriums swells the supply of houses.  Building  permits , a sign of future activity, rose 0.5
percent to a 550,000 rate, less than forecast, from 547,000 in
September. The stabilization in applications makes it less
likely that construction will fall much more in coming months.  Builder Outlook  D.R. Horton, the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, expects a “challenging” 2011 for the industry as
consumer confidence and employment remain weak, Chief Executive
Officer  Donald Tomnitz  said Nov. 12. The spring 2011 selling
season, typically the strongest time of year for builders, may
fail to bring the traditional boost in demand, he said.  “I don’t see much on the horizon that would give anybody a
great degree of comfort on the financial condition of the
country,” Tomnitz said. “I just don’t see a lot of hope for a
great spring market.”  Housing is one of the areas holding down the cost of
living. Owners-equivalent rent, one of the categories designed
to track rental prices, rose 0.1 percent after no change in the
prior two months, today’s Labor Department report showed.
Compared with October 2009, the measure was little changed.  The core rate was also restrained a deceleration in medical
care costs and by cheaper vehicles and clothing.  Retailer Promotions  Retailers are again turning to discounts to encourage
consumers this holiday season. J.C. Penney, the third-largest
U.S. department-store company, last week said the holiday
shopping environment will “remain highly promotional.”  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc.  said it’s not seeing any price
pressures from its suppliers.  “We’re not seeing anything significant from an inflation
standpoint,”  Edward Stack , the company’s chief executive
officer, said during a teleconference yesterday. “We’re now in
the process of starting to buy into the third and fourth quarter
of next year and we haven’t seen any pressure that makes us
uncomfortable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  