-- Bill to Convert Trucks to Use Natural Gas May Pass This Year, Pickens Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-11-17T18:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-s-natural-gas-vehicle-law-may-pass-congress-this-year-pickens-says.html
Boone Pickens , founder and chairman
of Dallas-based BP Capital LLC, said a bill to help convert the
U.S. trucking fleets to natural gas may pass Congress by year-
end with bipartisan support.  Pickens wants buses and trucks that run on natural gas to
replace the diesel and gasoline engines that contribute to
global warming and increase U.S. oil imports that cost the
country as much as $1 billion a day.  The measure, which Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
introduced in September, has support from Republicans and
Democrats and may be the first major legislation during the
Obama administration to win support from both parties, Pickens
said.  “There’s more than a 50-50 chance it will pass in the
lame-duck session,” Pickens, 82, said today in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “I’m talking to senators on
both sides of the aisle that say they will vote for this bill.”  The legislation aims to cut oil imports by developing non-
petroleum vehicles and create more than 100,000 factory and
construction jobs.  “This is extremely important legislation,” Reid said
today in an interview after delaying a procedural vote on the
bill. “There is some dispute as to what the pay-for should be.
Hopefully, we can work it out before the end of this year.”  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, wants as much as $4.5 billion in
aid for natural-gas vehicles and $2 billion in loans for
companies that build vehicles running on natural gas. The
legislation also includes $3.5 billion for electric vehicles.  The subsidies for natural-gas and electric vehicles,
including consumer rebates that range from $8,000 to $64,000,
would be funded in part by increasing the U.S. Oil Spill
Liability Trust Fund fee on companies from 8 cents a barrel to
21 cents, according to the bill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Efstathiou  in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 