-- U.S. Banks Are Balancing Competing Foreclosure Interests, Lawmakers Told
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-11-17T00:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-s-banks-are-balancing-competing-foreclosure-interests-lawmakers-told.html
Bank of America  Corp. and  JPMorgan
Chase  & Co. must balance the interests of homeowners and
investors in handling foreclosures, executives from both
companies told lawmakers at a U.S. Senate hearing.  “We put the interests of the customer front and center,
since that’s part of the core value of Bank of America, but we
also have to reference the interests of investors,”  Barbara Desoer , president of Bank of America’s home loan division, told
the Senate Banking Committee at the hearing on legal questions
surrounding documents used in foreclosure proceedings.  Desoer and  David Lowman , chief executive officer of
JPMorgan’s home-loan unit, appeared alongside consumer advocates
at the first congressional hearing on the topic since both
companies temporarily froze foreclosures while they examined
claims that paperwork was flawed.  Ally Financial Inc.’s  GMAC
Mortgage unit also halted foreclosure proceedings.  Congress was on a fall recess when questions about
foreclosure documentation arose in September and October and
lawmakers took up the issue as one of the first orders of
business upon returning to Washington. The House Financial
Services Committee will hold a hearing Nov. 18 where at least
five other bank officials are scheduled to testify.  It’s in JP Morgan’s interest “to find ways to make loans
performing,” Lowman said. At the same time, “we have to do
what’s right for the investor,” he said.  ‘Robo-Signers’  Attorneys general from all 50 states announced an
investigation on Oct. 13 in response to revelations that banks
used so-called robo-signers -- people who sign affidavits
without actually reviewing the facts underlying foreclosures.  Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is leading that
investigation, told senators at today’s hearing that the group
expects to complete their investigation in a matter of months.  “Our belief is that a lot more modifications should be
made that aren’t being made,” Miller said. “We’re going to try
to find out why that’s happening.”  Senator  Christopher Dodd , the Connecticut Democrat who
leads the Banking Committee, pressed Desoer and Lowman to
consider lowering the principal of some loans when borrowers owe
more than their homes are worth.  Banks can’t reduce principal and maintain investor
confidence, Lowman said.  Protecting Collateral  “If we want to continue to have investors in banks
continue to have the confidence in the market, we have to make
sure that collateral values are there,” he said.  Desoer said she wanted to look for ways to change a
practice known as dual-tracking, in which foreclosures and
mortgage modifications proceed at the same time on the same home
loans, often leading to confusion for borrowers. Consumer
advocates have criticized the practice.  “Investor requirements” are preventing mortgage servicers
from halting the practice, Desoer said.  Dodd, who is leaving the Senate at the end of the year,
said he would hold a second hearing on foreclosures, calling
regulators to testify before the end of the session in a few
weeks.  Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the Banking Committee’s
senior Republican, said he wanted to hear from private mortgage
securitizers and representatives of mortgage-finance companies
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are operating under U.S.
conservatorship.  Securitizers Criticized  “What role did the GSEs and the larger securitization
market play in this debacle?” Shelby said. “Did their actions
contribute to the problem? Were Fannie and Freddie complicit in
any way?”  Because Congress will be in session only a few more weeks
and the calendar is already full, any legislative action related
to foreclosures will likely wait until the new session in
January.  The House hearing will include officials from Bank of
America, Wells Fargo & Co., Citigroup Inc., Ally Financial and
JPMorgan Chase. House lawmakers will also call in overseers and
regulators from government agencies, including the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Housing Finance
Agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Clea Benson  in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 