-- U.S. Deficit Proposal Misses the One Big Gap: Roger Lowenstein
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2010-11-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-s-deficit-proposal-misses-the-one-big-gap-roger-lowenstein.html
Give credit for courage to Erskine Bowles and  Alan Simpson , leaders of the White House bipartisan
commission on the U.S. deficit. Their  proposal  gores some sacred
cows on spending and taxes, and is a good first stab at
repairing the budget.  Now accept that their plan falls short. The reason is that
Simpson-Bowles tries to return the budget to where it was before
the financial crisis. But due to deeper, longer running budget
problems, there is no going back. Over the last two years, the
government’s deficit has soared to a record $1.4 trillion.  That’s the result of a bizarre triple play of budget woes.
First came the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which sparked higher
defense spending. Then came the Bush-era tax cuts, leading to a
loss of tax receipts. Finally, the financial meltdown.  Logically, reversing those budget hits would return the
deficit to its previous level of a few hundred billion or so a
year. But it won’t.  First a little background. Over the past generation, the
revenue of the federal government has averaged about 18 percent
of the U.S. gross domestic product. Spending was generally in
the range of 21 percent of GDP. In other words, we typically ran
a deficit equal to about 3 percent of GDP.  In the last two years, the recession has caused revenue to
plunge to only 15 percent of GDP. Expenses, in turn, have soared
because of increased benefits for the unemployed, bailout money
for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  and stimulus spending. The
government budget now is close to 25 percent of GDP. Thus, the
deficit has widened to 10 percentage points.  Back to the Beginning  Simpson-Bowles basically tries to reclaim the status quo
ante, and adds a few bells and whistles such as simplifying the
 tax code . It caps the mortgage deduction for housing. That’s a
good step, although an even better one would be to eliminate the
deduction. The mortgage deduction is a subsidy to homeowners and
real-estate agents paid by everyone else; arguably, it helped to
spur the housing bubble.  Simpson-Bowles also raises the gasoline tax by 15 cents a
gallon and proposes slicing $100 billion a year from defense
spending. All good steps. And there are more.  But the problem that Simpson-Bowles attacks -- the gaping
budget hole that opened in 2009 -- will largely go away on its
own, as the economy returns to normal. We could eliminate almost
half of it overnight by not renewing the Bush tax cuts. That
would be a prudent move but it wouldn’t significantly address
the deeper problem.  Time Bomb  Simply put, over the next 20 years, as the population ages,
the budget will be hit with an entitlement time bomb. And when
it is, throw the numbers from past budgets into the trash.  Today, spending on Social Security amounts to about 5
percent of GDP; spending on three health insurance programs --
Medicare and Medicaid as well as Children’s Health Insurance
Program, or CHIP -- is roughly another 5 percent. With a few
exceptions, everything else the government spends money on, from
defense to education to veterans benefits to transportation to
 food stamps , is discretionary, voted by the Congress every year.
Spending on them equals about 15 percent of the GDP.  The approach of Simpson-Bowles is to cap spending at its
historic level of 21 percent. But over the next two decades, as
 baby boomers  retire en masse, combined spending on health care
and Social Security will rise to something like 16 percent of
GDP, according to Congressional Budget Office projections. And
interest payments on the debt, which will be mushrooming, will
soar from a relatively small sum to another 6 percent of GDP.  Not Adding up  Those add up to more than Simpson-Bowles envisions for
total spending. In other words, there will be nothing left for
 homeland security , school meals, medical research, government
pensions and salaries and myriad other items. We can’t eliminate
the discretionary budget. We can’t even come close. And we can’t
stop paying interest.  That means any serious attack on the long-term deficit has
to focus on the nondiscretionary part -- entitlement programs.
The Simpson-Bowles plan does chip away at Social Security by
gradually raising the  retirement age  to 69. But Social Security
isn’t the major issue. From now until 2030, its share of GDP is
expected to rise by only a percentage point.  Health-care programs are the biggie, because they are
affected by both the number of seniors and the rising cost of
care. In total, as a share of the economy, such spending is
expected to double. Mother Jones’  website  isn’t off base when it
calls health care “our only real long-term spending problem.”  The issue has been looming for years; newer sources of
budget distress, like Mideast wars and the recession, are more
like expensive distractions. To cure the future deficit, we have
to find major savings in health care.  Health-Care Silence  Simpson-Bowles lavishes attention on ways to cut defense
spending and agriculture subsidies. But it is disquietingly
vague on health care. It promises to “contain growth in total
federal health spending…after 2020 by establishing a process to
regularly evaluate cost growth, and take additional steps as
needed if projected savings do not materialize.”  But cutting health-care inflation has proven excruciatingly
difficult. The suggestion here is to attack it in every way
possible: lower spending, higher taxes, and higher patient co-
pays. The experience of the past decade is that starving the
beast by cutting taxes doesn’t work. Taxpayers feel no pain;
under the illusion that services are free,  government spending 
continues to rise.  In contrast, during the 1990s, under the first President
Bush and Clinton,  taxes  rose. Confronted with evidence that
government does cost money, taxpayers accepted budget cuts. That
should be the template for entitlement reform, which can no
longer be delayed.  ( Roger Lowenstein , author of “The End of  Wall Street ,” is
a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  