-- U.S. Companies Profit, Fret in China, Council Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2010-11-17T16:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-s-companies-profit-fret-in-the-chinese-market-survey-says.html
U.S. companies are experiencing a
“less welcoming” environment in China as they face state-run
competitors and discriminatory government rules, according to a
 report  released today.  Members  of the  U.S.-China Business Council  are troubled by
those developments even as two-thirds of them reported having
revenue growth of 10 percent or greater in China in 2009,
according to the group, which represents 220 companies such as
 Citigroup Inc. ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and  Caterpillar Inc.   Eighty-five percent of the companies said they are
profitable in China, and more than two-thirds make higher
profits in China than they do overall, the study found.  “U.S. companies remain committed to doing business in
China, but concerns of protectionism and continued market-access
barriers are increasing,”  John Frisbie , president of the
Washington-based council, said in a statement. “U.S. companies
are showing signs of caution due to growing protectionism.”  The report, based on a survey of  members , said China has
used standards, government-procurement restrictions and opacity
in developing new regulations to discriminate against foreign
companies. China also is developing so-called national champions
that are given tax breaks and low-cost credit not available to
foreign competitors -- giving them a leg up both in China and
around the world.  Policy Trends  “For many firms, the protectionism concerns are less about
immediate impact on operations today and more about policy
trends that could disfavor foreign companies and discourage
future investments,” according to the study. “Companies remain
optimistic about business prospects in China over the next five
years; however, they also believe the environment is less
welcoming now than three years ago.”  China is the third-largest U.S. export market with $69.5
billion in U.S. sales in 2009. Sales of goods and services by
U.S. multinational companies operating in the Asian nation have
grown to $98.4 billion, more than a fourfold increase from 2000,
according to the group.  At the same time, the U.S. has run up a $201 billion trade
deficit with China in the first nine months of this year, more
than the deficits with the next seven  largest trading  partners
combined.  The trade gap widened from $84 billion in 2000, the year
before China joined the World Trade Organization, and that
increase means China’s WTO entry has failed to deliver on its
promise to the American economy, a congressional advisory panel
said in a separate report today.  Unmet Promises  “The grounds on which it was sold did not turn out as
promised for American workers,” Carolyn Bartholomew, the vice
chairman of the  U.S.-China Economic and Security Review 
Commission, said at a news conference in Washington yesterday.  In addition to a wider trade deficit, economic growth in
China hasn’t led to political opening there, and so promises
that WTO membership would benefit U.S. national security “have
not been borne out,” said the  panel’s annual report , which was
also released today.  The U.S.-China  trade gap , the drop in American
manufacturing employment and the lack of appreciation of the
Chinese currency, the yuan, have drawn U.S. lawmakers’ attention
to the commercial relationship. The House of Representatives
passed legislation in September aimed at forcing China to raise
the value of yuan to improve the U.S. competitive situation.  The value of the currency wasn’t listed among the top 20
issues concerning companies operating in China, Frisbie said.  The congressional panel called on lawmakers to push China
to raise the value of the yuan, and dismissed the worries of
some economists and policy makers that China could use its
holdings of U.S. debt to push back against the U.S.  “The lack of alternatives and the potential detrimental
impacts on China’s economy make it unlikely that China would
stop buying U.S. debt or liquidate its holdings altogether,”
the report concluded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
 Sara Eisen  in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  