-- FDIC Conducting 50 Criminal Probes Into Failed Banks, WSJ Says
-- B y   C h r i s   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-17T06:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-s-fdic-conducting-criminal-probes-into-failed-bank-wsj-says.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
is pursuing about 50 criminal investigations against executives,
directors and employees of banks that failed since the financial
crisis began, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing an
interview with  Fred Gibson , the FDIC’s deputy inspector general.  The criminal investigations typically relate to loan
officers at the vice president or senior vice president level,
Gibson told the newspaper. Some involve higher-ranking officials,
including former directors of failed institutions, he added,
without identifying banks or people under investigation.  The agency, which has shuttered 294 lenders since the start
of 2008, has authorized lawsuits to recoup more than $2 billion
from more than 80 officers and directors, the report said.
Richard Osterman, the FDIC’s acting general counsel, said in an
interview last month that the agency had approved 50 lawsuits
seeking $1 billion in losses stemming from the credit crisis.  The FDIC, which reviews losses for every bank failure, in
July filed a suit seeking $300 million in damages from four
executives of  IndyMac Bancorp Inc.  In that case, executives are
accused of granting loans that were unlikely to be repaid while
seeking to benefit from the bank’s compensation structure. The
former employees have denied any wrongdoing.  As federal receiver for failed banks, the FDIC uses its
deposit insurance fund to backstop the cost of the collapses,
selling the  bank assets  to recoup any lost money. The agency has
three years from the date of the failure to file lawsuits
seeking compensation for a civil wrong.  According to Osterman, lawsuits were authorized during
closed sessions of the FDIC board and haven’t been made public.
The agency has held off court action while conducting settlement
talks with executives whose actions may have led to bank
collapses, he said last month.  The FDIC is likely to work with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation on the criminal probes, the Wall Street Journal
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Peterson  at 
 cpeterson@bloomberg.net ;
 James Gunsalus  at 
 jgunsalus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 