-- U.S. Home Starts Drop More Than Forecast on Multifamily Slump
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-17T13:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/u-s-home-starts-drop-more-than-forecast-on-multifamily-slump.html
Builders in the U.S. began work on
fewer homes than forecast in October as the industry remained
mired near the depths reached during the recession.  Housing  starts  fell to a 519,000 annual rate, the fewest
since a record low reached in April 2009 and down 12 percent from
a revised 588,000 in September that was less than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. Work on multifamily units, which is often volatile,
plunged 44 percent, swamping a 1.1 percent drop in single-family
homes.  Record-low  mortgage rates  have failed to boost demand,
highlighting the limits of Federal Reserve monetary policy in
undoing the damage from the bursting of the housing bubble.
Companies like  D.R. Horton Inc.  are bracing for the worst in
early 2011 as unemployment hovers near 10 percent and the lifting
of foreclosure moratoriums swells the supply of houses.  “Starts are a reminder of just how miserable the situation
is in housing,” said Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial
in New York. “Sales have been so weak for so long that we
continue to see starts bouncing along the bottom.”  The cost of living in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
October, indicating higher prices for commodities such as fuel
aren’t filtering through into other goods and services, figures
from the Labor Department also showed today.  Less Inflation  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent after a 0.1
percent rise the prior month. Excluding food and fuel, so-called
core costs increased 0.6 percent from October 2009, the smallest
year-over-year gain in records dating back to 1958.  Treasury securities climbed after the reports, erasing
earlier losses and propelled by the slowdown in inflation. The
yield on the 10-year note, which moves inversely to prices, was
2.84 percent at 8:52 a.m. in New York, little changed from late
yesterday. It had been as high as 2.88 percent earlier in the
day. Stock-index futures held earlier gains.  Economists forecast housing starts would decrease to a
598,000 pace from a previously estimated 610,000, according to
the median of 75 projections in a Bloomberg News survey.
 Estimates  ranged from 550,000 to 625,000.  The number of  single-family homes  started dropped to
436,000. Work on multifamily homes, such as townhouses and
apartment buildings, fell to an annual pace of 83,000, the fewest
since February.  Permits Stabilize  Building  permits , a sign of future activity, rose 0.5
percent to a 550,000 rate, less than forecast, from 547,000 in
September. The stabilization in permits indicates construction
may not fall much more in coming months.  Building permits were forecast to climb to a 568,000 pace
from a previously reported 539,000 the prior month.  Mortgage rates near record-lows have failed to prompt an
increase in applications for loans to purchase homes. While the
 average rate  on a 30-year fixed mortgage has hovered near the
all-time low of 4.21 percent in the week ended Oct. 8, according
to the Mortgage Bankers Association, the group’s index of
applications to buy a home is down 38 percent from a six-month
high reached in April.  Moratoriums placed on foreclosures at banks threaten to
prolong the time it takes for the housing market and prices to
fully recover as properties slated for repossession take longer
to come to market. Attorneys general in 50 states are
investigating home seizure practices after court documents
surfaced showing finance-company employees had signed papers
without ensuring their accuracy.  Foreclosure Moratoriums  Foreclosures in the U.S. fell 9 percent in October from the
previous month, the biggest decline in a year, RealtyTrac Inc.
said last week. Repossessions “probably would have been
higher,” without the moratoriums, RealtyTrac Chief Executive
Officer  James J. Saccacio  said in a statement.  Builders were less pessimistic this month. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index
increased to 16 from 15 in October, the group said yesterday.
While that was the highest reading since May, measures below 50
mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  D.R. Horton, the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
expects a “challenging” 2011 for the industry as consumer
confidence and employment remain weak, Chief Executive Officer
Donald Tomnitz said Nov. 12.  The company’s home sales and closing volume probably will
fall from this year, Tomnitz said on an earnings conference call.
In 2011, the spring selling season, the strongest for builders,
may fail to bring the traditional boost in demand, he said.  “I don’t see much on the horizon that would give anybody a
great degree of comfort on the financial condition of the
country,” Tomnitz said. “I just don’t see a lot of hope for a
great spring market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  