-- Doctor Charged With Tipping Hedge Fund Gets Bail
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-17T23:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/human-genome-consultant-charged-with-tipping-off-hedge-fund-granted-bail.html
A  Human Genome Sciences Inc. 
consultant accused of tipping off hedge fund FrontPoint Partners
LLC about the results of trials involving the hepatitis-C drug
Albuferon was granted $3 million bail by a judge in New York.  Dr.  Yves Benhamou , 50, of France, was charged Nov. 2 by
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  with insider-trading and conspiracy.  U.S. Magistrate Judge  Frank Maas  set bail at $3 million,
secured by $1 million in cash or property in the U.S. Maas
directed that Benhamou will be subjected to “home
incarceration,” under electronic monitoring at an apartment in
Manhattan. Three financially responsible individuals are
required to sign his bond, the magistrate said and Benhamou is
required to report to court authorities weekly.  “All conditions must be met before his release,” Maas
said after the bail hearing ended.  “We’re gratified that the court set conditions of bail
that we hope will permit Dr. Benhamou to resume his
communications with his patients,” Benhamou’s lawyer  David Zornow , said after the bail hearing ended.  It is unclear when Benhamou will meet these conditions,
Zornow said in an interview later.  “We are working expeditiously to satisfy all of the
conditions of release so he can be freed,” said Zornow, who is
a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  Suspect Cried  Assistant U.S. Attorney Pablo Quinones opposed home
incarceration, telling the magistrate “he has the means to
flee. He has a country that is a safe haven.” France doesn’t
extradite its citizens to other countries.  Benhamou, of Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, lowered his head
and cried after the bail was set. He waved to his brother and
sister as he was led out of the courtroom. His siblings declined
to comment.  Zornow told the magistrate Benhamou would probably rent an
apartment in the New York area. He could confer with his
patients in France by e-mail and telephone.  “It would be truly tragic to have this man sitting in a
prison when he could be communicating with, helping his
patients,” Zornow told the magistrate.  Maas said he had considered bail of as much as $5 million.  Benhamou, whose expertise is hepatitis and liver diseases,
was arrested in Boston while attending a conference after a two-
count criminal complaint was filed against him in federal court
in Manhattan. He waived his rights to a hearing in Boston and
agreed to have a detention hearing in New York.  Cooperation  Benhamou was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and one count of securities fraud. He faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  The hedge fund, FrontPoint, which is being spun off from
Morgan Stanley, said on Nov. 2 it is “cooperating fully” with
federal authorities. Dr.  Chip Skowron , a co-portfolio manager of
the Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm’s health-care funds, was
placed on leave pending the outcome of the probe, the firm said.  FrontPoint held 3.3 million shares of Human Genome at the
end of the fourth quarter of 2007, valued at $34.3 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. It held none at
the end of the following quarter. Human Genome fell 44 percent
on Jan. 23, 2008, after saying it would change the dosing of its
experimental hepatitis-C drug Albuferon in patient tests.  Before joining FrontPoint, Skowron was an analyst at hedge
funds Millennium Partners LLC in New York and SAC Capital
Advisors LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, according to FrontPoint’s
marketing documents.  Paid Consultant  Benhamou acted as a paid consultant to at least six hedge
funds while working as an adviser to Human Genome, a developer
of gene-based drugs, and serving on its steering committee for
Albuferon trials, prosecutors and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission alleged in a parallel lawsuit.  Human Genome said after his arrest that Benhamou is no
longer a consultant and the company had cooperated with the SEC.  Benhamou repeatedly shared nonpublic information he gleaned
from working for Rockville, Maryland-based Human Genome with his
co-conspirator at the fund, helping it avoid $30 million in
 losses , prosecutors alleged in court papers.  The case is U.S. v. Benhamou, 10-MAG-2424, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case
is SEC v. Benhamou, 10-CV-8266, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 