-- UniCredit Unit Chief Expects Bulgarian Economic Recovery to Cut Bad Loans
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-11-17T12:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/unicredit-unit-chief-expects-bulgarian-economic-recovery-to-cut-bad-loans.html
Bulgaria’s economic recovery should
halt the rise in bad loans as it picks up pace in the next six
months, helping commercial banks recover losses incurred during
the global crisis, the head of UniCredit’s Bulgarian unit said.  Bulgaria’s  economy  expanded 0.3 percent in the third
quarter from the second quarter, after shrinking 5.1 percent in
2009, when the global crisis cut investment and demand. Loans
past due more than 90 days rose to 10.61 percent of total
credits in the third quarter from 9.45 percent in the previous
three months, according to the  central bank .  “Bad loans may continue to increase by inertia in the next
one or two quarters, when sustained economic will help overturn
the trend,” said  UniCredit SpA  Bulgaria Chief Executive Officer
 Levon Hampartzoumian  in an interview in Sofia yesterday. “With
the continuing economic expansion, lending will increase and the
share of the old bad loans will shrink.”  Romanian, Hungarian and Bulgarian banks are the most
vulnerable in eastern Europe to a renewed crisis as the volume
of bad loans remains high and sluggish growth curtails lending,
Fitch Ratings said on Oct. 21. East European units of banks
including Milan-based UniCredit, Vienna-based Erste Group Bank
AG and Paris-based Societe Generale SA, have struggled to roll
over debt, including foreign-currency mortgages and consumer
loans, during the credit crunch.  Bulgaria’s government expects economic expansion of 3.6
percent in 2011, which exceeds the  International Monetary Fund 
estimate of 2.5 percent and the  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
forecast of between 1.5 percent to 2 percent growth.  Weak Lending  “We have yet to see where the economic growth is going to
come from as lending is weak and investment is dwindling,” said
 Timothy Ash , global head of emerging-market research and
strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group. “Bulgaria is in a
challenging environment competing with other small countries in
the region for investment, of which there is less of than before
the global crisis.”  Romanian and Bulgarian banks are also at risk of contagion
from the Greek debt crisis, according to Fitch. Greek banks
control about 28 percent of banks’ total assets in Bulgaria.  “The Greek debt crisis has an indirect impact in Bulgaria
as the appetite of Greek lenders for new business declines,”
Hampartzoumian said.  Collateralized Loans  Most loans in Bulgaria are collateralized, giving banks the
option to recover losses through bankruptcies of indebted
companies or asset sales, said Hampartzoumian.  “The level of bad loans in Bulgaria is not too high, it’s
average for the region,” he said.  “These portfolios will have
to be well managed over the next few years.”  Lending rose 1.4 percent in Bulgaria in the third quarter,
after 0.3 percent decline in the previous three months, the
central bank said. Banks’ capital adequacy declined to 17.8
percent at end-September, after 18.03 in June.  EU-based banks control 85 percent of all bank assets in the
Balkan nation. The five biggest banks are UniCredit Bulbank; DSK
Bank, a unit of  OTP Bank Nyrt ., Hungary’s largest bank; United
Bulgarian Bank, owned by the  National Bank of Greece SA ;
Raiffeisenbank Bulgaria and Eurobank EFG Bulgaria. Together they
account for around 60 percent of total assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  