-- Unilever Wins EU Approval to Buy Sara Lee Toiletries
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-11-17T17:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/unilever-cleared-to-buy-sara-lee-unit-provided-sanex-skin-care-brand-sold.html
Unilever  won European Union approval
to buy  Sara Lee Corp. ’s shower-gel and European detergents
business after it agreed to dispose of the Sanex deodorant and
body-wash brand in the region.  The sale of the Sara Lee brand allays competition concerns
over the deal, the European Commission said in a statement
today. The EU ruling led the companies to reduce the purchase
price for the unit to 1.21 billion euros ($1.63 billion) from
1.28 billion euros, Sara Lee said.  Selling Sanex is “is a major disappointment for the
company, as Sanex was seen by Unilever as an attractive brand
positioned just below some of its key global brands,” said
 Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam.
Unilever should be able to sell it for about 300 million euros,
he said. He rates Unilever “accumulate.”  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker,
sought to buy the competing Sara Lee lines to further focus on
international brands. Combining the  Sanex  brand with Unilever’s
Dove and Rexona would “likely have led to price increases” in
seven countries, including the U.K. and Spain, by removing the
company’s main rival, according to the  European Commission .  “We had to ensure that the transaction would not lead to
increased prices for consumers,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said in a statement. “As Unilever offered a
strong and clear-cut remedy to address the competition concerns
in a number of deodorant markets, the commission was able to
clear the merger.”  Sara Lee Brands  The Sara Lee brands had sales of more than 750 million
euros for the 12 months ended June 2009, according to Unilever.
Sanex sales contributed 168 million euros for the same period.  Unilever shares rose 21 cents, or 1 percent, to 22.24 euros
in Amsterdam trading.  EU approval allows Unilever to add other important Sara Lee
brands such as Radox and Duschdas to the “key growth category”
of home and personal care,  Doug Baillie , Unilever’s president
for western Europe, said in a statement today.  Sara Lee Chief Executive Officer  Marcel Smits  said he
expects the deal to close in December. The reduced price
Unilever is paying for the unit has “no effect” on Sara Lee’s
plans to repurchase $2.5 billion to $3 billion of shares by the
end of the fiscal year 2012, he said in a statement.  Body Care  The deal is part of Sara Lee’s sale of its global household
and body-care business. The EU is also reviewing the sale of
Downers Grove, Illinois-based Sara Lee’s insecticide division to
S.C. Johnson & Son Inc. Almunia said he expected to rule on that
deal before Christmas.  Unilever CEO  Paul Polman  last year broke the company’s
nine-year streak of avoiding major takeovers with the Sara Lee
purchase, which includes more than 90 brands in 19 European
countries.  Syngenta AG , the world’s biggest maker of agricultural
chemicals, also won EU approval today to buy Monsanto Co.’s
hybrid sunflower-seed business, Almunia said. Syngenta agreed to
sell Monsanto units in Spain and Hungary to settle competition
concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 