-- UPS Shuns TNT, Seeks European Partners, Capital Says
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-17T20:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/ups-is-seeking-cooperation-partners-in-europe-capital-magazine-reports.html
United Parcel Service Inc.  isn’t
interested in buying TNT NV’s parcel business while expanding in
Europe’s private-customer market, Capital magazine  reported ,
citing Chief Executive Officer  Scott Davis .  While the German publication quoted Davis as saying UPS is
talking to European postal operators, including  Deutsche Post
AG , to gain access to residential customers and lower delivery
costs, Atlanta-based UPS said today in a statement that there
are “no active discussions under way in this arena.”  “UPS has focused more on small- to medium-sized businesses
to fill strategic niches or network gaps rather than large-scale
acquisitions,” said  Norman Black , a UPS spokesman, paraphrasing
comments Davis made to Capital. UPS is the world’s biggest
package-delivery company.  Silje Skogstad , a spokeswoman for Bonn-based Deutsche Post,
and  Ernst Moeksis , a TNT spokesman, declined to comment on the
Capital report.  UPS “should be interested in TNT” because the U.S.
company “doesn’t really have a footprint in the European
express market,” said  Philip Scholte , an analyst for Rabo
Securities in Utrecht, Netherlands. “If you have a customer in
the U.S. that wants delivery service across Europe, then you
need a partner with a wide network.”  TNT , the former state postal monopoly of the Netherlands,
controls almost one-fifth of express deliveries in Europe. The
Hoofddorp-based company plans to spin off mail operations as the
market for letters shrinks across the region.  TNT has been the subject of takeover speculation in the
past five years, including a Financial Times report in July 2008
that Memphis, Tennessee-based  FedEx Corp.  was in talks with the
Dutch company. FedEx declined to comment on the reports at that
time.  TNT dropped  1.2 percent to 18.08 euros as of the 5:30 p.m.
close of Amsterdam trading. Deutsche Post gained 1.4 percent to
13.75 euros in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  