-- Murkowski Claims Victory in Her Write-In Campaign for Alaska Senate Seat
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/murkowski-wins-re-election-to-alaska-senate-seat-with-write-in-challenge.html
Republican  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska
claimed victory yesterday over Tea Party rival  Joe Miller  in her
historic write-in bid to keep her U.S. Senate seat.  The Associated Press called the race for Murkowski
yesterday after confirming that state officials had only about
700 votes left to count. At that point Murkowski had a lead of
more than 10,000 votes.  “We made history, Alaskans made history,” Murkowski told
supporters in Anchorage. Voters chose “the path of unity, the
deliberative path, the common-sense path,” she said.  State election officials reported Nov. 16 that Murkowski
had 92,715 undisputed write-in votes from the Nov. 2 election,
plus an additional 8,153 that were counted in her favor over
Miller’s challenges, for a total of 100,868 votes.  Miller, a businessman who defeated Murkowski for the
Republican Senate nomination in the state’s Aug. 24 primary, had
90,468 votes, including 20 write-in ballots.  He has not yet conceded, and his campaign will be reviewing
some precinct logs from throughout the state, according to a
 campaign press release  issued yesterday. In the release,
Miller’s spokesman, Randy DeSoto, cited “irregularities” that
“give our campaign pause.”  First Since Thurmond  Murkowski, 53, is the first senator to prevail with write-
in ballots since  Strom Thurmond ’s victory in South Carolina in
1954.  Miller, 43, was backed by former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin . His representatives challenged a number of the write-in
ballots for Murkowski as being misspelled or otherwise
improperly cast, and he has filed a lawsuit over standards used
by state election officials for deciding whether those votes are
valid.  Murkowski’s father,  Frank Murkowski , 77, left the Senate
when he won the governor’s office in 2002 and named his daughter
to replace him. Lisa Murkowski won a full term in 2004. She
resigned as vice chairman of the Senate Republican Conference
after losing her race for renomination.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at [bn:PRSN=1] [] or
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;  Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  