-- William Waited to Propose to Let Kate `Back Out' of Joining Royal Family
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/william-waited-to-propose-to-let-kate-back-out-of-joining-royal-family.html
Prince William  said he waited until
last month before proposing to his fiancee,  Kate Middleton , to
give her a chance “to back out” before agreeing to join
Britain’s royal family.  William’s father,  Prince Charles , announced the couple’s
engagement yesterday, ending years of speculation about whether
the second in line to the throne would propose to the girlfriend
he had been dating since 2003. Kate said yesterday that becoming
a member of the royal family was a “daunting” prospect.  “I wanted to give her a chance to see in and to back out
if she needed to before it all got too much,” William said in a
pooled television interview that aired last night. “I’m trying
to learn from lessons done in the past and I just wanted to give
her the best chance to settle in and to see what happens on the
other side.”  William proposed to Kate with his mother,  Princess Diana ’s,
engagement ring while on holiday in Kenya three weeks ago. That
puts Kate in line to become the first commoner to be queen in
modern times. The couple, both 28, met while studying at  St.
Andrews University  in Scotland and will marry in the spring or
summer of next year.  “It was very romantic,” Kate said. “There’s a true
romantic in there.”  William said he’d been carrying the ring, a sapphire
surrounded by diamonds, around in his rucksack for about three
weeks before the proposal.  ‘Fun and Excitement’  “It’s my mother’s engagement ring so I thought it was
quite nice because obviously she’s not going to be around to
share any of the fun and excitement of it all,” William said.
“This was my way of keeping her close to it all.”  The prince said that after he had been accepted by Kate, he
asked her father for her hand.  “I was torn between asking Kate’s dad first and then the
realization that he might actually say ‘no’ dawned upon me,”
he said. “So I thought if I ask Kate first then he can’t really
say no. So I did it that way round.”  William -- blond, blue-eyed and 6 feet 3 inches (1.91
meters) tall -- is a flight lieutenant in the Royal Air Force.
He was one of the world’s most eligible bachelors, with a
fortune of 28 million pounds ($45 million), according to the
Sunday Times Rich List.  Party Pieces  Middleton -- baptized Catherine Elizabeth -- is the eldest
child of Michael and Carole Middleton, who own  Party Pieces , a
website supplying party accessories. Carole once worked as an
airline cabin-crew member. After leaving university, Kate worked
as a junior buyer for the women’s fashion chain Jigsaw and later
took photographs for her parents’ website.  Kate has been nicknamed “waity Katie” in British tabloid
newspapers for her seeming lack of focus on a career.  “I know I’ve been working very hard for the family
business; sometimes those days are long days,” she said when
asked whether she had been hurt by criticism that she didn’t
have a proper job. “I think everyone who I work with can see I
am there pulling my weight and that’s really what matters to
me.”  Speculation about a royal wedding has grown since the pair
rekindled their relationship after a brief split in April 2007.  “We were both very young,” William said of the breakup.
 “It was very much trying to find our own way and we were
growing up,” he said.  ‘Stronger Person’  “I at the time wasn’t very happy about it,” Kate said.
“But actually it made me a stronger person, you find out
things about yourself that maybe you hadn’t realized. I think
you can get quite consumed by a relationship when you are
younger.”  By contrast with Kate, William’s mother, Diana, was a
member of the  aristocratic Spencer family . The first Lord
Spencer was ennobled by King James I at the start of the 17th
century. Other British-born royal consorts in recent centuries,
such as  Queen Elizabeth II ’s mother, who married the future
George VI, had parents who were members of the nobility.  “It’s great to have a piece of unadulterated good news
that everyone can celebrate,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  told
reporters outside his official residence at 10 Downing Street.  Charles married Diana in London’s St. Paul’s Cathedral in
July 1981. William was born in June 1982 and his brother Harry
in September 1984. In December 1992, Prime Minister  John Major 
announced that the couple would be separating and the marriage
was dissolved in 1996.  ‘Bit Crowded’  Diana said that Charles had kept up a relationship with
 Camilla Parker Bowles  during the marriage, telling  BBC
television’s “Panorama” program  in 1995 that “there were
three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded” when she
was asked if the relationship had been a factor in the split.
Diana died in a car crash in Paris in 1997 and Prince Charles
married Parker Bowles in 2005.  Of the queen’s four children, only  Prince Edward , who
married  Sophie Rhys-Jones  in 1999, has not divorced.  Prince Andrew ’s 1986 marriage to  Sarah Ferguson  ended in
1996 and  Princess Anne ’s to Mark Phillips in 1973 was dissolved
in 1992. Princess Anne married  Tim Laurence  the same year.
Andrew, Edward and Anne are behind William and Harry in the line
of succession.  Prince Harry  said he was “delighted” his brother had
“popped the question,” the Press Association newswire
reported. “It means I get a sister, which I have always
wanted.”  “We had been talking about marriage for a while so it
wasn’t a massively big surprise,” William said last night.
“I’d been planning it for a while, but as any guy out there
will know it takes a certain amount of motivation to get
yourself going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 