-- Williams-Sonoma Chairman Emeritus, Former CEO Howard Lester Dies at 75
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-11-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/williams-sonoma-chairman-emeritus-former-ceo-howard-lester-dies-at-75.html
W. Howard Lester , chairman emeritus
of gourmet-cookware retailer  Williams-Sonoma Inc. , died Nov. 15
from cancer at his home in Indian Wells, California. He was 75.  Lester, who worked at San Francisco-based Williams-Sonoma
for 32 years, purchased the company with a partner in 1978, when
it generated $4 million in annual sales and had four stores.
During his time as chief executive officer, from 1978 to 2001,
and later as chairman, Lester took Williams-Sonoma public and
expanded it to 600 stores and more than $3.4 billion in sales,
the company said yesterday in a statement.  “Howard was a shopkeeper at heart,”  Chuck Williams ,
founder and director emeritus of Williams-Sonoma, said in the
statement. “More importantly he has been my friend for over 30
years, and I will miss him.”  Lester took the reins of the company as CEO again in 2006
after it cut its sales forecast because of weaker growth at its
Pottery Barn chain. By the time he retired in May, the company
had pulled out of the recession and posted a 17 percent increase
in sales for the first quarter.  Born Aug. 14, 1935, in Durant, Oklahoma, Lester served in
U.S. Army counterintelligence in the 1950s before starting his
career selling typewriters for  International Business Machines
Corp.  in 1958. During the next two decades, he founded several
companies, including Coley/Lester Employment Agency and Centurex
Corp., a banking-software supplier, according to the statement.  Entrepreneur Center  In 1991, he founded the  Lester Center for Entrepreneurship
and Innovation  at the University of California, Berkeley’s Haas
School of Business.  Jerry Engel , co-faculty director of the
center, said Lester had contributed to the program in many ways.  “Howard was very involved -- of course he provided the
financial wherewithal to allow us to bring these resources to
the students, but more importantly he contributed his time and
his talent,” Engel said in an interview. “He spoke personally
to the students on a regular basis and provided counseling and
support to them.”  Lester is survived by his wife, Mary, three children and
five grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  