-- World’s Oldest Champagne Tastes Sweet After 200-Year Shipwreck
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-17T14:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/world-s-oldest-champagne-survives-icy-shipwreck-surfaces-for-wine-tasting.html
The world’s oldest Champagne has
been at the bottom of the sea for almost 200 years. It still
tastes pretty good.  Two bottles were cracked open today that were discovered in
July in  a shipwreck , 50 meters (54.7 yards) below the surface, in
the waters south of Aaland, a Finnish-controlled archipelago of
6,500 islands in the Baltic sea.  The Aaland authorities only discovered yesterday while
recorking some of the bottles that they contained two varieties
of Champagne:  Veuve Clicquot  and Juglar, an old house now part
of  Jacquesson . While 168 were found, many were broken and others
contaminated.  I was one of a group of journalists allowed to try them in
the cultural center in Mariehamn, the islands’ only town.  Both are sweet, as was the custom of the time. The Juglar
is deep and rich with notes of orange and raisin, like a
Christmas cake. The Veuve is lighter and more floral, with
layers of complexity. Both may be 185 years old.  The oldest Veuve Clicquot held by the Champagne house dates
back to 1893, said Francois Hautekeur, a winemaker with Veuve,
who is assisting with preserving the Champagne.  “We were replacing the corks yesterday and I was hoping we
might find ours because Madame Clicquot was selling a lot of
Champagne in the Baltic at that time,” Hautekeur said in an
interview today. “Then I eased out one cork and I saw ‘Reims’
and ‘QUOT’ and I knew. It was the best moment in my professional
career, maybe my life.”  Finland Route  The sweetness to the Champagne prompted speculation it
might have been headed for Russia. The boat was found in an old
shipping lane and Finland is now considered more likely.  While the exact age isn’t yet known, marine archeologists
estimate the twin-masted schooner on which the bottles were
found is from the second quarter of the 19th century. Plates on
board were manufactured by Rorstrand porcelain factory between
1780 and 1830, the Aaland Board of Antiquities says on Aaland’s
 website . The divers also discovered bottles of what may be the
world’s oldest beer.  When one of the Champagne bottles was brought to the
surface earlier, the pressure change caused the cork to pop. One
diver took a swig from the bottle expecting it to taste of
seawater and realized that it was good.  The team drank some from plastic beakers, resealed it and
took it to sommelier Ella Grussner Cromwell-Morgan to taste the
next day.  Oak Casks  “Despite the fact that it was so amazingly old, there was
a freshness to the wine,” she told Aalandstidningen newspaper.
“It wasn’t debilitated in any way. Rather, it had a clear
acidity which reinforced the sweetness. Finally, a very clear
taste of having been stored in oak casks.”  The champagne was so well preserved because it lay
horizontally, under pressure, at a low temperature and in the
dark.  At the good-humored tasting today, the flash bulbs popped
-- the Champagne corks didn't, because a lot of the fizz has 
gone out of the bottles. After we did the official tasting, a
scrum of onlookers joined in because everyone else wanted a sip.  Aaland plans to auction one bottle of each Champagne in
coming months and sell others in the future, said Brit Lundberg,
the official in charge of education and culture. Five bottles
will be retained and others might be used in a special blend of
Champagne.  “It’s difficult to estimate what the two bottles will
fetch at auction in Mariehamn because they are unique and it
depends who is bidding,”  Richard Juhlin , a Champagne expert who
led the tasting, said in an interview. The bottles may fetch
100,000 euros ($135,000) each, he said.  If he’s right, I have just consumed about 10,000 euros of
Champagne in a few minutes. I’m not sure even  Keith Richards  has
managed that.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in Mariehamn, Finland, at  rvines@bloomberg.net , or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 