-- World's Cheapest Stocks Getting Cheaper as Russian Profits Climb to Record
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-18T16:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/world-s-cheapest-stocks-getting-cheaper-as-russian-profits-climb-to-record.html
Russian  stocks , the cheapest
worldwide, are getting cheaper after the nation’s companies
posted record profits that topped analysts’ estimates by the
widest margin in emerging markets.  Micex Index  companies  reported combined earnings of 178
rubles a share ($5.70) during the past year, the most since at
least 2003 and 29 percent above the average of about 400 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The Micex is valued at 6.8
times profit  forecasts  for the next 12 months, the lowest level
among 59 world stock indexes tracked by Bloomberg and about half
the global average of 12 times.  While the Micex  advanced  13 percent in the past year, its
valuation tumbled 31 percent because Russian shares failed to
keep pace with a surge in earnings estimates spurred by oil’s
rally above $80 a barrel. Equity mutual funds in the world’s
largest energy exporter attracted less money in the past six
months than funds in the other so-called BRICs -- Brazil, India
and China -- as investors favored more expensive shares in
faster-growing economies, EPFR Global data show.  “Russia really stands out as being cheap and attractive,”
said  Maarten-Jan Bakkum , an emerging-market equity strategist in
The Hague at ING Investment Management, which oversees about
$100 billion in developing nations. “Investors will
increasingly be looking for emerging economies that can still
improve,” he said. “For Russia, there should be some room for
improvement.”  ‘Out of Favor’  The Micex index climbed 1.2 percent to 1,552.21 at 6:45
p.m. in Moscow, with shares of OAO Sberbank and OAO Gazprom
contributing most to the advance.  Russia’s economic expansion will probably accelerate to 4.3
percent next year from 4 percent in 2010, according to October
estimates from the International Monetary Fund.  China’s growth will slow to 9.6 percent from 10.5 percent,
while the pace in India will drop to 8.4 percent from 9.7
percent, and Brazil’s expansion will decelerate to 4.1 percent
from 7.5 percent, IMF forecasts show.  Russia has lagged behind the other BRIC nations in luring
investors.  Chinese  equity mutual funds attracted about $3.3
billion in the past six months, while Indian funds received $1.3
billion and Brazil got $1.9 billion, data compiled by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global show. Russian funds took in $637
million, the data show.  Earnings Surprises  “Russia remains relatively out of favor in an emerging
markets context,” said  Lewis Kaufman , a money manager at
Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees about $65
billion in Santa Fe, New Mexico. “If we can sustain oil prices
of $80 to $100, Russian equities offer a unique combination of
cyclical and structural recovery potential.”  Gazprom , Russia’s largest listed company, trades at 4.3
times 2011 profit estimates, compared with 10 times for
 PetroChina Co. , the biggest Chinese energy company, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The discount on the Moscow-based
natural-gas monopoly to Beijing-based PetroChina has widened to
58 percent from 50 percent at the start of 2010, the data show.  Sberbank , Russia’s largest lender, trades at a 60 percent
discount to India’s  ICICI Bank Ltd. , compared with 38 percent at
the end of 2009, according to price-earnings ratios compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tax Concern  “I find, opportunistically, Russia pretty interesting,”
said  Jim O’Neill , who helps oversee about $820 billion as
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and coined the term
BRICs in 2001 to describe the four biggest emerging markets.
“It is structurally the weakest of the four but it’s not all as
gloomy as people seem to be talking about,” he said. “If I
look at the forward PE, for Russia it’s really cheap,” he said
in an interview in London.  While Micex companies beat analysts’ estimates by 29
percent, earnings in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  surpassed
forecasts by 5.7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Companies in the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  trailed
projections by 2.4 percent, profits in India’s Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index topped estimates by 7.7 percent and
Brazil’s  Bovespa Index  exceeded expectations by 1.5 percent.  Analysts may be too optimistic in their outlook for Russian
energy company profits because Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
government is likely to raise taxes on the industry to help pay
for increased spending ahead of the 2012 presidential election,
 Alex Kantarovich , a strategist at New York-based JPMorgan Chase
& Co., wrote in a Nov. 15 report.  Transparency Discount  Energy companies account for about half of the Micex
Index’s  capitalization , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The sector’s low equity valuations are the main reason Russian
shares appear cheap relative to the rest of emerging markets,
said ING’s Bakkum.  Russian profits may be overstated because companies have
been slow to write off the value of aging machinery and
factories,  Kingsmill Bond , the London-based chief strategist for
Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment bank, wrote in a
report e-mailed Nov. 3.  Stock valuations for some Russian companies already reflect
the “lack of transparency” in the country’s financial
disclosures, said Kaufman, whose  Thornburg Developing World Fund 
has beat 97 percent of peers this year with a 25 percent gain.  The Micex index’s valuation discount of about 42 percent to
the  MSCI All-Country World Index  of global shares compares with
a 24 percent average gap since January 2006, according to price-
earnings ratios compiled by Bloomberg.  Magnit  Thornburg owns shares of Sberbank because of “massive”
consumer  deposits  that make its funding stable and the potential
for better-than-estimated loan growth, Kaufman said. Sberbank’s
deposits amount to 77 percent of assets, compared with the 55
percent average for global  peers , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The lender’s per-share earnings will probably surge
87 percent next year, four times the average gain for emerging-
market financial companies, analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  OAO Magnit , the Krasnodar-based food retailer, is another
Thornburg holding, Kaufman said. While the stock is more
expensive than the Russian equity market at 25 times analysts’
2011 earnings estimates, it’s cheaper than Beijing-based
supermarket operator  Wumart Stores Inc. , which trades at 30
times profit estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Magnit will grow earnings by 91 percent during the next two
years, almost double the 51 percent growth projected for Wumart,
the data show.  ‘Cheapest Market’  Gazprom  shares are poised to rally 34 percent in the next
12 months, according to the average of 10 analysts’ share-price
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has retreated 7.8
percent this year, compared with a 2.3 percent gain for
PetroChina.  Russia has the cheapest stocks among major developing
nations, based on 10-year reported earnings, a valuation measure
designed to adjust for economic cycles,  Jonathan Garner , the
chief Asia and emerging markets strategist at Morgan Stanley in
Hong Kong, wrote in a Nov. 8 report.  “It’s probably the cheapest market among global emerging
nations,” said ING’s Bakkum, who recommends an “overweight”
position in Russia. “A lot people are prepared to buy Russian
assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 