-- Yuan Premium in Hong Kong Shrinks 77% as PBOC Provides Funds: China Credit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-18T09:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/yuan-premium-in-hong-kong-shrinks-77-as-pboc-provides-funds-china-credit.html
The premium paid for yuan in Hong
Kong shrank 77 percent in the past month as monetary authorities
made more of the currency available to ease a shortage.  Yuan traded in Hong Kong closed yesterday at 6.6025 per
dollar, 0.6 percent stronger than the rate in Shanghai, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The premium reached 2.6 percent on
Oct. 19, the most since offshore trading began in July, and has
been as little as 0.3 percent in the past week. The Hong Kong
Monetary Authority said Oct. 28 it drew down 10 billion yuan
($1.5 billion) via a swap with the People’s Bank of China.  “The initial offshore yuan premium over the onshore was
due to insufficient yuan liquidity,” said Pin Ru Tan, a
Singapore-based strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. “This
shortage was essentially resolved by the HKMA tapping the yuan
swap line.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is allowing yuan to become more readily
available beyond China’s borders to reduce reliance on U.S.
dollars in trade and finance, as money-printing by the Federal
Reserve erodes the attraction of the greenback. The value of
yuan transacted daily in Hong Kong was about $500 million to
$700 million in October, up from $200 million to $400 million in
September and no more than $100 million in August, according to
 Gerrard Katz , head of foreign-exchange trading at Standard
Chartered Plc in Hong Kong.  Yuan Outlook  America’s dollar has weakened against the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg since June, when China scrapped
a two-year currency peg and said it would allow a more flexible
exchange rate. The yuan rose 2.2 percent to 6.6343 in Shanghai
in that time, trailing gains of 4.9 percent for the Brazilian
real and 2.4 percent for India’s rupee. Non-deliverable forwards
suggest it will strengthen 2.5 percent in a year.  The prospect of appreciation coupled with rising interest
rates is spurring offshore demand for China’s currency, which
overseas entities can only buy in the onshore market if they
have investment proposals or trade transactions approved by the
nation’s regulators.  China’s central bank last month raised its benchmark one-
year lending and deposit rates for the first time since 2007,
seeking to cool the fastest inflation since September 2008.
China’s 12-month interest-rate  swap , the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , were little
changed today at a two-year high of 2.69 percent.  Adequate Supply  Yuan deposits  in Hong Kong more than doubled to a record
149 billion yuan ($22 billion) in the six months through
September and HSBC Holdings Plc forecast this month they will
exceed 400 billion yuan within three years.  “We’ve been hearing of some large deals going on and with
the yuan deposits growing very large in Hong Kong, offshore
market activity will pick up sharply,” said  Robert Reilly , co-
head of Asian fixed income at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.
“By tapping the swap line, the HKMA is already playing the role
of ensuring adequate yuan supply offshore.”  The existing swap with China’s central bank was agreed in
January 2009, lasts for three years and can provide as much as
200 billion yuan annually. Hong Kong’s monetary authority is in
talks with the People’s Bank of China to expand its swap quota
for next year, the China Business News reported Nov. 5, citing
an unidentified HKMA official.  Trade, Bonds  The availability of the currency in Hong Kong is also
climbing as a growing amount of trade is settled in the legal
tender and companies sell more yuan-denominated debt in the city,
 Qu Hongbin , co-head of economics research at HSBC in
Hong Kong, said yesterday.  Global trade transactions settled in yuan will total about
$2 trillion annually within five years, he forecast this month.
They jumped to the equivalent of $19 billion in the third
quarter, 160 percent more than in the previous three months,
central bank figures show.  Royal Bank of Scotland estimated this week that the amount
of yuan-denominated debt issued in Hong Kong has grown 42
percent to 50 billion yuan since the currency began trading in
the city. Export-Import Bank of China plans to sell as much as 5
billion yuan of bonds in Hong Kong next month and International
Finance Corp., the World Bank’s private investment arm, has said
it aims to offer about 100 million yuan of five-year notes.  Yuan Forecasts  The yuan may rise 6 percent to 6.26 per dollar by the end
of next year, the most among the so-called BRIC nations that
also include Brazil, Russia and India, according to median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys of analysts. The Brazilian real
is forecast to weaken 0.2 percent, while gains of 4.1 percent
are predicted for both India’s rupee and the Russian ruble.  China’s benchmark 10-year bond  yield  of 3.89 percent is the
lowest. Brazil’s is 12.79 percent, India’s 8.03 percent and
Russia’s 5.73 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The annual cost of insuring China’s foreign-currency debt
for five years fell 2.5 basis points yesterday to 61.4, credit-
default swaps show. Five-year credit-default swap contracts for
top-rated yuan-denominated bonds fell 0.5 basis point today to
83, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 