-- Hyundai Group `Spooking' Investors on $4.2 Billion Fund Need, Builder Deal
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-17T09:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/hyundai-group-spooking-investors-on-4-2-billion-fund-need-builder-deal.html
Hyundai Group Chairwoman  Hyun Jeong Eun  may have to raise about 4.8 trillion won ($4.2 billion) by
the end of next year after beating her billionaire brother-in-
law for control of South Korea’s biggest builder.  Her group was yesterday named preferred bidder for a
controlling stake in  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. 
after offering about 5.5 trillion won, according to two people
familiar with the situation. That’s double the market price and
about 4 trillion won more than the cash holdings of Hyundai
Group’s three main listed units. Those three companies also have
to repay 824.6 billion won of bonds by the end of 2011,
according to Bloomberg data.  “The lack of information about how the group is going to
raise this money is spooking investors,” said  Byun Sung Jin , an
analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Seoul. “And, after
paying for the takeover, will it have money to spend on Hyundai
Engineering for future growth?”  Hyundai Engineering  and Hyundai Group’s  Hyundai Merchant
Marine Co.  both fell for a second day in Seoul trading after
plunging 15 percent yesterday on concern that Hyun, 55, was
overpaying for the builder amid competition from Hyundai Motor
Group head  Chung Mong Koo . Hyun may have to sell stakes in the
builder’s most-profitable units or other assets to help pay for
the deal, said  Kim Do Joon , a fund manager at Hanwha Investment
Trust Management Co.  Eroding Potential  “Such moves could eat into the builder’s growth
potential,” he said. Hanwha Investment held Hyundai Engineering
and Hyundai Merchant shares among its $8.8 billion of assets as
of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai Group has taken steps to prepare for the
acquisition for some time, Vice President Jean Jeong Ho said
yesterday. He couldn’t disclose further details, he said. The
deal is due to be completed next year,  Hyundai Engineering 
creditor Korea Exchange Bank said yesterday.  Hyundai Merchant and affiliates Hyundai Elevator Co. and
Hyundai Securities Co. have announced 2.27 trillion won of
fundraising plans, some of which will be used to help pay for
the 35 percent stake in Hyundai Engineering. The plans include
taking loans as well as selling debt, shares and assets.  Debt Load  Hyundai Merchant , South Korea’s second-largest shipping
line, has 694.6 billion won of bonds due by the end of 2011,
according to Bloomberg data.  Hyundai Elevator  has 128.3 billion
won due in the period, while  Hyundai Securities  has 1.8 billion
won due.  Hyundai Engineering  has 400 billion won pending next
year.  “This deal could hurt the financial structure of both the
group and Hyundai Engineering,” said  Ahn Soo Woong , head of
research at LIG Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “The best
funding source for the group would be selling some of Hyundai
Engineering’s assets.”  Hyundai Group may sell a stake in the builder’s most-
profitable unit, Hyundai Engineering Co., which designs
refineries and manages construction, Mirae’s Byun said.  Hyundai Group’s Jean declined to comment on this yesterday
calling it “market rumors.”  Hyundai Flagship  The controlling stake in  Hyundai Engineering  was put up for
sale by creditors, who took over the builder in 2001 after it
was unable to pay debts.  The  company , the flagship of the original Hyundai Group,
has a market value of $5.8 billion market value based on today’s
59,200 won closing price. The 35 percent stake being bought by
Hyundai Group is worth $2 billion on that basis.  The builder fell 4.8 percent to close at 59,200 won today
in Seoul trading after plunging as much as 9.8 percent earlier
today.  Hyundai Merchant  tumbled 9.6 percent to close at 34,700
won.  Hyundai Motor Group severed ties with the original Hyundai
Group in 2000, when founder  Chung Ju Yung  picked his younger son
Chung Mong Hun as his successor over Chung Mong Koo. Chung Mong
Hun, Hyun’s husband, committed suicide in 2003 after being
charged in connection with illegal payments to North Korea.
Hyun, then a housewife, took over as Hyundai Group chairwoman.  Sales Goal  Buying Hyundai Engineering may help Hyundai Group achieve
its goal of boosting sales to 70 trillion won in 2020 by
strengthening its logistics, finance and infrastructure
businesses.  The deal may also help Hyundai Engineering take part in
potential infrastructure projects in North Korea, which may be
worth as much as 400 trillion won for next 30 years, according
to Hyundai Group. The group has previously invested in the
communist country.  The builder gets about 45 percent of  revenue  from
construction of power plants and refineries and has contracts
for a nuclear plant in the United Arab Emirates, natural gas
works in Indonesia and oil piers in Kuwait. Projects including
roads, dams and bridges make up another 45 percent of sales. The
builder posted record profit for 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  