-- Fed Treasury Purchases May Prevent Another Economic Spiral, Zuckerman Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2010-11-17T22:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-17/zuckerman-says-quantitative-easing-may-prevent-economic-spiral.html
Mortimer Zuckerman , chief executive
of Boston Properties Inc. and publisher of the New York Daily
News, said the Federal Reserve’s purchase of $600 billion in
Treasuries may prevent another economic spiral.  “When you have so few weapons in this situation, you don’t
want to give up any,” he said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with Kathleen Hays.
“Keeping liquidity in the economy is essential.”  The Fed announced Nov. 3 that it would buy Treasuries to
keep interest rates low and boost economic growth, a method
known as quantitative easing. The program is necessary in an
economy that remains “very fragile,” Zuckerman said.  The U.S. unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent in October,
the Labor Department said Nov. 5. It has been 9.5 percent or
higher for more than a year.  Zuckerman’s  Boston Properties  had stakes in 145 properties
with 38.2 million square feet (3.6 million square meters),
almost all in Midtown Manhattan and the Boston, Washington, San
Francisco and Princeton, New Jersey, areas, as of Sept. 30. Its
holdings include Manhattan’s General Motors Building and
Boston’s John Hancock Tower, New England’s tallest building.  People are using money to pay down debt instead of spending
it, which is contributing to a slow economic recovery, Zuckerman
said. Home prices have further to fall, he said.  ‘Much Worse Shape’  “The housing industry is in much worse shape than the
numbers indicate,” he said.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities is
down 28 percent from its peak in July 2006. Housing starts fell
to a 519,000 annual rate last month, the fewest since a record
low reached in April 2009 and down 12 percent from a revised
588,000 in September that was less than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.  The Obama administration has not done enough to spur a
financial recovery, Zuckerman said. The country needs a “much
larger” stimulus program, he said.  The federal government will have to play a role the housing
market for years to come, according to Zuckerman. Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac constitute too large a chunk of the mortgage market
to be terminated, and restructuring the two will be a “serious
issue,” he said.  “We’re going to have to do something to keep the fed
involved in mortgage financing,” Zuckerman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  