-- Bashing Goldman Sachs Is Simply a Game for Fools: Michael Lewis
-- Michael Lewis
-- 2009-07-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-07-27/bashing-goldman-sachs-is-simply-a-game-for-fools-michael-lewis.html

          
          
             From the moment I left Yale and
started working for  Goldman Sachs , I’ve felt uneasy interacting
with those who don’t.  
 It’s not that I think less of Goldman outsiders than I did
while I remained among you. It’s just that I feel your envy, and
know that nothing I can do or say will ever persuade you that I
am no more than human.  
 Thus, like many of my colleagues, I have adopted a
strategy of never leaving Goldman Sachs, apart from a few brief,
spasmodic attempts to make what you outsiders call “love” or
“ the beast with two backs .” Goldman recognizes how important
it is for its people to replicate themselves. We bill no
performance fees for the service.  
 Today, the sheer volume of irresponsible media commentary
has forced us to reconsider our public-relations strategy. With
every uptick in our  share price  it’s grown clearer that we who
are inside Goldman Sachs must open a dialogue with you who are
not. Not for our benefit, but for yours.  
 America stands at a crossroads, and Goldman Sachs now owns
both of them. In choosing which road to take, ordinary Americans
must not be distracted by unproductive resentment toward the
toll-takers. To that end we at Goldman Sachs would like to
dispel several false and insidious rumors.  
 Rumor No. 1: “Goldman Sachs controls the U.S.
government.”  
 Every time we hear the phrase “the United States of
Goldman Sachs” we shake our heads in wonder. Every ninth-grader
knows that the U.S. government consists of three branches.
Goldman owns just one of these outright; the second we simply
rent, and the third we have no interest in at all. (Note there
isn’t a single former Goldman employee on the Supreme Court.)  
 What small interest we maintain in the U.S. government is,
we feel, in the public interest. Our current financial crisis
has its roots in a single easily identifiable source: the envy
others felt toward Goldman Sachs.  
 The bozos at Merrill Lynch, the dimwits at  Citigroup , the
nimrods at Lehman Brothers, the louts at Bear Stearns, even that
momentarily useful lunatic  Joe Cassano  at AIG -- all of these
people took risks that no non-Goldman person should ever take,
in a pathetic attempt to replicate Goldman’s financial returns.  
 For too long we have allowed others to emulate us. Now we
are working productively with Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner 
and the Congress to ensure that we alone are allowed to take the
sort of risks that might destroy the financial system.  
 Rumor No. 2: “When the U.S. government bailed out AIG, and
paid off its gambling debts, it saved not AIG but Goldman
Sachs.”  
 The charge isn’t merely insulting but ignorant. Less
responsible journalists continue to bring up the $12.9 billion
we received from AIG, as if that was some kind of big deal to
us. But as our CFO  David Viniar  explained back in March, we were
hedged. Our profits from AIG “rounded to zero.”  
 People who don’t work at Goldman Sachs, of course, find
this implausible: How could $12.9 billion round to zero? Easy,
but you just need to understand the mathematics.  
 Let’s assume AIG transferred $12,880,560,250.34 of taxpayer
money to Goldman Sachs. A Goldman outsider, asked to round this
number, might call it $12,880,560,250.00. That’s not how we look
at it; at Goldman we always round to the nearest $50 billion, so
anything less than $25 billion rounds to zero.  
 Think of it that way and you can see that
$12,880,560,250.34 isn’t even close to not rounding to zero.  
 Rumor No. 3: “As the U.S. government will eat the losses
if Goldman Sachs goes bust, Goldman Sachs shouldn’t be allowed
to keep making these massive financial bets. At the very least
the $11.4 billion Goldman Sachs already has set aside for
employees in 2009 -- $386,429 a head, just for the first six
months -- is unfair, as the U.S. taxpayer has borne so much of
the risk of the wagers that generated the profits.”  
 Really, we don’t know where to begin with this one. It is
wrong-headed in so many different ways!  
 Let’s begin with the idea that the taxpayer is running a
bigger risk than we are. The billions he stands to lose are
trivial; after all, they round to zero.  
 The real risk, when you think about it even for a minute,
is the risk we take ourselves: that Goldman will cease to exist
and we will cease to be Goldman employees. To flirt with such
tragedy we obviously need to be paid.  
 Rumor No. 4:  “Goldman employees all  look alike .”  
 Several recent newspaper photos have revealed that a
surprising number of Goldman Sachs workers are white, male and
bald. That non-Goldman people glance at such  photos  and think
“Holy crap, they even look alike!” just shows how deeply anti-
Goldman bigotry runs in American life.  
 We at Goldman represent unique clusters of DNA; if we bear
some faint surface  resemblance  to one another, and to creatures
from the 24th century, it is only because our superior powers of
reasoning lead us to hold in our minds exactly the same
thoughts, at exactly the same time.  
 A shared disinterest in growing  hair , for instance, isn’t a
coincidence of nature but an expression of healthy like-
mindedness.  
 “The world is a pool table,” our  naked-headed  CEO likes
to tell us. “And all the people in it are either stripes or
solids. You alone are the cue balls.”  
 Rumor No. 5: Goldman Sachs is “a  great vampire squid 
wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its
blood funnel into anything that smells like money.”  
 Those words are of course taken from a recent issue of
Rolling Stone magazine and they are transparently false.  
 For starters, the vampire squid doesn’t feed on human
flesh. Ergo, no vampire squid would ever wrap itself around the
face of humanity, except by accident. And nothing that happens
at Goldman Sachs -- nothing that Goldman Sachs thinks, nothing
that Goldman Sachs feels, nothing that Goldman Sachs does --ever
happens by accident.  
 ( Michael Lewis  is a columnist for Bloomberg News and the
author of “Liar’s Poker,” “Moneyball” and “The Blind
Side,” soon to be a major motion picture. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Michael Lewis at  mlewis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        