-- EU Puts 5-Year Tax on Chinese Wire Rod, Spares Turkey, Moldova
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2009-07-27T10:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-07-27/eu-puts-5-year-tax-on-chinese-wire-rod-spares-turkey-moldova.html

          
          
             The European Union imposed five-year
tariffs on wire rod from China to help EU producers such as
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , Corus Group and Feralpi Siderurgica SpA compete
against cheaper imports.  Turkey  and Moldova were spared.  
 The duties as high as 24 percent punish Chinese exporters
for selling wire rod in the EU below cost, a practice known as
dumping. The levies cover imports of the product -- used in
construction -- that were worth about 600 million euros ($856
million) in 2007 and 170 million euros last year.  
 EU producers suffered “material injury” as a result of
the dumped shipments, the 27-nation EU said in a decision today
in Brussels. The duties follow provisional levies introduced six
months ago and will take effect after publication in the
 Official Journal  by Aug. 7.  
 This is the last of four steel-trade disputes between the
EU and  China  that threatened to create political frictions. In
the other three cases, the EU dropped the threat of anti-dumping
duties on Chinese stainless steel and galvanized steel and
imposed five-year levies on Chinese steel wires.  
 China increased its share of the EU wire-rod market to 5
percent in the 12 months through March 2008 from 0.3 percent in
2004, according to the bloc. This is the final outcome of an
inquiry opened in May 2008 that also covered Turkey and Moldova,
which face no five-year levies because the EU concluded Turkish
and Moldovan exporters didn’t dump.  
 In contrast to Turkey, Moldova faced a provisional duty and
EU importers will be reimbursed that levy, which was 3.7
percent. The initial duties against China were as high as 24.6
percent and importers will be reimbursed the difference with the
lower final rates.  
 The five-year duties are 24 percent against all Chinese
manufacturers except Valin Group, which faces a 7.9 percent
levy. The provisional rate against Valin was 8.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        