-- TMK in Merger Talks to Form World's Biggest Pipemaker
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-05-11T14:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-11/tmk-in-merger-talks-to-form-world-s-biggest-pipemaker-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO TMK (TMKS) , the world's second-largest
producer of pipes for the oil and gas industry, is in talks to
merge with Ukraine's biggest pipe producer, Interpipe,
potentially creating a global industry leader.  
 The discussions are ``at an early and exploratory stage and
there can be no certainty'' of a transaction, the Moscow-based
company said today in a statement. It didn't give additional details.  
 A merger between TMK, 79 percent owned by billionaire Dmitry Pumpyansky, and Interpipe, controlled by billionaire Viktor Pinchuk, would create a company with a 4.3 percent share of the
total pipe market and production of 4.2 million tons, according
to TMK. It would surpass Luxembourg-based industry leader  Tenaris
SA (TEN) , which produced 3.5 million metric tons of pipes last year.  
 ``Pumpyansky has probably seen organic growth hit a limit
and now desires to expand in width,'' said Kirill Chuiko, an
analyst with UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow.  
 A transaction would halt Interpipe's plans for an initial
public offering. The producer said on May 8 that it started the
process of choosing banks for a share sale that might be one of
the largest IPOs in Ukraine. Sual Group, a Russian aluminum
producer that merged with OAO Russian Aluminum, also publicly
pursued an IPO until the transaction with Rusal was complete.  
 Alexander Kharchenko, Interpipe's corporate affairs director,
declined to comment when contacted today by phone in Kiev.  
 Potential Value  
 Interpipe, whose customers include  Russia 's OAO Gazprom, the
world's biggest gas producer, and OAO Rosneft, Russia's largest
oil producer, had sales of more than $1.6 billion last year, when
it produced 4.3 percent of the world's seamless pipes.  
 ``The company has grown to an extent that it is time to
think of further strategic moves,'' said Andriy Gostik, an
analyst with Concorde Capital brokerage in Kiev. He valued
Interpipe at $3 billion.  
 TMK shares fell 4 percent on the Micex exchange in Moscow at
the close after nine trades, valuing the company at $7.9 billion.  
 ``TMK is a fast-growing company in an expanding market,
which Interpipe really is not,'' UralSib's Chuiko said. ``The
pluses could be that the buy will be cheap, and long-term there's
a chance that Russia and Ukraine will enter the World Trading
Organization and dues on European exports will drop.''  
 TMK controls about 3 percent of the world's steel pipe
market based on 2005 sales figures. That's twice the market share
of Interpipe, according to a bond-sale memorandum published by
the Moscow-based company in September.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        