-- RRI Operating Chief Resigns, Office of CEO Created
-- Tony Cox
-- 2009-05-27T20:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-05-27/rri-operating-chief-resigns-office-of-ceo-created-update2-.html

          
          
             RRI Energy Inc., the U.S. power
producer that sold its retailing business this month, said Chief
Operating Officer Brian Landrum and two senior vice presidents
resigned in connection with a management restructuring.  
 Three executives -- Chief Financial Officer Rick Dobson,
General Counsel Michael Jines and strategic-planning chief
Rogers Herndon -- will comprise a newly created Office of the
CEO, Houston-based RRI said today in a statement. Chief
Executive Officer Mark Jacobs will lead the office in
determining the company’s strategic direction.  
 Landrum and another executive who resigned, Charles Griffey, senior vice president for regulatory affairs, won’t be
replaced, RRI said. Senior Vice President Suzanne Kupiec, chief
risk and compliance officer, is resigning to spend time with her
two young children, the company said. Jines will take over the
role of chief compliance officer. Dobson will be chief risk
officer until a replacement is found, RRI said.  
 “With the repositioning of RRI Energy as a stand-alone
wholesale merchant generator, it is appropriate to adjust our
management structure to ensure that we have the right people in
the right roles to execute the  company’s  go-forward strategy,”
Jacobs said in the statement.  
 The company completed its sale of the Houston area’s
largest power-retailing business to  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  on May 1.
Formerly known as Reliant Energy, the brand used in its
retailing operation, RRI changed its name after the divestiture.  
 RRI rose 8 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $5.38 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, the  stock  had
plunged 79 percent in the past year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Cox  in Houston at   acox3@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Cox at   acox3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        