-- International Investment Sells $200 Million of Sukuk
-- Will McSheehy
-- 2007-06-10T11:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-10/international-investment-sells-200-million-of-sukuk-update1-.html

          
          
             International Investment Group KSCC,
a Kuwait-based financial company, expanded its first sale of
convertible Islamic bonds by a third after receiving bids for
almost seven times the value of securities on offer.  
 The company sold $200 million of five-year Islamic bonds,
known as sukuk, after receiving bids worth more than $1 billion,
it said in an e-mailed statement today. Half the bonds were
bought by investors in the U.K., it said.  
 Governments and companies have sold about $11 billion of
sukuk worldwide this year, led by issuers in the Persian Gulf,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC, the largest underwriter of Islamic debt last year, on May
23 said it expects to manage as much as $16.3 billion-worth of
sukuk sales this year as rising demand for the securities
encourages new issuers to tap the market.  
 International Investment's sukuk were priced at 1.5 percentage
points more than the dollar mid-swap rate, according to today's
statement. Sale manager Barclays Capital on May 25 said the price
would probably be between 1.5 percentage points and 2 percentage
points higher than the mid-swap rate. The three-year mid-swap rate
was last at 5.484 percent, Bloomberg data show.  
 The bonds may be listed on the London Stock Exchange and
the Dubai International Financial Exchange, Barclays said last
month. The company has no debt outstanding, according to
Bloomberg data, and its debt isn't rated by Moody's Investors
Service or Standard & Poor's.  
 Sudan Bank  
 International Investment invests in real estate, energy,
services and insurance companies, according to today's
statement. In December it bought shares in Osoul Leasing &
Finance Co. and told  Kuwait 's state news agency that it plans to
start a $1 billion bank in  Sudan  with local and Gulf partners.  
 Islamic Shariah law forbids the payment or receipt of
interest. The sukuk have been structured using a so-called
Mudarabah contract whereby International Investment will act as
the Mudarib, or manager, of the sukuk-holders' capital.  
 International Investment's shares gained 1 percent to close
at 390 fils in Kuwait today, giving the company a market value
of 136.5 million dinars ($474 million). The shares have lost 14
percent of their value this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Will McSheehy in Dubai, U.A.E. at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        