-- Russia-Belarus Gas Row May Harmonize EU Energy Policy
-- Katya Andrusz
-- 2006-12-28T15:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-28/russia-belarus-gas-row-may-harmonize-eu-energy-policy-update1-.html

          
          
             A dispute between Belarus and OAO
Gazprom that threatens to interrupt gas supplies to the European
Union next week may lead to a more integrated EU  energy policy  and
greater diversification of energy sources.  
 Gazprom changed a June demand that Belarus pays four times
more for its gas next year into a request this week that it sell
half of Beltransgaz, the country's pipeline operator, in return for
preferential pricing until 2011. Belarus broke off talks on Dec. 26
and threatened to halt or siphon off transit deliveries if Gazprom
shut down supplies, before agreeing today to resume talks.  
 ``Politically, there's an understanding among member states
that a more coordinated energy policy is vital,'' European
Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said today by telephone. ``The
EU is very dependent on foreign suppliers for both gas and oil, and
so it's clear that a more integrated energy policy is needed -- and
not only during a crisis.''  
 The EU became  Russia 's largest energy market in 2004, when 10
countries joined the bloc. Some commentators, particularly in the
former Soviet satellite states of Eastern Europe, say Russia is
using Gazprom to put political pressure on the EU.  
 ``Gas and oil have become instruments for Russia's imperialist
policy,'' Bronislaw Geremek, a European parliamentary deputy and
former Polish foreign minister, said in an interview with private
broadcaster TVN24.  
 German Concern  
 Russia temporarily cut off gas deliveries to Ukraine in
January over a similar price spat. The clash led to gas shortages
in EU countries including Germany, France and  Poland  and dented
Gazprom's reputation as a reliable supplier.  
 The German government said it is concerned, though it gave
assurances there was no danger of gas shortages in Germany should
Gazprom supplies be halted.  
 ``I appeal to both parties to reach a sustainable agreement
about the price as quickly as possible,'' Economy Minister Michael Glos said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Gazprom is taking advantage of its importance as a gas
exporter to raise prices and demand concessions from client
countries. Last week,  Georgia  agreed to pay more than double this
year's prices for gas in 2007, while Moldova will pay $170 per
1,000 cubic meters next year, up from $160 at present.  
 EU Energy Commissioner Andris Piebalgs pressed Belarus and
Russia to find a solution quickly and said the commission, the EU's
executive body, is monitoring the situation ``very closely,'' as it
may disrupt gas supplies to EU member states.  
 Supplies to Poland  
 Yesterday, Gazprom told Poland's gas monopoly, Polskie
Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA or PGNiG, that supplies may be
disrupted from Jan. 1 if Beltransgaz tapped transit gas for
Belarusian domestic use. Belarus pays $46.68 for 1,000 cubic meters
of gas, about a fifth of West European prices.  
 Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive  Alexander Medvedev  called
Belarus's threat to stop or use transit supplies an attempt to
``blackmail'' Europe and Russia. Located between Poland and Russia,
Belarus has been ruled for 12 years by President  Alexander
Lukashenko , who won a disputed third term this year in elections
the U.S. and the EU criticized as undemocratic.  
 Polish-Russian ties have been frosty since Gazprom signed a
contract last year with two German companies to build a pipeline
underneath the  Baltic Sea , a deal compared by Polish Defense
Minister Radoslaw Sikorski to the Hitler-Stalin Pact that carved up
Poland before World War II. Relations cooled further in November
when Poland vetoed EU trade talks with Russia until Russia lifted a
year-old ban on Polish food products.  
 `Extremely Dependent'  
 ``Poland is extremely dependent on the gas coming from
Russia,'' Altafaj said. ``It hasn't got the same stocks as other
countries; Poland hasn't developed the availability of stocks that
other countries have developed.''  
 While  Germany  has the fourth-largest gas reserves in the 25-member EU, according to German Economy Ministry spokeswoman Beatrix
Brodkorb, Poland has reserves of only 1.6 billion cubic meters,
estimated at enough to supply the country for just two to three
weeks if the winter becomes more severe.  
 ``We're still hoping the dispute is solved this week,'' said
Magdalena Kicinska, a PGNiG spokeswoman. ``We do have plans to
increase stocks, but that's an investment of months and not a few
weeks.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at   ckirkham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        