-- Deripaska Trial Should Be in U.K., Appeal Court Rules
-- James Lumley
-- 2009-07-31T15:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-07-31/deripaska-trial-should-be-in-u-k-appeal-court-rules-update1-.html

          
          
             Oleg Deripaska, formerly  Russia ’s
wealthiest man, can be sued in the U.K. by a former business
partner who is seeking at least $3 billion, a London court
ruled.  
 A U.K. court can hear the case, a three-judge panel at the
Court of Appeal said in London today. The judges upheld a lower
court ruling, which said the risks of holding a trial in Russia,
“such as assassination, arrest on trumped-up charges, and lack
of a fair trial,” meant that  England  is the better forum.  
 Michael Cherney , a Russian-born businessman, claimed
Deripaska failed to honor an agreement concerning stakes in two
aluminum companies. He contends Deripaska reneged on an
agreement to exchange part of Siberian Aluminium for a future
interest in Russian Aluminium, according to court documents.
Deripaska, 41, was formerly Russia’s richest man and saw his
wealth drop 88 percent in the past year to $3.5 billion,
according to  Forbes  magazine.  
 “The judge was entitled to hold that, although Russia is
the natural forum for the trial of the action, the risks Mr.
Cherney would be exposed to if the case were to be tried there
are sufficient to render England the appropriate forum,” Lord
Justice Martin Moore-Bick said in his part of the ruling today.  
 ‘Real Issues’  
 Cherney said in a statement handed out outside the
courtroom that he was pleased with the judgment. “I hope that
Mr. Deripaska will now focus on the real issues between us and I
look forward to moving towards an early trial of them in
 London ,” he said.  
 Lawyers for Deripaska argued in earlier hearings that
Russia was the proper jurisdiction. His spokesman, Edward Simpkins, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  
 Deripaska also controls Russia’s second-largest automaker,
OAO GAZ, which is partnering Magna International Inc. in its
potential acquisition of General Motors Corp.’s German Opel
unit. About one in every 100 Russians is economically reliant on
Deripaska’s companies, which also span pulp, cement and power
generation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The lawsuit is one of at least two cases involving Russian
billionaires in London’s Commercial Court. A dispute involving
 Boris Berezovsky ’s lawsuit against  Roman Abramovich  over a stake
in OAO Sibneft is also pending.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        