-- Mud Slingers Throw Ethics in Garbage Can: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-09-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-08-31/mud-slingers-throw-ethics-in-garbage-can-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             Brazil’s politicians, a rough and
tumble group under normal conditions, are wrestling in the mud
as they position themselves for next year’s presidential
election.  
 For the past five months, the country’s media have
chronicled one political scandal after another. Although none of
them directly involve Brazil’s popular President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, he’s feeling the heat as voters’ distrust of
politics grows and key allies are under investigation.  
 Lula has survived plenty of corruption scandals in his
administration since becoming president in 2003. His situation
might be different this time, and the stakes are high. With the
election only 14 months away, Lula will need all his survival
skills to preserve his legacy, pursue his legislative agenda and
help his chief of staff and hand-picked successor,  Dilma Rousseff , become Brazil’s next president.  
 Most of the corruption charges involve officials in the
Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, the country’s biggest
political organization, known as PMDB.  
 Lula, head of the PT Workers’ Party, believes PMDB’s
support will help him to achieve his goals. An alliance between
the two factions should increase Rousseff’s chances of victory.
In fact, it might turn out to be her undoing.  
 Rousseff, who has early stage lymphoma, intends to pick a
running mate from PMDB to help secure the group’s support. By
courting PMDB, though, Lula and Rousseff are cutting deals with
some of the country’s sleaziest politicians. Fingerprints of
PMDB politicians are all over most of the 87 corruption scandals
that have rocked the country this year.  
 Corruption Rules  
 Lula’s gamble is that Brazilian voters will support a
ticket that gives control of Latin America’s largest economy to
a party largely seen as unprincipled and self-serving.  
 “Corruption is what a large part of PMDB really wants,”
 Jarbas Vasconcelos , a former governor and a PMDB senator told
Veja magazine earlier this year.  
 During his first term, Lula refused to forge an alliance
and share cabinet positions with PMDB, fearing he might lose
control of his administration. To compensate for PMDB’s absence,
Lula worked hard to hold onto the other members of his
coalition. This led to accusations that Lula’s then-chief of
staff paid legislators for their votes in Congress.  
 The accusations almost cost Lula his re-election in 2006
and forced him to replace his chief aide with Rousseff. Having
learned the hard way that he needed PMDB’s support, Lula
corrected his mistake during his second term.  
 Doling Favors  
 Starting in 2007, Lula appointed dozens of PMDB politicians
to key federal positions, including six ministries with a
combined budget of 240 billion reais ($130 billion). One of
them, Mining and Energy, controls oil giant  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA  and  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA , Latin America’s
largest utility.  
 Party leaders wanted more, and Lula caved. He handed them
the Ministry of Congressional affairs and key leadership roles
in the Senate.  
 Lula really went overboard in February, when he helped PMDB
member and former Brazilian president  José Sarney  become the
chairman of the Senate, one of the most powerful posts in the
government.  
 Sarney isn’t exactly Mr. Clean. A career politician who led
Brazil from 1985 to 1990, he has spent the past five months
fighting charges of official misconduct and nepotism.  
 Caught on Tape  
 Lula’s support for Sarney broke precedent by giving control
of both houses of Congress to the same party. This left the
impression Lula needed PMDB to block potentially embarrassing
Congressional investigations, such as an ongoing probe of
misappropriated funds at  Petrobras.   
 Eager to guarantee PMDB’s support for Rousseff in 2010, and
tone deaf to public sentiment, Lula said Sarney “shouldn’t be
treated as an ordinary citizen.” This comes even with the
existence of tape recordings showing Sarney had a hand in
appointing his granddaughter’s boyfriend to a Senate position.  
 Recently, Lula’s followers cast decisive votes to bury all
of the Senate’s investigations against Sarney. In exchange,
PMDB’s support for Rousseff seems assured.  
 Lula’s defense of Sarney prompted Senator Flavio Arns --
from the president’s own party -- to resign. Arns said he is
“ashamed” to stay in a party that “threw ethics in the
garbage.”  
 In another blow to Lula, former Environment Minister  Marina Silva  earlier this month bolted from the president’s Workers’
Party, which she helped create 30 years ago. She probably will
run for president as the Green Party’s candidate, a move that
may prompt others to enter the race. A larger field can only
hurt Rousseff’s chances.  
 Records Erased  
 Meanwhile, Rousseff has her own problems. She’s accused of
meeting with the federal revenue secretary at the president’s
palace and pressuring her to end probes of Sarney’s family.
Rousseff denies the encounter took place. The secretary gave a
detailed account of their talk to a Congressional panel. Soon
afterward, the official’s driver switched jobs and dropped from
sight and the president’s security office said it has erased all
records of Rousseff’s visitors.  
 If Rousseff does get elected and her health worsens, it
would force a PMDB politician to take over. If that happens,
Brazil’s garbage cans will overflow.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alexandre Marinis in Sao Paulo at 
 amarinis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Brazil's president  
                       
                         
                           Adriano Machado/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Brazil's president, speaks during a news conference in Brasilia, Aug. 31, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Brazil's president, speaks during a news conference in Brasilia, Aug. 31, 2009. Photographer: Adriano Machado/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
