-- Warner Brothers, MGM Said to Start Production of `Hobbit' in February
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-15T22:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-10/mgm-studio-s-lenders-said-to-plan-vote-on-debt-restructuring-bankruptcy.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  and  Time
Warner Inc.’s  Warner Bros. film studio plan to start production
on “The Hobbit” in February after financing delays, three
people with knowledge of the situation said.  MGM was able to raise its half of the financing for the
shared production costs of the two-installment story based on
 J.R.R. Tolkien’s  “The Hobbit,” said the people, who declined
to be identified because the agreement is private. Production
expenses may reach $600 million, two of the people said.  “The Hobbit” has faced numerous delays this year
including the withdrawal of director  Guillermo del Toro  in May,
a fire at a production studio where parts of the movie were to
be shot and uncertainty surrounding MGM’s efforts to restructure
its debt. The fantasy adventure, which takes place before the
“Lord of the Rings” trilogy, will be released in 3-D.  Peter Jackson , who directed the “Lord of the Rings”
films, will direct and produce “The Hobbit.”  Susie Arons , a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based MGM,
declined to comment. Candice McDonough, a spokeswoman for Time
Warner’s New Line label, didn’t respond to a request for
comment. Jackson’s manager,  Ken Kamins , and his attorney, Peter
Nelson, didn’t return phone calls.  The production timing is tentative. It depends on the
resolution of a labor dispute and may also be affected by MGM’s
restructuring efforts, one of the people said.  The decision to move forward with production was reported
by the New York Times today.  Labor Squabble  Entertainment industry labor unions, including the Los
Angeles-based  Screen Actors Guild , are urging members to reject
non-union jobs on “The Hobbit” films. The guild issued a memo
to its members asking them to boycott the project in support of
efforts by New Zealand Actors Equity and Media Entertainment and
Arts Alliance, based in Australia, the website Deadline
Hollywood reported last month.  Jackson, in a statement also issued last month, threatened
to move production to another country, the website said.  The “Lord of the Rings” trilogy took in a total of $2.91
billion in global theatrical ticket sales, according to  Box
Office Mojo , a researcher based in Sherman Oaks, California.  The “Hobbit” may provide two new blockbusters for Time
Warner, which is releasing the final installment of “Harry
Potter” next year, and would provide a revenue boost for MGM,
which has been working to restructure $4 billion in debt.  Time Warner, based in New York,  rose  38 cents to $31.79 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 9.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 