-- Obama Urges Congress to Pass Small Business Aid
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-09-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-10/obama-urges-congress-to-end-blockade-pass-small-business-jobs-measure.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  challenged
congressional Republicans to make middle-class tax cuts
permanent before debating whether to keep them for the
wealthiest Americans.  
 Obama said at a White House news conference yesterday that
lawmakers should find agreement on initiatives to spur economic
growth and hiring, and on extension of Bush-era tax cuts for
individuals who make less than $200,000 a year and couples
earning less than $250,000.  
 Keeping the existing top rates as well, which Republicans
advocate, is unaffordable and won’t boost the economy, he said.  
 “We’ve got an area of agreement, which is let’s help
families out there who are having a tough time,” Obama said.
“Why hold the middle class hostage in order to do something
that most economists don’t think makes sense?”  
 With elections that will decide control of Congress less
than two months away, Obama is heading for a confrontation with
Republicans, who are seeking to take control of the House and
Senate from Democrats by making the November vote a referendum
on his stewardship of the world’s largest economy. The biggest
fight may be over tax cuts passed under former President  George W. Bush  and set to expire at the end of the year.  
 House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio and Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky are pushing a
compromise that would extend tax cuts for everyone for two
years. Boehner also proposes to freeze federal spending at the
2008 level, except for defense, national security and veterans’
programs.  
 ‘Bad Idea’  
 Obama said extending the tax cuts for the nation’s top
earners is a “bad idea” because it would cost $700 billion in
government revenue at a time of record budget deficits.  
 McConnell said he is “disappointed” in Obama’s insistence
on letting the top tax rate rise, saying it will hurt small
businesses.  
 “The president spent a lot of time blaming others and
talking about more government spending,” McConnell said in a
statement. “But Americans want to know that Washington is going
to stop the reckless spending and debt, the burdensome red tape
and job-killing taxes.”  
 Under Obama’s plan, the top marginal rate would increase to
39.6 percent from 35 percent currently for top earners.  
 Obama stopped short of threatening a veto of legislation
that would extend all the rates. “Certainly there’s going to be
room for discussion,” he said.  
 Economic Adviser  
 Obama also announced he is appointing  Austan Goolsbee  to
lead the White House Council of Economic Advisers, replacing
 Christina Romer . Romer announced last month she was leaving her
post to return to teaching at the University of California in
Berkeley.  
 The president said he recognized public frustration with
the pace of the recovery.  
 “Even though the economy is growing again,” Obama said,
“the hole the recession left was huge and progress has been
painfully slow.”  
 Obama blamed a “partisan minority” in the Senate for
holding up legislation to help small businesses. The bill, which
has passed the House, would provide $12 billion in tax breaks
and assistance to small businesses and $30 billion to encourage
lending.  
 This week he proposed a package of $180 billion in business
tax breaks and infrastructure spending. That would come on top
of the $814 billion stimulus measure enacted last year.  
 Growth and Jobs  
 The economy expanded at a 1.6 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, down from 3.7 percent in January through March,
and the unemployment rate was 9.6 percent last month. Only
723,000 people were added to company and government payrolls so
far in 2010, or 8.6 percent of the 8.4 million jobs lost during
the recession, which is the biggest employment slump in the
post-World War II era.  
 “For all the progress we’ve made, we’re not there yet,”
Obama said. “And that means people are angry.”  
 The non-partisan  Cook Political Report  in Washington
forecasts Republicans will get a net gain of at least 40 seats
in the House after November’s elections, giving them a majority.
In the Senate, the report says Republicans may gain as many as
nine seats, leaving the Senate with a 50-50 party split.  
 Obama cast the congressional election as a choice between
the policies of the last decade that led to the financial crisis
and moving forward. On that basis, “then I think Democrats will
do very well,” he said.  
 Middle East  
 At his eighth solo White House news conference since taking
office, Obama also said he has urged Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  to extend a moratorium on construction of
West Bank settlements to keep direct talks with the Palestinians
moving forward.  
 “It makes sense to extend that moratorium so long as the
talks are moving in a constructive way,” Obama said. At the
same time, Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  must
show Israelis that he is “serious and constructive in these
talks.”  
 The moratorium is set to expire Sept. 26. Abbas left the
U.S. brokered meeting in Washington last week vowing to break
off negotiations unless there is an extension. Netanyahu has
said the issue of the settlements should be tackled and resolved
during the direct talks not be used as an excuse to abandon
negotiations.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images 
                         
                         President Barack Obama answers questions during a news conference in the East Room of the White House. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama answers questions during a news conference in the East Room of the White House. Photographer: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 10 (Bloomberg) -- Mort Zuckerman, chairman of Boston Properties Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the economic performance of the Obama administration. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
