-- Reinsurers Face Falling Earnings on Bulging Reserves (Correct)
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-10-01T15:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-10/munich-re-swiss-re-and-rivals-face-falling-earnings-on-bulging-reserves.html
(Corrects to clarify capital figure in fourth paragraph of
story originally published on Sept. 10.)  European banks spent the past 18
months attempting to convince regulators and investors they have
sufficient reserves. The continent’s reinsurers have the
opposite problem: too much capital.  Earnings at reinsurers including Munich Re and Swiss
Reinsurance Co., which help primary insurers shoulder risks,
will fall this year as the highest levels of reserves on record
prompt firms to compete for business, driving down premium
rates, according to Fitch Ratings Ltd. Reinsurance companies and
brokers gather in Monte Carlo starting tomorrow to begin talks
with customers over January contract renewals.  “The capital positions are quite strong and we will
continue to see price declines,” said Markus Engels, who helps
manage $1.8 trillion at Allianz Global Investors in Frankfurt.
“The super-fat profits we’ve had for the last couple of years
are gone.”  The world’s 70 biggest reinsurers are holding about
$330 billion of capital, almost 40 percent more than in 2008,
according to data compiled by Fitch. That balance-sheet strength
is prompting more competition among firms, causing U.S. property
and casualty rates to fall to their lowest in 10 years,
according to the Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers.  “We’re expecting earnings to come under pressure over the
next 12-24 months,” said Chris Waterman, a senior credit
analyst at Fitch. “Capital for the industry is actually better
than it was before the financial crisis. That’s leading to a
softening rate environment.”  Fitch and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services have
“stable” outlooks on the reinsurance industry.  Record Losses  Record insured losses in the first half failed to prompt an
increase in rates. February’s 8.8-magnitude earthquake in Chile
and European winter storm Xynthia raised insurers’ losses to $22
billion in the first half, more than double the average loss for
the period since 2000, according to Munich Re.  Despite the losses, rates for property insurance declined
12 percent on average in July, U.S. broker Guy Carpenter said.
Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, said last month
premium rates dropped by about 3 percent during the July policy
renewal period and forecast “weaker industry profitability” in
the future, without giving a timeframe.  “Abundant capacity has depressed pricing,” said Chris
Klein, director of reinsurance at Guy Carpenter.  Major Disaster  A natural catastrophe costing the industry at least $30
billion would be needed for the premium rate environment to stem
declines, according to Hiscox Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
Bronek Masojada. Aon Benfield Group Ltd. co-CEO Dominic
Christian estimates a disaster costing $50 billion would be
necessary to wipe out excess capital and force insurers to raise
rates.  The last disaster with more than $30 billion of total
losses was Hurricane Ike in 2008, according to Munich Re.  Low interest rates in the world’s major economies may also
remain a drag on insurers’ earnings, as they squeeze investment
returns, according to Mark Coleman, a credit analyst at Standard
& Poor’s.  “Persistent low interest rates continue to suppress rate
adequacy and are producing returns we consider to be
uneconomic,” Coleman wrote in a Sept. 6 note to clients. “This
effect may be compounded if inflation takes hold.”  Buybacks and Dividends  One way to reduce the industry’s capital reserves is to
return money to shareholders, Allianz’s Engels said. Munich Re,
the world’s biggest insurer, has so much spare capital that it
plans to spend as much as 1 billion euros buying its own stock
before April next year. The buyback program was announced in
2007 and put on hold during the financial crisis.  “The market likes dividends more nowadays,” Engels said.
“Leaner capital management is definitely something positive.
Investors will ask companies for higher payouts and tell them
not to hoard capital.”  Contract renewal discussions are scheduled to continue at
an October meeting in Baden-Baden, Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 