-- Nationwide Profit Jumps 33% Amid `Fierce' Competition
-- Ben Livesey
-- 2006-11-16T08:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-16/nationwide-profit-jumps-33-amid-fierce-competition-update1-.html

          
          
             Nationwide Building Society , the
U.K.'s biggest customer-owned lender, said first-half profit jumped
33 percent as it regained market share amid ``fierce'' competition
for mortgages.  
 Net income advanced to 233.4 million pounds ($440.87 million)
in the six months to September 30, from 175.3 million pounds in the
year-earlier period, the Swindon, South East England-based lender
said today in a statement. Nationwide's net share of the British
mortgage market rose to 10.5 percent from 8.3 percent.  
 Nationwide will become Britain's second-biggest mortgage bank
after it completes the $934 million takeover of Portman Building
Society. Last year, Nationwide deliberately ``stepped back'' from
mortgages amid concerns that U.K. borrowers were taking on too much
debt, Finance Director Graham Beale said in an interview.  
 ``We got the call wrong so we wanted to get back our market
share,'' said Beale, who becomes chief executive officer in April.
``We feel very comfortable with the state of the market.''  
 Nationwide had 13.7 percent of U.K. mortgages at the end of
the first half of 2004. Portman's members still must approve the
takeover, which would help Nationwide leapfrog Santander Central
Hispano SA's Abbey National and Lloyds TSB Group Plc in the U.K.'s
market for home loans, trailing only HBOS Plc.  
 Net mortgage lending jumped 50 percent to 5.9 billion pounds
in the first half as the U.K housing market strengthened and the
company priced its loans more competitively, he said.  
 Personal Loans  
 Nationwide is maintaining a ``low risk'' profile for its new
lending amid ``fierce'' competition for mortgages, the bank said.  
 U.K. mortgage lenders are trying to grow market share and
improve cost controls amid increasing competition and rising
interest rates that threaten to damp U.K. home loan demand.  
 Personal loans fell 14 percent to 600 million pounds
reflecting a ``cautious approach'' as bad debts rose, Nationwide
said. Impairment losses on loans that may not be repaid increased
63 percent to 56.3 million pounds. The number of Nationwide credit
cards in issue rose 20 percent to 1.1 million, the bank said.  
 Beale, who succeeds Philip Williamson as CEO in April, said
the company is ``totally committed'' to maintaining its customer-owned status after the purchase of Portman.  
 Buying Portman will add wealth-management services to
Nationwide's consumer banking business, which offers mortgages,
checking and  savings accounts  as well as credit cards. The new
company will have more than 150 billion pounds of assets and 13
million customers, Nationwide said Sept. 12.  
 Acquisitions give Nationwide the scale to compete with rivals
such as Alliance & Leicester Plc and HBOS, Beale said. ``It is
going to be a good second half,'' he added.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in London 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder   ksnyder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        