-- Washington, Bernanke, Still Fighting Wrong War: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-01-05T02:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-04/washington-bernanke-still-fighting-wrong-war-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             Sometime soon the U.S. Senate is
expected to confirm Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  for a
second term. Soon the Senate will also vote on legislation to
overhaul the financial industry.  
 Neither action directly determines the U.S. monetary
outlook. Yet a monetary assumption underlies all of Washington’s
finance- or banking-related activity these days. The shared
belief is that the potential for deflation or credit-and-
deflation-related spirals deserve our near-exclusive attention.  
 One task for the Financial Services Oversight Council that
would be created by the House reform bill, for example, is to
sort out which are the too-big-to-fail institutions and prevent
future  Lehmans . In other words, we need to further systematize
the dumping of cash into companies and the economy or face
apocalypse.  
 Our leaders treat an inflation crisis as the lesser threat,
a remote possibility that warrants lip service, at most. Thus
over the weekend Bernanke mentioned the possibility of having to
increase interest rates at some later point -- but it was really
just a passing reference.  
 Depressions, in the general line of thinking, come from
deflation. Linking deflation and depression has become second
nature. It almost seems an alliterative link, as though the two
go together because both start with the same letters.  
 In their recent  Man of the Year  portrait of Bernanke, for
example, Time magazine editors seem to use the word depression
as a synonym for deflation. “The first thing any Depression
scholar comes to understand is that nothing -- not
hyperinflation, megadeficits or irked Chinese creditors -- is as
bad as a full-on Depression,” it said.  
 Effects of Deflation  
 Deflation, as we hear so often now, hurts good people,
strivers who over-borrow.  
 What’s the reality about deflation and inflation? Deflation
can cause depressions, as the U.S. saw in the early 1930s, the
period Bernanke has studied so intensely. In the Great
Depression, there wasn’t enough money around -- literally.
Lacking cash, banks collapsed, and good people did lose homes or
farms. More banks collapsed.  
 Deflation doesn’t always spell apocalypse. It can coexist
with prosperity -- or even perpetuate it. There was deflation in
the 1920s. Prices fell in 1923, and 1925 through 1928. The money
shortage hit one sector, farming, hard. Overall, the economy
grew. Unemployment stayed low. Vigilance on inflation kept
prices stable. Stable prices made life easier.  
 Steady Tuition  
 As Harvard University’s alumni  magazine  reported recently,
in wonderment, Harvard’s tuition stood at the same level, $150,
between 1870 and the beginning of World War II. Such consistency
is something tuition-juggling families would trade a lot of
financial-aid dollars for today.  
 What about inflation? Many economists treat inflation as an
acceptable evil. Over the weekend Bernanke spoke of concerns
about a “possible unwelcome decline in inflation.”  
 The trouble is that mild inflation can become significant
inflation faster than central banks can act. And significant
inflation can match deflation blow for blow. In the 1970s,
inflation coexisted with slow growth or outright shrinkage of
the economy. Those who don’t think about inflation also didn’t
think about the first half of 1980, when West Coast mortgage
rates rose to 17.5 percent. That meant people could afford less
house than today. The U.S. homeownership rate dropped below 65
percent and did not come back until 1996.  
 Wheelbarrows of Cash  
 The German hyperinflation of the early 1920s lives in
memory as a black-and-white visual of men with caps pushing
around wheelbarrows of cash. This cartoon obscures bitter
reality. Hyperinflation isn’t the opposite of depression. It’s a
kind of depression. The effects of Germany’s hyperinflation were
worse than the effect of our Great Depression.  
 Like a deflation, the German hyperinflation ruined the
lives of good people, many of whom were not rich. How? By making
fixed incomes -- pensions, government salaries -- worthless.  
 In the same years that deflation ruined the farmer in
Minnesota, inflation was ruining the bureaucrat in Germany: “A
man who had been saving for 40 years and who, furthermore, has
patriotically invested his all in war bonds, became a beggar,”
said the author Stefan Zweig,  according  to “Culture and
Inflation in Weimar Germany” by historian Bernd Widdig.  
 The creepy thing about hyperinflation is that it also ruins
businesses, as well as charitable and educational institutions.
None can plan. As Widdig notes in his book, “The Department of
Canonical Law at the University of Munich had a budget of 2,000
marks in 1922. Yet the subscription price for a single scholarly
journal was already 10,000 marks.”  
 Inflation Misery  
 Hyperinflation has a capacity to mock virtue that deflation
lacks. Even that symptom that we tend to assume is unique to the
Great Depression, raging unemployment, came eventually. In 1924,
unemployment among German union workers was 24 percent.
Hyperinflation helped make Hitler possible. Much more recently,
in Zimbabwe, hyperinflation helped keep President  Robert Mugabe 
in power. Serious inflation has dogged Latin America for a
century, causing, overall, magnitudes more misery than even the
storied deflation of Japan.  
 It is monetary narcissism on the part of the U.S. to assume
that just because serious inflation hasn’t occurred here lately,
it can’t materialize in 2011, 2012 or 2015.  
 Two centuries ago, the Prussian military expert Carl von
Clausewitz warned that generals who fight the last war confront
defeat in the next. Clausewitz’s rule holds true for 21st
century monetary policy makers as well. There is nothing about
deflation that is more modern than inflation.  
 Optimal Fed  
 The optimal Fed fights for stable money alone, not
employment as well. The optimal financial governance reform
replaces discretion with a rules-based system that treats
inflation and deflation like twins.  
 The current legislative proposals won’t yield either an
optimal Fed or an optimal financial reform. So it’s all up to
Chairman Ben. That means not only making statements about future
bubbles, but using his moral authority to push through reforms
that make it easier for our system to prevent inflation as well
as deflation. Herr Bernanke, meet Herr Clausewitz.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
          
          


  


        