-- Buffett Is Less Bullish on U.S. Than You Think: Alice Schroeder
-- Alice Schroeder
-- 2009-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-04/buffett-is-less-bullish-on-u-s-than-you-think-alice-schroeder.html

          
          
             To the unschooled ear,  Warren Buffett ’s reassuring words that “America’s best days lie
ahead” and that he’s buying U.S. stocks sound prescient, not
preposterous.  
 But fair warning -- he’s not as bullish as he sounds.  
 Buffett has been right so often that what his words mean,
and whether he is right now, are important questions. His skill
as a forecaster has a lot to do with his psychology: a buoyant
optimism tempered by extreme caution that let him score killings
on stocks such as Geico and  American Express Co.  while steering
clear of speculative bubbles, leverage, subprime mortgages, and
trying to figure out a rescue for his pal  Hank Greenberg ’s
company American International Group Inc.  
 In temperament, he could be the son of  Woody Allen  and
 Doris Day .  
 His reputation as a seer took a hit in the public’s mind
last October when the market tanked after his New York Times  op-
ed , “Buy American: I Am.”  
 Was he just talking his book?  
 It doesn’t really matter. As much as he loves money,
Buffett loves his reputation a whole lot more. He never risks
going on the record unless he is pretty sure he won’t be found
wrong later.  
 What makes him so certain? He has explained his ebullient
view of the economy using historical analogies instead of
economic data. He has said that trying to call the bottom of the
market is futile; buy into fear. The U.S. has surmounted worse
troubles before, and it will survive this, too: “Your children
and grandchildren will live better and better” than you.  
 Nostalgia Investing  
 Buffett seems to hearken back to mid-20th century America,
when each decade brought us a higher living standard. The
concern has been whether he is extrapolating from his own
experiences rather than analyzing the future.  
 There’s evidence, though, that Buffett is awake to
America’s problems. He says there will be no quick rebound in
consumer spending, the economy has “fallen off a cliff,” and
we are now “fighting a war.” Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s real-
estate arm just estimated that the backlog of unsold houses is
double the official figures.  
 The state run by Buffett’s friend, Arnold “Governator”
Schwarzenegger, is broke. Peter Kiewit Sons’ Inc., the company
that occupies every floor of the building Buffett works in
except his own, is getting rich repairing America’s decayed
infrastructure. Buffett himself is part of the headwind blown by
our aging population against gross-domestic-product growth.  
 No Fun  
 Buffett doesn’t enjoy watching Berkshire labor under the
burden of U.S. regulations and litigiousness, pay taxes that
fund expensive military commitments overseas, and struggle
against the financial quicksand of the health-care system.
Recently, Berkshire’s  profits  have been hurt by a U.S. economy
with too few jobs and over-reliance on debt-driven consumer
spending.  
 Buffett and his partner,  Charlie Munger , touched on this
point at the Berkshire shareholder meeting when they referred to
labor concessions being made to save jobs and described what
they view as China’s inexorable economic expansion. Rather than
dwell on his belief in Ricardian theory of comparative
advantage, under which U.S. workers have little bargaining power
to increase their incomes, Buffett, as is typical, framed this
issue positively: A recovery will come from “unleashing human
potential,” that is, productivity gains.  
 That’s a rational perspective. I believe Buffett’s optimism
about the country is genuine. It’s a big-picture sort of
optimism, though. Economists who are debating whether there will
be a recovery in 2010 are living in a different world than
Buffett, whose comparisons to periods as traumatic as World War
II and the Civil War should sober anyone who thinks we are going
to turn the economy on a dime.  
 Buffett’s Ace  
 Somebody could have said: “Your children and grandchildren
will live better than you” in 1932, and that would have been
reason to buy stocks, as well as reason to be nervous.  
 Buffett has also got an ace in the hole: inflation.  
 His advice for protecting against inflation is, first, to
increase your earning power. That’s sort of difficult these days
for most of us.  
 Second, invest in businesses or stocks. Even if the nominal
profits from a business are gouged by inflation, a good business
provides some real return over time.  
 He’s put his money where his mouth is. While he counsels
long-term investing, he trades his personal account more
actively -- this is how he keeps his restless predatory instinct
sated. Last year he began moving out of bonds into U.S. stocks.  
 But if inflation is such a problem, why only U.S. stocks?
Is he just patriotic, or shilling for President  Obama ?  
 Hard to Separate  
 Buffett doesn’t shill for anybody but himself, but with him
it’s also hard to separate patriotism from prudence. He has been
slow to invest outside the U.S. and has always described major
U.S. stocks as global enough for most investors.  
 Moreover, he always advises that the financially naïve
should act with even more caution than he displays himself.
Years ago, he recommended only municipal and government bonds as
investments for divorced women. It’s inconceivable that he would
tell the Average Joe it’s OK to buy global when he isn’t.  
 Once you disentangle all these strands -- the cautious
Buffett who tends his reputation, Buffett the long-term
optimist, Buffett the realist about economics, Buffett the hawk
on inflation, and Buffett the domestic investor -- it turns out
that Buffett is bullish, but not as  bullish  as he sounds. His
optimism is long-term in nature, and inflation is his hedge.  
 Consider yourself warned.  
 ( Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball: Warren Buffett
and the Business of Life” and a senior adviser to Morgan
Stanley, is a Bloomberg News columnist. She recently purchased
Berkshire Hathaway shares. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Warren Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., at the Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholder meeting in Omaha, Nebraska, May 3, 2009. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
