-- Oerlikon Advances After Credit Facility Is Amended
-- Antonio Ligi
-- 2009-06-04T17:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-04/oerlikon-advances-after-credit-facility-is-amended-update3-.html

          
          
             OC Oerlikon Corp., the Swiss
manufacturer controlled by Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg , rose 6 percent in Zurich after its banks agreed to
amend a 2.5 billion Swiss franc ($2.3 billion) credit facility.  
 Oerlikon, based in  Pfaeffikon, Switzerland, gained  as much
as 12 percent, the most since April 14, before closing 4.05
francs higher at 71.10 francs. The stock has  climbed  more than
threefold since March 2 after losing 93 percent the previous 12
months.  
 “The amendment of the syndicated loan is the first
important step in strengthening the group’s financial
position,” Chief Financial Officer Jürg Fedier said in an e-mailed  statement .  
 Oerlikon will pay interest of 175 basis points to 450 basis
points above the London interbank offered rate under the
agreement. It agreed to pledge shares in subsidiaries as
collateral. The company reiterated its goal to return to  profit 
in 2010 and to streamline its portfolio. Oerlikon agreed this
week to sell a unit that makes components for satellites and
space launch vehicles.  
 “The amendment of the credit facility with the agreed
terms is good news as the interest conditions are better than we
would have assumed,” Patrick Rafaisz, an analyst at Bank
Vontobel AG in Zurich, said in a research note.  
 Oerlikon had a 2008  loss  of 422 million francs on
writedowns and costs from a divestment. Cloth makers in  Turkey ,
 India  and  China  are reining in purchases to combat a slump in
 consumer spending  and rising costs for credit and investment.
The company is considering selling textile-machinery and drive-system units that made up more than half of 2008 sales.  
 The Swiss maker of spinning machines and solar-panel
equipment, is looking “very seriously” at a capital increase
in the second half of this year to strengthen the balance sheet,
Chairman Vladimir Kuznetsov said in an interview May 12.  
 Kuznetsov is chief investment officer of Vekselberg’s
investment vehicle Renova, which holds about 45 percent of
Oerlikon.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Antonio Ligi in Zurich at 
 aligi@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at   anoel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        