-- Babcock revises $2.2 bln NorthWestern bid
-- By  Denny Thomas
-- Tue Jun 26, 2007 2:27am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/26/businesspro-northwestern-babcock-dc-idUSSYD17482420070626

 

 SYDNEY  (Reuters) - Australia's Babcock & Brown 
Infrastructure Ltd. BBI.AX made a revised takeover offer for 
U.S. utility NorthWestern Energy Corp. NWEC.O after a 
regulator blocked its initial US$2.2 billion bid on concerns 
the deal was not in the interests of customers. 

  BBI shares rose as much as 3.5 percent on Tuesday, 
outperforming a decline in the broader market .AXJO, with 
some traders expecting the modified bid to win the support of 
regulators in the western state of Montana, giving the company 
a foothold in the U.S. gas and electricity transmission market.  Still, the deal was far from done.  "There is still a lot of work to do. This takes it some 
good steps forward. It certainly looks a lot better than it did 
yesterday," Babcock & Brown Infrastructure (BBI) Chief 
Executive Officer Jeff Kendrew told Reuters on Tuesday.  The new proposal offers US$20 million in refunds to 
customers in Montana and a commitment to spend at least US$380 
million to bolster existing operations in the state.  BBI also proposed to slash the debt component of the 
purchase by half, to US$250 million, with a corresponding 
increase in equity.  NorthWestern and BBI would also create a locally managed 
Montana utility subsidiary with its own board and management.  BBI committed not to sell or transfer its ownership 
interest in the Montana unit outside of a Babcock & 
Brown-managed fund for 10 years.  BBI also said the Montana subsidiary will not make 
distributions in any calendar year in excess of its net 
earnings.  "We note that BBI has made a commitment to restrict 
dividends from the utility to net income, which we understood 
was a key point of contention from BBI's side previously," said 
Nathan Lead, an analyst with Wilson HTM Investment Group.  "Usually the net income from a utility is quite a lot lower 
than their actual cash flow," Lead added.  BBI shares eased from early highs but were still up by 2.05 
percent at A$1.745 at 0534 GMT. The stock is down 6.2 percent 
since the start of the year.  Last month, the Montana Public Service Commission made a 
preliminary ruling opposing BBI's proposed purchase of 
NorthWestern.  "The joint applicants, and particularly BBI, have heard the 
Commission loud and clear," BBI's Kendrew said in a statement.  "They said we did not provide explicit benefits to Montana, 
made promises that lacked commitments, and did not provide 
sufficient assurances as to how BBI would make an already good 
company even better for Montana. We are responding to those 
concerns promptly and comprehensively," he added.  NorthWestern serves about 628,500 electric and natural gas 
customers in Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska.  BBI raised A$422.1 million by selling new shares in 
February to help fund the NorthWestern purchase. But it said 
that if the transaction does not proceed it could deploy the 
capital in other deals, which would be equally earnings 
positive.  In July last year a consortium led by a Macquarie Bank 
MBL.AX managed fund and Diversified Utility and Energy Trusts 
( DUE.AX ) bought electric utility Duquesne Light Holdings Inc. 
for $1.59 billion.  "The deal highlights the political risks faced in dealing 
with different state-based regulators in the U.S. Given we are 
unsure whether the proposal will proceed we are maintaining our 
hold rating on BBI," Lead added.  ($1=A$1.18)