-- Federer Reaches Quarters; Fish Loss Leaves One U.S. Man in Open
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-09-07T04:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-04/jankovic-swept-out-of-u-s-open-tennis-as-wind-helps-kanepi-to-victory.html

          
          
             Even  Roger Federer  needs a little
luck sometimes. The 16-time Grand Slam champion got a break at
the U.S. Open while rolling into his 26th consecutive Grand Slam
quarterfinal.  
 The second-seeded Swiss, a five-time U.S. Open champion,
defeated  Jurgen Melzer  in straight sets last night to move on to
a quarterfinal showdown with  Robin Soderling  -- who beat Federer
in this year’s French Open quarterfinals.  
 “I expect it to be really tough, especially now that
he’s gotten a taste of how to beat me,” the 29-year-old Federer
said in a news conference.  
 Federer, who had 10 aces in his 6-3, 7-6 (7-4), 6-3 victory
against 13th-seeded Austrian Melzer, lucked out when his service
return midway through the second-set tiebreaker hit the net and
trickled over. The score was tied 4-4 when Federer won that
point, giving him a chance to wrap up the set with two serves,
which he did, yelling “Come on!” as he took the set.  
 Melzer, 29, who has never reached the quarterfinals at the
U.S. Open, clenched his fists and bellowed into the night air
after losing the set.  
 “You couldn’t be more lucky in a tiebreaker than he was,”
Melzer said in a news conference. “I wasn’t happy with my
fortune, let’s put it that way.”  
 Djokovic Ousts Fish  
 Earlier in the day,  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia defeated  Mardy Fish  to leave one American man in the tournament and top-seeded
woman  Caroline Wozniacki  reached the quarterfinals.  
 Third-seeded Djokovic won 6-3, 6-4, 6-1 against the 19th-
seeded Fish to move into the quarterfinals for the fourth
straight year. Djokovic was runner-up in 2007 and a semifinalist
the past two years.  
 Fish’s loss left 20th-seeded  Sam Querrey  as the only
remaining American man. Ninth-seeded  Andy Roddick  lost in the
second round and No. 18  John Isner  was defeated in the third
round at the National Tennis Center in New York.  
 “I had some chances, I just didn’t execute,” Fish said in
a news conference. “He kicked my butt.”  
 The women’s quarterfinals begin today, with two-time
champion  Venus Williams  facing French Open champion  Francesca Schiavone  in an afternoon match. Williams, an American, is the
third seed, while Schiavone, an Italian, is seeded sixth.  
 Tonight, defending champion and No. 2 seed  Kim Clijsters 
faces fifth-seeded Australian  Samantha Stosur .  
 Querrey vs. Wawrinka  
 The men complete their fourth round today. Querrey plays
25th-seeded Swiss  Stanislas Wawrinka , who upset No. 4  Andy Murray  in the third round, and top-seeded  Rafael Nadal  faces a
fellow Spaniard, No. 23  Feliciano Lopez .  
 Djokovic, the 2008 Australian Open champion, next will meet
 Gael Monfils , who advanced by defeating fellow Frenchman  Richard Gasquet  in straight sets. The 17th-seeded Monfils served 14 aces
and won 6-4, 7-5, 7-5 to reach the quarterfinals for the first
time.  
 Soderling, a fifth-seeded Swede, defeated 21st-seeded
Spaniard  Albert Montanes  in four sets.  
 Wozniacki, the women’s No. 1 seed from Denmark, took
advantage of nine double faults by 14th-seeded Russian  Maria Sharapova  to win 6-3, 6-4 and claim a place in the last eight.
Sharapova, the 2006 U.S. Open champion, had 36 unforced errors
while Wozniacki had 10 in a match of long baseline rallies.  
 “That’s great tennis when there’s good rallies,”
Wozniacki said in a news conference. “It’s good for the crowd
as well. It just feels great.”  
 The 2004 champion, 11th-seeded Russian  Svetlana Kuznetsova ,
was ousted 7-5, 7-6 (7-4) by unseeded  Dominika Cibulkova  of
Slovakia, who plays Wozniacki next.  
 Kaia Kanepi , the 31st seed from Estonia, also advanced.
She’ll play seventh-seeded Russian  Vera Zvonareva , who won 6-1,
6-2 last night against unseeded German  Andrea Petkovic .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  at the U.S. Open at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Andy Murray of Great Britain reacts  
                       
                         
                           Matthew Stockman/Getty Images 
                         
                         Andy Murray of Great Britain reacts during his match against Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland on day seven of the 2010 U.S. Open in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Andy Murray of Great Britain reacts during his match against Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland on day seven of the 2010 U.S. Open in New York. Photographer: Matthew Stockman/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland celebrates  
                       
                         
                           Matthew Stockman/Getty Images 
                         
                         Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland celebrates match point against Andy Murray of Great Britain during the men's singles match on day seven of the 2010 U.S. Open in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland celebrates match point against Andy Murray of Great Britain during the men's singles match on day seven of the 2010 U.S. Open in New York. Photographer: Matthew Stockman/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Rafael Nadal of Spain celebrates  
                       
                         
                           Nick Laham/Getty Images 
                         
                         Rafael Nadal of Spain celebrates after defeating Gilles Simon of France during the men's singles match on day seven of the 2010 U.S. Open in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Rafael Nadal of Spain celebrates after defeating Gilles Simon of France during the men's singles match on day seven of the 2010 U.S. Open in New York. Photographer: Nick Laham/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
