-- ICE urges CBOT members to defy board on CME deal
-- By  Ros Krasny
-- Thu May 31, 2007 9:19pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/01/businesspro-ice-cbot-dc-idUSN3125541120070601

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - IntercontinentalExchange ( ICE.N ), on 
Thursday took its unsolicited takeover proposal for the Chicago 
Board of Trade directly to members of the CBOT, urging them to 
support ICE's bid over that of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange 
CME.N. 

  Jeffrey Sprecher, chief executive of the Atlanta-based 
energy mart, addressed several hundred CBOT members in an 
hours-long question-and-answer session at a downtown Chicago 
hotel.  ICE has been vying with CME for CBOT Holdings since 
mid-March, stepping into the middle of a deal that seemed to be 
progressing toward the marriage of the two largest U.S. futures 
exchanges.  At Thursday's meeting, which was also Webcast and 
teleconferenced, Sprecher stressed the 14-percent premium that 
ICE's bid holds to the CME proposal, which was endorsed by 
CBOT's board of directors this month.  CBOT's board has cited greater integration risk involved in 
a possible deal with ICE compared with CME.  The CME and CBOT already have a joint agreement for 
clearing futures trades, and have been working on integration 
issues since their proposed merger was announced in October.  By contrast, ICE's U.S.-based clearing facility is a 
fraction of the size of CME Clearing.  "Is there integration risk? Yeah. Every merger has 
integration risk," Sprecher said. "If you really want a no-risk 
merger you have one choice."  Sprecher said that CBOT members and shareholders, as well 
as the U.S. Department of Justice, all had a say in the CBOT's 
future plans, but that only the CBOT's board had been heard 
from so far.  One long-time CBOT member, Harlan Krumpfes, thanked 
Sprecher for unlocking billions of dollars in additional value 
at CBOT compared with the CME's original takeover proposal made 
in October.  The CBOT should replace the statue of Ceres, the goddess of 
grain, from atop its historic Art Deco building with Sprecher's 
likeness, Krumpfes said.  Responding to the ICE bid, CME this month raised its bid 
for CBOT by about 16 percent from the original October level, 
to about $9.2 billion.  Some members said they were worried that ICE sees the Board 
of Trade's historic open-outcry trading floors more as an 
anachronism than an asset, and would quickly move to shutter 
the floors once a merger took place.  Sprecher said that trading floors closed at some of ICE's 
other exchange properties had been done at the request of 
members, not against their will.  CBOT members and shareholders, as well as CME shareholders, 
are due to hold separate ballots on July 9 on whether or not to 
approve the CME-CBOT merger.  CBOT's board distributed letters to members this week 
outlining the benefits of the CME-CBOT combination to members 
and shareholders.  The proposed deal is also subject to approval from the DOJ, 
which is thought to be casting a keen eye on a combination that 
would control more than 85 percent of U.S. futures and options 
on futures volume.  On the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday ICE closed at 
$144.94 per share, down $3.77 or 2.5 percent. CME closed at 
$531.00, up $3.15 or 0.6 percent, and CBOT closed at $196.61, 
down $1.01 or 0.5 percent.