-- Billionaire Branson Plans to Enter Russian Air Market
-- William Mauldin
-- 2008-01-31T17:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-31/billionaire-branson-plans-to-enter-russian-air-market-update2-.html

          
          
             Richard Branson , the billionaire who
controls U.K. carrier Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., plans to
start an airline in Russia to tap into a market growing at 10
percent a year.  
 Branson is in talks with two or three possible local
investors and may name a partner within three months to set up a
carrier tentatively called Virgin Russia, the entrepreneur said
in an interview at an investor conference in Moscow today.  
 ``What they haven't got is a decent airline'' in the
country, Branson said.  
 Russian carriers, led by state-controlled  OAO Aeroflot (AFLT) , are
leasing more aircraft, starting routes and forming international
partnerships as economic growth buoyed by  oil prices  boosts
leisure and business travel. The country, which spans 11 time
zones, is home to more than 160 airlines. The government is
pushing carriers to merge, with Aeroflot and OAO AirUnion to form
 Russia 's two dominant competitors.  
 Sky Express, a discount airline, and Branson's
representatives have held discussions and may reach an agreement
in two months, Vitaly Korenyugin, a spokesman for the Moscow-based carrier, said in a telephone interview today. Talks
included development of low-budget travel in Russia, though the
form of any partnership has yet to be identified, he said.  
 Aviation Holdings  
 Besides London-based Virgin Atlantic, Branson's aviation
holdings include Brisbane-based Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd., which
began flying in August 2000, and a stake in Burlingame,
California-based Virgin America Ltd., which started service five
months ago. The entrepreneur said Jan. 21 that he may start a
domestic Indian carrier.  
 Virgin Russia may begin operations within 12 months, a
project requiring ``hundreds of millions of dollars of
investment,'' Branson said. The carrier will initially fly
domestic routes, though may add destinations abroad.  
 A partner wouldn't have to be another airline, as ``what we
are looking for is people we can trust, people we could work
with,'' Branson added.  
 Russia's economy expanded by 8.1 percent last year, the
fastest pace since 2000, according to government figures released
today, and the country is in its 10th consecutive year of growth.
Russian airlines flew 45 million passengers last year, an 18
percent increase from 2006,  Transport Ministry  numbers show.  
 Aeroflot's Market Share  
 Aeroflot has an 11 percent share of Russia's scheduled
domestic flights and 65 percent of international services. The
airline is awaiting government approval to consolidate Dalavia
and Sakhalin Aviatrassi, a regional carrier in Russia's Far East.  
 ``The Russian market is competitive and is attracting more
and more interest, with various business models,'' Aeroflot
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Lev Koshlyakov said in a telephone
interview from Moscow today. ``A new player coming in will make
everyone mobilize their resources.''  
 Sky Express began operations a year ago and flies to nine
domestic destinations from Moscow, including the Black Sea resort
of Sochi, the Arctic town of Murmansk and  St. Petersburg ,
Russia's second-biggest city. The airline is majority owned by
Boris Abramovich, the Russian businessman who controls Hungary's
former state-owned carrier Malev Zrt., and has the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development as an investor.  
 Russian authorities ran an unscheduled flight safety probe
last year into unspecified incidents at Sky Express, according to
the Transportation Ministry's Web site. Korenyugin of Sky Express
said investigators from the Federal Service of Transport
Oversight concluded that the incidents didn't influence flight
safety.  
 Timur Khikmatov, a spokesman for the ministry, said by phone
today that the ministry will announce its ruling on the airline
on Feb. 4. He said he was unaware of Branson's plans.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
William Mauldin in Moscow at 
 wmauldin1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        