-- Peruvian Miners May Vote on Strike Over Pensions
-- Alex Emery
-- 2008-01-31T23:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-31/peruvian-miners-may-vote-on-strike-over-pensions-update1-.html

          
          
             Peru's mine workers may vote
tomorrow on a national strike to push for legislation on better
pensions, profit-sharing and rights for subcontracted labor.  
 The unions, which held two national strikes last year, met
today to discuss a work stoppage to pressure Congress on passing
new  labor laws , Cirilo Yarihuaman, a federation spokesman, said
in a telephone interview from  Lima . The group represents about
28,000 miners and 70 unions.  
 ``We're going to set a strike date to speed up
legislation,'' Yarihuaman said. ``We haven't seen much progress
on these bills.''  
 Strikes last year cut copper output in Peru, Chile and
 Mexico . The price of the metal has doubled in the past three
years, partly because of labor disputes and supply disruptions.
Workers at  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) 's largest mine in Mexico ended
a five-month strike Jan. 11.  
 Peru is the world's third-largest copper, zinc and tin
producer, the largest in silver and fifth-largest for gold.  
 Carlos Galvez, chief financial officer of precious metals
producer  Cia. De Minas Buenaventura SA (BVN) , said today in a
interview that the company has good labor relations at its
Orcopampa and Uchucchacua mines.  
 ``It's completely out of our hands,'' Galvez said. ``If
there's a strike, it'll be for political reasons.''  
 Copper futures for March delivery rose 7.15 cents, or 2.2
percent, to $3.298 a pound on the Comex division of the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Gold futures reached a record $942.20 an
ounce yesterday and are up 41 percent in the past 12 months.  
 Zinc surged 7 percent, the most since April, on concern
power shortages in  China  will slash supplies. The price jumped
$165 to $2,515 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        