-- Gazprom Cuts Ukraine Gas by 50%, Risking EU Exports
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2008-03-04T18:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-04/gazprom-cuts-ukraine-gas-by-50-risking-eu-exports-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom,  Russia 's largest energy
producer, cut natural-gas supplies to Ukraine by 50 percent as a
price disagreement escalated, risking a repeat of supply
disruptions to European consumers during a dispute two years ago.  
 Gazprom began reducing deliveries at 8 p.m. Moscow time
today, company spokesman  Sergei Kupriyanov  said on state
television. Ukraine won't decide how to react until a government
meeting tomorrow, said Dmytro Marunich, a spokesman for state-run
energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy.  
 Naftogaz said earlier today it may be forced to tap Russian
shipments bound for the European Union if Gazprom cut deliveries
further. Gazprom, which supplies a quarter of  Europe 's gas,
depends on Ukraine to ship 80 percent of its exports to the EU.  
 ``Europe's energy supply now depends on how much gas Ukraine
has in storage and if they can find a solution before it runs
out,'' said James Beadle, portfolio manager at Pilgrim Asset
Management in Moscow.  
 The dispute is reminiscent of a standoff in January 2006,
when Russia cut supplies to Ukraine completely, causing gas
volumes across Europe to fall. Today's reduction may undermine
attempts by Gazprom to reassure customers it's a reliable supplier
and spur a new round of calls for finding alternatives to Russian
energy.  
 New Reduction Threat  
 ``If Ukraine doesn't return to the negotiating table, I can't
rule out a decision will be made to cut deliveries further,''
Kupriyanov said. Gazprom yesterday made an initial reduction of 25
percent to press Ukraine to pay an outstanding debt.  
 ``We look to both parties to ensure that gas supplies to the
EU remain unaffected,'' European Union Energy Commissioner  Andris
Piebalgs  said in a statement before Gazprom announced the new cut.  
 Naftogaz can only guarantee stable supplies to Europe as long
as Ukraine's energy security isn't threatened, the company said
before the additional reduction. Gazprom has ignored Naftogaz's
proposals to solve outstanding problems, including a draft
agreement the Ukrainian company submitted yesterday, according to
the statement.  
 E.ON AG is receiving its planned deliveries of Russian gas,
spokeswoman Astrid Zimmermann said after the second cut.  
 ``We just have to wait and see how Ukraine reacts. All of our
customers can be sure they will receive full deliveries from us,
even if flows from Russia were to be reduced,'' she said.  
 Naftogaz said the new proposals are based on an agreement
reached in the Kremlin on Feb. 12 by President  Viktor Yushchenko 
and his Russian counterpart,  Vladimir Putin . Ukraine's prime
minister, Yulia Timoshenko, has since sought to reject the accord.  
 The Russian company claims Ukraine has run up a debt of $600
million since the start of the year because it had to ship more
expensive Russian gas to compensate for a shortfall in supplies
from Central Asia, which experienced an unusually cold winter.
Gazprom says Russian gas accounted for a quarter of deliveries to
Ukrainian consumers this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucian Kim in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        