-- U.K. Homeowners Are Concerned About Mortgage Payments
-- Simon Packard
-- 2008-03-04T14:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-04/u-k-homeowners-are-concerned-about-mortgage-payments-update2-.html

          
          
             As many as one in five U.K. mortgage-
holders are concerned about meeting their loan payments over the
next 12 months, according to a Financial Services Authority survey.  
 About 1.4 million fixed-rate mortgages revert this year to
higher interest rates, the U.K.'s financial markets regulator said.
That will force most homeowners either to cut spending or take out
a new loan costing more than their current mortgage payments.  
 ``Economic conditions are getting tougher, putting pressure
on family finances,'' Chris Pond, the FSA's director of
financial capability, said today in a statement announcing a 2
million-pound ($4 million) campaign to advise homeowners on
managing their repayments.  
 Consumer confidence  fell to a 13-year low in February as
 home prices  declined and higher prices unsettled shoppers,
according to a poll by GfK NOP Ltd. released last week. While the
 Bank of England   lowered its benchmark interest rate  last month,
most banks aren't passing on cheaper borrowing costs as they seek
to weather funding difficulties in global credit markets.  
 The collapse of the U.S. mortgage market triggered an
increase in global borrowing costs. The world's largest banks
have incurred $181 billion in writedowns for mortgage-related
investments or associated losses.  
 Lenders Hoard Cash  
 Since the central bank lowered its benchmark  interest rate 
by 0.25 percentage point Feb. 7, at least 34 lenders have either
left their lending rates unchanged or have only lowered
partially rates for variable-rate mortgages, according to
personal finance Web Site  Moneyfacts.  Cheltenham & Gloucester, a
unit of Lloyds TSB Plc, last week stopped offering loans for 95
percent or more of a home's value.  
 In January, lenders lowered interest rates on the most
popular mortgages by less than half of the 0.25-point reduction
made by the Bank of England in December, central bank data show.  
 Mortgage approvals dropped to a nine-year low in January as
banks restricted lending and the housing market weakened.  U.K.
home prices  fell for a fourth month in February in the worst
slide since 2000,  Nationwide Building Society , the country's
third-largest mortgage lender, said last week.  
 The Bank of England said last month there was ``little
evidence'' to suggest that widespread defaults were likely on
mortgage repayments unless there was a significant rise in
``unemployment or mortgage rates.''  
 The central bank will probably cut its benchmark rate to
4.75 percent by midyear and 4.5 percent by Dec. 31, from 5.25
percent now, according to the weighted average of 20 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Pathfinder  
 The FSA's homeowner program is part of wider effort by the
organization and the government to help consumers manage their
finances in the face of tightening credit conditions.  
 Britons have a record debt of 1.4 trillion pounds, the highest
level in the Group of Seven most advanced economies. Yesterday, the
U.K. government announced that it would set up an agency to help
consumers save as much as 300 million pounds a year.  
 The agency will be led by the FSA under a two-year pilot
program named Pathfinder. The agency will advise people on state
benefits and extend help in managing debt, saving for retirement
and buying household insurance.  
 ``The FSA recognizes that many consumers are not equipped
to make informed decisions about their finances and can fall
victim to the consequences of those poor choices,'' the
regulator's chief executive officer Hector Sants said in a
statement yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Binham in  London  
 cbinham@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        