-- Saudi says no need to panic over oil price drop
-- By  Mayank Bhardwaj  and Unni Krishnan
-- Tue Jan 16, 2007 10:57am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/16/businesspro-opec-saudi-dc-idUSL1681903920070116

 

 NEW DELHI  (Reuters) - Saudi Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi said 
on Tuesday output cuts already agreed by OPEC had removed much 
of the world's excess supply and there was no need to panic 
over a steep fall in prices. 

  Naimi, minister of the world's top oil exporter, saw no 
need for OPEC to hold an emergency meeting before its next 
scheduled gathering on March 15 in Vienna. The best course of 
action for now was "to wait and look at the market," he said.  Oil dropped more than $1 after the Saudi oil minister's 
remarks, with U.S. crude sinking to a fresh 19-month low of 
$51.35 -- well below the $60 a barrel OPEC is widely believed 
to favor.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting countries 
decided in October to cut supply by 1.2 million barrels per day 
(bpd) from November and last month agreed a further reduction 
of 500,000 bpd to take effect from February 1.  "I believe these measures are working well. Inventories in 
the fourth quarter have come down...which puts the market 
closer to balance," said Naimi. "I think we have succeeded very 
well."  The Saudi oil minister said fuel stockpiles in top consumer 
countries had fallen 30 million barrels in December alone.  A 15 percent price plunge since the start of 2007 has many 
OPEC producers deeply concerned and Venezuela calling for an 
emergency meeting to take a further 500,000 bpd off the market.  But Naimi, speaking shortly after his arrival in India -- 
the world's fifth biggest energy consumer -- said there was no 
cause for alarm.  "Do not panic. Actually there is no reason for a meeting," 
he said.  "All the fundamentals are significantly healthier than they 
were at the time of the Doha meeting (in October)...The market 
is in a healthy condition and moving in the right direction."  Nigeria's Oil Minister Edmund Daukoru backed his Saudi 
counterpart's call for calm.  Earlier on Tuesday he said the group that pumps more than a 
third of the world's oil should wait to see the effects of its 
February cut before taking further action.  "I think we have to take a wait-and-see (approach)," he 
told reporters on the sidelines of the Petrotech conference in 
New Delhi. "After we implement 500,000 barrels a day (cut), we 
have to see how the market responds."