-- Baker report to criticize BP on safety
-- 
-- Tue Jan 16, 2007 8:43am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/16/businesspro-energy-bp-baker-dc-idUSL1675217520070116

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - BP Plc ( BP.L ) will be accused on Tuesday 
of failing to provide the resources to ensure safety at its 
U.S. refineries in a report that urges the firm's board to lead 
an improvement in standards, two newspapers said. 

  The Financial Times quoted two people who had read the 
long-awaited document on the oil major, while the Wall Street 
Journal cited people familiar with the situation.  A BP spokesman declined to comment. A spokesman for former 
U.S. Secretary of State James A. Baker III, who chaired the 
panel that compiled the report, also declined to say anything.  "We're just not commenting on that," John Williams said.  The FT cited the report as stating: "BP has not always 
ensured that it identified and provided the resources required 
for strong process safety performance at its US refineries."  The document, due to be released later on Tuesday, was 
commissioned at the urging of federal safety investigators 
investigating a deadly blast that killed 15 workers at BP's 
giant refinery in Texas City, Texas, on March 23, 2005.  Its authors identified safety culture problems across BP's 
North American refining organization, one unnamed person who 
had read the document told the FT.  The report called on directors to initiate a shake-up of 
the firm's safety culture and monitor the situation going 
forward, the person was quoted as saying.  It would also make a dozen recommendations, which would all 
be accepted by BP, the FT said. At the same time, the firm 
would dispute some of the findings, it added.  The Wall Street Journal, for its part, quoted sources as 
saying the document highlighted "systematic" problems in the 
way managers -- including executives at BP headquarters in 
London -- tackled safety across the company.  BP received the report last Wednesday, according to the FT.  Two days later, the firm said Chief Executive Lord John 
Browne would step down at the end of July, earlier than 
planned.  (Additional reporting by Irwin Seba in Houston)