-- Netflix launches 1,000-title online movie feature
-- By  Gina Keating
-- Tue Jan 16, 2007 11:35am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/16/businesspro-netflix-download-dc-idUSN1145728420070116

 

 LOS GATOS, California  (Reuters) - Online DVD rental company 
Netflix Inc ( NFLX.O ) is unveiling its long-awaited online movie 
delivery service which allows subscribers to watch about 1,000 
movies and television shows on their personal computers at no 
additional charge. 

  Netflix Chief Executive Reed Hastings is set to demonstrate 
the "instant viewing" feature on Tuesday at the National Retail 
Federation convention in New York, where the company will 
receive an award for retail innovator of the year.  Hastings told Reuters in an interview on Friday here that 
the feature was aimed at under-30 Internet users who made 
video-sharing sites like YouTube.com popular.  "For consumers under 30, they are doing so much with online 
video this is a natural extension of their usage paradigm on a 
laptop," Hastings said.  "Eventually we want to be on every Internet-connected 
screen from cell phones to computers to big screen plasma TVs 
but the starting place is the PC."  Although Netflix has been working on virtual delivery for 
years, its debut comes about two months after rival Blockbuster 
Inc. BBI.N beefed up its own online DVD rental program by 
allowing subscribers to swap movies in its stores, which carry 
an average of 5,000 titles.  The Blockbuster plan, called Total Access, has been seen by 
rental industry analysts as a threat to Netflix's dominance of 
the fast-growing, $1-billion-plus online movie rental market.  Rental and retail sales revenues of DVDs and home videos 
reached $24.5 billion in 2006. About 100 million U.S. 
households have DVD players, and an estimated 41 million U.S. 
households had access in 2006 to broadband Internet services 
needed to download or stream video content.  Netflix's goal is to sign up 20 million of them as 
subscribers by 2012.  The instant viewing feature also puts Netflix squarely in 
competition with several players already offering movies for 
rent online, including Starz Entertainment's Vongo and the 
studio-owned MovieBeam, MovieLink and CinemaNow services.  Netflix's limited slate of electronically available titles 
mirrors its new rivals' but its subscriber base of about 6 
million dwarfs those of the other online rental services.  Its instant viewing feature, available only on computers 
that run the Windows XP and Vista operating systems, plays back 
DVD-quality digital files almost instantly after subscribers 
install special software from the Netflix site, a process that 
takes about 20 seconds.  It does not download large movie files to consumers' 
computer hard drives, but "streams" them directly from the 
Internet, meaning that users must stay connected to the Web, 
either through a cable or wireless connection, while viewing a 
movie.  The feature, which cost Netflix about $40 million to 
develop, is designed to adjust the picture's resolution based 
on a user's cable bandwidth so that the movie doesn't freeze 
during play.  Online movie viewing time is awarded to Netflix subscribers 
based on their rental plans, with entry-level subscribers 
getting six hours per month and those with the most popular 
plans--three DVDS at a time-- getting 18 hours per month.  Hastings said that although the free viewing time will not 
affect how frequently subscribers receive DVDs, he expects 
growing online usage to cut demand for DVDs by mail, and the 
company's costs associated with buying and mailing them.  "Online is, of course, more cost effective so what we're 
learning is, how close to our current gross margin model can we 
operate as consumers watch more movies online?" Hastings said.  Netflix plans to roll out the offering across the United 
States over the next six months to ensure that its servers can 
handle demand.  Netflix has inked deals to stream online content from NBC 
Universal, Sony Pictures, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc, 20th Century 
Fox, Paramount Pictures, Warner Bros., Lionsgate ( LGF.N ), New 
Line Cinema and a number of television studios on the new 
service.  Paramount is owned by Viacom Inc. VIA.N. NBC Universal is 
a unit of General Electric Co. ( GE.N ). News Corp. NWSa.N owns 
20th Century Fox.  Warner Bros. and New Line are owned by Time Warner Inc. 
( TWX.N ). MGM is owned by a consortium of private investors, 
including Sony Corp. ( 6758.T ), which owns Sony Pictures.