-- New York subpoenas research firms, clients - WSJ
-- 
-- Tue Jan 16, 2007 5:33am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/16/businesspro-gerson-vista-subpoenas-dc-idUSN1646943520070116

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The New York Attorney General's office 
has sent subpoenas to research firms Gerson Lehrman Group and 
Vista to examine whether their consultants may have 
inappropriately discussed material non-public information, The 
Wall Street Journal said in a report on Tuesday. 

  In recent weeks the attorney general's office has looked at 
whether employees of companies including Best Buy Co. ( BBY.N ) 
may have discussed such material as hired consultants of groups 
like Gerson and Vista, the Journal said.  The examination also concerns Circuit City Stores Inc. 
CC.N, the Journal said, citing a person briefed on the 
matter. Subpoenas were issued to Gerson and Vista hedge fund 
clients too, the Journal said.  Research firms like Gerson and Vista, a unit of McGraw-Hill 
Cos. Inc. MHP.N, pay employees of public companies and others 
to serve as consultants to investors, the Journal said.  Vista and Best Buy officials were reported as telling the 
Journal that they were cooperating with the New York Attorney 
General's office. Circuit City officials did not respond to the 
Journal's request for comment, the paper said.  The subpoenas are broad in nature and some were issued at 
the end of December, when Gov. Eliot Spitzer was attorney 
general, the Journal said. Andrew Cuomo is now the attorney 
general.  Separately, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is 
investigating whether hedge funds have received non-public 
information due to research firms, the Journal said.  It said the SEC sent requests for information to a number 
of hedge funds, according to a source, as securities regulators 
mount a broader push to examine whether hedge funds are using 
non-public information to gain a trading edge.  A Gerson official was not immediately available for 
comment. The company posted a statement on its Web site in 
November in response to another Journal article, saying that it 
has "invested heavily in developing systems that help our 
clients and council members disclose and avoid conflicts."  Officials from Vista, Best Buy, Circuit City and the New 
York Attorney General's office were also not immediately 
available for comment.