-- Delta pushes ahead despite raised US Air bid
-- 
-- Tue Jan 16, 2007 2:57pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/16/businesspro-delta-bankruptcy-dc-idUSN1621549920070116

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines DALRQ.PK is pushing 
ahead with its plan to exit bankruptcy as an independent 
carrier despite a sweetened takeover bid by rival US Airways 
Group ( LCC.N ). 

  Atlanta-based Delta filed a motion with a U.S. bankruptcy 
court on Friday, asking for permission to start seeking 
creditor approval for its plan of reorganization. It kept a key 
hearing date of February 7 unchanged despite US Airways' 
request to postpone it.  "I think that Delta is doing its best to ignore US 
Airways," said Dean Booth, an Atlanta-based lawyer at Miller & 
Martin. But he added that the US Airways offer was large enough 
to be taken seriously and that the hearing date could be 
changed later.  US Airways raised its offer to buy Delta last week by about 
20 percent to $10.4 billion and set a February 1 deadline for 
the bankrupt carrier's creditors to support its bid.  The airline has said it wants to buy the No. 3 carrier 
while Delta is still in bankruptcy and postponing the hearing 
would give it more time to finalize its bid.  But in its motion, Delta pushed ahead with its original 
plan. It is asking for an order approving its disclosure 
statement and establishing certain procedures and deadlines 
that would allow it to move forward with its plan of 
reorganization.  The airline also asked the court to set April 9 as the 
deadline for creditors to vote on its plan of reorganization 
and set a hearing on April 25 to confirm the plan.  Delta, which has been operating under bankruptcy protection 
since September 2005, filed its stand-alone business plan with 
the court on December 19 and has said it hopes to exit Chapter 
11 by spring.  The airline rejected a November 15 takeover bid by US 
Airways, saying its own plan of reorganization was a better 
alternative. But last week, US Airways raised its bid for the 
bankrupt carrier, prompting at least one group of creditors to 
ask Delta to evaluate the bid seriously.