-- Fire out at Calif. Chevron refinery 9 hrs later
-- 
-- Mon Jan 15, 2007 8:59pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/16/businesspro-chevron-fire-dc-idUSN1541665220070116

 

 RICHMOND, California  (Reuters) - A Chevron ( CVX.N ) refinery 
fire in Richmond, California, burned for nearly nine hours 
before dying out on Monday but was not expected to affect 
production, officials said. 

  "We don't expect this event to affect the current 
production plan at the refinery, since the crude unit was at 
the beginning of a planned maintenance cycle," spokesman Dean 
O'Hair said in a statement. "However, at this time we don't 
know the full extent of the damage.  Tony Semenza, executive director of Contra Costa County's 
emergency response, estimated the maximum height of the flames 
after it broke out at around 5:15 a.m. at 75 to 100 feet.  Chevron officials said the fire went out by itself at 2:10 
p.m. local time (2300 GMT) and said the firm was investigating 
the cause of the incident.  County officials issued a warning early Monday that 
recommended residents stay in their homes but lifted it after 
three hours when no toxic substances were detected in the air 
around Richmond.  A worker at the scene of the fire suffered first-degree 
burns to his neck and was treated at a hospital and released, 
company spokesman Walt Gill said.  A notice Chevron filed with the California emergency 
services office said the flames broke out at the refinery's No. 
4 crude unit. The refinery area is off the scenic San Francisco 
Bay to the east of San Francisco and northwest of Berkeley and 
Oakland.  Toll collectors at the nearby Richmond Bridge, which links 
to Marin County, were briefly evacuated as a precaution and 
drivers were allowed a rare free trip over the bridge, said 
Merlin Turner, battalion chief for the Richmond Fire 
Department.  The Chevron Richmond refinery, which is more than 100 years 
old, has a production capacity of 243,000 barrels per day.  The refinery began shutting down units for an annual 
overhaul on Friday. According to Semenza, Monday's fire started 
in a crude unit that was being shut down.