-- CORRECTED - UPDATE 3-Express Scripts launches offer for Caremark
-- 
-- Tue Jan 16, 2007 5:24pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/16/caremark-expressscripts-idUSN1649363520070116

 

  (Corrects time of offer's expiration in fourth paragraph to
midnight from noon. Error was also in Updates 1 and 2) 

 NEW YORK  Jan 16 (Reuters) - Express Scripts Inc. ( ESRX.O )
on Tuesday launched a $24.8 billion offer for Caremark Rx Inc.
CMX.N, the latest step in a high-stakes takeover battle after
Caremark last week said it preferred a deal with drugstore
chain CVS Corp. ( CVS.N ).  Express Scripts said that it was launching the hostile
offer because while it would prefer to meet with Caremark to
negotiate a transaction, Caremark had refused to talk.  Caremark agreed in November to be acquired by CVS in an
all-stock deal now worth about $23.3 billion. Express Scripts,
a rival pharmacy benefit manager to Caremark, entered the fray
in December with an unsolicited offer, and on Tuesday launched
its offer for all outstanding Caremark shares.  Express Scripts is offering Caremark stockholders $29.25 in
cash and 0.426 shares of Express Scripts stock for each share
of Caremark. Based on closing stock prices on Jan. 12, the
Express Scripts offer is worth $56.87 per share. The offer
expires at midnight EST on Feb. 13.  "There's nothing new and nothing unexpected in today's
announcement and we remain committed to the CVS merger," a
Caremark spokeswoman said."  A CVS spokesman said the company remains committed to
closing its merger with Caremark in the first quarter of 2007.  EXPECTED SYNERGIES, PAST TALKS  On a conference call with analysts, Express Scripts Chief
Executive George Paz said the company was "very comfortable"
with its estimate of $500 million in cost savings, with the
potential for more.  Caremark's CEO raised questions about Express' synergy
estimates at an investor conference last week.  But Paz said that since Express Scripts hasn't had access
to Caremark's books, it based its calculations on past talks
with Caremark, the company's public financial statements and
knowledge of the marketplace.  "We haven't had the opportunity to do due diligence and we
don't quite understand why we're not being given that
opportunity, but that's what it is right now," Paz said.  In a filing with U.S. regulators, Express said that it had
discussed potential deals such as acquisitions with Caremark
several times between February 2001 and mid-2005 and that both
parties conducted due diligence early on in those talks.  Express Scripts, in the filing, said that in its judgment
the talks ended mainly because of valuation, "and not because
of a lack of strategic rationale, antitrust considerations or
perceived risks relating to client retention."  In the weeks since Express Scripts announced its offer for
Caremark, shares of CVS and Caremark have risen while Express
Scripts' shares have fallen slightly.  Express Scripts said its offer for Caremark was 7 percent
higher than CVS' offer, based on last week's closing stock
prices. Also on that basis, Goldman Sachs retail analyst John
Heinbockel said the spread had narrowed from a previous
difference of 16 percent.  "In our view, CVS remains in the driver's seat in this
contest with this latest effort no more likely to succeed than
the others that have preceded it," Heinbockel said of the
Express offer in a research note.  "Express' bid is no longer notably superior to CVS',"
Heinbockel added.  Express shares rose 88 cents, or 1.4 percent, to close at
$65.71 on Nasdaq on Tuesday. Caremark shares were down 58
cents, or 1 percent, at $56.25 on the New York Stock Exchange,
where CVS shares ended off 15 cents at $31.79.  Pharmacy benefit managers administer prescription drug
benefits for employers and health plans, brokering deals in
part by buying medicines in bulk from manufacturers. They also
offer large pharmacies that deliver prescriptions by mail.  (Additional reporting by  Jessica Wohl  in Chicago)




