-- CORRECTED - Macworld vs CES: Macworld emerges as victor-analysts
-- 
-- Tue Jan 16, 2007 5:40pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/16/macworld-ces-idUSN1434189220070116

 

  (Corrects in penultimate paragraph the combination DVD player
is made by LG Electronics) 

 SAN FRANCISCO  Jan 15 (Reuters) - The company making the
biggest splash at the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las
Vegas last week was not even there: Apple Computer Inc., which
 debuted its highly anticipated multimedia iPhone at its
Macworld show.  More than 140,000 people descended on Las Vegas for the
nearly weeklong annual tech-fest where Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT.O )
co-founder and Chairman Bill Gates kicked off the festivities
with his keynote speech.  Thousands of products debuted and thousands of companies
set up booths at CES this past week.  CES is a sprawling event that takes over the city's
convention center and many of Las Vegas' largest hotels, and is
the biggest annual trade show for the $145 billion consumer
electronics industry.  MEANWHILE, AT MACWORLD  A few hundred miles northwest in San Francisco, Apple Chief
Executive Officer Steve Jobs announced the iPhone to about
4,000 reporters, analysts and Apple employees here at its
annual Macworld show.  Jobs pulled the iPhone from his pocket, gave a lengthy
demonstration of the device, and earned a standing ovation at
the end.  "The astounding thing is that Apple announced basically two
products and they got, I think, more buzz announcing two
products than CES did for launching thousands," said Gartner
analyst Van Baker.  In one meeting at CES, an analyst receiving an email turned
to colleagues and whispered, "iPhone." Several nodded
knowingly: Apple had finally announced the device.  The device, thinner than Motorola Inc.'s  MOT.N
trend-setting Razr, makes phone calls, is an iPod music player
and offers a browser to surf the Internet. The half-inch-thick
iPhone has a 3.5-inch touch-screen, a "virtual" keyboard and
only several buttons.  Apple's iPhone is slated to go on sale in June and costs
$499 or $599, depending on how much memory is in the device to
store music, videos, pictures and other content.  GADGETS AT CES  Among the gadgets unveiled at CES were LG Electronics'
combination Blu-Ray DVD and HD-DVD player, handsets from
Qualcomm that can carry live television and others, wrote Cowen
technology strategist Arnie Berman in a note to clients.  Still, "the coolest thing to be announced this week was
Apple's iPhone - with Macworld upstaging CES," Berman wrote.
 (With additional reporting by Franklin Paul)



