-- Dresdner Denies Firing Banker Because He Isn't German
-- Caroline Byrne
-- 2007-09-27T14:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-27/dresdner-denies-firing-banker-because-he-isn-t-german-update1-.html

          
          
             Dresdner Kleinwort,  Allianz AG (ALV) 's
banking unit, fired both Germans and non-Germans in an internal
merger motivated by money, not race, Dresdner's lawyer told a
 London  employment panel hearing a discrimination case today.  
 Malcolm Perry, 45, a senior banker dismissed in 2006, is
suing Dresdner for 10 million pounds ($20 million) claiming
Germans received preferential treatment from Frankfurt-based Chief
Executive Officer Stefan Jentzsch. Dresdner said profit-motivated
decisions led to the departure of less capable bankers.  
 ``Dr. Jentzsch didn't want them because they weren't suitable
people and he was applying the merit approach,'' Ingrid Simler,
Dresdner's lawyer, said during closing arguments today. ``How is
that race discrimination?''  
 While Dresdner has admitted the Australian banker was
unfairly dismissed, lawyers have sparred throughout the hearing
over whether his firing was motivated by racism or a business
rationale adopted when Jentzsch was appointed in 2005. A finding
of discrimination under the U.K. Race Relations Act could expose
employers to unlimited damages.  
 Perry's argument has focused on numbers. There were nine non-
German speaking managers on the capital markets committee when
Jentzsch was appointed in 2005. A year later, there were none, he
testified. Perry, former global head of fixed income and credit,
also said he was shut out of a task force restructuring his
division in favor of Bill Fish, a German-speaking colleague, who
reported to Perry.  
 Not Struggling  
 ``It was a strange piece of logic adopted by Dr. Jentzsch, to
select Mr. Fish to be responsible for a task force and integration
project which went way beyond his remit,'' Bruce Carr, Perry's
lawyer, argued.  
 Perry rejected Jentzsch's suggestion that the investment
banking division was struggling. Perry testified that he was
largely responsible for turning around the business after moving
to Dresdner from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in 2005.  
 At the end of May 2006, revenue for Dresdner's fixed-income
business was 86 percent ahead of the same period in 2005 and 16
percent ahead of budget for the 2006 year-to-date. Revenue for
credit was 6 percent ahead of the same period in 2005 and 14
percent ahead of budget for the 2006 year-to-date, Perry said.  
 A decision on the case is expected next week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Byrne in London at 
 cbyrne12@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eamonn Sullivan at 
 esullivan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        