-- Top bookstores' gloomy views generate merger buzz
-- By  Anupreeta Das  and  Jessica Wohl
-- Thu Mar 22, 2007 12:10pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/22/businesspro-bookstores-dc-idUSN2229019920070322

 

 NEW YORK/CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Top U.S. booksellers Barnes & 
Noble Inc. and Borders Group Inc. provided lackluster financial 
outlooks on Thursday, leading some industry analysts to think 
that a merger or leveraged buyout could be in the offing. 

  Even the prospect of a new blockbuster Harry Potter book -- 
slated for release this summer -- failed to charm investors as 
shares of both companies headed lower in Thursday midday 
action.  But with so many mergers and acquisitions across the equity 
landscape, some industry analysts see the book-selling business 
as ripe for the picking.  Borders BGP.N said it would close nearly half of its 
Waldenbooks stores, weigh options for its international units 
and start selling books through its own Web site -- ending its 
arrangement with Amazon.com Inc. ( AMZN.O )  The company, which also posted a quarterly loss, said it 
would focus on its U.S. superstores. Its shares fell 1 percent 
to $21.20 in Thursday midday trade.  "The restructuring plan is consistent with our expectation, 
although the pursuit of alternatives for international is 
happening faster than we expected," said Goldman Sachs analyst 
Matthew Fassler in a note to clients. "The lack of near-term 
financial color could cap the stock near term."  Industry leader Barnes & Noble ( BKS.N ) posted slightly 
higher net income for the past quarter but forecast a loss for 
the current period.  Earlier this month, Barnes & Noble lowered its outlook, 
saying higher-than-expected enrollment in its discount program 
had cut into margins. It also attributed its lower earnings 
forecast to price-cutting on the forthcoming Harry Potter book.  The discount program is designed to capture customer 
loyalty, Chief Executive Steve Riggio said on an earnings 
conference call.  Analysts suggested Barnes & Noble -- with a large number of 
shares owned by the Riggio family -- may be a good leveraged 
buyout candidate.  "We think the Riggios really may want to and should take 
the company private," Stifel Nicolaus analyst David Schick 
wrote in a recent note to clients. "The book business ... is 
not best run as a public company -- due to softer comps and 
quirks of release schedules."  Meanwhile, Goldman's Fassler wrote that a merger -- with 
Barnes & Noble buying out Borders -- would make financial sense 
but was unlikely.
  SHUTTING 'EM DOWN  Borders said it would reduce the size of its struggling 
Waldenbooks chain to about 300 stores by the end of 2008 from 
564 in 2006.  It is also exploring alternatives for its UK, Ireland, 
Australia and New Zealand superstores and Books etc. chain.  "What we need to do now and have already started to do 
since I arrived is stop playing defense in an environment where 
strong offense is required," Borders Chief Executive George 
Jones, who joined the company in July, said on a call following 
the results.  Borders had started remodeling stores with expanded cafes 
and higher-margin stationery products.  The company said it will also be responsible for its own 
online sales starting in 2008. Borders was late to the Internet 
game, launching a Web site in September 1998 before linking up 
with Amazon in 2001.  Hedge fund Pershing Square owns an 11.5 percent stake in 
Borders. On Thursday, fund manager Bill Ackman said: "We are 
very supportive of the changes they are making."
  BY THE NUMBERS  Borders posted a net loss of $73.6 million, or $1.25 per 
share, for its fourth quarter, ended on February 3, compared 
with year-earlier net income of $119.1 million, or $1.78 per 
share.  Excluding items, it earned $94.8 million, or $1.61 per 
share, missing the analysts' average forecast of $1.62 per 
share, according to Reuters Estimates.  Barnes & Noble's net income rose 3 percent to $127 million, 
or $1.84 per share, in the quarter, from $123 million, or $1.76 
per share, a year earlier. Its results included charges of 3 
cents per share.  Analysts on average had been expecting a profit of $1.88 
per share, according to Reuters Estimates.  The New York-based company had earlier said it expected to 
earn $1.86 to $1.96 per share.  Revenue increased to $1.88 billion from $1.75 billion, 
slightly above analysts' estimates of $1.86 billion.  For the first quarter, Barnes & Noble expects a loss of 8 
to 12 cents per share, including charges from closing its 
Memphis distribution center and an ongoing investigation of its 
stock-option practices.  (Reporting by Anupreeta Das in New York and Jessica Wohl in 
Chicago)