-- Five Lessons for Next Time Banks Come Begging: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2009-12-17T02:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-16/five-lessons-for-next-time-banks-come-begging-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             The last of America’s largest,
systemically dangerous banks are about to repay their government
rescue money. And while the public’s anger at bailing them out
has only grown since last year, there at least are plenty of
lessons to take away from it all.
     Bank of America Corp. is out of the Troubled Asset Relief
Program’s clutches. Wells Fargo & Co. is on its way. Citigroup
Inc. has unveiled its own plans for raising money to repay the
government. We can only hope Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner
knows what he’s doing by releasing them, though that’s probably
too much to assume of any government regulator.
     The worst-case scenario is that one or more members of the
too-big-to-fail club may limp back for another gorging at the
government trough someday. Here are some things to keep in mind
should any of them ever come back begging for TARP 2.0.  
      Lesson No. 1: Preferred stock is debt, not equity.
     When the Treasury Department began injecting money into
U.S. banks last year, it did so by buying preferred stock. Aside
from providing liquidity, the major benefit was that the banks
got to label the money as capital. That’s because the accounting
rules let them count it as equity.
     It wasn’t equity in substance, though. It was debt. Each of
the original nine TARP recipients has paid back the money, or
soon will. That’s what they said all along they would do, even
though they supposedly could have held it in perpetuity by
paying interest of as much as 9 percent a year. The cash also
came with restrictions on dividends and executive compensation.  
 The upshot for investors: If it’s not common equity with no
strings attached, it’s not pure, unfettered capital, no matter
what the regulators tell you.  
      Lesson No. 2: Some banks are emerging from TARP stronger.
     Citigroup yesterday raised $20.5 billion, including $17
billion by issuing common stock, as part of its plan to repay
$20 billion of TARP money. As a result, its common shareholder
equity will get a $15.1 billion boost, because the trust-
preferred securities it’s repaying are classified as debt. The
government’s remaining $25 billion stake in Citigroup has been
converted already into common stock, which the Treasury plans to
sell within the next year.
     Wells also will show higher capital ratios after paying
back its $25 billion of TARP money, though they will remain
thin. Its common equity, excluding intangible assets, had been
$37.4 billion as of Sept. 30, a mere 3.2 percent of tangible
assets. The bank has raised $20.9 billion through common-stock
offerings this year, including $12.3 billion this week. It
probably would have raised less if the government had let it.  
      Lesson No. 3: Then again, repaying TARP doesn’t necessarily
mean a bank’s capital is strong.
     Citigroup, for example, finished the third quarter with
$140.5 billion of common equity, or 7.4 percent of assets. Most
of that was of low quality. For starters, $40.6 billion
consisted of intangible assets, such as goodwill leftover from
past acquisition sprees.  
 Deferred-tax assets represented $38 billion, much of which
exist only because the Internal Revenue Service granted
Citigroup an exemption from its normal rules. Profitable
companies can use such assets to reduce future tax bills.
However, they’re of little help as a capital cushion at failing
companies when it comes to absorbing losses.
     In addition, Citigroup said its loans were worth $9.1
billion less than what its balance sheet showed as of Sept. 30.
Citigroup also has said it will record a $7.8 billion charge to
equity next quarter to adopt new accounting rules aimed at
bringing off-the-books assets onto its balance sheet.  
 Add it all up, and that was the bulk of Citigroup’s common
equity. So even after the planned stock sales, the company still
may need more capital. “They’re on the brink in terms of the
absolute minimum they may need if you have a crisis of any
magnitude, even if the magnitude is quite small,” says Ed Ketz,
an accounting professor at Pennsylvania State University.  
      Lesson No. 4: A government bailout may be a get-out-of-
jail-free card.
     Here’s one thing former Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman Christopher Cox got right. When the government takes
stakes in companies it’s supposed to be regulating, it
compromises its ability to enforce the law. “Rules that might
be rigorously applied to private-sector competitors will not
necessarily be applied in the same way to the sovereign who
makes the rules,” Cox said in a December 2008 speech.
     One year later, the government still hasn’t criminally
prosecuted any senior executive from a major financial
institution that got a federal rescue last year.  
      Lesson No. 5: There will be a next time.
     For all the past year’s talk in Congress about ending too-
big-to-fail, Bank of America now owns Merrill Lynch. Wells Fargo
owns Wachovia. JPMorgan Chase owns Washington Mutual and Bear
Stearns. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have become bank-
holding companies, giving them access to the Federal Reserve’s
discount window and other subsidies. If any of them got in major
trouble, there’s almost no doubt the government would intervene.
     The reality is our financial system is as prone to
meltdowns as ever, maybe even more so because it’s so
concentrated. TARP and other government-assistance programs
helped put off the day of reckoning. Next time we might not be
so lucky.  
 (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Dec. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Tyler, senior vice president of portfolio management at Ariel Investments LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker about the repayment of Troubled Asset Relief Program funds by banks.
     Tyler, speaking from Chicago, also discusses efforts by the Obama administration to boost lending and Bank of America Corp.'s search for a new chief executive officer. Bank of New York Mellon Corp. CEO Robert Kelly, a candidate for the BofA position, told his employees yesterday that he won't leave his job, according to a memo obtained by Bloomberg. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
