-- `Capitalism' Not So Sacred to Americans as Mood Sours
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-07-13T19:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/-capitalism-not-so-sacred-to-americans-as-downturn-sours-mood-polls-show.html

          
          
             Capitalism, the bedrock of the U.S.
 economic  system, isn’t a favorite term these days among American
citizens, opinion surveys show.  
 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce  released  a poll today showing
that 57 percent of Americans say they support capitalism,
compared with more than 70 percent who back free enterprise and
free markets. Polls by the Gallup Organization and the Pew
Research Center for the People & the Press earlier this year
found similar lower levels of enthusiasm for the term.  
 “There’s been an erosion of support for capitalism,”
Steve Lombardo, president of the Lombardo Consulting Group,
which conducted the poll for the Chamber of Commerce, said in an
interview. “It hasn’t become a bad word, but it’s less positive
than it has been.”  
 The Chamber’s poll found 20 percent of those polled were
neutral toward capitalism and 19 percent held negative views.  
 For the Chamber, corporate America’s biggest lobbying force
in Washington, that lack of support is a cause for worry, said
 Stan Anderson , managing director of its  Campaign for Free
Enterprise .  
 “We need to do a better job of explaining the economic
system in the United States and how it is working,” Anderson
said in an interview. “We have been looking at anecdotal
information that there was a misunderstanding of capitalism.”  
 ‘Big Business, Big Government’  
 Anderson said Americans’ support for the term “free
enterprise,” which was viewed positively by 78 percent of the
respondents, may show that they just oppose any “-isms.”  
 Charles Derber , a sociologist at Boston College, says the
results show the public’s unhappiness with the ties between
“big business and big government,” exemplified by the multi-
billion dollar bailout of banks in 2008.  
 “When people say they are down on capitalism, they mean
they are down on corporate capitalism,” Derber,  author  of books
including, “People Before Profit,” said in an interview.
“They see capitalism as it exists here as anything but a free
market.”  
 ‘Corporate Excesses’  
 A Gallup poll in April found that 52 percent of those
surveyed had a positive assessment of capitalism and 37 percent
a negative view. Socialism had a 29 percent positive assessment.  
 “Reaction to ‘capitalism’ is lukewarm among many
demographic groups,” Gallup editor  Frank Newport  wrote May 4.
“Fewer than half of young people, women, people with lower
incomes and those with less education react positively” to the
term, he wrote.  
 “It is a reasonable hypothesis that in the midst of the
current downturn and the visibility of the corporate excesses
that negative assessments of capitalism have increased,”
Newport said today in an interview. Gallup hadn’t polled about
the term before, he said.  
 In addition to the findings on capitalism, the Chamber’s
poll found that 43 percent of those surveyed said the Obama
administration’s policies are making the economy worse compared
with 23 percent believing it is making it better.  
 “There is a major trust deficit,” Lombardo said.  
 To contact the reporter
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        