-- `Die Hard' Director Pleads Guilty to Lying to FBI in Probe of Private Eye
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-07-13T01:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/-die-hard-director-pleads-guilty-to-lying-to-fbi-in-probe-of-private-eye.html

          
          
             “Die Hard” director  John McTiernan 
pleaded guilty today to lying to the FBI about having paid a
private investigator $50,000 in 2000 to wiretap the telephone of
a Hollywood producer.  
 Prosecutors won’t seek a sentence of more than one year in
prison and a $100,000 fine against McTiernan according to the
plea agreement filed in federal court in Los Angeles. McTiernan,
59, was scheduled to go on trial tomorrow and could have faced
as long as 15 years in prison if convicted.  
 McTiernan, whose other movies include “The Hunt for Red
October” and “Predator,” pleaded guilty in 2006 to lying to
FBI agents about hiring  Anthony Pellicano  to wiretap Charles
Roven’s phone and was sentenced to four months in prison. He was
later allowed to withdraw that plea because he hadn’t gotten a
hearing on a request to suppress evidence.  
 U.S. District Judge  Dale Fischer  last month denied
McTiernan’s request to exclude evidence of a telephone
conversation Pellicano recorded in which he and McTiernan
discussed wiretapping Roven, a producer of the 2002 movie
“Rollerball” that was also directed by McTiernan.  
 The director today also pleaded guilty to lying to Fischer
during his 2006 plea hearing. The new plea agreement is
conditional on the outcome of McTiernan’s appeals, including
that of Fischer’s denial to suppress the recording and his
request to replace the judge. If he wins on appeal, he can again
withdraw his plea.  
 S. Todd Neal, a lawyer for McTiernan, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office.  
 The case is U.S. v. John McTiernan, 06-00259, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        