-- Ma Peche Brings Momofuku to Midtown With $510 Steak: Food Buzz
-- Ryan Sutton
-- 2010-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ma-peche-brings-momofuku-to-midtown-with-510-steak-food-buzz.html

          
          
             Power lunching in Midtown Manhattan
had always been a game of chicken among restaurateurs demanding
exorbitant sums of cash and the expense-account elite confident
or dumb enough to pay them.  
 Hence, the $21 tomato salad at Michael’s, the $56 veal chop
at The Four Seasons, and now the beef tasting menu at Ma Peche,
which can, after wine, tax and tip, easily cost $1,000 for six
-- the minimum number of patrons required to enjoy the feast at
lunch or dinner.  
 Did I mention that dessert’s not included?  
 With some trepidation I must report that I’m okay with the
beef bill. Why? Because a recent devouring of the feast
convinced me that  Ma Peche , in the Chambers Hotel, ranks among
New York’s best steakhouses. Think of it as an easier-to-get-
into Minetta Tavern, minus the glamour.  
 It’s all a reversal of sorts for chef David Chang.
Reasonable prices at his empire of Momofuku restaurants have
resulted in impossible reservations. The ten-course menu at Ko
is $125; fried chicken dinner for six at Noodle Bar is $100 and
you’ll have to cool your heels a month before getting in. But
for now, the books for Ma Peche’s beef dinner are wide open.  
 The special tasting menu is listed at $85 per person for 6-
10 people, a crafty bit of psychological pricing that really
comes out to $510-$850 altogether. And if that price isn’t
necessarily out-of-reach the larger question is this: can you
find 5 others willing to eat so much meat and easily spend $200
or more each on the same night at the same time?  
 Financial Food  
 Say two people drop out; you’re still charged $510. In fact
those with deeper pockets should show up as a party of four and
take home the extra food because my effort to recruit gourmands
who’d be willing to pony up for the bill resulted in hours of
productivity lost. My final roster: an M&A banker, a corporate
hedge fund lawyer and two derivatives traders. Not a cross
section of America. But we ate well.  
 First course: Seared Nebraskan Wagyu. Melts in the mouth
like the Japanese stuff. Second course: Beef tongue with basil.
So tender and salty it’s like eating the perfect roast beef
sandwich (without any bread). Course three: Aged rib eye. It was
gently charred, fork tender and intensely marbled with a
restorative mineral tang. Course four: Lemongrass and Thai basil
sausage. Wrap it in lettuce and dip in fish sauce.  
 Course five: Beef shank. What size is it? “Brontosaurus
size” says the waitress. Tear it up with tongs and blast your
tongue with the crab paste and chilis covering it. Things get
sweeter with the sixth course: Sherry-braised oxtail with melt-
in-your mouth fat. The savory final course: Star anise-spiked
short rib broth, a riff on pho. A final course of stinky, baked
Epoisses cheese is a $48 supplement.  
 All Natural  
 Technically, this is all a version of a Vietnamese seven-
way beef feast as Ma Peche and chef Tien Ho focus on French-
Vietnamese cooking, one of the world’s “natural” fusion
cuisines.  
 Unlike most other Momofuku venues, the bustling space is
often quiet and seats are actual seats, not stools -- a welcome
accommodation for Chang’s first foray outside the East Village.
The windowless, two tiered room evokes an ’80s New York of sky’s-
the-limit scale.  
 Like a proper steakhouse, Ma Peche serves killer shellfish,
raw fish and cocktails. Homemade cola syrup gives a concentrated
taste to a whiskey and coke unlike any other I’ve had in the
city. The drink washes down great, plump-bellied oysters and
shelled crab legs (paired with calamansi mayo). Strawberry puree
gives just a hint of sweet acid to delicate fluke.  
 MSG Glee  
 Great bastions of beef toss stellar salads and chop fine
beef tartare. Ma Peche’s raw top sirloin with mint, soy and
charred scallions rivals the version at Balthazar. No Caesar,
but the frisee aux lardons with spicy tripe and jowl croutons
trumps the classic Gallic version. Fried pig’s head terrine is
France’s delicious response to an American pork cutlet.  
 There’s one steak. It’s like no other. The $29 cut comes
from the shoulder. It’s cooked sous-vide for 15 hours to melt
the fat, then seared. The concentrated, supremely flavorful cut
taste likes what would happen if a steer was raised on nothing
but dry-aged steer. The pairing? Crunchy, chewy rice flour
fries, made for dipping in malty, MSG-flavored Maggi sauce.  
 A meat houses needs sides. No mashed potatoes or creamed
spinach here. Instead there’s pork fat-topped corn, sesame seed-
topped beans and fish sauce-topped cauliflower. A bastion of
beef also needs steak-like fish. A dense block of grouper soaks
up cilantro-flecked coconut milk, a piscine preparation made to
clog your arteries.  
 A pork chop for two is flavorful but overcooked. That’s
forgivable. Chang’s other restaurants are all about pork. Here,
steak reigns supreme.  
 Rating: ***  
 The Bloomberg Questions  
 Cost: Dishes mostly under $30; $10 takeout lunch.  
 Sound Level: Moderate, about 70 decibels.  
 Date Place: Yes, and not for vegetarians.  
 Inside tip: They say desserts are relegated to the Milk Bar
kiosk up front but you’ll inadvertently feast on sweets if you
order the cloying, caramel-flavored pork ribs.  
 Special Feature: The beef, from Maine, Pennsylvania,
Nebraska and Kansas, isn’t necessarily local but it’s humanely
raised.  
 Will I be back: For the $29 steak; for the beef tasting if
and when they reduce the requirement to four people from six.  
 Ma Peche is at 15 West 56th Street near Fifth Avenue.
Information: +1-212-757-5878 or Chambers Hotel, +1-212-974-5656;
 http://www.momofuku.com   

 

What the Stars Mean:

****         Incomparable food, service, ambience.
***          First-class of its kind.
**           Good, reliable.
*            Fair.
No stars     Poor.
 
 
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  
 51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  
 ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Roasted ribeye, tyme and garlic with lemongrass and Thai basil sausage at Ma Peche restaurant in New York. The special tasting menu is listed at $85 per person for 6-10 people. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The milk bar at Ma Peche restaurant in New York. The special tasting menu is listed at $85 per person for 6-10 people. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Fluke with arugula, strawberry and pistachio at Ma Peche restaurant in New York. The special tasting menu is listed at $85 per person for 6- 10 people. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Seared Wagyu with ginger scallion and radish at Ma Peche restaurant in New York. The special tasting menu is listed at $85 per person for 6-10 people. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Steak frites with rice fries at Ma Peche restaurant in New York. The special tasting menu is listed at $85 per person for 6- 10 people. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lunch at Ma Peche restaurant in New York. Ma Peche is located at 15 West 56th Street near Fifth Avenue. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lunch at Ma Peche restaurant in New York. Ma Peche is located at 15 West 56th Street near Fifth Avenue. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The bar at Ma Peche restaurant in New York. Ma Peche is located at 15 West 56th Street near Fifth Avenue. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A "Cotton Crown" cocktail at Ma Peche in New York. The drink is made with Bols Genever, yellow Charteuse, Amaretto and lemon. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A "Ca Plane Pour Moi" cocktail at Ma Peche in New York. The drink is made with Macchu Pisco, Pear William, Aperol (a Campari-like aperitif), maraschino and lime. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A "Short Island" cocktail at Ma Peche in New York, U.S., on April 12, 2010. The "iced tea" drink is made with gin, rum, tequila, Cointreau, cola syrup and lemon -- and no tea. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
