-- Macquarie Group Hires Six Senior Traders for U.S.-Focused Equity Business
-- Joanna Ossinger
-- 2010-07-13T11:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/macquarie-group-hires-six-for-u-s-focused-equity-sales-trading-business.html

          
          
             Macquarie Group Ltd.  hired six
senior equities sales traders in New York, San Francisco and
London as it fills out its U.S.-focused operations.  
 Gregory M. Calvino  will be a senior sales trader and
 Christopher Richards  a senior trader. Both came most recently
from Thomas Weisel Partners LLC and will be based in New York.
 Ross Peet , who was last at Needham & Co., and  Lance Wood , who
was previously at Leerink Swann & Co., will join Macquarie as
senior sales traders based in San Francisco.  
 Australia’s largest investment bank is expanding “sensibly”
in the U.S.,  Tim Bishop , the chief executive officer of
Macquarie Capital’s U.S. division, told Bloomberg News in March.
The company bought at least  five businesses  in the U.S. last
year. CEO  Nicholas Moore  said in April that the Sydney-based
firm has A$4 billion ($3.5 billion) of surplus cash that may be
consumed by existing units and internal projects.  
 “It’s further evidence that Macquarie is committed to the
U.S.,” said  Graham Copley , the New York-based senior managing
director and head of U.S. equities at Macquarie, in a telephone
interview. “The growth of our business had been predominantly
research-led. We had some gaps on the sales trading side where
we felt we could right-size our business and our growth plan was
to make additional hires in order to match the research side of
the platform.”  
 Macquarie Securities Group is also creating a trading desk
in London that will focus on U.S. markets. It hired two senior
sales traders for that operation,  Jonathan Knapman  and  Matthew Penfold , both of whom previously worked at Piper Jaffray Ltd.  
 All six of the new hires will report to  Austin Graham ,
Macquarie’s New York-based head of U.S. sales trading. “We will
continue to be opportunistic around other expansion
opportunities,” Copley said. “If the right opportunity presented
itself we’d obviously look at it.”  
 Net trading income at Macquarie’s securities unit rose 17
percent in the year that ended March 31, the bank said April 30.
Macquarie generated $1.35 billion of revenue from the Americas
for the period, more than triple that of a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joanna Ossinger  in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        