-- Activision Hires Deutsch Executive to Lead Publishing
-- Cliff Edwards
-- 2010-07-13T20:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/activision-hires-ad-executive-eric-hirshberg-to-lead-its-publishing-unit.html

          
          
             Activision Blizzard Inc. , the
world’s largest video-game company, hired advertising executive
 Eric Hirshberg  to run its studios and publishing.  
 Hirshberg, 42, co-chief executive officer of Lowe &
Partners’ Deutsch Los Angeles office, succeeds Vice Chairman
 Michael Griffith , who stepped down as publishing CEO in April.
The appointment is effective Sept. 7, Santa Monica, California-
based Activision said today in a statement.  
 Hirshberg helped create advertising and marketing
strategies for  Sony Corp. ’s PlayStation division, DirecTV and
handset maker HTC Corp. in his 13 years at Deutsch. Activision
Blizzard CEO  Bobby Kotick  said in an interview the new
publishing chief brings knowledge of subscription-based
entertainment and mobile content.  
 The publishing unit coordinates the development, marketing
and sale of games. As head of the studios and product
development, Hirshberg will have the task of rebuilding the team
that delivers new installments of the “Call of Duty: Modern
Warfare 2” franchise.  
 Current and former employees of Activision’s Infinity Ward
studio say they are owed $75 million to $125 million in bonuses
and royalties related to the game, according to a complaint
filed on April 27 in state court in Los Angeles. The parent
company fired the two game designers who created the title, and
other developers have joined them in creating a new studio.  
 Hirshberg will report to  Thomas Tippl , chief operating
officer.  
 Activision  rose  29 cents to $11.41 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have gained 2.7
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 Cedwards28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        