-- Afghan Soldier Kills Three U.K. Soldiers, Wounds Four Before Escaping Camp
-- Eltaf Najafizada
-- 2010-07-13T11:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/afghan-government-probes-reports-its-soldier-killed-three-british-troops.html

          
          
             An Afghan soldier killed three
British troops and wounded four in a 2 a.m. attack at a joint
NATO-Afghan army base in southern Afghanistan, according to
Afghanistan’s Defense Ministry.  
 The attacker “used the darkness of night and escaped,”
Defense Ministry spokesman General Zaher Azimi said in a
statement. The Afghan army chief, General Sher Mohammad Karimi,
said the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Afghan
government will jointly investigate the killings.  
 Afghanistan “will prosecute those responsible,” Azimi
said, according to a statement issued by NATO’s  International
Security Assistance Force .  
 Britain’s Defense Ministry said only that three of its
soldiers died in Nahar-e-Saraj, a district of Afghanistan’s
southern Helmand province. Azimi said the men died in another
district, Nad-e-Ali.  
 In recent months, U.S. and British troops in Helmand have
fought intense battles against the Taliban while advancing into
irrigated farmlands where American officials say opium
production has been a financial pillar for the Taliban movement.  
 Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  “was upset to hear this
report,” his spokesman, Waheed Omar, told reporters. Karzai
apologized for the incident to NATO and Britain, the Associated
Press reported, citing a senior NATO official it did not name.  
 NATO and Afghan soldiers “have sacrificed greatly together,
and we must ensure that the trust between our forces remains
solid in order to defeat our common enemies,” ISAF’s statement
quoted the force’s commander, General  David Petraeus , as saying.  
 Afghan policemen or soldiers periodically have attacked
NATO forces while working with them. Last November, a policeman
shot dead five British troops at a checkpoint in Helmand. A
month earlier, a police officer had killed two U.S. troops in
Wardak, southwest of the capital, Kabul.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eltaf Najafizada  in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        