-- Magellan Midstream Partners to Buy BP Pipelines, Tanks for $289 Million
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-13T20:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/magellan-midstream-to-buy-u-s-pipeline-assets-from-bp-for-289-million.html

          
          
             Magellan Midstream Partners LP , the
owner of fuel pipelines stretching from the U.S. Gulf Coast to
Minnesota, agreed to buy systems that link Texas refineries,
along with 7.8 million barrels of Oklahoma oil storage, from a
BP Plc unit for $289 million.  
 The pipelines deliver crude to and ship fuel from
refineries in the Houston area, the largest U.S. oil-processing
center, Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Magellan said today in a
statement. The storage is at Cushing, Oklahoma, a supply hub for
refineries where Magellan has been building tanks holding 2
million barrels of oil to enter the market there.  
 Customers for the pipelines include BP’s Texas City, Texas,
refinery,  Bruce Heine , a Magellan spokesman, said in an
interview. BP is contracted to use almost all of the usable
storage at Cushing for several years, he said.  
 “This puts us into business at Cushing pretty quick,”
Heine said. “We’ve got some commercial opportunities to add
value for our unit holders.”  
 The deal is scheduled to close within 60 days, subject to
regulatory approval. BP’s Texas City refinery can process
475,000 barrels of oil a day, according to the Energy Department
in Washington.  
 Before the Spill  
 Magellan and BP began talks before the London-based
company’s April 20 well disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, Heine
said. The company’s leaking well has caused the largest U.S. oil
spill, cost BP more than $3.5 billion so far, and triggered
plans for asset sales to raise cash. Magellan was the winning
bidder at an auction of the storage and pipelines, Heine said.  
 “These assets will facilitate our strategy to develop our
existing East Houston terminal into a key distribution point for
crude oil to Gulf Coast refineries,” Chief Executive Officer
 Don Wellendorf  said in today’s statement.  
 The daily capacity of the gasoline line is 240,000 barrels
and the distillate pipeline can handle 96,000 barrels, Heine
said. The crude line supplies BP’s Texas City refinery and
connects to the East Houston terminal, which may be a route for
increased imports of Canadian oil, Heine said.  
 Magellan units rose 10 cents to $48.25 at 3:59 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have gained 11
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        