-- Taifook Targets Chinese Institutional Business After Purchase by Haitong
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-07-13T08:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/taifook-targets-chinese-institutional-business-after-purchase-by-haitong.html

          
          
             Taifook Securities Group Ltd. , one
of Hong Kong’s biggest brokerages for individual investors,
plans to focus on its institutional business, betting that its
acquisition by China’s largest brokerage by assets will allow it
to tap the nation’s growing securities market.  
 The Hong Kong-based firm will be able to target
institutional clients of Shanghai-based  Haitong Securities Co. ,
which bought Taifook in 2009, said  Peter Wong , Taifook’s deputy
chairman and chief executive. With the prospect of Haitong
obtaining a quota under the Qualified Domestic Institutional
Investors program, allowing it to buy overseas equities from
inside China, Taifook may be able to offer investment advisory,
as well as asset management, services to its parent.  
 “China’s fund is massive, and that means enormous
opportunities,” Wong said in an interview in Hong Kong
yesterday. “Merging with Haitong means the absolute number, in
terms of our client network, grows bigger. It also helps boost
our strength and supplies us with additional capital.”  
 The tie-up with Haitong allows Taifook, established in 1973,
to tap into China’s market. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated
in a June 21 report that the value of equities and futures
traded daily in mainland China could reach $455 billion in 2020,
up from the current $58 billion.  
 “Not only does Haitong have relationships with mainland
institutional clients, its own quota potentially means we can
get involved in investment advisory, managing funds, and
execution,” Wong said. “As a result, institutional business
could take the better share, and may well cut into retail.”  
 China’s ‘Gradual’ Opening  
 Still, Goldman Sachs said China’s equity capital markets
are “relatively immature,” and the process of opening up of
the domestic market will be “very gradual,” potentially
benefiting Hong Kong. Haitong’s Chairman Li Jianguo said in
January the Shanghai-based company will use Taifook for its
global expansion.  
 Haitong said in November it bought a 52.86 percent stake in
Taifook for HK$1.82 billion ($234 million) from NWS Holdings
Ltd., controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung . That
marked the first purchase of an overseas brokerage by a mainland
securities firm. Haitong currently holds 60 percent of Taifook,
 Bloomberg data  shows.  
 China has begun to offer a wider range of investment
products, such as stock index futures, to tap the nation’s 49.5
trillion yuan ($7.3 trillion) of corporate and household savings.
China strictly controls capital flows and currently only allows
citizens to buy overseas-listed shares through institutions
under its QDII program.  
 Haitong “uses Taifook as a conduit as Hong Kong provides a
good channel,” Wong said. The Chinese parent said July 9 its
first-half net income fell 27 percent from a year earlier to
1.78 billion yuan.  
 Taifook’s  profit  for the six months ended Dec. 31 surged
more than 16 times to HK$143.7 million, according to an interim
report. The stock, which has rallied 145 percent in the past 12
months, declined 2.4 percent lower at HK$5.41.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        