-- Taiwan's Stocks to Gain as `War Risk' Discount Shrinks, PineBridge Says
-- Weiyi Lim
-- 2010-07-14T06:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/taiwan-s-stocks-to-gain-as-war-risk-discount-shrinks-pinebridge-says.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s “war risk” discount is
set to shrink after a trade accord with China, boosting the
island’s stocks as much as 32 percent through the end of 2011,
the market’s second-best performing fund manager said.  
 A global economic recovery will help drive the  Taiex Index 
to as high as 10,000 next year,  William Cheng , a fund manager at
PineBridge Investments, which oversees $83 billion of assets
worldwide, said in an interview in Taipei. The gauge rose 1.5
percent to 7,714.51 at the close, a two-month high.  
 A trade agreement with China last month underscored success
in Taiwan President  Ma Ying-jeou’s  two-year drive for warmer
ties between the civil war foes. China regards Taiwan as part of
its territory and has threatened to invade if the island
declares formal independence. Taiwan stocks have  slid 8.7
percent  this century as China’s  surged 80 percent .  
 “There used to be a discount because of the pending war
risk,” said Cheng, whose  PineBridge Giant Fund  returned 37
percent in the past 12 months, beating all but one of the 290
Taiwan equity funds, data compiled by Bloomberg show. “As peace
looms, there are more benefits for stocks.”  
 The  Taiex Index  has retreated 5.8 percent  this year ,
following a 78 percent rally in 2009 that was driven by optimism
closer ties with China will boost earnings. Taiwan and China
have been ruled separately since  Chiang Kai-shek’s  Kuomintang,
or Nationalists, fled to the island after being defeated by  Mao Zedong’s  Communists in 1949.  
 Trade Agreement  
 Under the trade agreement signed on June 29, China will cut
duties on fuel oil, copper foil and about 500 other  Taiwanese 
goods.  
 China’s decision to allow greater flexibility in the yuan’s
exchange rate last month may also benefit Taiwanese companies,
especially those with businesses tapping the mainland market,
said Cheng, who has been managing the fund since September 2009.  
 “A Chinese yuan appreciation will mean bigger spending
power by the Chinese, in addition to wage increases,” Cheng,
42, a fund manager since 1997, said yesterday.  
 China’s labor costs are expected to rise as cities
including Beijing raised minimum wages, while Taipei-based
 Foxconn Technology Group  is doubling salaries at some factories
to 2,000 yuan ($295) a month after a spate of suicides.  
 International Monetary Fund’s Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said yesterday a reversal of the global economic
recovery is unlikely, a week after boosting the 2010 projection
for global growth to 4.6 percent from 4.2 percent in April.  
 Want Want  
 Cheng’s fund holds Taiwan depository receipts of  Want Want
China Holdings Ltd. , China’s largest maker of rice cakes, and
 Tingyi (Cayman Islands) Holding Corp. , the country’s biggest
maker of packaged food. Both companies have primary listings in
Hong Kong, with most of their operations in China. Want Want
gained 3.1 percent and Tingyi advanced 1.1 percent today.  
 Cheng also likes solar energy shares, which make up 27
percent of the fund’s holdings, picking stocks such as  Gintech
Energy Corp. ,  Solartech Energy Corp.  and  Powercom Co.   
 “The alternate energy industry has potential to grow as
much as 10 times from its current size in the next 10 years,”
Cheng said. “It’s among few industries that have such
possibilities.”  
 As wages increase, Cheng said he also favors biotech shares
as people are more willing to spend increased disposable income
on improving their health.  Microbio Co.  and  GenMont Biotech Inc. 
are among his picks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ma Ying-jeou, Taiwan's president  
                       
                         
                           Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ma Ying-jeou, Taiwan's president. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ma Ying-jeou, Taiwan's president. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     People stand in front of monitors displaying securities information at a brokerage in Taipei. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
