-- Alcoa Profit Surprise Bodes Well for Economy, Stocks
-- Edmond Lococo
-- 2010-07-13T20:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/alcoa-s-profit-surprise-may-be-positive-signal-for-economy-stock-markets.html

          
          
             Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, reported second-quarter sales and profit that
beat analysts’ estimates and forecast higher global demand for
the metal, which may signal broader economic growth.  
 Alcoa gained in New York trading a day after saying rising
sales of aluminum for packaging and commercial transport helped
it report per-share earnings of 13 cents, exceeding the 11-cent
average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Global
aluminum consumption will climb 12 percent this year, compared
with the company’s previous forecast of 10 percent, Alcoa said.  
 “It’s a very positive signal for economic growth and the
stock market generally,”  John Stephenson , who helps manage
C$1.65 billion ($1.6 billion) including Alcoa shares at First
Asset Investment Management in Toronto, said in an interview.
“Maybe end-use demand has not been destroyed. That’s a very
good sign and a great way to start off this Q2 earnings
season.”  
 Alcoa  rose 13 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $11 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company, the
first in the Dow Jones Industrial Average to report earnings for
the three months through June, has dropped 32 percent  this year 
through yesterday, the  worst performance  in the 30-member Dow
average.  
 Sales Forecast  
 Alcoa expects aluminum sales for automotive uses to
increase by 3 percent to 8 percent this year, while sales for
commercial trucks and trailers may gain 12 percent to 17
percent, Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said on a
conference call yesterday.  
 “Alcoa is now saying they are seeing faster demand growth
and this is good,”  Charles Bradford , a partner at New York-
based consulting firm Affiliated Research Group LLC, said in a
telephone interview. “I would have liked to see them post an
even better number, but the industry is still very depressed.”  
 Alcoa reported second-quarter  net income  of $136 million,
or 13 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $454 million,
or 47 cents, a year earlier. Sales advanced 22 percent to $5.19
billion, exceeding the average estimate of $5.02 billion from
eight analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  
 The company’s per-share profit beat an average analyst
estimate that had fallen 4 cents, or 26 percent, in the four
weeks prior to yesterday’s announcement.  
 Pre-Financial Crisis  
 Alcoa still has a long way to go to get back to earnings
levels before the 2008 financial crisis. In the 18 months
through June 2008, before commodity and stock markets tumbled
amid the global economic recession,  Alcoa’s profit  excluding
one-time items averaged 62 cents a share.  
 The company is on the road back and sees indications of a
recovery in almost all markets this year, Kleinfeld said on the
call.  
 “We are really working very hard to fire on all
cylinders,” Kleinfeld said. “Undoubtedly we are not seeing the
environment we’ve seen in the past but we see the environment
getting better and continuously moving in the right direction.”  
 Alcoa generated more than half its  revenue  in the U.S. last
year. The country’s economy will have average growth of 2.8
percent from the current quarter through the second quarter of
2011, according to the median estimate of 52 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg from July 1 to July 8, down 0.1 percentage point
from last month.  
 A decline in aluminum prices since the end of the second
quarter is still a source of concern for the third quarter,
Bradford said.  
 Metal Prices  
 Aluminum for delivery in three months increased 39 percent
on average in the second quarter from a year earlier on the
London Metal Exchange. The price is still down 14 percent since
March 31 and more than 40 percent from the July 2008 high,
before the global recession cut demand.  
 After prices fell and  global inventories  rose, Kleinfeld
idled 20 percent of Alcoa’s aluminum-smelting capacity. The
company has lowered procurement costs by $1.4 billion so far
this year, and eliminated another $311 million of overhead
costs, Kleinfeld said on the call.  
 “They have to focus on what they can do something about,”
Affiliated Research’s Bradford said. “They can’t make airlines
buy more planes.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edmond Lococo  in Boston at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alcoa Inc. CEO Klaus Kleinfeld said Alcoa expects aluminum sales for automotive uses to increase by 3 percent to 8 percent this year, while sales for commercial trucks and trailers may gain 12 percent to 17 percent. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Bradford, a partner at Affiliated Research Group LLC, talks about aluminum prices and the outlook for Alcoa Inc.
     Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, said yesterday second-quarter earnings from continuing operations were 13 cents a share, exceeding analysts' estimates. Bradford talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
