-- Amedisys Shares Fall After Second-Quarter Earnings Miss Analyst Estimates
-- Ellen Gibson
-- 2010-07-13T22:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/amedisys-shares-fall-after-second-quarter-earnings-miss-analyst-estimates.html

          
          
             Amedisys Inc. , the largest U.S.
home-nursing provider, fell the most in more than four years in
Nasdaq trading after announcing preliminary results for the
second quarter that missed analysts’ estimates.  
 Amedisys fell $8.45, or 24 percent, to $26.57 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, making the
stock the biggest decliner today in the  Russell 2000 Index . The
drop was the largest single-day decline since Feb. 23, 2006,
when the Baton Rouge, Louisiana-based company missed earnings
forecasts and its chief financial officer quit. The company
yesterday said second-quarter  net income  was about $1.12 a
share, compared with the  $1.40  a share average estimate of 9
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The results included a one-time cost of 17 cents per share
due to “realignment of operations” and ongoing investigations
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the  U.S.
Senate Finance Committee  into whether the company manipulated
Medicare payments. In May, the government  said  it was reviewing
whether the home-nursing industry manipulated the number of
visits made to patients to boost reimbursements.  
 “We are very disappointed with these results,” said
 William Borne , Amedisys’s chairman and chief executive officer,
in a conference call with investors today. “We want you to know
that our team is focused on taking swift actions to streamline
our operations and return to a growth trajectory.”  
 SEC Inquiry  
 Gentiva Health Services Inc. , the second-biggest company in
the category, also is being investigated by the SEC as part of
the commission’s Medicare inquiry, the company said today in a
statement released after the close of trading.  
 SEC investigators told the Atlanta-based home health
services provider to preserve documents about Medicare payments
dating to Jan. 1, 2000, and a subpoena soon would be issued.
“The company plans to comply with the document request and
cooperate with the investigation,” Gentiva said in its
statement.  
 LHC Group Inc. , based in Lafayette, Louisiana, also said it
received a similar request for documents from the SEC as part of
the Medicare payments investigation. The company will cooperate
with the commission, LHC said in a statement released after the
close of trading.  
 Amedisys led shares of home-nursing companies down in
trading. Gentiva dropped $1.87, or 7.7 percent, to $22.30.
 Almost Family Inc. , based in Louisville, Kentucky, fell $2.36,
or 8.2 percent, to $26.36, while LHC declined $1.23, or 5.1
percent, to $23.02.  
 Analysts’ Downgrades  
 Amedisys was downgraded today to “sector perform” from
“outperform” by  Kevin Ellich , an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in Minneapolis. The 12-month target price was lowered to
$37 per share from $50.  David Macdonald , an analyst at SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Capital Markets in Boston, downgraded the
company to “neutral” from “buy,” while  Andreas Dirnagl  at
Stephens Inc. in New York cut his rating to “equal-weight”
from “overweight.”  
 The company incurred costs by reorganizing into two
distinct business units, home health and hospitals, and by
reassigning corporate-support personnel such as human resources
and marketing into the business units to decentralize
management. Amedisys said more information on operational costs
and income will be provided when the final results for the
quarter are released on Aug. 9.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        