-- Americans in 70% Majority See More Jobless as Deficit Widens
-- Catherine Dodge
-- 2010-07-14T14:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/americans-in-70-majority-see-frozen-unemployment-as-budget-deficit-widens.html

          
          
             More than 7 out of 10 in the U.S. say
the economy is mired in recession, and the country is conflicted
over how to balance concerns over joblessness and the federal
budget deficit, according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  
 Just like the experts, Americans are torn about whether the
federal government should focus on curbing spending or creating
jobs, the poll conducted July 9-12 shows. Seven of 10 Americans
say reducing unemployment is the priority. At the same time, the
public is skeptical of the Obama administration’s stimulus
program and wary of more spending, with more than half saying
the deficit is “dangerously out of control.”  
 This concern over spending extends to aid for the jobless.
With  unemployment  at a near-record high of 9.5 percent in June,
the public is closely split on whether another extension of
jobless benefits, which is stalled in Congress, is worth the $34
billion cost.  
 “They’re just running out of patience,” says J.  Ann Selzer , president of Selzer & Co., a Des Moines, Iowa-based
company that conducted the survey. “The number they’re seeing
change is the deficit. It’s rising at what seems like an
astronomical rate. The number that seems intractable is the
unemployment rate.”  
 Record Deficit  
 The Obama administration expects a record budget deficit
this year of more than $1.5 trillion, or 10.6 percent of GDP,
according to projections the White House released in February.
The U.S. deficit is a greater percentage of GDP than any other
major industrialized nation except the U.K., where it is
estimated to reach 11.4 percent, and Ireland, where it will be
12.2 percent, according to International Monetary Fund
projections released in April. The only deficit-reduction
measure that gets strong support in the poll is higher taxes on
upper-income Americans.  
 The public’s perception that the U.S. is still in recession
contradicts data showing the economy has been growing for a
year, with the Commerce Department reporting GDP rising at 2.7
percent annual rate in the first quarter. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists conducted July 1-8 shows
3.2 percent growth for the second quarter.  
 Four months ahead of the midterm congressional elections,
the poll’s results show a challenging climate for Democrats. The
public mood is bleak, with 63 percent saying they believe the
country is on the wrong track, the most negative reading of
Obama’s presidency. After a year of economic growth, 71 percent
say the economy is still in recession; another 13 percent say
the economy is faltering and will dip back into recession.  
 Not Better Off  
 Only 1 in 6 say they believe they are personally better off
than they were 18 months ago, when President  Barack Obama  took
office. They are more apt to see the economy today as
deteriorating than improving.  
 More than half say they are responding to the economic
climate by hunkering down. Fewer than a quarter say they are
getting back to normal and only 16 percent are seeing
opportunity and taking risks. The public’s posture is more
pessimistic than the view of global investors polled a month
earlier. In a poll of Bloomberg customers conducted June 2-3,
more than twice as many respondents -- 35 percent -- said they
are seeing opportunities and taking risks.  
 The divergence in the outlooks of the general population
and investors fits the way each group is experiencing the
economic cycle. The public confronts an  unemployment rate 
hovering near a 26-year high, home values and retirement
portfolio balances that remain below pre-recession levels, and
the debt crisis in Europe that threatens the global recovery.  
 ‘Investment Boom’  
 The public’s perception is gloomier than some recent
economic data: The U.S. economy has been growing for a year,
first-quarter  corporate profits  were up more than 33 percent
from a year earlier and research published in 1980 by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  points to the possibility of
“an investment boom” following resolution of uncertainty such
as the jitters provoked by the crisis in Europe. In addition,
investors have benefited from a rise of more than 36 percent in
the  S&P 500 stock index  since Obama took office even after the
recent turmoil in the markets.  
 The public gives the Obama administration little credit for
its tax cuts, which according to the Washington-based  Tax Policy
Center  lowered federal income taxes for 93 percent of filers.
Asked to compare their federal income taxes to what they paid
during  George W. Bush ’s presidency, only 7 percent say they are
lower; 20 percent say their taxes are higher and 65 percent say
they are about the same.  
 The Bloomberg National Poll is based on interviews with
1,004 U.S. adults ages 18 or older. Percentages based on the
full sample may have a maximum margin of error of plus or minus
3.1 percentage points.  
 Republicans Pick Deficit  
 Americans’ anxieties over the economy are reflected in the
top issues they see facing the country: Unemployment and jobs,
cited by 41 percent, and the federal deficit, cited by 26
percent, dwarfed other concerns. Few Democrats share the concern
over the deficit, with just 7 percent choosing it as the top
issue -- last in a list of five -- versus 44 percent of
Republicans and 31 percent of independents.  
 “People need to have work to keep their living going,”
says poll respondent  Jane Phillips , an 80-year-old retired
school teacher from Springfield, Ohio, who listed unemployment
as the most important issue. “It downgrades our people if they
don’t have anything to do.”  
 Important Election  
 The two big priorities are reversed among respondents who
say they will definitely vote in November and say the election
is exceptionally important. A 41 percent plurality name the
 deficit  as the top issue, compared with 33 percent who pick jobs
among those who say they are intensely interested in the
November congressional elections. Respondents who describe
themselves as Republicans say they are more likely to vote, the
poll shows.  
 “The debt that our kids are accumulating is going to be
beyond belief,” says Jim Tympanick, 55, of Foxborough,
Massachusetts, an independent who works in technology support.
“I don’t see how it can be rectified without an increase in
taxes.”  
 The White House hasn’t made much progress in selling its
$862 billion economic stimulus package. Asked how their opinion
of the stimulus has changed in recent months, respondents were
divided about evenly among those who say they had become more
supportive, those who are less supportive and those who haven’t
changed their opinion.  
 Less Supportive  
 Other high-profile spending plans undertaken in the wake of
the financial crisis have fared worse. The assistance package to
automobile companies is becoming less popular: 48 percent say
they had become less supportive in recent months versus 17
percent who say they have become more supportive.  
 By a two-to-one margin, the public classifies the $700
billion Troubled Asset Relief Plan that Congress passed in 2008
as the financial industry teetered as an “unneeded bailout”
rather than “necessary.”  
 Asked about a range of options to cut the  budget deficit ,
the public is willing to consider removing the cap on earnings
covered by the  Social Security  tax, currently set at just under
$107,000, and eliminating tax cuts for the wealthy enacted under
Bush.  
 The public opposes a 2 percentage point increase in income
tax rates on the middle class, cutbacks in Social Security or
 Medicare  benefits, though 52 percent say they would at least
consider an increase in the eligibility age for Medicare to 67
from 65.  
 Spending Cuts  
 The public is divided on cuts in spending on defense,
education, public housing, regulatory agencies or public works
and on discontinuing extensions of unemployment benefits to help
close the deficit.  
 Perceptions of the economy’s performance split sharply
along party lines. A 48 percent plurality of Democrats say the
economy is getting better. Only 17 percent of Republicans and 19
percent of independents see an improving economy.  
 Younger Americans also had a slightly more positive read on
the economy, with 31 percent of people under 35 saying they
believe it is improving. Middle-aged Americans had the most
negative reading, with only 24 percent describing the economy as
getting better. Among those over 55, 28 percent say the economy
is improving.  
 Voters in Western states also were more pessimistic, with
24 percent seeing an improving economy versus 27 percent in the
Midwest, 29 percent in the Northeast and 30 percent in the
South.  
 To see the methodology and exact wording of the poll
questions, click on the attachment tab at the top of the story.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, speaks at a forum in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Americans harbor doubts that a financial-regulation bill about to be passed by Congress will do what President Barack Obama says it will: help avoid another crisis and make their finances safer. Bloomberg's Monica Bertran reports on the results of a Bloomberg National Poll conducted July 9-12. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  Poll
         
     
 



 
     
         Attachment:  Poll results and methodology 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
