-- Laos Minister Thongloun Makes Highest-Level Visit to Washington Since 1975
-- Patricia Laya
-- 2010-07-13T21:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/laos-minister-thongloun-makes-highest-level-visit-to-washington-since-1975.html

          
          
             Foreign Minister Thongloun Sisoulith
met today with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in the
highest-level visit by a Laotian official to Washington since
1975.  
 The U.S. is interested in building a relationship with Laos
to expand its engagement with Southeast Asia, State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters.  
 In a joint statement, the U.S. and Laos highlighted the
signing of an air travel agreement that they said would boost
trade and tourism. The countries also discussed ways to expand
U.S. Agency for International Development work in Laos. During
their “cordial and productive” encounter, Thongloun invited
Clinton to make an official visit, the statement said.  
 Exports from Laos to the U.S. increased to $63.8 million in
2009 after a bilateral agreement between the two countries in
2005, according to the State Department’s website. This was
preceded by a bill signed by President  George W. Bush  extending
normal trade relations with Laos in December 2004.  
 The landlocked, communist-run nation is considering selling
its first foreign-currency bonds to overseas investors by the
end of the year to be less dependent on international aid,
according to the Asian Development Bank. Laos, a battleground in
the Vietnam War, has a population of 6.7 million and is one of
the smallest economies in Southeast Asia.  
 Laos and the U.S. are continuing to work to seek Americans
missing in the war and clear unexploded munitions, the countries
said in their statement.  
 The countries said they are “gradually” expanding
military to military cooperation as part of their widening ties.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Laya  in Washington at 
 playa1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        