-- Arab Bank Sanctioned by Judge for Withholding Records in Terrorism Suits
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-13T20:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/arab-bank-sanctioned-by-judge-for-withholding-records-in-terrorism-suits.html

          
          
             Arab Bank Plc , accused in  lawsuits 
by U.S. victims of terrorist attacks in Israel of administering
payments to Palestinian suicide bombers’ families, was
sanctioned by a judge for failing to turn over documents.  
 U.S. District Judge  Nina Gershon  in Brooklyn, New York,
said in a ruling yesterday that she will instruct jurors they
may infer that Jordan-based  Arab Bank  provided financial
services to groups designated as terrorist organizations by the
U.S. and that it processed payments on behalf of a group called
the Saudi Committee for the Support of the Intifada Al Quds.  
 “I am satisfied that plaintiffs have shown the high
likelihood that the withheld documents would show repeated
transfers by the bank to terrorists, terrorist organizations, or
their fronts, or on their behalf,” Gershon wrote.  
 The plaintiffs claim that Arab Bank handled death benefits
of $5,300 each from the Saudi Committee to the families of
suicide bombers. The plaintiffs claim that by providing the
financial services, the bank aided and abetted the attacks in
which they were wounded and members of their families were
killed.  
 “In compliance with the New York court’s orders in this
litigation, Arab Bank has produced hundreds of thousands of
documents and successfully sought waivers from bank secrecy laws
in several countries where it operates,” the bank said in a
statement e-mailed by spokesman  Robert Chlopak . “Where the bank
was unable to obtain such waivers from the appropriate
authorities in certain countries, it elected not to violate
these laws. The Bank’s actions were taken in good faith.”  
 The lead case is Linde v. Arab Bank Plc, 04-cv-02799, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        