-- Target Plans $1 Billion Debt Sale, First Bond Offering Since January 2008
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-07-13T16:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/target-plans-to-sell-1-billion-in-debt-in-first-offering-in-2-1-2-years.html

          
          
             Target Corp. , the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, plans to sell $1 billion of debt as soon
as today in its first bond offering since January 2008,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  
 The 10-year notes may yield 80 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds may be used to
repay existing debt, fund capital expenditures of constructing
new branches, remodel existing stores, finance share repurchases
and acquire real estate, other assets and companies, Target said
today in a regulatory filing.  
 Target is marketing debt more than two years after it sold
$4 billion of bonds to repurchase stock as activist investor
 William Ackman  pressured the retailer to raise its share price.
The Minneapolis-based retailer has repurchased about $5.7
billion worth of shares since starting its buyback program in
the fourth quarter of 2007, it said in a regulatory filing.
Target raised its quarterly dividend 47 percent last month to 25
cents a share.  
 “Target’s cash generation is well above the amount needed
for optimal reinvestment in our core business,” Chief Executive
Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  said in a June 9 statement. “Because
we expect to continue to return excess cash to our shareholders
through a combination of regular dividends and opportunistic
share repurchase, we believe it is appropriate to increase the
amount returned through the quarterly dividend.”  
 Today’s filing didn’t include the size or timing of the
sale. The notes may be rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
and A+ by Standard & Poor’s, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 Poison Put  
 The debt maturing in 2020 has a so-called poison put that
would allow investors to sell the bonds back to the company at
101 cents on the dollar if there is a change of control and a
ratings reduction below investment grade, according to today’s
regulatory filing.  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale for the retailer,
according to the filing.  
 Target’s 6 percent notes maturing in January 2018 traded at
118.25 cents on the dollar to yield 3.25 percent on June 29, a
27.7 basis-point spread, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The notes, part of the January 2008 issue, priced to yield
6.136 percent, a 235 basis-point spread, Bloomberg data show.  
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc . is the biggest U.S. discount retailer.
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart sold $3 billion of debt in
a three-part offering on June 30, Bloomberg data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        