-- Arizona Water Bonds Suffer as Governor, Treasurer Quarrel Over State Debt
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-13T15:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/arizona-water-bonds-suffer-as-governor-treasurer-quarrel-over-state-debt.html

          
          
             Arizona ’s  Water Infrastructure
Finance Authority  is selling $239 million in top-rated revenue
bonds amid a clash between the governor and treasurer over the
state’s credit line.  
 Arizona, which sold state prisons and offices earlier this
year to raise funds, didn’t renew a $700 million line of credit
with Bank of America this month, in a dispute between Governor
 Janice Brewer  and Treasurer  Dean Martin . Both had been running
for the Republican nomination for governor in the Aug. 24
primary before Martin withdrew last week.  
 The extra yield investors demand for a water authority bond
due in 2029 relative to comparable top-rated debt has jumped to
36 basis points from 19 on June 1, according to Bloomberg
Valuation data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Today’s sale is “being priced very aggressively because
you’re buying a name that’s never going to trade well,” said
 Laura LaRosa  of Glenmede Investment & Wealth Management in
Philadelphia, referring to the state. The firm manages $4.5
billion in municipal debt. “You’re going to see some
resistance” from investors, she said.  
 The authority, which funds water projects for the second
fastest-growing state, is financially independent. Arizona is
rated three and four steps lower than the agency, at Aa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service and AA- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 The majority of Arizonans live in the  Sonoran Desert ,
primarily in Phoenix and Tucson, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  
 The authority’s 10-year debt is priced to yield 2.97
percent, or 30 basis points above Thomson Reuters’ Municipal
Market Data curve, according to preliminary figures from Bill
Davis, a managing director with  Piper Jaffray & Co. , the
financial adviser on the deal.  
 Certificates of Participation  
 Yields on the state’s 19-year certificates of
participation, sold in January, widened to 99 basis points over
comparable top-rated debt yesterday from 80 basis points on June
9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “People don’t want to own Arizona right now,” LaRosa
said. “That’s why you’re seeing it priced at those levels.”  
 The bonds, which carry both federal and state tax
exemptions, are being issued to finance improvement projects and
to refund debt from 2004 and 2006, preliminary offering
documents show.  
 “We’re hoping there will be a lot of demand,” said Davis.
“We’re hoping the underwriters will be able to tighten up that
spread.”  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 MIAMI-DADE COUNTY , whose Miami International Airport is the
largest U.S. gateway to Latin America, plans to offer about $524
million in aviation-revenue bonds as early as this week. The
securities, rated fourth-lowest investment grade at A- by S&P,
and fifth-lowest by both Moody’s, at A2, and Fitch, at A, will
be used for capital improvements and to refinance debt. The
bonds will be marketed by a group led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(Added July 13)  
 MARYLAND TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, which operates the
state’s toll facilities, plans to sell about $299 million in
debt tomorrow to finance capital projects backed by
transportation revenue. About $287 million of the deal will be
offered as taxable Build America Bonds, and are rated Aa3 by
Moody’s and AA- by S&P and Fitch, all fourth-highest.
Underwriters led by Citigroup Inc. will market the bonds to
investors. (Updated July 13)  
 ILLINOIS, whose deteriorating financial position left it
with about $4.7 billion in unpaid bills at the end of last
month, plans to sell $900 million in taxable Build America Bonds
July 15. The state ended fiscal 2010 in “the worst fiscal
position in its history,” and its backlog of unpaid bills and
fund transfers rose from $2.8 billion a year earlier, State
Comptroller  Dan Hynes  said in a quarterly report released this
month. The bonds offered by Illinois, rated fifth-highest by
both Standard & Poor’s, at A+, and Moody’s, at A1, will be
marketed by a group led by Citigroup. (Updated July 13)  
 THE PORT OF SEATTLE , which manages the airport, cargo and
passenger marine terminals and related real-estate properties,
plans to offer about $395 million in bonds for capital
improvements and debt refinancing July 15. The securities are
rated AA- by S&P, fourth-highest, and one step higher by Moody’s
and Fitch. The offering will be marketed by a group led by
Morgan Stanley. (Updated July 13)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        