-- Shell, PetroChina $3.1 Billion Takeover Approved by Arrow Energy Holders
-- James Paton
-- 2010-07-14T08:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/arrow-energy-says-china-s-ndrc-has-approved-shell-petrochina-takeover-bid.html

          
          
             Arrow Energy Ltd.  shareholders
approved a A$3.5 billion ($3.1 billion) takeover by Royal Dutch
Shell Plc and PetroChina Co., giving the buyers reserves to feed
an Australian liquefied natural gas venture.  
 Shareholders also backed the spinoff of Dart Energy Ltd., a
new company that will hold Arrow’s overseas gas assets and
stakes in Australian-listed companies, the Brisbane-based
company said in a statement to the stock exchange in Sydney
today. The transactions need Australian federal court approval.  
 The Shell and PetroChina deal is even more attractive after
Australia proposed a new tax on resource projects and
Environment Minister  Peter Garrett  deferred a decision to
approve rival LNG ventures proposed by  Santos Ltd.  and BG Group
Plc, said  Shaun Scott , Arrow’s chief executive officer.  
 “The environment has changed,” Scott said in a phone
interview from Brisbane today. “What has been highlighted in
the last few months is that there’s a lot more risk. At the end
of the day the reality is that big projects are better off in
the hands of big companies like Shell and PetroChina.”  
 Shell plans to build the Curtis Island LNG project, which
would convert gas extracted from coal seams into liquid form for
export. The venture is one of more than a dozen in Australia
aimed at tapping rising Asian demand for the fuel.  
 Environmental Concerns  
 Garrett extended a review of the Santos and BG projects to
Oct. 11, spokesman Ben Pratt said today. While Queensland has
cleared the ventures, the state government raised concerns about
their environmental impact.  
 Arrow  rose 0.4 percent to A$4.99 in Sydney trading, valuing
the company at about A$3.67 billion, while the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index climbed 1.9 percent. Investors will get one Dart share
for every two Arrow shares. Arrow’s closing price today gives
Dart an implied value of 58 Australian cents a share.  
 Dart’s management team has spent a week each in Australia,
Asia, Europe and the U.S. pitching the new company to potential
shareholders, Scott said.  
 “We’re in the early stages of educating people about the
potential of the Dart portfolio,” he said. “It’s no different
from where Arrow was three or four years ago.”  
 China’s National Development and Reform Commission has
cleared the Shell-PetroChina acquisition, Arrow said today. Dart
is set to begin trading July 22, with the Shell and PetroChina
takeover due to be implemented Aug. 23, Arrow said.  
 Shell and PetroChina plan to invest the funds required to
develop a “world-scale LNG plant” on Curtis Island as they
continue to work with Arrow to complete the deal, the companies
said in a statement today after the shareholder vote. A hearing
on the takeover is scheduled in Australian federal court July 29,
Shell said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        