-- Asian Stocks Fall as China Reiterates Policies to Curb Property Prices
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-07-13T10:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/asian-stocks-advance-as-alcoa-profit-boosts-confidence-in-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  fell, dragging down the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index by the most in a week, after China
reaffirmed a commitment to lending curbs and India’s Infosys
Technologies Ltd. reported worse-than-estimated profit.  
 Poly Real Estate Group Co.  slumped 4.3 percent in Shanghai
after China said it will “strictly” enforce policies
preventing speculative real-estate investment. Infosys, India’s
No. 2 software exporter, dropped 3.4 percent in Mumbai.  Nissan
Motor Co. , which gets a third of its sales in North America,
lost 1.5 percent, as Chinese stock declines drove the yen higher.  
 “Things are just very uncertain at the moment,” said  Matt Riordan , who helps manage about $5 billion at Paradice
Investment Management in Sydney. “You’ve got a lot of
conflicting issues and people are just sitting on their hands
until they’ve got more clarity. Until we get that, the market
will remain a bit directionless.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.3 percent to 115.76 as
of 7:26 p.m. in Tokyo, the biggest decline since July 7. About
five stocks dropped for every four that rose. The gauge has
slumped 10 percent from its high this year on April 15 as
Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese steps to curb property prices
fueled concerns the global economy will falter.  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index sank 1.6 percent, while
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 0.2 percent. Japan’s  Nikkei
225 Stock Average  declined 0.1 percent. India’s Sensitive Index
gained 0.3 percent.  
 Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  lost 0.7 percent, led by BHP
Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, on speculation their proposed
iron-ore venture may be subject to an antitrust review in Japan.  
 Property Curbs  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  added 0.6
percent. The gauge gained 0.1 percent yesterday as analyst
upgrades of SanDisk and Qualcomm Inc. boosted sentiment before
the start of the earnings season. Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, reported better-than-estimated second-quarter
profit after U.S. markets closed.  
 China-related property stocks declined after the Ministry
of Housing and Urban-Rural Development reiterated that it will
maintain curbs on speculative purchases and increase market
supply. China’s banking regulator also said it has made no
changes to policies on  home loans , according to a statement
yesterday.  
 Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer, dropped
4.3 percent to 11.33 yuan in Shanghai. China Vanke Co., the
nation’s biggest developer, fell 2.4 percent to 7.46 yuan.
Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. declined 1.3 percent to HK$10.96 in
Hong Kong.  
 Focus On Consumption  
 The shares rallied yesterday after the Southern Metropolis
Daily reported China may loosen limitations on third-home loans.
Some Chinese banks have eased standards for mortgage lending, at
least on a case-by-case basis, according to Credit Suisse Group
AG in a report yesterday.  
 “The government isn’t likely to relax tightening measures
as it wants to transform the country’s growth model to focus on
consumption rather than investment,” said  Zhang Qi , an analyst
at Haitong Securities Co. in Shanghai.  
 Infosys dropped 3.4 percent to 2,796.75 rupees in Mumbai
after  profit  in the three months to June fell 2.6 percent to
14.9 billion rupees ($318.5 million) from a year earlier, less
than the 15.6 billion rupee average of analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. , India’s largest software-
services exporter, fell 2.2 percent 774.65 rupees, while  Wipro
Ltd. , the third-biggest, lost 1.4 percent to 403.95 rupees.  
 Japanese exporters declined as a slide in Chinese stocks
boosted demand for the relative safety of the yen. Japan’s
currency appreciated to 88.48, compared with 88.92 against the
dollar at the close of stock trading in Tokyo yesterday. A
stronger yen reduces the value of overseas revenue when
repatriated.  
 Production Halt?  
 Panasonic Corp., the world’s biggest maker of plasma
televisions, lost 1 percent to 1,179 yen. Honda Motor Co., which
derives 81 percent of its sales abroad, declined 1.8 percent to
2,639 yen.  
 Nissan Motor, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, sank 1.5
percent to 645 yen in Tokyo. The company also said it may halt
production at plants in Tennessee and Mexico because of delays
in receiving engine parts from Hitachi Ltd.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has slumped 4.2 percent this
year, cutting the average price of its shares to 14.1 times
estimated earnings. That’s close to the 13.7 times reached on
July 2, the lowest level since December 2008. Material producers
and finance companies have fallen the most this year among the
index’s 10 industry  groups  on speculation faltering global
growth will hurt earnings.  
 Iron-Ore Venture  
 In Sydney,  BHP Billiton , the world’s largest mining company,
sank 2.6 percent to A$37.62, while  Rio Tinto Group , the third
biggest, lost 3.2 percent to A$66.55. The companies’ proposed
iron-ore venture may be subject to a secondary antitrust review
by the Japan Fair Trade Commission, Nikkei English News reported,
without citing a source for the information.  
 Santos Ltd., Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
declined 2.1 percent to A$13.82 as crude futures fell for a
second day in New York.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore
energy explorer, dropped 1.1 percent to HK$12.94.  
 Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s largest gold producer,
tumbled 12 percent to HK$4.90 in Hong Kong after saying a
leakage of acidic waste water prompted it to shut the copper
smelter at its biggest mine.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        