-- Asian Stocks, Currencies Climb on Intel Sales, Singapore Growth
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-14T01:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/asian-stocks-fall-yen-gains-on-china-real-estate-policy-infosys-earnings.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  rose, pushing the
region’s benchmark index to a three-week high, and currencies
climbed after Intel Corp. reported record second-quarter sales
and Singapore raised its 2010 economic growth forecast.  
 The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index  gained 1.1 percent to 117.36 as
of 10:20 a.m. in Tokyo, reaching the highest level since June 22.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.7 percent.
The Korean won strengthened 1.1 percent to 1,208.30 per dollar,
snapping a two-day drop.  
 Singapore said its economy will grow between 13 percent and
15 percent this year, adding to optimism in the world’s recovery
after Greece sold bonds at a rate below what the country pays
for European aid. Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, said
third-quarter sales will be $11.6 billion, exceeding analyst
estimates of $10.9 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “The positive outlook for earnings is easing investors’
perception of risk,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , a fund manager in
Tokyo at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which oversees about $6
billion. “Economic growth needs to become sustainable. We are
looking for strong economic data from the U.S.”  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  surged 2.5 percent, set to
close at the highest since June 24. South Korea’s Kospi jumped
1.3 percent. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  climbed 1.3 percent.
A gauge of technology stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
rallied 2 percent, the most of 10 industry groups.  
 Semiconductor Stocks  
 Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest semiconductor maker,
rose 2.6 percent to 817,000 won, while Hynix Semiconductor Inc.
gained 2.6 percent to 25,550 won. Advantest Corp., the world’s
largest maker of chip-testing equipment, leapt 5.9 percent to
2,018 yen.  
 Intel  shares  climbed  7 percent to $22.49 in extended
trading. Profits for S&P 500 companies are projected to have
increased 34 percent in the April-June period, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The period is
forecast to mark a third straight quarter of increasing profits
following a record nine-quarter slump, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. retail sales and consumer confidence
data is due today.  
 “It’s hugely significant that Intel, which represents
high-tech companies, should report stronger than estimated
results,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at
Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  
 In Tokyo,  Komatsu Ltd. , the world’s second-largest maker of
construction equipment, rallied 5.5 percent to 1,785 yen after
raising its first-half net income forecast by 41 percent to 52
billion yen on rising demand from Asia and Latin America.  
 Commodity Rally  
 Commodity companies climbed as copper futures in New York
rose 0.4 percent in after-hours trading. The  London Metal
Exchange Index , a measure of six metals including copper and
zinc, gained 1.1 percent yesterday, while crude oil futures
jumped 2.9 percent.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company and
Australia’s largest oil producer, increased 1.4 percent to
A$38.15 in Sydney, while Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-
biggest mining company advanced 1 percent to A$67.20.  
 The euro gained 0.1 percent to 112.97 yen and the British
pound climbed 0.2 percent to $1.5208. The Greek government sold
1.625 billion euros ($2.05 billion) of 26-week Treasury bills at
a yield of 4.65 percent.  
 The Singapore dollar climbed 0.5 percent to S$1.3737 per
dollar after the city raised its economic forecast from as much
as 9 percent. The Malaysian ringgit rose 0.5 percent to 3.1895  
 “There is improved risk appetite driving stocks and
currencies in the region,” said Hasdi Mamat, a foreign-exchange
trader at Bank Muamalat Malaysia Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney on   lpham14@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney on   sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     All 10 industries in the S&P 500 advanced as Alcoa’s earnings topped estimates and the company forecast global aluminum consumption will grow 12 percent this year. Photographer: Jay Paul/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Intel Corp. Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Santa Clara, California, about the outlook for sales.
     Intel, the world's biggest chipmaker, reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts' estimates with its forecast for this period, allaying concern that a rebound in technology spending is losing steam. Smith also discusses the company's investments in China. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today. 
     U.S. and European stocks climbed for a sixth day, commodities rallied and Treasuries extended their longest losing streak in 11 months as Alcoa Inc.’s forecast of growing global demand and Greece’s sale of debt bolstered optimism in the economic outlook. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Scott Black, president of Delphi Management Inc., discusses the U.S. stock market. (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard & Poor’s, discusses the outlook for corporate earnings and dividends.
     Silverblatt speaks with Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Bradford, a partner at Affiliated Research Group LLC, talks about aluminum prices and the outlook for Alcoa Inc.
     Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, said yesterday second-quarter earnings from continuing operations were 13 cents a share, exceeding analysts' estimates. Bradford talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Belski, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about his investment strategy in U.S. stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
