-- At Poverty Inc., Rich Get Richer by Lending to the Poor: Books
-- James Pressley
-- 2010-07-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/at-poverty-inc-rich-get-richer-by-lending-to-the-poor-books.html

          
          
             On a hill high above Cleveland,
Tennessee, stands a manor modeled after George Vanderbilt’s
 Biltmore .  
 A  stone-and-stucco pile  topped by a copper dome, the house
is perched on a 650-acre (263-hectare) estate that features two
artificial lakes, a regulation-sized football field and a three-
story tree house, plus stables, a greenhouse and an aviary.  
 If this sounds like a scene from Robert Frank’s
“Richistan,” guess again. It’s a description  Gary Rivlin 
offers in “Broke, USA,” an unsettling look at entrepreneurs
who have become wealthy by extending credit to the working poor.  
 The estate owner is  W. Allan Jones Jr ., a man who made his
wad by giving Americans small bridge loans -- $100 here, $150
there -- to tide them over until their next payday. The founder
of  Check Into Cash Inc ., Jones owns planes, yachts and a vintage
Rolls-Royce, Rivlin writes. In 2002, he dropped $12.3 million to
buy a dude ranch in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  
 Jones -- described here as a bald man with a beard and a
big belly hanging over his frayed jeans -- is just one
outlandish character in a vast cast Rivlin introduces in this
queasy journey through what he calls “Poverty Inc.,” the
business of making money off Americans who scrape by on jobs
that  pay  $30,000 or less a year.  
 Pawnbrokers and high-rate lenders have long been with us,
of course. What “Broke, USA” shows is how deregulation and
Wall Street backing have turned fringe financing into an
industry raking in more money than all the nation’s casinos
combined -- a business with corporate logos and the creepy
homogeneity of McDonald’s.  
 Corporate Pawnshops  
 Poverty Inc. was a roughly “$150 billion-a-year industry
at its peak,” Rivlin calculates after totting up revenue at
pawnbrokers, payday lenders, money-wirers, rent-to-own
operators, tax preparers who offer instant tax “refunds,”
subprime credit-card providers, subprime-mortgage lenders and
all the rest. Mom-and-pop shops on the down side of town have
given way to publicly traded companies such as  Dollar Financial
Corp. ,  Cash America International Inc . and  Rent-A-Center Inc .  
 Rivlin, a former New York Times staffer, is what we used to
call a shoe-leather reporter. He digs through the files of fair-
lending activists, spends hours talking to people who’ve  lost
their homes , hangs out with  Legal Aid Society  attorneys and
consumer activists.  
 He sits down with William T. Myers, a 73-year-old worker
with “a pleated face” -- you can see him -- who has been
living with his wife in a sad trailer park on the edge of
Dayton, Ohio, since they fell victim to a predatory lender.  
 ‘Instant Tax Refunds’  
 He gets to know Fesum Ogbazion, an Eritrean-born go-getter
who at age 35 was running a  tax-preparation service  in 39 states
offering what are commonly called “instant tax refunds,” loans
in which an expected refund serves as collateral.  
 He also meets  William M. Webster IV , better known as Billy.
He set up  Advance America, Cash Advance Centers, Inc. , after
showing a financial backer a piece of paper with two lines: One
traced the cost of a payday loan, the other tracked the rising
cost of fees on bounced checks and late credit-card payments.  
 “When those lines crossed,” he said, “the industry just
grew and grew and grew.”  
 Both lines also illustrate “how extremely expensive it is
to be poor,” as author James Baldwin once put it. Though the
fees allowed on payday loans vary from state to state, they are
daunting when calculated as annual percentage rates. The $15 per
$100 payday lenders could charge in a stricter state such as
Ohio, says Rivlin, represented an APR of 391 percent.  
 Rivlin strives to be fair and balanced throughout this
often depressing account. He eschews hyped language and lets the
evidence speak for itself.  
 Angels or Vultures?  
 The book does bog down in places, especially when Rivlin
recounts legislative battles -- won and lost -- against subprime
and payday lenders. At times, this reader felt battered by the
evidence, pro and con. Yet I came away with an admiration for
how evenhanded Rivlin was in addressing his central question
about enterprises that cater to the working poor.  
 “Were they financial angels to the country’s great
hardworking masses?” he asks. Or “were they vultures
carelessly adding to the economic woes of a single mother of two
working as a chambermaid at the local Holiday Inn?”  
 This thorough and thoughtful piece of reporting has much to
teach us about the challenges the U.S. faces today, especially
when it comes to improving financial literacy. It should be
required reading for legislators and lenders across the land.  
 “Broke, USA: From Pawnshops to Poverty, Inc. -- How the
Working Poor Became Big Business” is from  HarperBusiness  (358
pages, $26.99). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  
 ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Broke USA"  
                       
                         
                           Harper Business via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "Broke USA: From Pawn Shops to Poverty, Inc. -- How the Working Poor Became Big Business." The book is the latest by Gary Rivlin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "Broke USA: From Pawn Shops to Poverty, Inc. -- How the Working Poor Became Big Business." The book is the latest by Gary Rivlin. Source: Harper Business via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gary Rivlin  
                       
                         
                           Cathrine Westergaard/Harper Business via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Author Gary Rivlin. "Broke USA: From Pawn Shops to Poverty, Inc. -- How the Working Poor Became Big Business" is the latest book by Rivlin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Author Gary Rivlin. "Broke USA: From Pawn Shops to Poverty, Inc. -- How the Working Poor Became Big Business" is the latest book by Rivlin. Photographer: Cathrine Westergaard/Harper Business via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
