-- Thatta Cement Plans to Double Capacity as Pakistan, Overseas Demand Rises
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-07-13T08:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/thatta-cement-plans-to-double-capacity-as-pakistan-overseas-demand-rises.html

          
          
             Thatta Cement Co ., Pakistan’s
smallest maker of the building material, plans to double
capacity to take advantage of rising demand at home and
overseas.  
 “We plan to increase capacity within 24 months and that
will lead to a rise in sales,” Chief Executive Officer  Muhammad Fazullah Shariff  said in an interview yesterday at his office in
Karachi. Thatta Cement will spend 3 billion rupees ($35 million)
to raise production to 3,000 tons a day from 1,500 tons, he
said.  
 Pakistani cement makers are benefiting from a growth in
sales in their domestic market and from exports because of lower
capacity in markets such as Sri Lanka, Africa and the Middle
East. Sri Lanka’s $41 billion economy may grow 7 percent in
2010, Sri Lankan Deputy Finance Minister  Sarath Amunugama  said
in his budget speech last month.  
 “We are more focused on exports to Sri Lanka where we get
a better price for the product,” said Shariff. “Almost half of
our exports go to Sri Lanka.”  
 According to Thatta Cement’s estimates, there is an annual
shortfall in cement supply of about a million tons in Sri Lanka.
Demand may increase by as much as 25 percent a year.  
 “Higher capacity will help smaller cement companies to
compete with bigger players in the market,” said  Sana Abdullah ,
a research analyst at IGI Finex Securities Ltd. in Karachi.
“With strong growth prospects for exports, smaller companies
will also benefit.”  
 Biggest Producer  
 Lucky Cement Ltd.  is the country’s biggest producer by
capacity and sales, and  D.G. Khan Cement Ltd.  is the second
biggest.  
 Thatta Cement will also build a power plant within fifteen
months with a generation capacity of 15 megawatts a day and sell
surplus power to the government, Shariff said.  
 Thatta Cement may borrow from banks and sell shares to
existing shareholders to raise funds for the expansion, he said.  
 Pakistan’s cement makers sold 34.2 million metric tons of
the building material in the year ended June 30, up 9.3 percent
from a year earlier, according to the  All Pakistan Cement
Manufacturers Association .  
 Domestic sales were 23.53 million tons, compared with 20.53
million tons a year earlier. Exports totaled 10.65 million tons,
down from 10.75 million tons a year earlier, according to the
association.  
 ‘Temporary Slowdown’  
 “The export slowdown seems temporary,” Shariff said. “As
the global economy revives, demand from overseas will
increase.”  
 The Pakistan government will spend 663 billion rupees on
building bridges, roads and other infrastructure in the year
that began July 1, 38 percent higher than last year’s revised
budget, Finance Minister  Abdul Hafeez Shaikh  said at a news
conference in Islamabad on May 28.  
 This will boost demand for cement and other building
materials, Shariff said.  
 Thatta Cement share  rose  5.6 percent to 19.25 rupees as of
1:02 p.m. on the  Karachi Stock Exchange . The stock has  fallen 
8.2 percent this year compared with a 7.6 percent increase in
the benchmark  KSE100 Index .  
 Thatta Cement had a loss of 102 million rupees in 2003,
before it was sold the following year by the government to  Arif
Habib Group , a financial services and industry company.  
 The company had profit of 204 million rupees in 2009,
compared with 39.5 million rupees a year earlier. Arif Habib
Group holds a 71 percent stake in Thatta Cement.  
 Pakistan’s cement makers have capacity to produce 45
million tons of the building material, meaning there are risks
attached to the company’s plans should overseas demand wane,
Shariff said.  
 “We will only benefit from the capacity expansion when
there is growth in demand from overseas,” said Shariff. “There
is a big surplus in production in Pakistan compared with local
demand.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        