-- Short Seller's Researcher Wrote Attack on For-Profit Colleges
-- John Lauerman
-- 2010-07-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/attack-on-homeless-college-recruiting-drafted-by-investor-s-researcher.html

          
          
             A letter calling for U.S. Education
Secretary  Arne Duncan  to strengthen regulation of for-profit
colleges that recruit students in homeless shelters was drafted
by a researcher working for an investor betting against the
publicly traded education companies.  
 Johnette Early drafted the  letter  with input from shelter
workers and enlisted 20 workers, administrators and advocates to
sign it, she said in an e-mail on July 9. Early’s role in
writing the letter, which said for-profit colleges were
“preying” on the homeless, was reported July 9 by  ProPublica ,
a New York-based nonprofit news outlet. The Education Department
responded to the letter without knowing of Early’s involvement
or her connection to a short-seller, saying that it was working
to punish recruiting abuses at education companies.  
 Short-sellers seek to profit by selling borrowed shares
with the expectation of replacing them later at a cheaper price.
 Steven Eisman , a hedge-fund manager also betting against
education companies, last month testified in a Congressional
hearing last month that a situation similar to the recent
housing-market crash is developing as for-profit colleges extend
federally guaranteed loans to students with little ability to
repay them. Early said she had no personal interest in seeing
education companies’ shares decline.  
 No Pressure  
 “I have never felt any pressure to be for or against for-
profit education,” Early said in the e-mail. “My client has
provided me with complete freedom to pursue my own research
initiatives and reach my own conclusions.”  
 Early, 48, of Dallas, said she has been studying
recruitment of the homeless by for-profit colleges for about a
year. She said she typically worked with shelter staffers who
forwarded the letter to their superiors for a decision about
whether to sign.  
 Early said it was her “regular practice” to disclose her
position to shelter workers or managers as an independent
researcher for an investment firm.  
 In her dealings with  Community Voice Mail , a Seattle-based
group that provides poor and homeless people with services,
Early disclosed her role “from the beginning” said Jennifer
Brandon, executive director, who was one of the signers of the
letter.  
 Different Picture  
 Neil Donovan, executive director of the Washington-based
National Coalition for the Homeless, also a signer of the
letter, said in a telephone interview that if he had known of
Early’s links to investors “that would have been a very
different picture -- I would not have signed the letter.”  
 Early’s work is part of a “systematic attempt by short
sellers” to persuade the news media and policy makers of
widespread violation of the Department of Education’s rules,
said  Harris Miller , president of the  Career College Association ,
a Washington-based industry group. Early’s letter was an attempt
to make it appear that isolated examples of recruitment in
shelters represent a national problem, he said.  
 Early said her client, whom she declined to name, told her
last week that her research contributed to its decision to sell
short education companies. She said her own compensation is
“based solely on the quality and accuracy of my research.”  
 The letter to Duncan, signed by 20 people, said that
companies use “predatory” recruiting tactics to entice the
homeless into taking on loans to pay for training programs that
frequently don’t lead to jobs.  
 “Saddled with a mountain of debt that is unsupportable by
educational outcomes promised but not delivered, our clients
all-too-often default on their debts and fall into a downward
spiral of recidivism,” said the letter, dated June 17.  
 Apollo’s Response  
 “University of Phoenix does not condone the recruitment
of residents from homeless shelters or transitional housing,”
Manny Rivera, a spokesman for Phoenix-based Apollo Group Inc.,
which operates the University of Phoenix, said in an e-mail.
“University of Phoenix is committed to providing access to a
quality education, while better identifying and enrolling only
those students who have a reasonable chance of success in our
rigorous degree programs.”  
 Bloomberg News reported, on April 30, that three for-profit
colleges recruited in homeless shelters in the past year in
Cleveland and New Jersey. Homeless students generally qualify
for federal grants and loans, which account for most of the
revenue of for-profit colleges.  
 Default Rates  
 Federal aid to students at for-profit colleges jumped to
$26.5 billion in 2009 from $4.6 billion in 2000. Among borrowers
who were to start repaying their federal student loans in the
year ended Sept. 30, 2008, for-profit colleges had a default
rate of almost 12 percent, compared with a national average of
7.2 percent, according to federal data.  
 The  Education Department  is developing regulations that
will penalize companies that misrepresent their programs in
recruitment, said David Bergeron, acting deputy assistant
education secretary for  policy, planning and innovation  in the
Office of Postsecondary Education, in a June 28 letter
responding to the homeless-shelter officers and advocates.  
 “These regulations will result in improved protections for
both prospective students and the taxpayer and significant
penalties for schools that fail to comply,” the department’s
letter said.  
 The Education Department remains concerned about
“overzealous” recruiting practices by for-profit colleges,
regardless of the origin of the letter, said Justin Hamilton, a
department spokesman.  
 Public Input  
 “We welcome an open discussion and public input on these
issues as we continue working to ensure the interests of
students and taxpayers are protected,” he said in an e-mail.  
 Eisman, manager of the financial-services fund at New York-
based Frontpoint Partners, a hedge-fund unit of New York-based
Morgan Stanley, predicted in May that earnings at  Apollo ,  ITT
Educational Services  Inc. and  Corinthian Colleges  Inc. would be
hurt by federal regulations forcing the companies to reduce
tuition and curb enrollment growth.  
 Apollo fell 33 percent over the past 12 months in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading. Corinthian Colleges, based in
Santa Ana, California, dropped 34 percent in the same period in
Nasdaq trading, and ITT Educational, based in Carmel, Indiana,
declined 7.1 percent over the past 12 months in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Arne Duncan, U.S. secretary of education, speaks during an interview in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- A letter calling for U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan to strengthen regulation of for-profit colleges that recruit students in homeless shelters was drafted by a researcher working for an investor betting against the publicly traded education companies. Bloomberg's Brian Weiss reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
