-- Australian Budget to Return to Surplus Within 3 Years, Treasurer Swan Says
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-13T22:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/australian-budget-to-return-to-surplus-within-3-years-treasurer-says.html

          
          
             Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
the budget will return to surplus within three years as the
government prepares to release new details on mining tax revenue
and considers setting an election date as early as this week.  
 Swan will release revised economic forecasts today, the
first update to the nation’s outlook since  Julia Gillard  became
prime minister on June 24 and revamped the mining levy that the
treasurer said on July 2 will deliver revenue of A$10.5 billion
($9.3 billion) in its first two years -- A$1.5 billion less than
the resource tax proposed in May by ousted leader  Kevin Rudd .  
 “The budget will be in surplus in three years, three years
early, and ahead of every advanced major economy,” Swan told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio. The update will “provide
more detail on the fiscal impact of our tax reforms,” he added.  
 Swan will reveal an upgrade to commodity price forecasts,
boosting taxes from resources companies by as much as A$5
billion a year, the Australian newspaper said, citing economists.
The economic forecast may also show the nation’s unemployment
rate dropping below 5 percent this year, the newspaper said.  
 The budget update will be released this afternoon, a
spokesman from Swan’s office said by phone.  
 Gillard promised an election this year after her elevation
led to an initial rebound in opinion polls for her Labor Party.
Talk of a national ballot as early as next month has increased
after Governor-General  Quentin Bryce , whom the prime minister
must ask to dissolve parliament, changed travel plans.  
 Election Preparation  
 Since taking over from Rudd, Gillard has struck a deal with
 BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio Tinto Group  and Xstrata Plc to water down
the mining tax to a 30 percent levy on coal and iron ore
projects and vowed to reach a “consensus” on action to tackle
climate change, though no new policy has been announced.  
 The revenue numbers behind the scaled back levy were based
on modeling provided by BHP, Rio and Xstrata, Treasury Secretary
 Ken Henry  told a Senate committee yesterday.  
 Bryce’s decision to delay travel boosted the likelihood the
national election will be held on Aug. 28, the Sydney Morning
Herald reported yesterday after Gillard hinted that a vote
announcement could be made within days.  
 The governor-general will be out of Australia from July 17-
21, according to a statement released by her office two days ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net 
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        