-- Avior Rates Pick n Pay, Shoprite `Buy' in New Coverage, Spar Group `Hold'
-- Janice Kew
-- 2010-07-13T12:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/avior-rates-pick-n-pay-shoprite-buy-in-new-coverage-spar-group-hold-.html

          
          
             Shoprite Holdings Ltd. , South
Africa’s biggest retailer by market value, and  Pick n Pay Stores
Ltd.  were rated “buy” in new coverage at Avior Research Ltd.
on the outlook for margin growth and inflation.  
 “Strong margin expansion from diversification into high-
margin operating segments and an acceleration of food
inflation” will support earnings, analysts including
Johannesburg-based Simone Kruger and  Naeem Tilly  said in an e-
mailed note today. “Historically, food retailers outperform
discretionary retailers in periods of rising inflation.”  
 Avoir expects food inflation to boost retail turnover
growth excluding inflation from the middle of next year as power
and labor costs rise. Eskom Holdings Ltd., a state-owned utility
that produces 95 percent of South Africa’s electricity, in
February won permission from regulators to raise fees by 25.8
percent in the year through March 2012 and 25.9 percent the year
after that.  
 Following an 18-day strike that crippled exports, state-
owned ports and rail company Transnet Ltd. in April agreed to
raise wages by 11 percent, more than double the rate of
inflation. Eskom workers indicated they would accept a 9 percent
pay increase, averting a strike that had threatened to disrupt
the World Cup and halt mines.  Inflation  slowed for a fifth
consecutive month in May, reaching 4.6 percent.  
 Fruit, Vegetables  
 South African fruit and vegetable prices may jump because
of “severe” frost during the past three weeks in the country’s
Limpopo and Mpumalanga provinces, agricultural trade association
Agri SA said today. Bananas, avocados and tomatoes in particular
may become more expensive, Agri SA President  Johannes Moller 
said. Wheat and wheat product prices may start to increase
toward the end of the year as South Africa boosts imports, Agri
SA’s Moller said. Red meat prices will also rise at that time,
in line with normal trends ahead of the Christmas holiday, he
said.  
 Shoprite presents the “best value” while Pick n Pay will
increase margins more quickly than its competitors as it regains
market share by expanding its Boxer outlets and adding stores at
BP gas stations, according to the note.  
 Shoprite’s share-price estimate was set at 92.40 rand and
Pick n Pay’s at 48 rand.  Spar Group Ltd.  was rated “hold,”
with a price estimate of 85.20 rand.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janice Kew  in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        