-- Aviva Investors Favoring Company Debt Over Government Bonds: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-13T04:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/aviva-investors-favoring-company-debt-over-government-bonds-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Aviva Investors Canada Inc. , which
oversees about C$6 billion ($5.8 billion) in fixed-income
assets, favors corporate bonds over government debt because
relative yields are widening even as default rates decline.  
 The default rate for Canadian speculative-grade companies
dropped to 8.3 percent in April from a peak of 13.9 percent in
January 2009 and is expected to fall to 4.8 percent by the end
of 2010, Moody’s Investors Service said in an April report.  
 “I think credit is still the most attractive place to
be,”  Doug MacDonald , president of Aviva Investors Canada, said
by phone from Toronto. “Given a reasonable North American
recovery, combined with continued improvement in corporate
balance sheets and dropping default rates, then 150 basis points
on a generic basis is relatively attractive.”  
 Corporate bond yields widened to 154 basis points over
government yields last month, the most since October, from as
narrow as 114 basis points in March, the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Canadian Corporate Index showed. They ended yesterday at
145 basis points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Corporate debt has underperformed since the end of March on
concern that a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe may widen,
undermining the global economic recovery. Canadian corporates
made investors 2.1 percent last quarter, compared with 3.7
percent for government bonds, according to the Merrill data.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own provincial rather than federal debt narrowed to 61
basis points yesterday, from 62 on July 9 and 71 on May 21, the
Merrill data show.  
 Overall provincial yields fell to 3.363 percent yesterday,
from 3.406 percent last week.  
 Rebound ‘Progressing’  
 The Bank of Canada said companies expect rising sales,
payrolls and investment, suggesting that the country’s rebound
is “progressing,” according to a quarterly survey of
executives.  
 Some 53 percent of senior managers said sales growth will
quicken over the next year, while another 29 percent expect
sales to slow, the Ottawa-based central bank said yesterday in
its quarterly Business Outlook Survey. The so-called balance of
opinion on future sales declined to 24 percentage points from 44
points three months ago.  
 ‘Overweight’ Financial Firms  
 Aviva Investors Canada is “overweight” Canadian financial
companies and favors paper that is “down the capital
structure,” such as tier one and tier two capital bonds,
MacDonald said. His firm also invests in maple bonds and asset-
backed securities.  
 The firm’s C$157 million  Canadian Core Fixed Income 
portfolio, with holdings that include Power Corp. of Canada,
returned about 12 percent in the 12 months through the end of
March, versus a return of about 5.1 percent in the Dex Universe
Bond Index, the fund’s benchmark.  
 “We’re going to have periods where there’s tons of
headlines about deflation, and a slowing U.S. economy, and fear
about European debt crisis,” said MacDonald, who joined Aviva
in September. “When you have those types of headlines, you do
get some panic selling, and I think we’ve had some of that over
the last month.”  
 MacDonald, a chartered financial analyst, held jobs at KBSH
Capital Management and ING Investment Management. He has finance
degrees from McMaster University and York University.  
 Financial paper is “relatively attractive” because banks
are rebuilding  balance sheets  and regulators discourage banks
from increasing dividends or making large acquisitions that
erode existing capital, he said.  
 “From a credit perspective, things look pretty good,”
MacDonald said. “Most of the bad news is out. That’s
yesterday’s story.”  
 Canadian financial firms’ debt returned 1.71 percent in the
second quarter, up from 1.68 percent in the first quarter, the
Merrill data show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        