-- Tax Cuts for Wealthy May Get Reprieve if Democrats Blink
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-07-13T13:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/tax-cuts-for-high-income-americans-depend-on-democrats-blinking.html

          
          
             Wealthier Americans stand to gain
from an election-year fight over extending trillions of dollars
in tax cuts enacted under former President  George W. Bush .  
 While Democrats and Republicans alike want to keep the 2001
and 2003 tax reductions for families earning up to $250,000,
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats want to end
the break for those who earn more. Republicans, contending a
recovery from recession is no time to raise taxes, insist on
continuing the Bush-era cuts for high-income people as well.  
 As Congress returns this week, the looming fight over one
of the biggest battles of the session will play out in a midterm
election season that will determine who controls Congress and
ultimately who makes long-term decisions over taxes.  
 For the Democrats, reluctant to break Obama’s promises, the
pressure may be strongest to blink in this standoff and let the
tax cuts stand another year. All of the cuts will expire Dec. 31
if Congress fails to act, an outcome neither party can afford.  
 “Anybody who wants to obstruct right now is in paradise,”
Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, said in an interview
yesterday.  
 Ohio Republican Senator  George Voinovich  said he is willing
to let all the tax cuts expire.  
 “If we have to create a crisis to get people to come to
the table and look at this tax code and start doing something
about it, then I am for the crisis,” said Voinovich, who is
retiring after this year. He said he would oppose any extension
of the Bush tax cuts that didn’t include offsetting revenue.  
 The cost of continuing the tax cuts for the most prosperous
Americans would be about $55 billion for one year. By contrast,
Democrats and Republicans have battled for months over extending
aid to the long-term unemployed, with a $34 billion price tag.  
 One-Year Extension  
 The easiest option may be a one-year extension of the
entire tax-cut package, said Roberton Williams, a senior fellow
at the  Tax Policy Center . The Washington research group is run
by the Urban Institute and Brookings Institution.  
 “The simplest solution this year would be to say ‘we have
a struggling economy; we don’t want to raise taxes at all,’”
said Williams. “It’s a compromise that would get things past
the end of this year.”  
 Wyden said a short-term extension arising out of
brinkmanship was possible, though he said it would be a hard
sell to Democrats who “don’t want to ratify another round of
Bush tax cuts” they have opposed.  
 Congress, back in Washington after a weeklong Fourth of
July recess, is working to resolve the dispute over extending
the jobless aid. The Senate fell one vote short June 30 and may
able to pass the measure after a successor is appointed for the
late West Virginia Democrat  Robert Byrd .  
 Wall Street Rules  
 Senate Democrats are seeking to pass an overhaul of Wall
Street rules. Also on the agenda are funds for the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan and confirmation of U.S. Supreme Court nominee
 Elena Kagan .  
 Congress will consider the tax issue “pretty soon,” House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California told reporters July 1. Like
Obama, she supports keeping the middle-class tax cuts while
ending those for upper-income people.  
 House Democratic Leader  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland, though,
said June 22 that even the reductions for middle-income
Americans may no longer be affordable as the U.S. tries to cut
its growing debt.  
 Republicans say the economic harm of ending any of the Bush
tax cuts would outweigh deficit concerns.  
 “With unemployment near 10 percent, the last thing
struggling American families and small businesses need right now
is a massive tax increase, but that’s exactly what Washington
Democrats have planned for them,” House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio said through spokesman Michael Steel last week.  
 Middle Income  
 The Bush tax cuts gave middle-income earners a 10 percent
rate on couples’ first $14,000 in income; subsidies for college
expenses, a higher child-care credit and relief from the
marriage penalty. Keeping those and other reductions for the 130
million households earning less than $250,000 would cost about
$300 billion a year, according to the congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation.  
 In addition to those benefits, high-income households got
reduced top marginal rates, elimination of phase-outs for some
deductions and personal exemptions, and benefited the most from
lower rates on dividends and capital gains.  
 The average tax rate for the 400 richest U.S. households
fell to 16.6 percent in 2007 from 29.4 percent in 1993. There
are about 5 million households earning more than $250,000 a
year. By contrast, the Tax Policy Center found in April that 47
percent of Americans pay no income tax, largely the result of
tax credits enacted under Bush and Obama. Those Americans do pay
Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes.  
 In the Senate, the Democrats control 59 votes and the
Republicans have 41 votes. Either side would need 60 votes to
push its proposal through the chamber.  
 ‘The Difficulty’  
 “Don’t underestimate the difficulty of the politics” for
the Republicans, said  Stan Collender , a former House and Senate
budget analyst who is managing director of Qorvis
Communications, a Washington communications firm.  
 Congress also must act this year to prevent the alternative
minimum tax from wiping out tax savings for more than 30 million
households and must decide what to do about the federal estate
tax. The 45 percent tax on estates of more than $3.5 million per
person expired Dec. 31, 2009, and is scheduled to return Jan. 1,
2011, with a top rate of 55 percent on estates valued at more
than $1 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Ron Wyden listens during a hearing in Washington. Photographer: Mark Wilson/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
