-- Taxpayers Don't Need $2.9 Trillion Pension Overhaul: Joe Mysak
-- Joe Mysak
-- 2010-07-13T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/taxpayers-don-t-need-2-9-trillion-pension-repair-commentary-by-joe-mysak.html

          
          
             The economic recovery is fragile
enough. Should we force public pension funds to cut their
investment return assumptions in half in order to comply with
economic theory? The move may cost taxpayers $2.9 trillion.  
 The trouble is the assumptions that state and local pension
plans make for their investment returns are too high.  
 Arizona ’s Public Safety Personnel Retirement System expects
to make 8.25 percent on its investments this year.  
 Colorado’s Public Employees’ Retirement Association will
make 8 percent. And the Virginia Retirement System anticipates 7
percent returns.  
 Eileen Norcross  of the Mercatus Center at George Mason
University in Arlington, Virginia, and  Andrew Biggs  of the
American Enterprise Institute say such assumptions are
optimistic, and should be much lower, in the 3 percent range.  
 In a June  report  on New Jersey’s pension system, they also
advocate the adoption of corporate accounting rules, and
converting public pensions from defined benefit to the defined
contribution plans now common in business.  
 Government pension plans across the nation assume they will
make between 7 percent and 8.50 percent, with the median for 126
plans surveyed being 8 percent, according to the  National
Association of State Retirement Administrators . Moving to the
lower investment assumptions of corporate accounting would force
taxpayers to come up with $2.9 trillion to bridge the gap
between assets and liabilities.  
 The Governmental Accounting Standards Board, which sets
guidelines for state and local governments, in June rejected a
corporate makeover in publishing  “preliminary views”  on
pension accounting and financial reporting. That won’t make the
argument go away.  
 Union Resistance  
 Governments and public labor unions are going to resist
this idea to reform the system, and I don’t blame them.  
 This latest battle in the public pension wars pits those
who call themselves “financial economists” against
practitioners of “actuarial accounting.”  
 The economists’ argument was summed up by  Donald Kohn ,
former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, quoted in the
Norcross/Biggs report on New Jersey: “The only appropriate way
to calculate the present value of a very low-risk-liability is
to use a very low-risk discount rate.”  
 In other words, if you want to figure out how much you will
need to pay your retirees -- a low-risk liability, meaning,
states and localities always pay -- you must put your money in
very safe, low-risk assets. When New Jersey discounts its
liabilities at 8.25 percent, the state reports that its pension
systems are underfunded by $44.7 billion. If New Jersey
discounts the liability at 3.5 percent, the rate you can get on
U.S. Treasury securities, its unfunded obligation is $173.9
billion.  
 ‘Terribly Misguided’  
 “The suggestion that public funds should discount their
liabilities at a so-called risk-free rate is terribly
misguided,”  Keith Brainard , research director of the
Washington-based National Association of State Retirement
Administrators, said in an e-mail. “That standard is partly
responsible for the demise of corporate pensions, as it makes
the required costs of the plan highly volatile and uncertain.”  
 Brainard said, “Nonetheless, it is a defensible
arrangement in a corporate environment, in which a company at
any point could go bankrupt or be acquired, and hand its pension
liabilities to taxpayers or shareholders. But considering the
very long life -- essentially perpetual -- of a public-sector
entity, and its ability to stay invested throughout market
cycles, requiring their pension plans to value their liabilities
as if they’ll earn a return consistent with that provided by a
conservative bond portfolio, is nonsensical.”  
 $3 Trillion Liability  
 And costly. If you discount the nation’s public-pension
plans by 3.5 percent, the unfunded liability rises from $452
billion to $2.9 trillion.  
 Proponents  of the corporate-valuation method say it would
have kept states and localities out of the pickle they are now
in. They would have put more money away, and they would have
promised less to public employees. If it were adopted now, the
sheer size of the numbers would scare lawmakers into doing the
right thing, and reforming public pensions along business lines.  
 Opponents say state and local governments are already
making substantive changes to their pension plans, in
cooperation, for the most part, with labor unions.  
 The National Association of State Retirement Administrators
says governments don’t just pull investment-return assumptions
out of the air. There is some history. Over the past 25 years,
median public-pension returns were 9.3 percent, over the last 20
years, 8.1 percent, according to Callan Associates, a San
Francisco-based investment consulting firm.  
 Public-pension plans are in the spotlight right now, and
that’s a good thing. But forcing them all to adopt corporate-
style accounting is more reform than we need, or can afford.  
 ( Joe Mysak  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        