-- Baghdad Is Back on Map for Lufthansa, Business Jets
-- Caroline Alexander
-- 2010-07-14T15:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/baghdad-comes-back-on-aviation-map-for-lufthansa-business-jet-operators.html

          
          
             Iraq is transforming from a
battleground into a focus for civil aviation as the collapse of
its national airline and a decline in violent attacks attract
international carriers and business-jet operators.  
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG  will begin flights to Baghdad on
Sept. 30, helping to fill a void left by Iraqi Airways, which
the government is dissolving to prevent Kuwait from seizing
planes as compensation for 10 jetliners plundered by  Saddam Hussein’s  invading forces in 1990. Middle Eastern carriers have
also begun services and charter company Royal Jet is flying
twice a week from Abu Dhabi as attacks in Iraq fall to their
lowest level since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion.  
 “The constantly improving security situation combined with
ongoing reconstruction and investment has created ideal
conditions for private aviation into and out of the country,”
 John Morgan , Royal Jet’s vice president for commercial
operations, said in an interview.  
 The economy, ravaged by war and starved of investment, is
sparking to life, with  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and Royal Dutch Shell
Plc securing rights to develop untapped crude that Iraq needs to
pay for its reconstruction. Iraq has the world’s third-largest
oil reserves and aims to more than double production to 6
million barrels a day by 2015. The country is also home to
important pilgrimage sites for Shiite Muslims.  
 Royal Jet caters mainly to executives in the construction
and oil industries. Bookings have boomed since January, said
Morgan. Royal Jet began flying seven years ago and has a fleet
of 11 corporate aircraft based in Abu Dhabi.  
 Local Airlines  
 As the new entrants restore Iraq’s links with the outside
world, the Transport Ministry is also encouraging privately
owned local operators immune to financial claims from state-run
Kuwait Airways. As many as three private carriers may begin
operating within a year, though  Al-Naser Airlines , which has two
Boeing Co. 737s and a widebody 767, is the only one up and
running so far, said Aqeel Kawthar, a ministry spokesman.  
 Baghdad-based Al-Naser serves Najaf, about 100 miles south
of the capital, and Kuwait City. Executives at the company,
which began operating in 2009, declined to comment on its plans
when contacted by Bloomberg News.  
 Lufthansa will fly to Baghdad from Munich, the German
airline announced on May 28, two days after Iraq’s government
revealed plans to liquidate Iraqi Airways.  
 Flight to Erbil  
 The Cologne-based company made its first flight to Iraq in
20 years on April 25, flying from Frankfurt to  Erbil , a city in
the country’s more peaceful Kurdish north. Lufthansa followed
the lead there of its  Austrian Airlines  unit, which became the
first Western carrier back in Iraq in 2006.  
 “We want to get back in there as soon as possible to
become an established player, especially for corporate
contracts,” Lufthansa spokesman Klaus Gorny said.  
 In flying to Baghdad, Europe’s second-biggest airline will
join  Turkish Airlines , or Turk Hava Yollari AO, Bahrain-based
Gulf Air, which began services in September, and Etihad Airways
of Abu Dhabi, which started flights in April.  
 Saudi Arabia’s Alwafeer Air will start a twice-weekly
flight tomorrow between Jeddah and the southern Iraqi city of
Basra, the company said today. Alwafeer said it also aims to fly
from Jeddah to Baghdad and the Kurdish city of Sulimaniyah.
Austrian Airlines, which already flies to Erbil, today announced
plans to fly to Baghdad from Vienna four times per week
beginning at the end of October.  
 Assessing Opportunities  
 Dubai’s Emirates aims to commence flights this year, though
it postponed plans to introduce the route on July 1 for
“operational reasons,” spokesman  Steve Double  said. Air
France-KLM Group and  British Airways Plc  are assessing
opportunities, spokesmen for those airlines said.  
 While attacks have fallen from their peaks of 2006-2007,
when the country tipped toward civil war, violence continues and
political leaders are still arguing over the formation of a new
government four months after parliamentary elections on March 7.  
 Iraq aims to double the capacity of airports including
 Baghdad International  as it spends billions of dollars to
improve a shattered and outdated infrastructure.  
 Iraqi Airways, founded in 1945, hopes to be around to reap
the benefits even amid the legal clash with Kuwait, Commercial
Director Gulseren Abdul Kadir said in an interview. While the
carrier has ceased flights to Britain, Germany and Sweden, it
still has routes outside the European Union and will contest a
U.K. ruling favoring Kuwait Airways in a court case on Aug. 8.  
 Iraq’s flag carrier is clinging to a rump network of
flights within the country and to nations where Kuwait hasn’t
filed lawsuits against it.  
 ‘We’re Surviving’  
 “We’re surviving, and we’re still hoping to negotiate a
solution with Kuwait, pay some dues and reverse the government
decision to dissolve the airline,” Abdul Kadir said on June 22.  
 When the government announced the liquidation, Iraqi
Airways was awaiting delivery of 10 Boeing 787 Dreamliner
aircraft and 30 single-aisle 737s, worth $3.8 billion at list
prices.  Mike Tull , a spokesman for the Chicago-based planemaker,
said the contract is with the government, not the airline, and
therefore still valid.  
 Six regional jets ordered from Bombardier Inc. are on hold
because of a lawsuit the Kuwaitis filed in Canada last year,
said  John Arnone , a spokesman for the Montreal-based company.
That case is on appeal with the Canadian Supreme Court.  
 Iraqi Airways curtailed operations after a Boeing 737
making the company’s first flight to London for two decades was
impounded on April 25, by order of a British court acting on an
application from the Kuwaiti carrier.  
 Officials in Kuwait say the payment of reparations is not
their primary concern.  
 ‘National Honor’  
 “The factor of national honor is paramount,” Kuwaiti
government spokesman Mohammed al-Busairi said. “This case is a
matter of public funds of Kuwaitis, and therefore it’s a
national right before being an economic or financial matter.”  
 The 3,500 employees of Iraqi Airways have offered to donate
a part of their wages to settle the Kuwaiti dispute, said Akram
Luaibi, a company spokesman. The claim is in addition to $40
billion in debts amassed under Saddam Hussein; Iraq allocates 5
percent of its annual oil revenue to repay this sum, roughly
half of which it owes to Kuwait.  
 “Kuwait restated its demands at a time when Iraq has one
of the largest foreign debts worldwide, while Kuwait is one of
the few countries with an actual budget surplus,” said  Stefan Wolff , a professor of international security at the U.K.’s
University of Birmingham. Neither country has risen to the
challenge and opportunity of reconciliation, he said.  
 In Baghdad, employees showed up for work as usual one day
last month at the airline’s ticketing office on central Saadoun
Street. So too did customers.  
 “Iraqi Airways overcame a lot under the economic sanctions
imposed in 1990, the 13-year forced stoppage and the loss of
many of its planes in so many wars,” said Khalil Al-Zaidi, a
58-year-old businessman and frequent flier with the carrier.
“It’s not easy to let go of such an important symbol.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A U.S. soldier walks past Iraqi Airways planes on the tarmac at Baghdad International Airport. Photographer: Shawn Baldwin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
