-- Bank Zachodni Buyer Needs to Maintain Its Identity, Polish Regulator Says
-- Pawel Kozlowski
-- 2010-07-13T11:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/bank-zachodni-buyer-needs-to-maintain-its-identity-polish-regulator-says.html

          
          
             Poland’s financial regulator wants
the buyer of  Bank Zachodni WBK SA , in which Allied Irish Banks
Plc is selling a stake valued at $3 billion, to keep the bank’s
character and not break it up.  
 Officials will consider the bidder’s reputation and its
capacity to support Zachodni’s capital and liquidity when
examining the deal, Andrzej Stopczynski, the country’s head of
banking supervision, said today. A takeover by a bank that
needed state aid during the financial crisis is not a “welcome
scenario,”  Stanislaw Kluza , the chairman of the financial
regulator, said at a news conference in Warsaw.  
 AIB is selling its entire 70 percent stake in Poland’s
 third-biggest bank  by market value to help meet capital
requirements set by Irish banking regulators. Zachodni could
give a foreign bank a foothold in Poland, the only European
Union economy to avoid recession last year.  
 “While giving our approval to the deal we will look at
whether the new owner will bring Zachodni under an umbrella of
security or whether its presence will be a source of risks for
the Polish bank,” Kluza said. “Key will be whether the buyer
earlier needed state aid because of its financial situation.”  
 Zachodni shares increased 0.2 percent to 191.3 zloty at
12:08 p.m. in Warsaw, valuing AIB’s stake at 9.8 billion zloty
($3 billion). AIB jumped 4.2 percent to 94.6 cents in Dublin.  
 “Various” institutions have approached the regulator to
ask about the Zachodni sale, Kluza said, without identifying
them.  
 UniCredit, HSBC  
 UniCredit SpA  and HSBC Holdings Plc withdrew from the
bidding for Zachodni, a person with knowledge of the
negotiations said yesterday.  PKO Bank Polski SA , Poland’s
largest lender, is in talks to buy the stake, the person said,
declining to be identified because the details aren’t public.  
 HSBC and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  of Italy were among the banks
that placed initial bids last month, two people familiar with
the transaction said July 2.  
 Dublin-based AIB asked bidders to improve their offers
before it closes a shortlist and allows for due diligence
scrutiny, Rzeczpospolita newspaper reported today, citing a
person close to the transaction.  
 On June 22, Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad  said the
government would support PKO’s bid for Zachodni. Three days
later, PKO’s shareholders postponed their vote on a 2009
dividend until its chances to buy Zachodni become clear. PKO’s
Chief Executive Officer  Zbigniew Jagiello  declined to comment
last week on whether the bank actually placed the bid.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        