-- Banks Eased Credit to Hedge Funds, Private-Equity Firms, Fed Survey Finds
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-07-13T19:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/banks-eased-credit-to-hedge-funds-private-equity-firms-fed-survey-finds.html

          
          
             Wall Street’s largest dealers eased
credit terms to hedge funds and private-equity firms that borrow
against securities and trade over-the-counter derivatives,
according to a Federal Reserve survey.  
 More banks said credit terms “loosened considerably” or
“loosened somewhat” than said they “increased considerably”
or “increased somewhat” in the three months ended in May, the
Fed said today in a report. Demand for lending that’s
collateralized by asset-backed securities or residential-
mortgage-backed securities with implied U.S. backing also rose,
the survey showed.  
 Increased competition from rivals was the main reason that
terms were loosened, the survey showed. Seven of eight
respondents cited competition as “very important” or
“somewhat important” in their easing of terms. Improvements in
general market functioning and liquidity were also considered
important, the survey said.  
 The Fed started the survey in part because the financial
crisis “highlighted that a significant volume of credit
intermediation has moved outside of the traditional banking
sector,” the central bank said in a report posted earlier this
year on its website.  
 For the three months ending in August, more banks said they
expect credit terms to tighten than loosen for hedge funds and
private-equity firms. Most said they expected no change.  
 Relative to the end of 2006, the 20 securities firms polled
said credit standards “were uniformly more stringent” than
before the onset of the financial crisis, the report said.  
 In the  $615 trillion  OTC derivatives market, the survey
indicated that little change had occurred in the three months
with respect to both standardized and customized trades, as well
as in the level of disputes over pricing and collateralization.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        