-- Bank Zachodni, Mol Nyrt., PKO Bank, Tauron: Central Europe Equity Preview
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-07-13T03:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/bank-zachodni-mol-nyrt-pko-bank-tauron-central-europe-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.
Share prices are from the last close.  
 Poland’s  WIG20 Index  gained 1.1 percent, the Czech  PX Index 
rose 0.1 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index  fell 0.6 percent.  
 Bank Zachodni WBK SA  (BZW PW): HSBC Holdings Plc and
UniCredit SpA withdrew from bidding for a majority stake in
Poland’s third-largest bank by market value that Allied Irish
Banks Plc is selling, a person familiar with the transaction
said.  PKO Bank Polski SA  (PKO PW), Poland’s largest lender, is
still in the process to buy the shares, the person said.  
 Zachodni lost 2.8 percent to 191 zloty. PKO rose 1.1
percent to 37.8 zloty. UniCredit’s Polish unit  Bank Pekao SA 
(PEO PW) gained 0.3 percent to 156.3 zloty.  
 Copernicus Securities SA  (CRS PW): The Polish brokerage
will start trading on the Warsaw Stock Exchange’s NewConnect
market for smaller companies, the bourse said in an e-mail.  
 Mol Nyrt.  (MOL HB): OJSC Surgutneftegas filed a lawsuit
against Hungary’s largest oil refiner to void “the resolution
accepted on 20 April 2010 by the Board of Directors of Mol on
the refusal of OJSC Surgutneftegas’s registration into the share
register,” Mol said in a statement posted on the website of the
Budapest Stock Exchange. Mol lost 0.9 percent to 20,310 forint.  
 Tauron Polska Energia SA  (TPE PW): The Polish power utility
that started trading in Warsaw last month will be added to the
MSCI Global Standard Indices after the July 13 session, MSCI
Inc. said on June 30. Tauron gained 1.2 percent to 5.19 zloty.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        