-- Baoshan Steel Cuts Prices for a Second Month as Automobile Demand Weakens
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-13T09:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/baoshan-steel-cuts-prices-for-a-second-month-as-automobile-demand-weakens.html

          
          
             Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , the
biggest publicly traded Chinese steelmaker, cut prices for a
second month amid weakening demand from makers of automobiles
and appliances.  
 Prices of low-carbon hot-rolled and some cold-rolled
products were slashed by 300 yuan ($44) a metric ton, the
Shanghai-based mill said today on its  trading website  Bsteel.com.
The steelmaker kept prices of other hot-rolled and cold-rolled
grades unchanged.  
 Steel prices  in China, the biggest consumer of the metal,
are likely to drop 10 percent for the rest of the year because
of high inventory and poor demand, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in
a note dated yesterday. China Steel Corp., Taiwan’s largest
producer, today lowered prices for the first time since January.  
 “Global steel supply outstrips demand,” said Gisele Tseng,
a Taipei-based analyst at Capital Securities Corp. “The outlook
will depend on levels of inventories in China.”  
 Baoshan Steel  fell 2.8 percent to close at 5.98 yuan in
Shanghai, extending this year’s decline to 38 percent. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.6 percent today. China
Steel dropped 0.3 percent to NT$30.35 in Taipei trading before
its price cut announcement.  
 Baoshan Steel also cut prices of some zinc-galvanized
sheets by 300 yuan a ton, lowered heavy plate prices by 500 yuan
and reduced silicon steel prices by 300 yuan to 500 yuan, it
said on the website.  
 Government Measures  
 The company last month lowered prices by 300 yuan to 1,000
yuan a ton for July delivery, the first cut in eight months,
amid concerns government measures to curb credit growth and
speculation in the property market will trim demand.  
 Steelmakers in the third quarter face price pressures on
raw materials and from customers, Baosteel Group Corp.,
Baoshan’s parent, said last week.  
 China Steel, based in Kaohsiung, lowered prices by an
average 4 percent for September, and will also retrospectively
slash prices for earlier orders placed for July and August
delivery, it said in a statement today.  
 Angang Steel Co.  is also considering cutting August prices
by 400 yuan a ton, UC361’s analyst Hu Yanping said today. Angang
hasn’t made a final decision for the August prices, she said.  
 -- Helen Yuan , with assistance from  Yu-huay Sun . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        