-- Barnes & Noble's Defensive Move Was Proper, Company Director Testifies
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-07-14T01:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/barnes-noble-s-defensive-move-driven-by-burkle-director-says-at-trial.html

          
          
             Barnes & Noble Inc.  officials were
forced to adopt an anti-takeover measure quickly after
billionaire investor  Ron Burkle  sought to acquire more of the
largest U.S. bookseller’s shares, a company director testified.  
 A request by Burkle, Barnes & Noble’s largest outside
shareholder, to increase his stake prompted the booksellers’
board to approve a so-called  poison-pill  defense to protect the
company,  Michael Del Giudice , a Barnes & Noble director since
1999, testified today in a Delaware court, where Burkle is
challenging the move.  
 “We saw a sudden surge in acquisition activity,” Del
Giudice, who also serves as chairman of  Rockland Capital LLC ,
told Delaware Chancery Court Judge  Leo Strine . “We had to act
promptly. If someone wanted control, we wanted them to pay a
control premium.”  
 Burkle, through his  Los Angeles-based Yucaipa Cos. , sued
Barnes & Noble directors, including Chairman  Leonard Riggio ,
alleging they engineered a “self-dealing scheme designed to
entrench the Riggio family” as controlling shareholders by
adopting the poison-pill measure.  
 The defense makes takeovers prohibitively expensive by
allowing shareholders to buy discounted shares when a hostile
bid is made or when an investor reaches a pre-set stake in the
company. The Barnes & Noble defense is triggered when any new
investor acquires 20 percent or more of its shares, according to
court papers.  
 35 Percent Sought  
 Riggio and his family own about 32 percent of the company’s
shares, according to court testimony. Burkle, who owns 19
percent, sought to increase his holdings to 35 percent, Del
Giudice said today in his  Chancery Court  testimony.  
 Burkle also contends the current Barnes & Noble directors
are seeking to stymie his efforts to win a  proxy  vote to gain
seats on the company’s board.  
 The billionaire testified earlier in the case that Yucaipa
officials considered pursuing a buyout bid for Barnes & Noble at
$25 a share before deciding the effort would be “a waste of
time” considering the Riggios’ 32 percent stake.  
 Burkle’s move to increase his Barnes & Noble holding in
November came as a “wake-up call” to Del Giudice, the director
said. Del Giudice is the former chief of staff to ex-New York
Governor  Mario Cuomo .  
 Tug-of-War  
 Barnes & Noble board members worried that with no
controlling shareholder, the company could be the subject of a
corporate tug-of-war between competing investor groups, Del
Giudice said.  
 “We were concerned about creeping control between one or
two investors without them paying a control premium,” he said.
That’s why the board unanimously approved the anti-takeover
defense, Del Giudice said.  
 In a March meeting with Burkle, Barnes & Noble directors
listened to the billionaire’s suggestions for how to improve the
chain’s stores and his complaints about the board’s actions, Del
Giudice said.  
 Burkle, who founded Yucaipa in 1986 to invest in the
grocery industry, told Barnes & Noble directors their business
was in a similar retail environment, Del Giudice said. Burkle
has completed more than $40 billion in deals in the media,
technology and food industries over the last 20 years. He sold
the Fred Meyer Inc. supermarket chain in 1998 to Kroger Co. for
$13 billion in stock and debt.  
 “He did not understand we are not in the grocery store
business,” Del Giudice said. “We are a business from one
century to the next.”  
 November Vote  
 Company officials contend the poison pill’s provisions are
reasonable, and that shareholders will be given a chance to vote
on the decision to enact it by mid-November.  
 Del Giudice acknowledged that if investors with more than a
20 percent stake in Barnes & Noble agree to vote against the
poison pill, that itself would trigger the measure. Burkle
argues that makes the pill invalid.  
 New York-based Barnes & Noble rose 8 cents to $12.92 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company’s shares have
fallen 32 percent far this year.  
 The case is Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II LP v. Riggio,
CA5465, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        