-- Bayer Fouled U.S. Long-Grain Rice Crop, Causing Export Plunge, Jury Told
-- Joe Whittington
-- 2010-07-13T20:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/bayer-fouled-u-s-long-grain-rice-crop-causing-export-plunge-jury-told.html

          
          
             A  Bayer AG  unit carelessly
contaminated U.S. long-grain rice fields with its genetically
engineered seed, causing a dive in exports to Europe, a lawyer
for a Louisiana grower told jurors at the end of a trial.  
 The rice growers’ “reputation for producing a pure product
was destroyed, with the export market lost,” attorney  Don
Downing  told the federal court jury today in St. Louis. “It was
Bayer’s carelessness, and Danny Deshotels was hurt,” said
Downing, who represents the Deshotels family and its rice-
growing business.  
 The trial is the fifth against the German company and its
Bayer CropScience unit over rice crop contamination in the
southern U.S. Bayer has lost four trials so far, two in state
court and two in federal, for a total of more than $52 million
in jury awards.  
 The company faces about 500 additional lawsuits in federal
and state courts with claims by 6,600 plaintiffs,  Greg Coffey , a
Bayer CropScience spokesman, said in a phone interview today. A
sixth case is scheduled to begin trial July 19 in state court in
Arkansas, followed by a federal trial in St. Louis in October,
he said.  
 Farmers in five states claim the company and Bayer
CropScience negligently contaminated the U.S. long-grain rice
crop with its genetically modified LibertyLink seed, leading to
export restrictions, bans on two kinds of high-yield seeds and a
plunge in prices.  
 Bayer, based in Leverkusen, Germany, denies negligence and
disputes the damages claims, contending that rice sales
rebounded after an initial drop.  
 “You have not heard of any negligence by Bayer,”  Mark Ferguson , the company’s trial attorney, said today. “It was
Bayer’s rice, it was released and other rice was contaminated.
The question is, did Bayer act reasonably?” he said.  
 Louisiana Fields  
 The plaintiffs are several members of the Deshotels family
and their rice fields in Louisiana. Danny Deshotels lives in
Lettsworth, Louisiana, about 100 miles north of New Orleans and
two miles west of the Mississippi River, Downing said.  
 Deshotels asked for about $1.5 million in damages for lost
sales and contamination of his land, seed and equipment. The
Deshotels family can’t seek punitive damages because the case
was tried under Louisiana law, which doesn’t allow for such
awards, plaintiffs’ lawyer Bruce Kingsdorf said in an interview
today.  
 The jury of seven women began deliberating today.  
 Bayer’s LibertyLink brand of genetically altered rice was
being studied at Louisiana State University in an effort to
create a crop that could be safely sprayed with a weed-killer.
In August 2006, the U.S. Agriculture Department announced that
Bayer’s genetically modified seed had been found in commercially
grown long-grain rice in Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Arkansas
and Missouri.  
 Import Ban  
 Five days later, the European Union announced a ban on U.S.
imports to the 27 countries in that group, Downing said at the
start of the trial. Within four days of the announcement, a
decline in rice futures had cost U.S. growers about $150
million, according to the farmers’ complaint in federal court in
St. Louis.  
 Restrictions were eased after Bayer’s rice was declared
safe by the  Agriculture Department  in November 2006. There are
no claims in the rice litigation that LibertyLink harmed or
risked human health. Farmers claim that the contamination cost
them the European market for long-grain rice and that sales
haven’t rebounded.  
 “Our rice exports to the EU fell off a cliff, almost
literally, and you will see that they still haven’t recovered,”
Downing said in opening statements at the trial June 21.
Europeans “are still eating rice, but the customers we were
selling to are now buying from these countries: Thailand,
Pakistan, India and Uruguay.”  
 ‘Short-Lived’  
 The farmers’ losses “were minimal and short-lived,”
Ferguson, the Bayer lawyer, said today. “Global prices
recovered quickly with the discovery of other markets.”  
 Farmers in five states began suing Bayer in federal court
in 2006, asking to be allowed to pursue their claims in class
action, or group suits, one action per state. U.S. District
Judge  Catherine Perry  in St. Louis in August 2008 refused to
allow the claims to be combined in class-action suits, instead
setting bellwether, or test, trials on typical claims.  
 Bayer lost the first two trials in federal court, one for
about $2 million in December and another in February for about
$1.5 million. The federal juries didn’t award punitive damages.  
 Bayer also lost the first two trials in state court, both
in Arkansas. The first of these trials ended in a jury verdict
of about $1 million, including $500,000 in punitives. The second
resulted in a verdict of almost $48 million, with $42 million in
punitives, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Appellate Review  
 Bayer has filed post-trial motions to set aside the
verdicts in federal court and “is seeking appellate review in
the two state trials,” said Coffey, the company spokesman.  
 The case is In Re Genetically Modified Rice Litigation, 06-
md-1811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St.
Louis).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Whittington  in federal court in St. Louis
at   joethewhitt@sbcglobal.net .  
          
          


  


        