-- Berkshire Scales Back Coverage of Riskiest U.S. Policyholders
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-13T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/berkshire-retreats-from-riskiest-u-s-coverage-as-insurance-prices-decline.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. scaled back sales of the most unusual and riskiest U.S.
insurance policies as prices declined and the company guarded
capital for its biggest acquisition.  
 Berkshire’s premiums from companies insured through excess
and surplus policies plummeted 32 percent to $473.9 million in
the 12 months ended March 31, SNL Financial said in a  report 
distributed yesterday by e-mail. That was the biggest drop among
the top 30 carriers, pushing Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire  to
No. 12 from No. 8 among excess and surplus insurance writers.  
 “Their premium decline is quite a bit more than other
insurance companies,” Andrew Schukman, the SNL analyst who
wrote the report, said in an interview. “That’s probably an
indicator that they’re pulling back a bit.”  
 Insurers are facing price declines as they compete for
business in a contracting market. Buffett, 79, Berkshire’s chief
executive officer, has reduced his firm’s  reliance on insurance 
over the last decade by acquiring energy and freight businesses.
Last year, he curbed Berkshire’s coverage of natural-disaster
risks, and in February he spent $27 billion buying railroad
Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., his biggest acquisition.  
 Rates in the excess and surplus market, which includes
unusual policies like “fire insurance to a fireworks factory,”
have slipped for at least three years, said Schukman.  American
International Group Inc. , the bailed-out insurer, posted an 11
percent premium decline and remained at the top of the rankings,
according to SNL. Industrywide, premiums fell 5.5 percent to
about $23 billion.  
 Berkshire’s Move  
 “I can’t say definitively if Berkshire is moving out or if
they’re doing a temporary pullback,” Schukman said. “It could
be that they’re not getting the rates that they want and they’re
willing to pull back further than other companies are.”  
 Buffett didn’t respond a request for comment sent in an e-
mail to an assistant.  
 QBE Insurance Group Ltd. , based in Sydney, was the only
insurer in the top 10 to post a premium increase, more than
doubling sales to $551 million.  Allianz SE , Germany’s biggest
insurer, slipped to 21st from 14th after posting the second-
biggest premium decline, a 23 percent slide.  
 Sales in the broader U.S. property and casualty market
dropped the most in five decades last year. Policy sales fell
3.7 percent to $419 billion, a third straight annual decline,
according to an April statement from the Property Casualty
Insurers Association of America.  
 Rates Decline  
 U.S. commercial insurance rates have declined in every
quarter from 2004 through the end of March, according to a
survey by the Council for Insurance Agents & Brokers, a
Washington-based trade group.  
 Price declines will probably continue for the “foreseeable
future,”  Christa Davies , chief financial officer of the world’s
biggest insurance broker, Aon Corp., said in a July 12
conference call. Berkshire Vice Chairman  Charlie Munger  said in
May that rates may keep falling and that his company was more
“tough minded” about profitability than some rivals.  
 “It’s so easy to under-price and under-reserve,” Munger
said at the annual meeting of Wesco Financial Corp., where he is
chairman. “Berkshire is different.”  
 Berkshire, which Buffett assembled in four decades of
takeovers, sells car insurance through its Geico Corp. unit and
less traditional coverage through General Re and other
reinsurance divisions overseen by  Ajit Jain . Berkshire sold
coverage that would have required a $30 million payout if France
had won the World Cup, Buffett told CNBC in March. France was
eliminated from the soccer tournament last month after going
winless in three games.  
 Excess and surplus coverage is written by so-called non-
admitted insurers that are subject to less regulation on rates
than providers of traditional coverage.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
