-- Blinder Cuts U.S. Forecast, Says Fed Must Plan for More Easing
-- Carol Massar
-- 2010-07-13T23:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/blinder-cuts-u-s-growth-forecast-says-fed-needs-to-plan-for-more-easing.html

          
          
             Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman
 Alan Blinder  trimmed his forecast for U.S. growth while saying
it’s unlikely the nation will slide back into a recession.  
 “It is a little too early” for the Fed to resume asset
purchases on a large scale to boost the economy, Blinder, a
Princeton University economist, said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” Still, “they certainly
should be thinking about it.”  
 Blinder, who reduced his 2010 growth forecast to a range of
3 percent to 3.5 percent, said he disagreed with the view of
Princeton colleague  Paul Krugman  that the U.S. may be in the
early stages of a depression.  
 “I still doubt we will have a double dip,” Blinder said.
“The truth is jobs have been growing, not shrinking. Consumers
are spending pretty normally. Business
investment is looking pretty good.”  
 The Fed signaled last month that Europe’s debt crisis may
harm U.S. growth and repeated a pledge to keep interest rates
near zero “for an extended period.” The central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate almost to zero in December 2008 and
turned to purchases of Treasury, housing-agency and mortgage-
backed securities as the main tool for monetary policy.  
 Private Payrolls  
 Employment fell in June for the first time this year
because of a drop in the number of U.S. census workers, while
private payrolls rose 83,000, the Labor Department said. Reports
over the past month showed a plunge in home sales, a slump in
consumer confidence, cooler manufacturing and less growth in the
first quarter.  
 Should such “pessimistic” data be “‘portents of what’s
coming, then the Fed needs to be prepared to go back into
quantitative easing in a big way.”  
 Blinder cited gains in productivity and disagreed with
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s idea that the U.S. economy
is poised for an extended period of below-average economic
growth, or a “new normal.”  
 “I don’t buy into that at all,” he said. “I think the
data are almost screaming in the other direction.”  
 Blinder said weakness in housing and reduced job growth
prompted him to lower his forecast of last December for growth
of as much as 4 percent in 2010.  
 “The data over the last couple of months have given
pause,” Blinder said. “Housing has underperformed. The big,
big thing that has happened in the last couple of months is a
very sharp slowdown in the number of private-sector jobs.”  
 Economy Grew  
 The economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first
quarter and will expand 3.1 percent for the year, according to
the median forecast of 54 economists surveyed this month by
Bloomberg News.  
 Blinder said he agreed with Krugman on the need for more
government spending.  
 “I think we need a little bit more out of Washington,” he
said. “There is still room for some more fiscal stimulus. I
would like to see it very targeted to jobs creation. That is the
real problem we are having now.”  
 Krugman has warned that a lack of Fed stimulus could lead
to deflation, or a sustained and broad-based decline in prices,
and harm the  central bank’s  credibility.  
 “We are looking at what could be a very long siege here,”
Krugman said in an interview this month in Princeton, New
Jersey. “We really are at a stage where we should have a
kitchen-sink strategy. We should be throwing everything we can
get at this.”  
 Further Easing  
 Central bank policy makers have recently signaled little
interest in further easing.  
 Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke  and the leaders of Fed district
banks in Richmond, Dallas and Kansas City said during the past
week that they see no need for more monetary stimulus and the
U.S. recovery remains intact. Richmond Fed President
 Jeffrey Lacker  said yesterday any “consideration of additional
easing steps is very far away.”  
 The U.S. has lost more than 8 million jobs since the start
of the recession in December 2007, the most of any slump in the
post-World War II era.  
 Policy makers won’t raise interest rates until the second
quarter of 2011, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists this month. The debt crisis in Europe
has prompted analysts at Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse,
UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG to push back by several months their
predictions for a Fed rate increase.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
 Carol Massar  in New York at 
 cmassar@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alan Blinder, professor of economics at Princeton University and former vice chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, speaks in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
