-- BMW Raises 2010 Earnings Forecast, Now Sees Sales Volume Rising About 10%
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-07-13T11:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/bmw-raises-sales-earnings-forecast-as-global-automobile-market-recovers.html

          
          
             Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest luxury-car maker, raised its 2010 sales and
earnings forecast on sales in China and demand for the new 5-
Series sedan. BMW gained the most in more than 10 months.  
 BMW predicts sales this year to rise about 10 percent to
more than 1.4 million cars and sport-utility vehicles, while the
operating margin in the automotive unit will advance more than 5
percent, the Munich-based carmaker said in a statement today.  
 BMW,  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz and  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi
have boosted sales this year on surging demand in China, the
world’s largest auto market, and a rebound in the U.S. and
Europe. BMW, which also makes Mini and Rolls-Royce cars, said
last month the new 5-Series was sold out in all markets.  
 “It’s not just strong sales in China, it’s also the
delivery of new models and the effect of cost-cutting steps,”
said  John Buckland , an analyst at MF Global UK Ltd. who
recommends buying the stock. “The fact that they now see the
automobile Ebit margin at 5 percent is very good news.”  
 BMW  rose as much as 7.9 percent to 41.96 euros in Frankfurt
trading, the steepest advance since Sept. 9, 2009. The stock
traded at 41.81 euros as of 1:16 p.m., valuing the carmaker at
26.7 billion euros ($33.6 billion).  
 Sales Gain  
 BMW previously forecast that sales would rise by a “solid
single-digit” percentage to at least 1.3 million vehicles and
the 2010 operating margin in the automotive unit would climb in
the “low single-digit” percentage range.  
 BMW increased first-half group sales 13 percent while
second-ranked  Mercedes-Benz  posted a 12 percent gain. Six-month
deliveries at Audi, which aims to dethrone BMW as the world’s
top luxury manufacturer by 2015, advanced 19 percent.  
 “Improved business conditions on international automobile
markets mean that BMW now expects to report much better”
results for the second quarter and 2010, the manufacturer said.
BMW is scheduled to publish second-quarter results on Aug. 3.  
 BMW will export 10,000 3-Series vehicles built in Munich to
China this year to meet additional demand, spokesman  Michael Rebstock  said, confirming comments by personnel chief  Harald Krueger  published today by the Financial Times Deutschland.  
 The manufacturer has hired 5,000 temporary workers after
eliminating most non-permanent positions during the financial
crisis, Rebstock said. The carmaker is in talks with unions to
expand regular shifts beyond the average 38 hours, he said.  
 Goal Surpassed  
 BMW purchasing chief  Herbert Diess  said in May that the
carmaker will significantly surpass its goal of reducing
spending on components and supplies by 4 billion euros by 2012,
helped by a partnership with Daimler.  
 BMW  is still targeting an operating margin of between 8
percent and 10 percent for 2012 and a return on capital employed
of more than 26 percent for its automotive division, the
carmaker said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shareholders look at a BMW 5 series car at the Bayerische Motorenwerke shareholders' meeting, in Munich. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
