-- BOJ May Hold Policy Stance on Japan Rebound Forecast Endangered by Europe
-- Minh Bui
-- 2010-07-14T01:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/boj-may-hold-policy-stance-on-japan-rebound-forecast-endangered-by-europe.html

          
          
             The Bank of Japan may refrain from
easing monetary policy tomorrow, choosing to preserve its
arsenal in case economic weakness in Europe or a further advance
in the yen threatens the nation’s export-led recovery.  
 Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his board will keep the main
 interest rate  at 0.1 percent and forgo fresh liquidity
injections, according to all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Shirakawa said last week that the economy is “likely to
stay on a recovery trend” and domestic demand is poised to rise.  
 The BOJ chief may be forced to change his tack in coming
months if the debt crisis in Europe intensifies and the yen
extends its 18 percent rise against the euro this year. Prime
Minister Naoto Kan, whose party lost its upper-house majority
this week, may step up pressure on the central bank as he seeks
support from smaller parties wanting to end deflation.  
 “The yen’s advance, stock declines and political gridlock
will all put heat on the Bank of Japan to do more,” said  Teizo Taya , who served on the policy board from 1999 to 2004 and now
advises the Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo.  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  slumped 13 percent in the past
three months on concern that global growth will falter. The yen
has climbed about 5 percent against the dollar over the same
period and traded at 88.89 at 10:19 a.m. in Tokyo, stronger than
the 92.90 average breakeven point estimated by exporters.  
 The Nikkei advanced 2.5 percent to 9,779.75 after Intel
Corp. reported better-than-expected net income and Singapore
raised its gross domestic product forecast, easing concern about
a double-dip global recession.  
 Encourage Lending  
 The central bank’s most recent move came last month, when
it unveiled details of a 3 trillion yen ($34 billion) program to
encourage  lending  to companies. Shirakawa has said the measure
is aimed at complementing the government’s plans to spur growth
in areas such as energy and the environment.  
 Japan’s biggest banks plan to use the lending facility,
with  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. , Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group and Mizuho Bank Ltd. saying they will establish investment
funds to extend loans under the program.  
 “The BOJ is fully aware that it faces mounting pressure
ahead,” said  Masaaki Kanno , chief Japan economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Tokyo, who worked at the central bank for 25
years. “It’s a given that the bank will have to launch one
monetary policy step after another.”  
 Investors may purchase yen as a safe haven should concerns
about European lenders’ financial health mount after a stress
test scheduled for later this month, said  Naka Matsuzawa , chief
strategist at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. Japan’s currency
posted a third daily gain against the euro yesterday after
Portugal’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service.  
 ‘Fuel Buying’  
 “If Japanese policy makers don’t do anything, that could
fuel speculative buying of the yen” because investors might
conclude that authorities tolerate a stronger currency,
Matsuzawa said.  
 Should the yen jump, the central bank may consider
expanding a 20 trillion yen credit facility for lenders as a way
to inject liquidity, said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at
Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo. The policy board
introduced the measure on Dec. 1 after the yen touched a 14-year
high of 84.83 against the dollar and stocks plunged.  
 Companies and households have so far shrugged off the
market turbulence, backing Shirakawa’s contention that Japan’s
expansion remains intact even as it cools.  Manufacturer
confidence  is at a two-year high, and revised figures yesterday
showed  factory output  gained for a third month in May.  Consumer
sentiment  climbed to the highest level since 2007 in June, even
after unemployment rose.  
 Double Capacity  
 Sharp Corp.  may more than double its production capacity of
solar cells by March 2013 as the global market expands,  Tetsuo Onishi , head of the company’s solar unit, said July 1.  
 The central bank will review its forecasts for gross
domestic product and  consumer prices  at the two-day meeting.
Policy makers will probably raise their growth projection for
the year ending March 2011 to about 2.5 percent from 1.8 percent
estimated in April, while keeping next year’s at 2 percent, said
economist  Yuji Shimanaka .  
 “The Japanese economy has clearly been performing better
than the BOJ had anticipated,” said Shimanaka, chief economist
at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo. Next
year’s moderation will reflect an evaporation of policy stimulus
and a global slowdown, he added.  
 Prime Minister Kan, who has urged the central bank to
tackle price declines, may seek alliances with parties that want
more aggressive monetary policy. Your Party, a group that won 10
seats in the July 11 election compared with the ruling
Democratic Party of Japan’s 44, has advocated monetary easing
and inflation targeting.  
 “If Your Party joins the government’s economic policy
management, an inflation target will emerge as an important
political issue,” said  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Minh Bui  in Tokyo at 
 mbui@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Masaaki Shirakawa, governor of the Bank of Japan at the central bank's headquarters in Tokyo. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Martin Schulz, senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Japan's politics and implications for the economy.
     Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan lost control of parliament’s upper house, undermining legislative efforts to cut the world’s largest public debt and creating the possibility of a third leadership change in a year. The ruling Democratic Party of Japan won 44 seats, compared with 51 for the opposition Liberal Democratic Party, according to results compiled by public broadcaster NHK. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Callow, a currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about European Union stress tests for banks and the outlook for the euro.
     The euro rose for a second day versus the yen after Greece sold Treasury bills at an interest rate below the 5 percent charged by the European Union when it rescued the nation from default. Callow speaks from Sydney. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
