-- Bonds in Longest Rally Since March, Swaps Dive
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-07-14T16:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/bonds-in-longest-rally-since-march-sales-soar-swaps-dive-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Debt investors are signaling renewed
confidence in the global economy, snapping up new securities
from companies at the fastest pace since March and driving
corporate bonds to their longest rally in four months.  
 Relative yields on the more than 8,500 bonds in Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index fell
for the fourth straight day, the longest stretch since the six
days ended March 11. Increased demand allowed retailer Target
Corp. to raise $1 billion in its first bond sale in more than
two years, while Dutch chipmaker NXP BV, whose credit ratings
are at the lowest end of the junk spectrum, increased its debt
offering to $1 billion from $600 million.  
 Optimism that the economic recovery won’t be derailed by
Europe’s fiscal crisis rose after Greece was able to sell bills
yesterday at interest rates less than the European Union and
International Monetary Fund offered in a bailout package.
Speculation earnings will exceed analyst forecasts is bolstering
confidence in the ability of borrowers to meet debt payments.  
 “Sentiment has turned,” said  Ashish Shah , co-head of
global credit investment in New York at AllianceBernstein LP,
where he helps manage $199 billion in fixed-income assets.
“There is optimism over increased stability in Europe,
uncertainty over financial regulation is ending and investors
are now hoping for a repeat of 2009 with the European stress
tests.”  
 Mortgages, Swaps  
 Renewed strength was also evident in the market for
mortgage-backed securities, with  yields  on Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac mortgage bonds that guide U.S. home-loan rates
approaching record lows relative to Treasuries. The cost of
protecting corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined to
the lowest in six weeks.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own company bonds
instead of government debt fell 2 basis points to 189 basis
points yesterday, the narrowest spread since May 24, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index
shows. Yields averaged 3.96 percent.  
 Companies are taking advantage of renewed appetite for debt
after investors avoided it for most of May and June amid concern
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis would disrupt the worldwide
economic recovery.  
 “We don’t see a lot of corporations needing money, but if
you can raise some capital today at a low cost and use that to
refinance some other debt you have outstanding it’s a great
opportunity,” said  Greg Tornga , head of investment-grade
strategy at Los Angeles-based Payden & Rygel, which has more
than $50 billion in assets under management.  
 Bond Sales Soar  
 Worldwide corporate bond issuance rose to $80.6 billion
this month from $57.5 billion in the same period of June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most since
$148.8 billion was sold in the corresponding period of March.  
 Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, may use
proceeds from its offering of 10-year notes to repay debt, build
and remodel stores, finance share repurchases and acquire real
estate, other assets and companies, the Minneapolis-based
company said in a regulatory filing. Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is the world’s largest retailer.  
 NXP’s bonds climbed as the Dutch chipmaker boosted its
offering. The company’s $913.9 million of 7.875 percent notes
maturing in October 2014 rose 2.125 cents to 99.75 cents on the
dollar to yield 7.94 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 The new bonds are rated Caa1, seven levels below investment
grade, by Moody’s Investors Service and an equivalent CCC+ by
Standard & Poor’s.  
 Intel, Alcoa  
 Agilent Technologies Inc. , the world’s biggest maker of
scientific-testing equipment, sold $750 million of senior notes
in its first debt offering since September, 11 weeks after
Moody’s raised the Santa Clara, California-based company’s debt
rating from junk to investment-grade.  
 The increase in bond offerings came as Santa Clara-based
Intel Corp., the world’s biggest chipmaker, reported record
second-quarter sales and topped analysts’ estimates with its
forecast, allaying concern that a rebound in technology spending
is losing steam. On July 12, New York-based Alcoa Inc., the
largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported sales and profit that
beat estimates and projected higher global demand for the metal.  
 “We’re focusing less on the backward-looking numbers than
we are on the forward-looking guidance and prospects and views
of the economy,” said  Tom Murphy , a money manager who helps
oversee more than $20 billion of investment-grade credit at
Columbia Management in Minneapolis.  
 General Electric  
 Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder  said the
U.S. economy will probably grow 3 percent to 3.5 percent this
year, less than his forecast in December for as much as 4
percent growth.  
 “The data over the last couple of months have given
pause,” Blinder, a Princeton University economist, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” “I still
doubt we will have a double dip” recession.  
 General Electric Co. bonds were the most actively traded
U.S. corporate securities yesterday by dealers, with 131 trades
of $1 million or more, followed by Citigroup Inc., with 105,
Bloomberg data show. The most active in junk bonds was Anadarko
Petroleum Corp., with 77 trades. High-yield, high-risk debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging market
bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed 13 basis points to 297
basis points, the sixth straight daily decline, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Emerging Market Bond index.  
 Fannie Mae  
 Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
bonds narrowed 0.1 basis point to 64.4 basis points more than
10-year Treasuries as of 12:35 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg data
show. The gap reached 59 basis points on March 29, two days
before the Federal Reserve ended its buying of $1.25 trillion of
home-loan debt.  
 The cost of protecting Greek government bonds from default
fell to the lowest in a month. Credit-default swaps tied to the
indebted nation fell 27 basis points to a one-month low of 784,
while contracts on Portugal dropped 6.5 basis points to 272.5,
according to CMA.  
 Greece’s auction yesterday showed improved confidence among
banks in Greece, which purchased 80 percent of the 1.625 billion
euros ($2.1 billion) of 26-week bills. Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government cut wages, postponed retirements and
raised taxes to trim the euro-region’s second-highest budget
deficit and restore investor willingness to lend. Portugal plans
to sell up to 1.5 billion euros of bonds due 2012 and 2019
today.  
 Corporate Swaps  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit iTraxx Europe index of
125 investment-grade companies dropped 1.9 basis point to 113.2,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company or country fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point on a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt
for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 A measure of bank creditworthiness also fell to the lowest
since May 13 as the U.S. Senate plans to pass a financial-
regulation bill on July 15.  
 The CDR Counterparty Risk Index, which tracks credit swaps
on 14 of the world’s largest banks including Citigroup Inc. and
Bank of America Corp., dropped 3 basis points to 137.2,
according to New York-based Credit Derivatives Research LLC.  
 “The financial reform bill in the U.S., we know more now
about what it’s final state is going to be and it doesn’t seem
to be as draconian as what we thought six months ago,” Tornga
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pierre Paulden  in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Greg Peters, global head of fixed-income research at Morgan Stanley, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economic recovery and the state of global sovereign debt markets.
     Peters speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
