-- BP Short Sellers Cover Positions as Company Moves Closer to Stopping Spill
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-07-13T16:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/bp-short-sellers-cover-positions-on-prospects-for-gulf-oil-well-s-plugging.html

          
          
             Investors who bet record volumes on
declines for  BP Plc ’s shares in June started to cover their
positions in the second half of the month as the company moved
closer to controlling the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The number of  BP’s American depositary receipts  being sold
short fell to 15 billion from 26 billion in the first two weeks
of the month, data released by the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday showed. The U.S.-traded shares have rebounded 38
percent from a 14-year low on June 25.  
 BP installed a new cap on the leaking Gulf of Mexico well
and said it may be able to cut off the flow of oil after testing
for pressure is completed in the next few days. Since the end of
June, BP has been increasing the amount of oil and gas it is
capturing from the damaged pipe, which the U.S. government
estimates could be gushing as much as 60,000 barrels a day.  
 “Short sellers could have made an awful lot,” said  Iain Armstrong , an analyst at Brewin Dolphin Ltd., which oversees
more than $31 billion in London, including BP shares. “Now
people have realized that BP is getting its act together. If
they get this all sorted out before the end of July, they’ll
miss the teeth of the hurricane season.”  
 The volume of short sales of BP’s ADRs jumped to the most
since at least 1991 last month, the data show. Shorting a stock
involves borrowing shares to sell in the market with the
intention of buying them back later at a lower price, pocketing
the difference.  
 Stock Performance  
 The company has gained 25 percent since the start of July,
making it the second-best performer on the  MSCI world index 
after Anadarko Petroleum Corp., a partner on the leaking well.
The stock rose 2.9 percent in London today to close at 410.35
pence.  
 The quick turnaround in the BP share price may have taken
some investors off guard, said  Peter Hutton , a London-based
analyst at NCB Stockbrokers Ltd.  
 “Some people will get burned on the shorts,” Hutton said.
“There was a greater overreaction to the bad news in the
States, but the reassurance is now international.”  
 Abu Dhabi’s crown prince, a member of the board of one of
the world’s largest sovereign wealth funds, said the emirate is
considering an investment in BP Plc after the company lost half
its value in the spill.  
 “We are still thinking about it,”  Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed  Al Nahyan said in an interview in Abu Dhabi today.  
 BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  last month agreed
with President  Barack Obama  to set aside $20 billion for spill
victims and cleanup, to be paid for by scrapping the dividend,
reducing investment and asset sales. The company has spent $3.5
billion on the response so far.  
 BP is drilling two relief wells to permanently plug the
leak. Due to be completed next month, the company said last week
that they are running ahead of schedule.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        