-- Bovespa Gains as Homebuilder PDG Realty's Revenue Surges, Retailers Gain
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-07-13T20:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-on-petrobras-retail-sales.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index gained
for the fourth time in five days after the nation’s third-
largest homebuilder reported a jump in revenue and retail sales
growth accelerated.  
 PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes  rose to the
highest price this year after saying second-quarter contracted
sales surged 53 percent. Lojas Renner SA, Brazil’s biggest
publicly traded clothing retailer, gained after the national
statistics agency said retail sales increased 10.2 percent in
May from a year earlier.  Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, and state oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  climbed
as metals and crude prices advanced.  
 The Bovespa increased rose 1.2 percent to 63,685.56. Fifty-
six stocks gained on the measure while 7 fell. The real
strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.7554 per dollar.  
 “You’re still seeing pretty significant growth in
Brazil,” said  Octavio Vaz , who helps manage 3.5 billion reais
($2 billion) at Global Equity Administradora de Recursos in Rio
de Janeiro. “The market has been gaining in the past days as
some of the fear goes away about the situation in the U.S.”  
 The  Bovespa  has risen 9.4 percent from its lowest close of
the year on May 20 as concern about the strength of the global
economic recovery eased, spurring some investors to return to
riskier assets.  
 Greece today sold Treasury bills at an interest rate below
the 5 percent charged by the European Union when it rescued the
nation from default, suggesting that confidence in Greece is
growing.  
 Alcoa ’s Results  
 Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported
second-quarter sales and profit that beat analysts’ estimates
and forecast higher global demand for the metal, which may
signal broader economic expansion.  
 “There are still a lot of unanswered questions” about the
direction of the global economy, Vaz said. “Alcoa helps, but if
there’s some bad news we’ll go back to where we were a month
ago. We can expect a bit of caution and volatility in this
period.”  
 Brazilian stocks fell yesterday as declining commodity
prices overshadowed reports that signaled inflation pressures
may be easing in Brazil and China.  
 PDG Realty  reported sales of 1.56 billion reais ($889.1
million) in a regulatory filing last night. The shares jumped 4
percent to 17.20 reais, the highest price since December 2009.  
 Strong Sales  
 “The numbers were strong, and we expect a positive
reaction,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Adriana E. Huerta wrote
in a note to clients.  
 The BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index gained 2.5 percent.
Petrobras increased 0.3 percent to 27.30 reais after falling as
much as 0.6 percent, while Vale rose 0.6 percent to 38.55 reais,
also erasing an earlier loss. Lojas Renner advanced 3.9 percent
to 49.20 reais.  
 The  Bovespa index  trades for 12 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.7 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.5
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 14 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        