-- BT Pension Trustees Seek Court Ruling on $13.6 Billion Deficit Liability
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-07-13T12:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/bt-pension-trustees-seek-court-ruling-on-13-6-billion-deficit-liability.html

          
          
             The trustees for BT Group Plc’s
employee pension plan, the U.K.’s largest, asked a court to rule
on how much of the fund and its 9 billion-pound ($13.6 billion)
deficit will be assumed by the government if the company
collapsed.  
 The government guaranteed the plan when the company was
privatized in 1984, Alan Steinfeld, a lawyer for the pension
plan told a London judge today. The plan, which has 344,000
members, has assets of 31.3 billion pounds against liabilities
of 40.4 billion pounds, Steinfeld said.  
 While BT is committed to 525 million pounds a year in
deficit repair payments, a court ruling on the so-called Crown
Guarantee may allow the pension trustees to reduce BT’s
contributions when the next valuation of the fund takes place in
December 2011, Fitch Ratings said in a note before the hearing.  
 BT, the U.K.’s biggest fixed-line phone company, said in an
e-mailed statement that the case was “purely technical and
legal” and “any comments about the impact of the court ruling
on future payments is pure speculation.”  
 “It will help the trustee of the BT Pension Scheme seek
clarity on the Crown Guarantee from the Court,” the London-
based company said. “BT is a defendant only as a
technicality.”  
 While Steinfeld’s figures at the hearing put the deficit at
9 billion pounds, the trustees said in their annual report in
June that the shortfall had declined to 7.6 billion pounds.  
 While the trustees say the Crown Guarantee relates to all
members of the plan whenever they joined, lawyers for the
government said in written arguments that they aren’t liable for
every member.  
 “The guarantee is not a blank check, in perpetuity,
granted by Parliament, at the taxpayers’ expense,” the
government said.  
 The case is TLC 637/09 BT Pension Scheme Trustees v British
Telecommunications PLC & ors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        