-- Burberry Sales Rise 27%, Beating Estimates, on Asia and Wholesale Rebound
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-13T10:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/burberry-says-its-total-reported-revenue-rises-27-in-three-months-to-june.html

          
          
             Burberry Group Plc , the U.K.’s
largest luxury retailer, posted a 27 percent gain in first-
quarter sales, beating analysts’ estimates, led by growth in
Asia and deliveries to wholesale customers.  
 Revenue in the three months ended June 30 increased to 291
million pounds ($436 million) from 229 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said today. The average
 estimate  of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg was 259.5
million pounds. Excluding Spain, where Burberry is closing a
factory, sales climbed 30 percent to 282 million pounds.  
 Demand for luxury goods is accelerating as distributors
restock and consumers spend more on high-end apparel and
accessories. Burberry, known for its plaid designs, plans to
increase capital spending by 86 percent this year, opening 20 to
30 stores in the Americas and Asia-Pacific regions, Chief
Executive Officer  Angela Ahrendts  said.  
 “It’s a massive beat versus expectations,” said Erwan
Rambourg, an analyst at HSBC in London, who had estimated sales
of 260 million pounds. “You can be excited by retail.”  
 Burberry rose as much as 2.6 percent in London trading and
was up 4.5 pence, or 0.6 percent, to 794 pence as of 11:05 a.m.
local time. The  shares  have risen 32 percent this year, making
Burberry the sixth-best performer in the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 index .  
 The “early read” on autumn-winter 2010 collections, which
arrived in stores from June, is that “momentum” is continuing,
Chief Financial Officer  Stacey Cartwright  said on a conference
call. “We continue to outperform almost irrespective of what
the local economies are doing,” Cartwright said.  
 Selling Space  
 Excluding Spain and currency swings,  revenue  at Burberry
stores open at least a year increased 10 percent in the quarter.
Same-store sales increased more than 10 percent in the U.K.,
Italy, Germany, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Americas grew at a
“low single-digit” pace as promotional activity was reduced
for a large part of the quarter, the company said.  
 Burberry increased average retail  selling space  by 8
percent in the quarter, opening eight stores. That boosted
retail revenue by 6 percent on an underlying basis, the company
said. Burberry said it plans to increase average retail selling
space by about 10 percent this year.  
 Wholesale revenue, which accounts for about 30 percent of
sales, gained 46 percent, excluding Spain and currency swings,
the company said. That represented a rebound from the fourth
quarter’s 20 percent drop. Burberry said wholesale revenue will
increase by a “high-teens percentage” in the six months
through Sept. 30.  
 “We are seeing significant increases in all regions except
Europe, where the planned strategic rationalization of small
specialty accounts continues,” Cartwright said, citing “some
traction” with U.S. department stores, which are giving more
space to the brand, especially for spring-summer 2011 lines.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        