-- Business Roundtable's Castellani Named CEO of Drug Industry's Lobby Group
-- Shannon Pettypiece
-- 2010-07-13T18:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/business-roundtable-s-castellani-named-ceo-of-drug-industry-s-lobby-group.html

          
          
             John Castellani , head of the
Business Roundtable, will become the U.S. drug industry’s top
lobbyist.  
 The  Pharmaceutical Research & Manufacturers of America , a
lobbying group based in Washington, named Castellani president
and chief executive officer. He will start Sept. 1, the
organization said today in a statement.  
 Castellani will succeed  Billy Tauzin , who said in February
that he would retire from PhRMA after running the group since
2005. Castellani has led the Business Roundtable, a Washington-
based lobbying and advocacy group for CEOs, since May 2001. The
 Business Roundtable  has been critical of the Obama
administration’s stances on financial regulatory proposals,
trade issues and the health-care overhaul, saying those policies
may hurt economic growth.  
 Castellani said he will focus on innovation, “smart
implementation” of the health-care legislation passed earlier
this year, and working to make improvements to the law on issues
affecting the pharmaceutical industry where necessary. The
elimination of a prescription-drug coverage gap known as the
donut hole is an important aspect of the overhaul, he said today
in a conference call with reporters.  
 “This is something that we think is a great benefit to
patients and to people who depend on this program,” Castellani
said. “It needs to be done quickly and smartly so it realizes
that potential.”  
 Before becoming president and CEO of the Business
Roundtable, Castellani was an executive vice president of
Tenneco Inc., an automotive-equipment maker based in Lake
Forest, Illinois. Tauzin served as a member of Congress from
Louisiana for 25 years before becoming PhRMA’s chief.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon Pettypiece  in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        