-- Buyout-Loan Rebound Is Led by BC Partners, Providence Seeking $1.4 Billion
-- Karen Eeuwens
-- 2010-07-13T16:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/buyout-loan-rebound-is-led-by-bc-partners-providence-seeking-1-4-billion.html

          
          
             BC Partners Ltd. and Providence
Equity Partners Inc. are leading a resurgence in leveraged
buyout loans as they seek $1.4 billion for acquisitions in
Europe, five times the amount raised during the second quarter.  
 LBO loans plunged to $280 million in the last quarter, the
lowest in almost seven years, as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
cut lenders’ appetite for the riskiest deals. Buyout firms
raised $4.2 billion in the first three months of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “There is a degree of confidence returning to the
market,” said James Stirling, who manages more than $300
million of assets as a director at Investec Plc’s acquisition
financing unit in London. “People are not willing to wait
forever for confirmation that the cycle has changed.”  
 Concern that banks would be hurt by contagion from Europe’s
deficit-ridden governments has ebbed, with stress tests due July
23 expected to show the region’s biggest publicly-traded lenders
can withstand a crisis. LBO loan volumes may triple in the
second half of the year, according to  Maurice Benisty , Chief
Investment Officer at GE Corporate Finance Bank, the London-
based leveraged lending unit of General Electric Capital Corp.  
 “Banks are prepared to take some underwriting risk now,”
said Benisty. He expects LBO loan volume of as much as 30
billion euros this year.  
 Picard Staple Financing  
 Buyout firms raise leveraged loans in the name of the
company they are acquiring, saddling the target with debt
and triggering a fall in its ratings to junk, or below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 BC Partners in London is arranging about 850 million euros
($1 billion) of staple financing to bidders of its French frozen
food unit  Picard Surgeles , two people with knowledge of the sale
said July 12. Providence Equity got 280 million euros last week
to bid for Dutch childcare provider  Catalpa .  
 The size of European LBO loans in the first half averaged
$389.5 million, according to Bloomberg data, compared with $723
million in 2007. The average bid price for actively-traded
leveraged loans in Europe fell 4 basis points for the week ended
July 8 to 93.27 percent of face value, down 2.73 percentage
points since the start of the year, according to Standard &
Poor’s Leveraged Commentary & Data.  
 The cost to insure debt of 50 companies with mostly high-
yield credit ratings decreased 16 basis points to 518, the
lowest level in three weeks, the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index
shows. The index is a benchmark for the cost of protecting bonds
against default and a decline signals improvement in perceptions
of credit quality.  
 A surge in LBO financing during the rest of the year
bringing full-year sales to 30 billion euros would still yield a
fraction of the 163 billion euros raised in 2007.  
 “The LBO market has fundamentally changed,” said
Stirling. “Some people still think of 2006 and 2007 as being
the market. That was a state of euphoria that we won’t see again
any time soon.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        