-- Cagamas Designs $1.6 Billion Islamic Bonds to Appeal to Middle East Buyers
-- Barry Porter
-- 2010-07-13T08:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/cagamas-designs-1-6-billion-islamic-bonds-to-appeal-to-middle-east-buyers.html

          
          
             Cagamas Bhd. , the Malaysian national
mortgage company, plans to sell as much as 5 billion ringgit
($1.6 billion) of Islamic bonds designed to appeal to Middle
Eastern investors.  
 The company will issue short- and medium-term notes using a
new Sukuk al-Amanah Li al-Istithmar structure, or Sukuk ALIm,
which meets standards set by the Bahrain-based  Accounting &
Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions ,
Cagamas said in a statement today. It may offer 1 billion
ringgit of bonds within a month, Cagamas Chief Executive Officer
 Steven Choy  told reporters in Kuala Lumpur.  
 “Sukuk ALIm are tradable in the secondary market, and
since they preclude certain principles which may be contentious
to Shariah, are expected to meet the requirements of a wider
range of investors,” Ahmed Rehman, chief executive officer of
co-arranger  al-Rajhi Bank  Malaysia, said in the statement.  
 Sales of Islamic bonds fell 22 percent to $6.6 billion this
year as demand waned after state-owned Dubai World restructured
$23.5 billion of liabilities. The Islamic finance industry’s
assets may almost triple to $2.8 trillion by 2015, according to
the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services Board, as
Muslims rebuild wealth eroded in the global economic slump.  
 Islamic law, or Shariah, restricts investors to
transactions based on the exchange of assets rather than money
alone because interest payments are banned. To ensure compliance
with Shariah, investments must be vetted and approved by
recognized scholars who are versed in its principles.  
 Wider Appeal  
 The Sukuk ALIm will “meet the most discerning investors’
Shariah requirements” and will help Malaysia develop as a
global center for Islamic finance, Choy said in the statement.  
 Sukuk ALIm are a type of Sukuk Istithmar that preclude the
principles of Inah, or sale and buyback, Bai’ Dayn, or debt
trading, and Wa’ad, or undertaking, according to Cagamas. The
structure may be a blueprint for future sales, “particularly
those targeting the Middle East markets,” it said.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and RHB Investment Bank
arranged the programs with al-Rajhi, the statement shows. The 5
billion ringgit total is split between a seven-year commercial
paper program and a 30-year series of medium-term notes.  
 Malaysian Rating Corp. ranked the short-term paper its top
MARC-1 grade and the medium-term notes AAA, the risk assessor
said in a separate statement today. RAM Rating Services Bhd.
said it awarded its top P1 ranking to the commercial paper and
AAA to the longer-dated notes.  
 “The ratings reflect Cagamas’s systemic importance in the
domestic capital markets, robust receivables profile and solid
capitalization,” RAM said. The state-owned company has a
strategic role in Malaysia’s financial system as a liquidity
provider to institutions through its loan-purchase programs.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Porter  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        