-- California Wine-Tasting Room Welcomes Dogs While Aiding Charity
-- Patrick Cole
-- 2010-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/california-wine-tasting-room-welcomes-dogs-while-aiding-charity.html

          
          
             While Paul Ramos spent years fixing
 Oracle Corp .’s database software programs, he harbored dreams of
moving his passion for animals and wine to the center of his
working life.  
 It turned out that his buddy Fleet Hamilton, a software
consultant who started  Carivintas Winery LLC  five years ago,
wanted to open a tasting room that would benefit animal causes.
Ramos, a lover of  whippets , became a partner in the room when it
opened last year.  
 “I was loathing corporate life and in an industry where no
job I did felt truly complete,” the bearded Ramos, 40, said in
an interview at the winery.  
 Hamilton started  Carivintas  -- the name melds the Latin
words for wine and charity -- in  Solvang , California, five years
ago to combine wine sales and philanthropy. The winery gives 10
to 30 percent of gross sales from its subscription wine clubs to
charities such as the Pets for Life program run by the Humane
Society of the U.S.  
 Its tasting room stands in the center of Solvang, a faux-
Danish village in Santa Barbara County that was featured in the
2004 movie “ Sideways .” The room gives all profits from wine
sales to animal causes; it has raised more than $42,000 for the
Utah-based  Best Friends Animal Society , which provides permanent
shelter for abandoned and abused pets around the country.  
 “The goal is to make great wine, make a living and give
back to the community,” Ramos said. “It’s turned out to be
much larger than our community.”  
 ‘Accident on the Floor’  
 In the dog-friendly, 800-square-foot wine-tasting room,
dogs can rest on a bone-shaped cushion or munch on gourmet
cookies while their masters sample a chardonnay or the
vineyard’s  syrah or malbec  blends.  
 “My dog, Olivia, likes to meet people who come in with
other dogs,” said frequent visitor Cheryl Belhasen, 52, who
works at the nearby  Lompoc Animal Shelter  in Lompoc, California.
“If your dog has an accident on the floor, the owners aren’t
uptight about it so you don’t feel as though your dog is the
first to make a mess.”  
 Ramos and Hamilton insist that the wine alone is worth a
stop at Carivintas. The locals in Solvang and  surrounding areas 
have made its 2006 malbec- tempranillo  blend one of the best
sellers, and its 2007 zinfandel and pinot noir are also popular.  
 Subscribers to one of the three Carivintas canine wine
clubs get regular shipments. Wine sold through its  Dog Lovers
Wine Club  features labels with dogs drawn by artists and
information about the animals. Subscribers receive quarterly or
monthly shipments, and those who order online can choose the
charity that will benefit.  
 “We want people to talk about the labels,” said Hamilton,
47. “It’s a conversation starter, but also the wine needs to be
the first thing that’s talked about. We want to be taken
seriously as a winery.”  
 Vicktory Club  
 Those with a soft spot for abused dogs can join the
 Vicktory Dog Wine Club . Reds or whites can be purchased with the
images of 22 dogs captured at the home of  Michael Vick , the
National Football League quarterback who pleaded guilty in 2007
to running an interstate dog-fighting business.  
 These wines sell for $30 a bottle or $360 a case. A
percentage of the sales goes to Best Friends, which rescued the
dogs from Vick’s house. The winery also offers a collection of
Vicktory Dog coasters, prints and a book with photos of the
dogs.  
 “It’s our duty to take care of dogs that need our help for
their survival,” Ramos said. “It’s easy to just moan and
complain and ask why don’t people do more, and I actually wanted
to be that person that made a difference.”  
 To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Paul Ramos, a co-owner of the Carivintas Winery tasting room. Some of the profits are donated to animal-related causes and charities. Photographer: Patrick Cole/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Carivintas Winery tasting room in Solvang, CA. The tasting room lets wine lovers bring in their dogs, offers treats and has a cushion for sleepy canines. Carivintas donates a portion of its profits to animal-related causes in the U.S. Photographer: Patrick Cole/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Treats Bowl  
                       
                         
                           Patrick Cole/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Carivintas Winery treats bowl. Dog owners can sip wine and feed treats to their pets at the tasting room which gives part of its profits to animal-related charities in the U.S. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Carivintas Winery treats bowl. Dog owners can sip wine and feed treats to their pets at the tasting room which gives part of its profits to animal-related charities in the U.S. Photographer: Patrick Cole/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Carivintas Vicktory Dog Wine Club  
                       
                         
                           Patrick Cole/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A wine bottle featuring a drawing of Georgia, one of the 22 dogs rescued in 2007 from NFL Quarterback Michael Vick's dog fighting ring. A percentage of sales of selections from Carivintas Vicktory Dog Wine Club goes to the Utah-based Best Friends Animal Society. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A wine bottle featuring a drawing of Georgia, one of the 22 dogs rescued in 2007 from NFL Quarterback Michael Vick's dog fighting ring. A percentage of sales of selections from Carivintas Vicktory Dog Wine Club goes to the Utah-based Best Friends Animal Society. Photographer: Patrick Cole/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
