-- Canada Targets July 2012 Start for New Decentralized Securities Regulator
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-07-13T20:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/canada-targets-july-2012-start-for-new-decentralized-securities-regulator.html

          
          
             Canadian policy makers today
released a plan for establishing a new national securities
regulator in two years that includes a recommendation to
decentralize decision-making to offices in each jurisdiction.  
 The Canadian Securities Transitions Office , which has a
three-year mandate to help Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  create
a national watchdog, issued a proposal that calls for the
regulator to set “national standards” while allowing regional
offices across Canada to set policy. The new agency would be in
place by July 1, 2012.  
 The move to decentralize the regulator may help win backing
from dissenting provinces that are seeking to undermine the
plan, said  Ian Russell  of the Investment Industry Association of
Canada. Quebec, home to Canada’s derivatives market, and energy-
rich Alberta and Manitoba have refused to join the plan.  
 “It would encourage buy-in from the objecting provinces,
particularly in the West,” said Russell, chief executive
officer of the investment industry’s self-regulatory body, in a
telephone interview. “That would go a long way to allaying
concerns that some of the more skeptical provinces have.”  
 Canada is the only member of the Group of Seven nations
without a national securities watchdog, a situation the
government calls an “international embarrassment.” Flaherty
released draft  legislation  on May 27 to set up a national
oversight body. The bill has been submitted to the Supreme Court
of Canada for a ruling on whether it’s constitutional, which can
take 10 to 24 months to rule, the finance ministry said in May.  
 Distributed Management  
 The plan  released today calls for the new agency’s
management to be distributed across the country, with the chief
regulator’s deputies working from local offices. Management will
need to be “highly mobile”, according to the plan, and an
emphasis needs to be put on technology infrastructure such as
“videoconferencing.”  
 The new regulator “will not simply be the consolidation of
the existing Canadian securities regulators, but rather the
creation of a fundamentally new organization, which is both
nationally integrated and able to deliver services and make
decisions locally,” according to the plan.  
 The report didn’t specify whether any one of the new
regulator’s offices would be considered a head office, or where
the chief regulator would be based. Ontario officials have
lobbied to make Toronto, home to the country’s largest banks and
its main stock exchange, the headquarters of the new regulator.  
 ‘Pragmatic Business Sense’  
 “It makes pragmatic business sense for a head office to be
in Toronto. It’s Canada’s financial capital,” said  Janet Ecker ,
president of the Toronto Financial Services Alliance, which has
lobbied for Toronto to be the regulator’s headquarters.  
 “I understand the politics but I’m disappointed that
pragmatic business decisions appear not to be ruling the day,”
Ecker said in a telephone interview.  
 Today’s proposals mesh with earlier efforts by Flaherty to
ease tensions with dissenting provinces. Flaherty said in May
provinces that decide not to take part in the system will retain
their right to keep regulatory powers over capital markets.
Issuers in non-participating provinces will be governed by
provincial regulators under the plan, and be exempt from federal
regulation, a decision that will allow Quebec’s regulator to co-
exist, Flaherty has said.  
 Reduce Costs, Uncertainty  
 A  government-appointed panel  concluded last year that
replacing the existing system of 13 regional agencies would
reduce costs and uncertainty for issuers and investors. The
national body would also bolster the country’s ability to
respond to market changes and safeguard against “systemic”
risks that make financial markets across the country vulnerable
to a bad decision by one of the provinces.  
 Raymond Bachand , finance minister from the French-speaking
province of Quebec, has said the plan violates provincial
jurisdiction and represents a “power grab” by Toronto, the
country’s financial hub. Quebec is challenging the federal
government’s plan before the province’s Court of Appeal.  
 Quebec had ramped up political pressure on the federal
government in recent months. Bachand announced on May 10 the
creation of a coalition of businesses such as  Quebecor Inc.  and
trade groups to oppose Flaherty’s plan, saying it could lead
some companies to move their headquarters to Toronto.  
 The transition office said the next step is for
participating provinces to enter agreements with the office to
keep participating in the new regulator’s development. Provinces
will then be asked to “firmly commit” to participate in the
plan by next July.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        