-- Canada's Dollar Advances to Highest in Almost Three Weeks on Equity Rally
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-13T21:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/canada-s-dollar-appreciates-versus-greenback-as-stocks-commodities-rise.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar climbed to the
strongest level in almost three weeks as U.S. stocks advanced
and prices for raw materials such as crude oil rose, making
currencies linked to global growth more attractive.  
 The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, has gained 6.7 percent this
year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indices, the second-best performance among its 10 developed-
world counterparts behind the yen. Traders have increased bets
that the Bank of Canada will raise  interest rates  through the
rest of the year since a July 9 report showed the nation’s job
creation last month increased almost five times as much as
economists forecast.  
 “Risk appetite is better than it was five days ago,” said
 Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “Canada had very strong
jobs data on Friday. This is a continuation of that, with
expectations for a rate hike at the July 20 Bank of Canada
meeting.”  
 The Canadian currency gained 0.7 percent to C$1.030 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0372
yesterday. The currency reached C$1.0277, the strongest level
since June 23. One Canadian dollar buys 97.09 U.S. cents.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 1.5 percent in its
sixth day of gains. Crude oil for August delivery rose 3 percent
to $77.18 a barrel. Canada’s currency tends to rise and fall
with equities and commodity prices.  
 Bank of Canada  
 Traders raised bets the central bank will increase its 0.5
percent target lending rate at its next meeting on July 20.
Yields on December 2010 bankers’ acceptances, the most-active
contract, jumped 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
1.36 percent, the highest this month.  
 Canada reported its largest merchandise trade deficit in
eight months in May. The deficit of C$503 million ($489 million)
was the third consecutive shortfall, as imports of machinery and
equipment outpaced gains in exports, Statistics Canada said
today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted
a zero balance, according to the median of 21 estimates.  
 The loonie may struggle to exceed the C$1.02 to C$1.03
range versus the greenback,  Shaun Osborne  and  Jacqui Douglas ,
currency strategists at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
unit, wrote in a note to clients today.  
 “A lot of good news is priced into the Canadian dollar,”
Osborne and Douglas wrote. The extra yield investors get to hold
Canadian two-year debt over U.S. securities is “hugely
supportive of the Canadian dollar,” they wrote. “A further
widening in spreads may be needed to lift the Canadian dollar
significantly from here,” according to the strategists.  
 Two-Year Bond  
 The yield on Canada’s two-year bond increased 3 basis
points to 1.72 percent. The price of the 2 percent security
maturing in September 2012 slid 7 cents to C$100.59.  
 The two-year  bond  yielded about 106 basis points over
equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries. The yield advantage reached
115 basis points on May 12, the most since February 2008.  
 Canada’s dollar traded on a one-for-one basis with its U.S.
counterpart on April 6 for the first time in almost two years,
as an accelerating global recovery lifted demand for Canada’s
raw materials, which account for about a third of export
revenue. Higher bond yields typically make a country’s currency
more attractive to investors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        