-- Canadian Companies May Undercut Economic Rebound with Lower Spending Plans
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/canadian-companies-may-undercut-economic-rebound-with-lower-spending-plans.html

          
          
             Canadian  companies  are scaling back
investment plans, suggesting the country’s economic recovery
will slow through this year and adding to uncertainty about the
path of central bank interest rates.  
 A quarterly survey of executives showed fewer plan to
increase machinery and equipment investment over the next 12
months, while more say they will reduce such spending, the
Ottawa-based Bank of Canada said yesterday in its quarterly
Business Outlook  Survey . The data come after a report last week
showing slower growth in business and government spending for
the first time in six months in June, and a report June 30
indicating the economy stalled in April as manufacturing and
retailing output declined.  
 “What nobody wants to do is overspend, overreact to a
recovering economy and then find ourselves in another
significant dip sitting on a huge amount of debt or not enough
cash,” said  Linda Hasenfratz , chief executive officer of
Linamar Corp., Canada’s second-largest auto-parts maker, in an
interview.  
 While Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce economist Meny
Grauman says Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will raise his
policy interest rate for a second consecutive month on July 20,
the case for increases at subsequent meetings is less clear. The
central bank said June 1 that further increases would depend on
the strength of domestic demand balanced against an uneven
global expansion.  
 John Manley , who chaired a meeting of global executives
that coincided with the Group of 20 leaders summit last month,
said companies may respond to persistent government deficits by
creating “a very restrained investment climate.” Manley, a
former finance minister who leads the Canadian Council of Chief
Executives, said that government deficits are the biggest threat
to an economic recovery.  
 Higher Interest Rates  
 Investors have fully priced in an increase in the Bank of
Canada’s policy rate to 0.75 percent next week, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG  calculation  derived from overnight index
swaps. Government figures released July 9 showed employment rose
93,200 in June, almost five times more than economists expected.  
 “Businesses are generally positive about their near-term
sales prospects, although they are concerned about recent global
economic and financial uncertainties and possible spillover
effects in Canada,” the Bank of Canada’s business survey report
said yesterday. The  survey’s results  “indicate the economic
recovery is progressing,” with the report also showing positive
opinions about future sales and employment.  
 Slower Growth  
 In the survey, 38 percent of respondents said they will
boost investment spending over the next 12 months, down from 43
percent in the prior survey. Those saying they will cut
investment spending rose to 26 percent from 21 percent. Some 53
percent of senior managers said sales growth will quicken over
the next year, while another 29 percent expect sales to slow,
the report said. After rounding, the so-called balance of
opinion on future sales declined to 25 percentage points from 44
points three months ago.  
 Canada’s annualized economic growth rate probably slowed to
3.8 percent in the second quarter from 6.1 percent in the first,
the Bank of Canada  said in April . The growth rate will slow to
3.1 percent in the fourth quarter, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “That reality eventually will weigh on the Bank of
Canada,” said CIBC’s Grauman. The central bank will pause with
rate increases late in the year as consumer and business
spending slows, he said.  
 To be sure, some economists remain convinced that Canadian
rates will continue to rise after next week.  Diana Petramala , an
economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said recent data, including
the central bank’s survey, show the recovery remains strong
enough to keep the Bank of Canada raising rates at every meeting
this year. “The economy doesn’t warrant exceptionally low
interest rates,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        