-- Fidel Castro Makes First TV Appearance Since 2007
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-07-13T15:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/castro-returns-to-public-view-on-cuban-television-four-years-after-illness.html

          
          
             Former Cuban President  Fidel Castro 
warned of worsening ties between the U.S. and Iran in his first
television interview in at least three years, after overseeing a
transfer of power to his brother Raul following surgery in 2006.  
 The return to the public eye by the 83-year-old leader of
Cuba’s 1959 communist revolution comes as the Caribbean nation
prepares to free 52 political prisoners following talks with the
Roman Catholic Church and Spain. Castro spoke slowly and clearly
on a state-run news show last night from an office chair while
leafing through a notebook in his lap.  
 The role of the former strongman over his brother’s
government has been the subject of constant analysis by Cuba
watchers since his abdominal surgery four years ago. Castro
publishes his views on global events in  newspaper columns  and
continues to meet with visiting foreign leaders including
Ecuador President Rafael Correa and Venezuela President Hugo
Chavez, who calls him a revolutionary father figure.  
 “Castro doesn’t do anything without it being carefully
scripted, planned or staged,” said  Chris Sabatini , policy
director of the Council of the Americas business group in New
York. “He’s a master of the larger strategic message and
clearly this is part of that -- he wants to weigh in and let it
be known that these events aren’t occurring outside his purview,
that they occur with his knowledge.”  
 ‘Nuclear War’  
 Castro has recently warned in his newspaper columns of
plans by the U.S. and Israel to lead an attack on Iran over its
nuclear energy program that could spill into a world war. He
also said the U.S. increased its pressure on Iran while much of
the world focused on soccer’s World Cup tournament in South
Africa, which ended July 11.  
 “If there’s an attack on Iran by Israel and the U.S.,
there’s no way to prevent it from becoming a nuclear war,”
Castro, wearing a plaid shirt and grey jacket, said yesterday
during the interview on the “Mesa Redonda” news program.
“Iran isn’t a divided country and the U.S. would meet a lot of
resistance in an attack.”  
 Castro said that he spends most of his days reading news
clips of more than 200 pages in length to keep up with world
events.  
 The former president, who didn’t discuss U.S.-Cuba ties or
the prisoner release, was likely trying to send a message that
he’s still firmly in control of decision making in the regime,
said  Peter Hakim , president emeritus of the Washington-based
Inter-American Dialogue, a policy research group.  
 ‘Bring Out Fidel’  
 “This is a way to suggest that Fidel is still around and
watching and that no one should think that there’s a major
change,” he said. “It’s a good message if they want to show
not to expect more change, bring out Fidel.”  
 Last week, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the
release of the Cuban dissidents is “very welcome” and “a
positive sign.”  
 “We were encouraged by the apparent agreement between the
Roman Catholic Church and the authorities in Cuba for the
release of 52 political prisoners,” Clinton said July 8. “We
welcome this. We think it’s a positive sign. It’s something
that’s overdue but nevertheless very welcome.”  
 Cuba freed seven political prisoners last night, and they
arrived in Spain today to live in exile, the Associated Press
reported.  
 State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said today in
a statement that the U.S. “applauds” the efforts to release
“prisoners of conscience” from Cuban jails.  
 “All those released from prison should be free to decide
for themselves whether to remain in Cuba or travel to another
country,” he said.  
 U.S. Restrictions  
 The Obama administration last year loosened restrictions on
Cuban-Americans traveling to Cuba and transferring money to
relatives back home. The U.S. State Department has also held
talks in Havana with Cuban officials about restoring mail
service and cooperation on migration issues. The U.S. has had a
trade embargo on Cuba since 1962.  
 Cuba, which relied on economic assistance from the Soviet
Union to survive the U.S. embargo until the late 1980s, now
receives about 100,000 barrels a day of oil from Venezuela.  
 Castro, who boasts about outlasting more than ten  U.S.
presidents  and of surviving alleged assassination attempts, may
have also been dispelling rumors of worsening health problems,
said Jonathan Benjamin-Alvarado, a Cuba analyst at the
University of Nebraska at Omaha.  
 “Here’s an 80-something who can still get up and give a
speech,” Benjamin-Alvarado said. “This serves the purpose of
dissipating gossip that he’s not alive. That’s an important sign
to people.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Former Cuban President Fidel Castro  
                       
                         
                           Ricardo Stuckert/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Former Cuban President Fidel Castro is seen during a meeting with Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Havana, on February 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former Cuban President Fidel Castro is seen during a meeting with Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Havana, on February 2010. Photographer: Ricardo Stuckert/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
