-- Chamber of Commerce Urges Obama to Cut Taxes, Regulation
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/chamber-of-commerce-will-ask-obama-to-extend-tax-cuts-to-avoid-double-dip.html

          
          
             The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is
urging President  Barack Obama  to curb regulations and embrace
tax cuts to avert a double-dip recession.  
 The Chamber, the biggest lobbying group for U.S. business,
plans to release a letter to Obama today calling for him to sell
government-owned minerals to raise revenue without raising
taxes, said  Stan Anderson , managing director at the group’s
Campaign for Free Enterprise. The letter will be discussed at a
“jobs summit” the Chamber will hold in Washington.  
 “We are running a reasonable risk of going back into a
recession,” Anderson said in an interview. “As you wear off
the artificial spending of the stimulus, you are seeing
weakening in job growth.”  
 The Chamber, which spent more than $30 million lobbying
this year, believes the “overhang” of pending health,
financial, environmental and other regulations is stifling
business spending and curtailing the economic recovery, Anderson
said.  
 White House senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett  invited
executives to send ideas about changing the U.S. corporate tax
code, reducing the deficit and expanding trade in a letter
yesterday to another corporate lobbying group, the Business
Roundtable.  
 The White House rejected criticisms from business about
financial overhaul legislation, which is awaiting action in the
Senate, and its moratorium on deep-water oil drilling.  
 “We’re always happy to look at and have been reviewing
regulations dating back to the transition that people don’t find
meeting the test of common sense,” White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday. “At the same time, we have to ensure the
health and safety of hundreds of millions of Americans, and we
will do so.”  
 Tax Holiday  
 Anderson said the Chamber will detail proposals to raise
revenue without increasing individual taxes, such as
reinstituting a tax holiday on corporations’ overseas income. A
2004 tax holiday let companies that stockpiled dollars overseas
bring the money into the U.S. at a rate of 5.25 percent instead
of the 35 percent they otherwise would owe.  
 The Chamber also will urge sales of minerals and timber on
government land.  
 The Chamber wants Obama to support continuing the tax cuts
enacted under President  George W. Bush  in 2001 and 2003.  
 The cost of extending the cuts for the most prosperous
Americans would be about $55 billion for a year. Obama
campaigned for the presidency saying he would preserve middle-
class tax cuts while letting taxes on the rich rise to previous
levels.  
 The Chamber threw its weight behind Obama’s stimulus
package at the beginning of his administration, which “did help
the atmosphere” at that time, Anderson said. The threat of a
renewed recession doesn’t warrant a new stimulus program now, he
said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     US President Barack Obama speaks during a reception in Washington. Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue talks about the "uncertainty" over pending regulations and its impact on the U.S. economy.
     Donohue, speaking on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu," also discusses labor market policies and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's relationship with the White House. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
