-- Chilean Rate Swaps Rise to 17-Month High as Breakeven Inflation Jumps
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-13T20:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/chilean-rate-swaps-rise-to-17-month-high-as-breakeven-inflation-jumps.html

          
          
             Chilean interest-rate swaps rose to
the highest level since February 2009 as breakeven inflation
reached a three-month high before this week’s central bank
meeting.  
 The two-year swap rate rose 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 3.86 percent, the one-year rate climbed
seven basis points to 3.14 percent and the six-month swap rate
added seven basis points to 2.50 percent.  
 The central bank will increase its benchmark interest rate
by half a percentage point to 1.5 percent on July 15, according
to 14 of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey, as the economy
expands at the fastest pace in almost five years and inflation
expectations rise. The inflation forwards market is pricing in
inflation of 3.86 percent this year, faster than the central
bank’s 3 percent target and 25 basis points more than traders
expected a month ago.  
 “At a minimum they’ll do 50 basis points,”  Rafael de la Fuente , a senior economist at UBS AG, said by telephone from
Stamford, Connecticut. “They’ve given every possible signal
that they’re going to raise and very probably rather quickly and
that they’re uneasy about the pace of demand growth.”  
 Breakeven inflation, a measure of the velocity of future
inflation as reflected by the difference in yield between
nominal and index-linked swaps, rose the most in 10 weeks
yesterday as traders priced in rising electricity tariffs and a
delayed tax break on loans. The one-year breakeven inflation
rate climbed eight basis points today to 3.95 percent, the
highest since April, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 Domestic Demand  
 Chile’s economy grew at the fastest annual pace in almost
five years in May as the country recovered from February’s
earthquake. The median forecast of 34 economists in a central
bank survey published yesterday is that the economy expanded 5.6
percent in the year through June and will grow 5.9 percent year-
on-year in the third quarter.  
 Investors should bet that the curve between the six-month
and the two-year rates steepens, according to strategist  Roberto Melzi  and economist  Jimena Zuniga  at Barclays Capital in New
York. Were the central bank to scale back its rate increases
because of a slowdown in the global recovery the six-month rate
would fall faster than the two-year, they said.  
 Chile’s peso appreciated the most in a week as an
unexpected widening of the U.S. trade gap and Alcoa Inc.’s
forecast for increased global aluminum demand bolstered investor
appetite for riskier assets.  
 Bond Yield Fell  
 The peso rose 0.6 percent to 535.25 per U.S. dollar from
538.25 yesterday. The yield on a basket of five-year inflation-
linked central bank bonds fell for a third day, dropping seven
basis points to 2.33 percent.  
 The U.S. trade deficit expanded 4.8 percent to $42.3
billion in May as imports of consumer goods surged, surprising
all 72 economists in a  Bloomberg survey . U.S. and European
stocks climbed for a sixth day and commodities rallied after
 Alcoa , the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to
report second-quarter earnings,  beat  analysts’ estimates and
forecast global aluminum consumption to grow 12 percent this
year compared with a previous forecast of 10 percent.  
 The peso moved “on the U.S. trade figures and the positive
results from Alcoa, which pushed up stocks,” said  Cristobal Doberti , an economist at Bice Inversiones in Santiago. “Copper
is up internationally too, which helps the terms of trade.”  
 Copper, Chile’s biggest export, rose 0.6 percent to $3.0265
a pound in New York and the Ipsa index of Chile’s most-traded
stocks gained 0.9 percent to a record 4,203.67.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        