-- China's Prime Office-Property Market Recovers as Economy Fuels Investment
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-13T09:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/china-s-premier-office-property-market-recovers-in-first-half-cbre-says.html

          
          
             China’s premier commercial-property
market posted a recovery in investments and rents in the first
half as economic expansion spurred demand, according to  CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc .  
 Purchases of high-end properties including entire office
buildings and shopping malls in 15 major Chinese cities totaled
almost 50 billion yuan ($7.4 billion), up fivefold from a year
earlier, the world’s biggest commercial property broker said in
a report today in Beijing.  
 A recovery in demand from overseas companies’, local high-
tech, energy and manufacturing operations helped raise rents for
Beijing’s high-end office buildings by 5.7 percent in the first
half, according to the report. China’s economy grew 11.9 percent
in the first quarter, the  fastest pace  since 2007’s second
quarter, fuelling a boom in the housing market.  
 “In the main cities, the market for high-end office
buildings bottomed out from the second quarter and showed signs
of an evident recovery,” Danny Ma, a senior director for China
at CBRE Research, told reporters in Beijing.  
 A rebound in demand for employees’ accommodation from
multinational companies in the Chinese capital also helped push
monthly rents for luxury apartments, or those costing more than
30,000 yuan per square meter, by 1.5 percent in the period from
the previous three months, the report said.  
 Luxury Market  
 Rents in the luxury residential market bottomed out in the
second quarter in all of the 15 cities monitored by CBRE except
northern China’s Tianjin, as the economy recovered and some
buyers delayed purchasing plans due to the government’s
crackdown on speculation, Ma said.  
 Beijing’s high-end apartment prices jumped 10.1 percent to
48,002 yuan per square meter in the second quarter from the
previous three months even as sales dropped, after developers
slowed supply of new housing, the report said. Property
companies may have to offer discounts to woo buyers this year
when the government enforces measures to prevent a bubble in the
housing market, the report added.  
 China has since April raised mortgage interest rates
and down-payment ratios for second homes, and suspended lending
for third homes to avert asset bubbles.  
 -- Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Chitra Somayaji ,  James Gunsalus   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        