-- Christie Signs 2% Annual Property-Tax Cap on New Jersey Towns and Schools
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-13T20:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/christie-signs-2-annual-property-tax-cap-on-new-jersey-towns-and-schools.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
whose state has the highest property taxes in the U.S., signed
legislation capping annual increases in the levies at 2 percent.  
 The measure reduces the current 4 percent threshold on
real-estate taxes, the prime funding source for schools and
local governments, and cuts the number of exemptions to four
from 14. Christie, a first-term Republican, said the new limits
will affect calendar-year budgets that begin in January 2011.  
 Christie and the Democratic-led  Legislature  agreed on the
cap July 3 after lawmakers resisted his call for a
constitutional amendment limiting the increases to 2.5 percent.
The governor  vetoed  an earlier 2.9 percent statutory limit
approved by lawmakers as he called a special session of the
Legislature and pushed for stricter restrictions.  
 “This is all about making New Jersey affordable again,”
Christie said. “We’ve waited 30 years for a solution to the
property tax problem in New Jersey and we’ve waited for
politicians to fix it. They didn’t. This puts the solution in
your hands.”  
 Christie, 47, signed the legislation in Hamilton, a Mercer
County township of 92,000 residents where the average property-
tax bill last year was $5,893, according to Mayor John
Bencivengo.  
 $7,281 Bill  
 New Jersey property taxes rose 72 percent from 1999 to 2009
to an average of $7,281, according to  data  from the state
Department of Community Affairs. Towns, schools and counties
raised a total of $24 billion through the levy last year.  
 Christie, the first Republican elected governor of New
Jersey since 1997, defeated Democrat  Jon Corzine  in November
after pledging to end chronic budget deficits without raising
sales, personal-income or business taxes. He has said curbing
increases in local property taxes would make the state more
affordable for residents and help it lure new businesses.  
 Corzine enacted a 4 percent cap in 2007 after property-tax
bills climbed 7 percent in 2006 and 7.2 percent in 2005. Average
taxes increased 3.3 percent last year, according to the
community-affairs department data.  
 With the new  cap , governments may be granted exemptions to
cover bond payments, higher health insurance or pension costs
and natural disasters. They would be allowed to exceed the limit
with approval from a majority of voters in a public referendum.  
 State Aid  
 Christie’s $29.4 billion state  budget  for the fiscal year
that began July 1 trimmed aid to schools by $820 million and to
municipalities by $445 million. Towns and districts have warned
of service cuts and firings because of the aid reductions.  
 “The quality of education will undoubtedly suffer in New
Jersey,” said Steve Baker, a spokesman for the New Jersey
Education Association, a union representing about 200,000
current and retired teachers, in an interview. Program cuts and
firings “are going to be repeated next year. You’re going to
see more layoffs and more program cuts on top of that.”  
 Hamilton cut costs to avoid raising its share of the
property-tax levy, according to Bencivengo, a Republican, who
said 50 jobs have been eliminated since he took office in 2008.
The town’s average real estate bill will rise $45 to $5,938 this
year because of higher school and county taxes, he said.
Residents under Christie’s budget also will lose property-tax
rebates, which averaged $955 last year, he said.  
 Civil Service  
 Peter Lyden, a spokesman for the state Civil Service
Commission, said 121 local governments have filed applications
since January seeking to fire as many as 1,908 workers. In all
of 2009, 82 towns applied to cut 965 jobs, he said.  
 “Something had to be done” to control property-tax
increases, said Bencivengo, who attended the bill-signing. “We
all realize that.”  
 William Dressel , executive director of the  New Jersey
League of Municipalities , which represents mayors and councils,
said the Legislature will need to enact laws to help towns curb
expenses including personnel costs and medical rates so they can
stay within the cap.  
 Christie has proposed a 33-point package allowing towns to
opt out of civil-service laws and cap contract awards in order
to lower spending. It also would curb payouts for unused sick-
leave and vacation days, and end the “bumping” rights that let
the highest-paid, senior workers avoid layoffs.  
 “We’re going to have to work to give local officials the
tools to work under this,” said bill sponsor and Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West Deptford who has
set a schedule for legislative committees to remain in session
during their summer recess to consider the bills. “That’s
next.”  
 Dressel said he doesn’t see the same urgency to enact the
rest of Christie’s proposals as he did with the tax cap.  
 “The only thing municipalities can do in order to really
meet the cap is to have more layoffs and more cuts,” he said in
a telephone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     New Jersey Governor Chris Christie speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
