-- Clinuvel Drug Offers Relief for Rare Light Sensitivity Malady, Study Shows
-- Kristine Aquino
-- 2010-07-13T07:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/clinuvel-drug-offers-relief-for-rare-light-sensitivity-malady-study-shows.html

          
          
             Clinuvel Pharmaceuticals Ltd ., an
Australian drug company, said clinical trials showed a drug
provided relief for sufferers of a rare disease that makes them
sensitive to light.  
 A 12-month study in eight countries showed  Scenesse 
“significantly” reduced the pain experienced by participants,
all of whom suffered from erythropoietic protoporphyria, or EPP,
the Melbourne-based company said in a  statement  today. There
were 91 patients in the study, Clinuvel said.  
 EPP sufferers experience itching, swelling and burning of
the skin when exposed to light, according to the American
Porphyria Foundation  website . EPP also causes abnormally
elevated levels of protoporphyrin, a compound which accumulates
in the liver and may cause gallstones or other, more severe
complications. There’s “no comparable therapy” for the
disease, Clinuvel said.  
 The results “will assist us in making a case to regulatory
agencies on the grounds of drug safety, efficacy and need for
treatment,” Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Wolgen  said in the
statement.  
 Scenesse would be the pharmaceutical company’s first
marketed product, should it get regulatory approval. There are
about 10,000 people who suffer from the disease around the
world, Clinuvel said.  
 The company will present the full results of the phase III
trials at the 19th Congress of the European Association for
Dermatology and Venereology in Gothenburg, Sweden, in October.
Phase III trials are the third and final stage of patient
studies usually required for U.S. regulatory review.  
 Clinuvel  shares  closed unchanged at 24.5 Australian cents
at the end of Sydney’s trading day.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristine Aquino  in Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        