-- Coal India Said to Plan First Port Terminal to Boost Imports, Meet Demand
-- Dinakar Sethuraman
-- 2010-07-14T05:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/coal-india-said-to-plan-first-port-terminal-to-boost-imports-meet-demand.html

          
          
             Coal India Ltd. , the world’s largest
producer, plans to invest in its first port terminal to handle
imports to help meet increasing demand for the fuel, a company
official said.  
 The company intends to build a terminal in a venture with
Visakhapatnam Port Trust in southeast India by 2013 with a
capacity to import as much as 6 million metric tons annually,
the official said, asking not to be identified, citing company
policy. Coal India also intends to form a joint venture with
 NTPC Ltd. , Asia’s second-largest power utility by value, to buy
the fuel from overseas, the official said.  
 Inadequate rail and port facilities may hamper coal imports
as demand in India doubles to more than 1 billion tons by 2015,
Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd. said on July 1. Coal is used to
fire more than half of India’s current power generation capacity,
according to the country’s electricity regulator.  
 Coal India Chairman  Partha Bhattacharyya  didn’t answer
calls made to his mobile phone. Ajeya Kallam, chairman of
Visakhapatnam Port Trust, couldn’t be immediately reached by
telephone at his office and didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. NTPC Chairman  R.S. Sharma  wasn’t immediately available
for comment.  
 The facility may cost as much as 5 billion rupees ($107
million),  Rahul Sharan , an analyst for Drewry Maritime Services
Ltd., said by telephone from Gurgaon, India, today, basing his
estimate on similar-sized terminals by other companies.  
 Owning a berth in an infrastructure-starved country like
India helps Coal India receive ships on a priority basis, speed
up unloading and reduce costs “substantially,” said Sharan,
who covers dry bulk vessels for Drewry. Importers save on port
costs including demurrage, a term used when the charterer pays
the shipowner for extra use of the vessel.  
 NTPC Imports  
 The proposed venture with  NTPC , India’s biggest electricity
generator, is aimed at supplying coal from overseas to the
utility’s plants, the company official said.  
 NTPC plans to import 14 million tons of coal in the year
ending March 2011, Sharma said on March 15. Coal India is
expected to issue a tender next month for an order from the
utility to import 4 million tons of coal by the end of December,
the official said.  
 The state-owned coal producer is also looking to secure
long-term agreements with foreign suppliers and invest in assets
overseas, he said.  
 Coal India, which proposes to sell shares for the first
time this year, is studying proposals by three companies,
including two owned by Peabody Energy Corp. in the U.S. and
Australia, Bhattacharyya said in April. The company may spend
$1.7 billion to buy the stakes, he said.  
 Domestic Demand  
 Coal demand in India may rise by more than 500 million tons
from 2008 to 2015 to exceed 1 billion tons, Wood Mackenzie said.
India may bring in at least 50 million tons of coal from abroad
in 2017 to bolster local production that’s projected to reach
647 million tons,  Alok Perti , additional secretary to the coal
ministry, said on July 7.  
 India’s annual coal output of 535 million tons will fall
short of demand from power generators by as much as 80 million
tons by next year, Perti said.  
 The International Monetary Fund revised India’s 2010
economic growth forecast to 9.4 percent from its earlier
prediction of 8.8 percent in April.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
 Archana Chaudhary  in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Partha Bhattacharyya, chairman of Coal India Ltd. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
