-- Colombian Armed Forces to Help Scout for New Oil Reserves, General Says
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-07-13T16:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/colombian-armed-forces-to-help-scout-for-new-oil-reserves-general-says.html

          
          
             Colombia plans to use its armed
forces to help scout for new reserves of crude as it seeks to
push output to a record, the commander of the armed forces said.  
 South America’s third-largest oil producer after Venezuela
and Brazil is training a military unit to help perform seismic
testing to locate potential reserves, General  Freddy Padilla 
said in an interview yesterday. Until now, the armed forces only
deployed soldiers to protect companies exploring for crude and
at production sites.  
 “It’s about finding a way to make it easier for companies
to do their work,” said Padilla, wearing a green camouflage
uniform and black boots in his Bogota office. “It will make
logistics easier.”  
 The strategy will speed Colombia’s search for oil as
improved security spurs investment even in remote swaths of
jungle, Padilla said. Since 2002, President  Alvaro Uribe  has
increased military strikes to drive guerrilla forces from areas
once considered too risky for oil and metals exploration.
President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos , who takes office Aug. 7, has
pledged to maintain those security policies.  
 “They want to hold onto the investors who are here and
keep the new ones coming,” Gerson Arias, a researcher at
Fundacion Ideas para la Paz, said in an interview from Bogota.  
 Basic Training  
 The military has begun training members of a group that
will total about 450 people, including civilians, and will be
ready to start work at year-end, Padilla said. Oil companies
will be able to do their own seismic testing or choose to employ
the new unit, he said.  
 Colombia has opened territory to oil exploration under
Uribe including blocks auctioned last month that will drum up
more than $1.2 billion of investment from companies including
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. and OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, according to the nation’s Mines and Energy
Ministry.  
 International investment in the nation’s oil and natural
gas fields may reach a record $4 billion this year, regulator
 Armando Zamora  said in January. Output will rise to almost 1
million barrels daily next year from a record of almost 900,000
barrels per day at year end, Energy and Mines Minister  Hernan Martinez  said last month.  
 Within four years, the military will wipe out the ability
of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the country’s
largest guerrilla group known as the FARC, and the smaller ELN
rebel group to pose a threat to the state, Padilla said, seated
next to a table decorated with a model of the  Empresa Brasileira
de Aeronautica SA -Super Tucano aircraft used by his military.  
 ‘Dramatic Decline’  
 “Colombia can end the problem it has with two of the armed
groups that attack the population,” he said. “Both are in a
period of dramatic decline.”  
 The military killed Raul Reyes, then the FARC’s second-in-
command, in 2008 at a camp within Ecuadorean territory. Reyes
was “irreplaceable” for the FARC because he was a
“fundamental link” within the group, Padilla said.  
 The armed forces are closing in on FARC leaders known by
their aliases  Alfonso Cano  and  Mono Jojoy , he said.  
 Colombia is modernizing its air force and navy to improve
detection of shipments of illegal drugs, Padilla said.  
 Colombia doesn’t have the resources for an arms race with
its neighbors and won’t upgrade its air force to compete with
Venezuela’s fighters, he said.  
 “If we went down that road, it would generate a spiral,”
he said. “It would be mad to take that route.”  
 Venezuela’s Russian-made Sukhois are superior to Colombia’s
Israeli-made Kfir fighters, although this probably wouldn’t be
decisive in a conflict between the countries, said Nathan
Hughes, Director of Military Analysis for Stratfor, an
intelligence company based in Austin, Texas.  
 The Colombian military is among the most skilled in Latin
America, while Venezuela’s armed forces have been weakened by
political appointments, Hughes added.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heather Walsh  in Cartagena or at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The high commander of Colombian Army Freddy Padilla. Photographer: Elmer Martinez/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Colombian soldiers arrive in the jungle on the banks of the river Nulpe, in Colombia. Photographer: Carlos Julio Martinez/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
