-- Congo Defends Sale of Oil Blocks to Companies Owned by South Africa's Zuma
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-13T12:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/congo-defends-sale-of-oil-blocks-to-companies-owned-by-south-africa-s-zuma.html

          
          
             The sale of two disputed oil blocks
in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo to companies owned by
South African President  Jacob Zuma ’s nephew was done in the
nation’s best interest, a government spokesman said.  
 Congo awarded blocks 1 and 2 in Lake Albert to Caprikat
Ltd. and Foxwhelp Ltd. by a presidential decree published in
Congo’s Journal Officiel on June 22. Both companies were
recently incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and are
owned by Khulubuse Zuma.  
 Congo had previously signed contracts with two other
companies to develop the blocks, including Tullow Oil Plc in
2006. After the contracts were awarded to the two new companies,
Tullow said that no “legitimate” oil company would work with
either Caprikat or Foxwhelp to explore the two sites.  
 “There’s always acrimony on the part of those who lost the
bid and the first accusation they make about others is that they
aren’t well known,”  Lambert Mende , government spokesman and
former oil minister, told reporters today in Kinshasa.  
 The oil blocks are located in Albertine Graben in the
western Rift Valley of East Africa on the border with Uganda,
where an estimated 2 billion barrels of reserves have already
been discovered. Congo, which is recovering from four decades of
war and dictatorship, wants to begin exploration soon.  
 New Frontiers  
 “The fact that a company isn’t well known means little
when it comes to exploring a zone like this,” Mende said.
“Congo needs to work with unknown companies who dare to work in
new frontiers where there’s not 100 percent certitude of finding
interesting prospects.”  
 Tullow never received a presidential decree to begin
exploration of its blocks and is considering legal action.
Divine Inspiration Group Ltd., a South African company, signed a
competing contract for block 1 in 2008. DIG spent more than $4
million in signing bonuses and fees to secure the block, Andrea
Brown, executive director of DIG, said in an e-mailed response
to questions on June 30.  
 “The developments with respect to the block 1 contract are
not in line with principles of transparency and due process,
which are key elements of an investor friendly business
environment,” Brown said. “We will appeal for compensation and
we look forward to constructive engagement with the government
on this matter.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        