-- Copper May Drop in New York on Speculation About Weakening Chinese Demand
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-07-13T12:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/copper-falls-for-second-day-in-london-on-concern-chinese-demand-may-slow.html

          
          
             Copper may fall for a second day in
New York on speculation that demand will weaken in China, the
world’s top consumer, after the government reaffirmed a
commitment to curb lending.  
 Housing policies such as lending rules will be enforced
“strictly” to prevent speculative investment, China’s Ministry
of Housing and Urban-Rural Development said today. Concern about
efforts to rein in the country’s surging economy helped to pull
copper down by 17 percent in the second quarter.  
 There is “concern about China’s determination to cool
real-estate markets,”  Marc Elliott , an analyst at Fairfax IS in
London, said in a report.  
 Futures for September delivery were little changed at
$3.0085 a pound at 8:03 a.m. on the Comex in New York. Copper
for delivery in three months gained 0.2 percent to $6,642 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Futures have dropped 10 percent this year on concern that
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may hamper economies, crimping
usage of metals. Portugal’s credit rating today was cut two
levels to A1 at Moody’s Investors Service, citing a growing debt
burden and weak economic growth prospects. German investor
confidence declined for a third month in July. The Mannheim-
based ZEW Center for European Economic Research said today its
index of investor and analyst expectations fell to a 15-month
low of 21.2 from 28.7 in June.  
 Copper prices have also retreated this year as the dollar
strengthened, making metals priced in the currency more
expensive in terms of other monies.  
 Dollar Pares Gains  
 The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the dollar’s
strength, was little changed, after earlier rising as much as
0.4 percent. It has gained 8 percent this year.  
 China’s benchmark stock index today declined the most in
two weeks after the government quashed speculation it would
abandon real-estate curbs that drove property prices lower for
the first time in 16 months. Demand from the Asian nation for
copper, used in electrical equipment and construction, helped to
lift LME prices by 34 percent in the past year.  
 “The impact of attempts to curb speculation in the Chinese
property sector is uncertain, but continues to weigh on
sentiment,”  Daniel Major , an analyst at RBS Global Banking &
Markets in London, said by phone.  
 Figures due on July 15 probably will show that growth in
China’s gross domestic product slowed in the second quarter,
dropping to 10.5 percent from 11.9 percent in the prior period,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Inventories Contract  
 Copper stockpiles tracked by the LME shrank for an 18th day
to 432,550 tons, the lowest level since Nov. 26, according to a
daily report. They’re down 14 percent this year and headed for
the first annual drop since 2004. Bookings to remove metal from
LME warehouses fell for a fourth day, down 0.6 percent to 27,175
tons.  
 Aluminum for three-month delivery on the LME fell 0.3
percent to $1,965 a ton. Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. producer,
reported better-than-estimated second-quarter profit yesterday
and said stronger demand from end-use markets will mean a 12
percent increase in global consumption this year, more than the
10 percent it had forecast.  
 Smelters in China, the world’s largest maker of the
lightweight metal, may idle as much as 1.5 million tons of
capacity in the third quarter because prices have dropped below
some producers’ costs, Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa’s chief executive
officer, said yesterday.  
 LME-monitored aluminum inventories dropped for a fourth day
to 4.38 million tons, the lowest since June 29, 2009. Lead rose
0.4 percent to $1,791 a ton and nickel gained 0.8 percent to
$19,350 a ton. Zinc slid 0.6 percent to $1,845 a ton and tin
rose 1 percent to $17,700 a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        