-- Copper Declines in London as China Vows to Enforce Curbs on Real Estate
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-13T07:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/copper-declines-in-london-as-china-vows-to-enforce-curbs-on-real-estate.html

          
          
             Copper dropped for a second day on
concern that China’s determination to rein in real-estate
speculation will reduce demand for the metal used in pipes and
wires. Aluminum, zinc, lead and nickel also fell.  
 Copper for three-month delivery decreased as much as 0.9
percent to $6,568 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange and
traded at $6,580 at 3:10 p.m. in Shanghai. Aluminum fell 0.6
percent to $1,960 a ton after better-than-expected quarterly
results from Alcoa Inc.  
 China’s  benchmark stock index  tumbled the most in two weeks
after the government quashed speculation it will abandon real-
estate curbs that drove property prices to snap 15 months of
gains. The country will “strictly” enforce housing policies,
such as lending rules, to prevent speculative investment, the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development said today.  
 “We see a new round of declines looming on macro
uncertainties,” Shi Wenzhu, an analyst at Great Wall Futures
Co., said from Shanghai. “Demand prospects in China are turning
bearish too now that we’re in the low-production season.”  
 A boom in housing construction has led to a surge in
China’s appetite for raw materials. Copper has advanced 35
percent in the past 12 months on the global economic recovery,
led by China, the largest metals user. Aluminum has gained 26
percent in the past year.  
 “We have bad news from the macro side now and then but I
don’t think a double dip is likely nor is a slump in metal
prices,” said  Edward Fang , an analyst at China International
Futures (Shanghai) Co.  
 Global Consumption  
 Alcoa , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported second-
quarter profit that topped  analysts’ projections  yesterday as
higher metal prices boosted sales. Stronger demand will increase
global consumption 12 percent this year compared with the 10
percent gain previously forecast, the company said.  
 Smelters in China, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
may idle as much as 1.5 million tons of production capacity in
the third quarter as prices of the metal have fallen below some
of the producers’ costs, Alcoa said yesterday.  
 Zijin Mining Group Co.  said that a copper smelter at its
Zijinshan mine has been closed after a leak. Heavy rain caused
acidic wastewater to flow into a river, killing fish, the
company said in a statement.  
 “A small copper smelter as Zijin doesn’t pose any impact
on domestic supplies,” Great Wall’s Shi said.  
 Copper for October delivery fell as much as 1.5 percent to
52,250 yuan a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange, while zinc
slumped as much as 2.1 percent to 14,855 yuan.  
 Zinc in London lost 1.8 percent to $1,822 a ton, lead fell
0.7 percent to $1,771.50 a ton, nickel dropped 0.7 percent to
$19,060 a ton, and tin was 1 percent down at $17,350 a ton.  
 -- Li Xiaowei . With reporting by  Rong Feiwen  in Beijing. Editors:
 Ravil Shirodkar ,  James Poole   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Li Xiaowei  in Shanghai at 
 Xli12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        