-- Copper Advances After Alcoa Profit Gain Revives Optimism for Metals Demand
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-07-13T18:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/copper-advances-after-alcoa-profit-gain-revives-optimism-for-metals-demand.html

          
          
             Copper prices rose for the sixth
time in seven sessions after aluminum producer Alcoa Inc.
reported better-than-expected sales and profit, boosting the
outlook for metal demand.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained, extending the
longest winning streak in three months, buoyed by Alcoa’s
second-quarter results, which signal that the world economy is
resilient after recent signs of a slowdown. Copper has dropped
9.8 percent this year on concern that demand would flag.  
 “When you have a major company in the commodity sector
saying there’s a more positive outlook, it gives a boost to a
lot of the markets,” said  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at
Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago.  
 Copper futures for September delivery rose 0.85 cent, or
0.3 percent, to $3.0175 a pound on the Comex in New York. The
industrial metal climbed 4.7 percent last week.  
 “There’s a lot more positive sentiment now,” said
 Gijsbert Groenewegen , a partner at Gold Arrow Capital partners
in New York. “That’s not the same as a fundamental shift for
growth. There’s still a lot of uncertainty.”  
 Copper tumbled 17 percent in the second quarter on concern
China’s moves to cool its economy and Europe’s debt crisis would
slow global growth.  
 On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months advanced $55, or 0.8 percent, to $6,685 a metric ton
($3.03 a pound).  
 Global aluminum demand will increase 12 percent this year,
Alcoa said yesterday, after the close of metals trading in New
York. The company previously predicted a 10 percent rise.  
 Aluminum added 1.2 percent to $1,995 a ton on the LME.
Lead, zinc, nickel and tin also gained.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        