-- Corn Drops Most in Week on Signs of Improving Conditions for Midwest Crop
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-07-13T20:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/corn-declines-on-speculation-midwest-rain-will-ease-stress-of-dry-weather.html

          
          
             Corn fell the most in a week after a
government report showed warmer, drier weather in the Midwest
improved field conditions in the U.S., the biggest producer and
exporter.  
 About 73 percent of the crop was rated  good or excellent  on
July 11, up from 71 percent a week earlier, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said yesterday. Rains the next two days will ease
the stress of dry soil in central and southern states, according
to a report by  Mike Tannura  at T-Storm Weather Inc. No lasting
heat is expected to develop in the next two weeks, he said.  
 “The crop improvement last week was unexpected,” said
 Greg Grow , the director of agribusiness for Archer Financial
Services Inc. in Chicago. “The forecasts are not threatening”
to disrupt development of corn plants, which will complete the
majority of reproduction in the next two weeks, he said.  
 Corn futures for December delivery fell 4.75 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $3.87 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
biggest drop since July 6. The price has risen 13 percent since
June 29, the day before the government said U.S. planting was
less than expected.  
 Cash bids  near four-month highs encouraged farmers to sell
supplies left from the 2009 harvest or arrange transactions for
grain that will be harvested later this year, Grow said.  
 Farmers sowed 87.872 million acres (35.6 million hectares),
below a prior government forecast, as wet, cold weather in May
prevented some fields from being planted, the department said in
a June 30 report. Still, corn production is forecast to rise 1
percent to a record 13.245 billion bushels, USDA said last week.  
 Yields may fall to 163.5 bushels an acre on average this
year, down from a record 164.7 bushels a year earlier, the
department said on July 9.  
 “This rally in prices has been a gift for farmers who
failed to sell earlier this year,” Grow said. “Given the
improving crop conditions and current weather forecasts, U.S.
yields could be above last year.”  
 Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, government figures show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        