-- Goldman, Credit Suisse, Citi, Total in Court News (Update1)
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-13T10:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/credit-suisse-ambac-citigroup-goldman-total-polanski-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  Citigroup
Inc.  and  Morgan Stanley  were sued by a Boston area-based fund
seeking reimbursement for losses related to subprime loans,
according to lawyers for the firm.  
 Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc. , founded by ex-
Goldman Sachs Group bankers Martin Finegold and Robert Kramer,
lost more than $1.2 billion as a result of the banks’ untrue
statements, the company claims in a complaint filed July 9 in
state court in Massachusetts.  
 The banks sold securities backed by mortgages that came
from a “small group of now notorious subprime mortgage
originators,” used faulty appraisals, accepted misleading
information in loan applications, and violated their own
standards for underwriting, the firm claims in the lawsuit. The
banks offered or sold $2.4 billion of residential mortgage-
backed securities using untrue statements, according to the
lawsuit.  
 “The Wall Street banks conducted inadequate due diligence
and failed to satisfy their own responsibilities,” Cambridge
Place said in the lawsuit.  
 The bundling of the riskiest type of  mortgages  into
securities played a role in turning the U.S. housing slump into
a global recession as foreclosures deflated bond values and
toppled Wall Street firms including Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  
 Representatives from Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley declined to comment on the lawsuit.  
 The case is Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc. v.
Morgan Stanley, 10-2741, Suffolk Superior Court (Boston).  
 Lawsuits  
 Credit Suisse Seeks to Dismiss Ambac Suit Over Mortgage Deals  
 Credit Suisse Group AG asked a judge to throw out an  Ambac
Financial Group Inc.  lawsuit over mortgage-backed securities
transactions, saying the bond insurer is too “sophisticated”
to claim it was fraudulently induced to take part in the deals.  
 An Ambac division sued two units of Zurich-based Credit
Suisse in New York state court in January, alleging breach of
warranties, breach of repurchase and other damages in addition
to fraudulent inducement. Ambac said that a Credit Suisse unit
misstated the attributes of securitized loans and the
underwriting guidelines used to select them, Ambac Assurance
said in the complaint filed Jan. 12 in Manhattan.  
 Credit Suisse said in court filings July 8 that Ambac,
after agreeing to insure $175 million in home-equity lines of
credit in March 2007, didn’t perform a review of the underlying
loans in the securitization, which Credit Suisse underwrote.  
 “Its decision to conduct no independent due diligence on
files and information equally available to it amounts to a
failure to take ‘reasonable steps’ to protect itself against the
purported deception it now alleges,” DLJ Mortgage Capital and
Credit Suisse Securities said in the motion to dismiss.  
 Peter Poillon, a spokesman for New York-based Ambac,
declined to comment.  
 The case is Ambac Assurance Corp. v. DLJ Mortgage Capital,
Inc. 600070/2010, filed in New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Citigroup Bondholder Suit Can Go Forward, Judge Rules  
 A lawsuit claiming that  Citigroup Inc.  misled investors who
bought 48 of its corporate bonds issued from May 2006 to August
2008 can go forward, a federal judge in New York ruled.  
 U.S. District Judge Sidney Stein yesterday denied part of a
motion by Citigroup to dismiss the suit, which was originally
filed in New York state court in 2008. The investors claim
Citigroup failed to disclose information about the bank’s
exposure to “toxic mortgage-linked exposures” that affected
its creditworthiness, according to an opinion by Stein.  
 The plaintiffs allege that when the facts about Citigroup’s
liabilities related to mortgage-backed investments became
public, its bonds “plummeted in value,” according to Stein.
Citigroup and the other defendants argued the investors lacked
legal standing to bring the claims.  
 The suit names as defendants Citigroup, its wholly owned
 Citigroup Funding Inc.  subsidiary, eight Citigroup trusts, 28
current and former Citigroup officers and directors and almost
80 banks that underwrote the bonds, according to Stein’s
opinion.  
 Danielle Romero, a spokeswoman for Citigroup, said the bank
is reviewing the decision.  
 The case is Louisiana Sheriffs’ Pension and Relief Fund v.
Citigroup Inc., 602830/2008, filed in New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  
 Buffett May Be Deposed in Berkshire Hathaway Lawsuit  
 Warren Buffett, the billionaire chief executive officer of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , may be ordered to submit to questioning
under oath in a wrongful-dismissal lawsuit.  
 Brad Mart, a former executive at Berkshire unit Forest
River Inc., petitioned for a deposition of Buffett to
demonstrate the parent company’s role in his firing, according
to a June 17 motion in federal court in South Bend, Indiana.
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire, one of the defendants named in
Mart’s lawsuit, has said it wasn’t involved in the dismissal. In
a July 6 brief, Berkshire asked the court to protect Buffett
from questioning.  
 Buffett isn’t accused of wrongdoing. His deposition would
help determine facts of the case, and may lead to his testimony
at trial. Buffett didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
request for comment sent to an assistant.  
 Mart has also asked to depose Berkshire Chief Financial
Officer Mark Hamburg and Secretary Forrest Krutter. The company
offered Hamburg in exchange for Mart’s renouncing his request
for depositions of other executives including Buffett, according
to court filings. Mart rejected that offer. Berkshire’s Krutter
declined to comment.  
 Mart’s lawyer, Stephen Kennedy, of Kennedy Clark & Williams
PC in Dallas, said it would be inappropriate to comment. Kennedy
made the deposition request.  
 Judge Christopher Nuechterlein scheduled a hearing for July
26 to consider Mart’s requests for discovery.  
 The case is Mart v. Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3:10-cv-00118,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  
 For more, click here.  
 Pfizer, Drug Companies Must Face Price-Fixing Suit  
 Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest drugmaker, and other drug
companies must face a price-fixing suit claiming they conspired
to keep cheaper medicines from Canada out of the U.S. market.  
 The California Supreme Court yesterday  reversed  a lower
court, which two years ago granted dismissal of the suit by
allowing the companies to use a “pass-on” defense. The
companies argued they couldn’t be held liable for illegal drug
overcharges -- and that the pharmacies weren’t harmed -- because
any overcharge was passed on to consumers.  
 The ruling means that in California “no price-fixer is
going to get off on the basis that the victim might have passed
on to its customers the amount of the price fix,” Joseph M.
Alioto, a lawyer representing pharmacies said in an interview.
“Price fixers cannot raise this defense against anybody.”  
 A  California appeals court  had upheld a trial judge’s
dismissal of the suit, filed in 2004, against Pfizer and 18
other pharmaceutical makers alleging they inflated drug prices,
leading drugstores to pay more than they should have. The court
ruled retailers passed the alleged price increases onto their
customers, so they can’t seek damages.  
 Yesterday, the California high court rejected that argument
and sent the case back to the trial court in Oakland, Alioto
said.  
 Pfizer spokesman Chris Loder said he couldn’t comment on
the case.  
 The defendants include Eli Lilly & Co., AstraZeneca Plc,
and GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  
 The case is James Clayworth v. Pfizer, S166435, California
Supreme Court (San Francisco).  
 Goldman Loses Control Over Nanso Golf Club in Japan  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  lost management control of
bankrupt Nanso Country Club outside Tokyo after a court accepted
a petition by members to remove executives appointed by the Wall
Street firm.  
 The Tokyo District Court on July 6 appointed attorney Yuzo
Miyama to take over management of  Nanso Country Club , Kunihiko
Nishimura, a lawyer representing members, said in an interview.
Miyama replaced Shigeki Kiritani, a Goldman Sachs managing
director who was overseeing the club’s operations.  
 Goldman Sachs bought Nanso Country Club in November 2006
and took it into bankruptcy protection in January this year.
Members last month voted against a rehabilitation plan proposed
by the Wall Street firm, citing concerns that  Goldman Sachs 
would allow more visiting players onto the course, depressing
the value of memberships that cost about 1 million yen
($11,225).  
 Hiroko Matsumoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the court decision or say how much
the company paid for the club.  
 Goldman Sachs mainly owns golf courses in Japan through its
 Accordia Golf Co.  affiliate, which the U.S. bank took public in
2006 and owns 45 percent of. Accordia, based in Tokyo, owns 130
golf courses in Japan.  
 For more, click here.  
 U.S. Asks Courts to Dismiss Challenge to Drilling Ban  
 Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar asked two New Orleans
courts to dismiss an industry lawsuit challenging a U.S. deep-
water drilling moratorium, saying a new drill ban made the suit
irrelevant.  
 U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans on June
22 threw out the six-month ban imposed by federal regulators on
oil and gas drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet, finding it
was too broad. A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans on July 8 refused
regulators’ request to put Feldman’s order on hold while the
government appeals.  
 Yesterday, Salazar issued a revised ban that may allow new
wells if the industry shows it has raised safety standards. The
new policy replaces the earlier ban and renders the challenge to
it moot, U.S. Justice Department lawyers said yesterday in
filings with both courts in New Orleans.  
 The first drilling suspension “has been revoked and
superseded by a new directive issued yesterday that is based on
additional information, separate analysis and a separate
administrative record,” lawyers for the U.S. said in the
district court filing. The lawsuit should be withdrawn “because
the decision challenged by the plaintiffs’ complaint no longer
exists,” the U.S. said.  
 President Barack Obama initially imposed a six-month
suspension on deep-water drilling in reaction to the  BP Plc  oil
spill, the worst in U.S. history, caused by the sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana coast in April.
Obama said the moratorium is needed to give a presidential
commission time to study offshore operations safety.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and more than a dozen other
offshore service and supply companies sued U.S. regulators,
including Salazar, last month, seeking to block the moratorium.  
 “We’ve just received the decision memorandum of the
government,” Carl Rosenblum, Hornbeck’s lawyer, said in a phone
interview. “We’re still evaluating it, but we have substantial
concerns about whether it is consistent with Judge Feldman’s
order.”  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, 5th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 Switzerland Won’t Extradite Polanski Over 1977 Case  
 The Swiss government freed director Roman Polanski from
house arrest after refusing to extradite him to the U.S. in a
case tied to a more than 30-year-old sex scandal in California.  
 Polanski was released from electronic monitoring at his
chalet in Gstaad, Switzerland, Justice Minister Eveline Widmer-
Schlumpf said yesterday at a press conference. She said the U.S.
refused to release documents to support its extradition request.
Polanski, whose films include “The Pianist” and “Chinatown,”
is wanted for unlawful sexual conduct with a 13-year-old girl.  
 The Oscar-winning director was arrested at Zurich airport
on Sept. 26, as he arrived to collect an award at the city’s
film festival. Polanski, 76, was held in a Swiss jail before
being placed under house arrest at his holiday home. He still
would be arrested if he returns to the U.S.  
 The film director was initially charged on six felony
counts alleging he drugged and raped the teenager in 1977. He
later pleaded guilty to one count of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor after the lawyer for the girl’s family asked
prosecutors to avoid a jury trial.  
 Widmer-Schlumpf said the U.S. refused to disclose trial
records that would shed light on Polanski’s claim he served his
sentence by spending 42 days under psychiatric evaluation.  
 “Considering the persisting doubts concerning the
presentation of the facts of the case, the request has to be
rejected,” the ministry said on its  website . It also cited
issues of “good faith” as the U.S. never previously sought
Polanski’s extradition by Switzerland, where he is a regular
visitor and has owned a home since 2006.  
 Widmer-Schlumpf said the U.S. can’t appeal the ruling
through the Swiss courts, and is unlikely to do so through an
international tribunal. She said she discussed the case at
length with the U.S. Embassy in Bern, and “they understand the
reasoning. I expect a further good cooperation with the U.S.”  
 State Department spokesman Philip J. Crowley said the
U.S. was “disappointed” by the Swiss decision.  
 “The rape of a 13-year-old girl by an adult who should
know better and does know better is a crime,” said Crowley.
“We will continue to seek justice in this case, and we will
evaluate our options.”  
 The case is People of the State of California v. Roman
Polanski, A334139, California Superior Court (Los Angeles).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Texas Rangers Sued by Greenberg-Ryan Group Over Sale  
 The Texas Rangers were sued by a bidder group led by  Nolan Ryan  and  Chuck Greenberg  accusing the Rangers of breaching a
sale agreement for the Major League Baseball club.  
 The Rangers violated the deal by soliciting and negotiating
with other potential buyers, the Greenberg-Ryan group said in
court papers filed yesterday in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Fort Worth, Texas. William Snyder, the chief restructuring
officer for the equity owners, has said the Rangers may
negotiate with a new buyer to lead off bidding at an auction.  
 “The CRO does not, and never had, any authority to solicit
alternative bids or negotiate with prospective bidders,” the
Greenberg-Ryan group said.  
 Snyder declined to comment.  
 After filing for bankruptcy in May, the Rangers sought
court permission to sell the club to a group led by Greenberg,
an attorney, and Nolan Ryan, a Hall of Fame pitcher and the
team’s president, in a transaction it valued at $575 million.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Barnes & Noble Testimony Centers on Aletheia Fund  
 Barnes & Noble Inc. ’s fight with billionaire Ron Burkle’s
Yucaipa Cos. for seats on the bookseller’s board of directors
may hinge on an alliance of Yucaipa with the investment fund
Aletheia Research & Management Inc., according to court
testimony.  
 If Aletheia, the third largest  shareholder  of Barnes &
Noble, teams with No. 2 stakeholder Yucaipa, the two would be a
“much more formidable” opponent for the company’s chairman and
controlling stockholder, Leonard Riggio, Yucaipa’s proxy expert
testified.  
 Daniel H. Burch, chief executive officer of MacKenzie
Partners Inc., the expert, testified yesterday before Delaware
Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. in Wilmington.  
 In support of the company’s poison pill anti-takeover
defense, a Barnes & Noble expert, Peter C. Harkins, chief
executive of DF King & Co., told Strine that a Yucaipa victory
for three vacant seats is “mathematically possible and
realistically attainable.”  
 Yucaipa sued Barnes & Noble, the largest U.S. bookstore
chain, in May, saying Riggio and other directors launched a
“self-dealing scheme designed to entrench the Riggio family”
and stop Burkle from accumulating shares and gaining board
seats.  
 The trial continues today.  
 The case is Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II LP v. Riggio,
CA5465, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 For more, click here.  
 Total Contesting Court Rulings on Dunkirk Refinery in France  
 Total SA , Europe’s largest refiner, has filed two legal
motions contesting rulings on the Dunkirk refinery in northern
France that it shut in September because of falling demand for
fuels such as diesel.  
 Total is disputing a June 30 Douai Court of Appeal ruling
ordering it to restart the facility by July 16, Frederic Texier,
a Paris-based company spokesman, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. The refiner is also asking the Nanterre Court to
“recognize that Total followed the rules in informing unions
and consulting with staff” about plans for the site, he said.  
 Total has to pay 100,000 euros ($125,870) a day in the
event the refinery isn’t restarted, according to the Douai Court
of Appeal ruling. The court found that the company didn’t follow
proper procedures for informing workers about its plans for a
permanent shutdown, according to the ruling.  
 The case was brought by labor unions that opposed the oil
company’s decision to shutter the plant, which lost more than
130 million euros last year. To protest the closure, Total
workers embarked on nationwide strikes in February, leading to
fuel shortages.  
 Rosneft CEO to Testify in Khodorkovsky Case, Interfax Reports  
 OAO Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Sergei Bogdanchikov
will testify in the trial of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the convicted
owner of OAO Yukos, and his former business partner Platon
Lebedev, Interfax reported, citing defense lawyer Konstantin
Rivkin.  
 Bogdanchikov was summoned by Moscow’s Khamovniki District
Court to give evidence, with the date yet to be set, the Moscow-
based new agency said, citing Rivkin.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 AB InBev Wins Dispute Over Ownership of Modelo Stake  
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the world’s largest brewer, said
it won a dispute over its ownership of a 50 percent stake in
 Grupo Modelo SAB , reigniting speculation that it may bid for the
rest of the Mexican beermaker.  
 An arbitration panel ruled that the 2008 merger of InBev NV
and Anheuser-Busch Cos. didn’t violate an agreement over the
transfer of the Budweiser maker’s stake in Modelo, Leuven,
Belgium-based AB InBev said in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday.
The panel awarded no damages or other remedies, the brewer said.  
 Modelo, Mexico’s largest beermaker, had sought $2.5 billion
in damages in a claim that originally sought to prevent
Anheuser-Busch from selling its stake to InBev as part of the
$52 billion merger that led to AB InBev’s creation. The panel’s
ruling means AB InBev can keep the stake and make plans to
acquire the maker of Corona, Evolution Securities Ltd. analyst
Andrew Holland said.  
 “My guess is that AB InBev will be keen to sit down with
the controlling shareholders of Modelo to discuss an
acquisition,” Holland said. “InBev would be keen to buy all of
Modelo. It’s an attractive company in an attractive market.”  
 The ruling doesn’t change Modelo’s corporate structure or
the way the Mexican brewer is operated, Jennifer Shelley, a
Modelo spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. Any action
regarding ownership of Modelo is a decision for the controlling
shareholders, she said.  
 Mexican families including the family of Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Carlos Fernandez own a majority of a holding
company that controls Modelo.  
 AB InBev spokeswoman Karen Couck declined to comment on the
possibility of a future transaction with Modelo.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        