-- Crude Futures Advance as Stocks Gain, U.S. Oil Inventories Seen Increasing
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-07-13T11:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/crude-oil-falls-for-a-second-day-as-china-s-equities-decline-dollar-gains.html

          
          
             Crude oil advanced in New York as
rising equity markets and forecasts of declining U.S.
inventories signaled growing demand for fuel.  
 European stocks gained for a sixth day, with the Europe
Stoxx 600  index  rising 1.7 percent. U.S. index futures also
rose. The U.S. Energy Department may say tomorrow that crude
stockpiles fell last week, and the International Energy Agency
predicted higher demand for oil next year.  
 Crude for August delivery rose as much as $1.10, or 1.5
percent, to $76.05 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange
and traded at $75.98 as of 12:45 p.m. London time. Yesterday,
the contract dropped $1.14 to $74.95, the lowest settlement
since July 7. Prices have declined 4.3 percent this year.  
 “U.S. oil inventories are falling,” said  Hannes Loacker ,
an analyst at Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich in Vienna.
“With reduced stockpiles, oil could to $85 or $90 a barrel.”  
 Brent crude for August gained $1.31, or 1.8 percent, to
$75.68 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Brent may surpass this year’s high of $89.58 a barrel after
prices rebounded against a rising channel formation, according
to analysis by Standard Chartered Plc.  
 The August Brent contract fell as low as $73.85 a barrel
yesterday, after gaining 5.3 percent last week. The commodity is
set to rise toward $83 after declines in the past two months
failed to extend below a channel that has bound prices for the
past year, indicating a long-term rising trend is still intact,
Standard Chartered said in an e-mailed report yesterday.  
 IEA Report  
 Global oil demand will increase 1.6 percent in 2011 on
economic growth in emerging markets, the International Energy
Agency said, giving its first forecast for next year. Demand
will grow faster than refiners can add new plants in the two
years to 2011, reducing the current surplus in processing
capacity, the Paris-based adviser to oil-consuming nations said.  
 The U.S. Energy Department will release weekly figures on
crude oil and product inventories tomorrow. Crude supplies
probably fell last week amid expectations refiners will boost
output and imports declined, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Oil supplies probably dropped 1.35 million barrels in
the seven days ended July 9, according to the median estimate of
10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  
 Company Earnings  
 U.S. stock-index futures rose, indicating the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index may extend the longest winning streak in three
months, after Alcoa Inc. reported earnings that topped analysts’
estimates.  
 “The correlation between oil and stock markets is strong
at the moment,” Roland Stenzel, a crude and carbon trader at
E&T Energie Handelsgesellschaft mbH, said from Vienna. “Company
earnings will show us whether the economy is improving and
whether oil demand will rise.”  
 Profits for S&P 500 companies are projected to have
increased 34 percent in the second quarter, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Intel Corp., the
biggest maker of semiconductors which reports quarterly results
after the close of U.S. exchanges today, is among 23 companies
in the index to announce results this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net 
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        