-- Czech President Appoints New Government Which Aims to Cut Budget Shortfall
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-07-13T11:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/czech-president-appoint-new-government-which-aims-to-cut-budget-shortfall.html

          
          
             The new Czech government took office
today and will seek a vote of confidence on Aug. 10 as it
prepares to cut state spending to narrow the  budget  deficit to
the European Union limit.  
 President  Vaclav Klaus  named the Cabinet, led by Prime
Minister  Petr Necas , at a ceremony at Prague castle. The
administration is made up of the Civic Democrats, TOP09 and
Public Affairs, who signed a coalition accord yesterday, closing
talks on a program after winning May 28-29 elections.  
 “I believe that your government will be stable as it has
excellent preconditions for that with the largest majority in
parliament in the new history of Czech Republic,” Klaus said
during the ceremony.  
 The coalition agreed to limit the public finance deficit to
4.8 percent of  gross domestic product  next year, compared with
5.3 percent targeted for this year. Necas said on June 30 that
the 2011 shortfall shouldn’t exceed 4.6 percent and that the
government wants to bring the gap to within the European Union’s
limit of 3 percent by 2013.  
 The government wants to debate and approve its program on
Aug. 4, and has a “preliminary plan” to seek a confidence vote
in parliament six days later, Necas’s spokesman Martin Kupka
said in a phone interview. The coalition has 118 of the 200
seats in the legislature, the largest majority since the Czech
Republic became an independent state in 1993.  
 Moving On  
 “This is good as it enables the country to move on with
much needed reforms in the fiscal sector, allowing it to
consolidate its position as a regional leader on the fiscal
front,” Vienna-based Cheuvreux analyst  Simon Quijano-Evans  said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 The koruna traded at 25.366 per euro as of 1:30 p.m. in
Prague, 0.2 percent weaker from the previous trading day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Fitch ratings upgraded on June 4 the Czech Republic’s
sovereign credit-rating outlook to positive from stable and
affirmed its A+ long-term foreign currency grade, which is on
par with euro-region members Slovakia and Malta, because of the
chances the government will be strong enough to speed up
reduction of the budget deficit.  
 Necas said on the same day that he hoped the rating change
would bring down yields as the government plans to sell a record
280 billion koruna ($13.8 billion) of debt this year, including
bonds denominated in euros. It will almost double sales of
local-currency bonds and Treasury bills in the third quarter
from the second quarter to as much as 127 billion koruna.  
 The country has an A1 credit rating at Moody’s Investors
Service, the fifth-highest investment grade and an A rating from
Standard & Poor’s.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        