-- Daewoo Buys Stake in Shipbuilding Company Owned by President Zuma's Nephew
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-14T10:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/daewoo-shipbuilding-to-buy-stake-in-south-african-shipping-company-impinda.html

          
          
             Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. , the world’s second-biggest shipbuilder, plans
to buy a stake in a company owned by South African President
 Jacob Zuma ’s nephew.  
 Daewoo signed a preliminary agreement to buy 49 percent of
the company known as Impinda, Seoul-based Daewoo Shipbuilding
said today in an e-mailed statement. The purchase will help
reduce the South Korean’s company’s dependency on building
vessels and Daewoo will help Impinda grow its commodity, oil and
natural gas shipping service, it said.  
 Impinda is owned by Khulubuse Zuma, who is also chairman of
Aurora Empowerment Systems Ltd., a Johannesburg-based gold
mining company, and a separate oil and gas explorer in the
Democratic Republic of Congo. Calls made to Zuma’s mobile phone
weren’t immediately answered.  
 The South Korean shipyard has been expanding into shipping
and alternative energy as the credit crisis caused demand for
new vessels to plunge.  
 Daewoo Shipbuilding will jointly manage Impinda to help it
win more contracts to move cargo, the South Korean company said.
The South African company is currently in talks with at least
three mining companies to transport raw materials, it added,
without elaborating.  
 Daewoo Shipbuilding currently has a shipping venture with
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. It also operates
an oil shipping company with Korea Line Corp.  
 Daewoo Shipbuilding  gained 5.8 percent, the most in more
than three months, to close at 20,000 won. The stock has climbed
14 percent this year, compared with a 4.5 percent advance in
South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        