-- David Ortiz of Red Sox Wins Home Run Derby, Topping Florida's Ramirez
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-07-13T04:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/david-ortiz-of-red-sox-wins-home-run-derby-topping-florida-s-ramirez.html

          
          
             The swing of Boston Red Sox
designated hitter  David Ortiz  was more powerful than his hug for
a countryman in the final of the Home Run Derby.  
 Ortiz won the contest, a prelude to Major League Baseball’s
All-Star Game tonight, by hitting 11 home runs in the final
round to five for Florida Marlins shortstop  Hanley Ramirez .  
 Ortiz and Ramirez reached the final by each hitting 21
homers in the first two rounds last night. Ortiz is a veteran of
the Home Run Derby, while Ramirez was making his debut.  
 “It was my fourth time,” Ortiz said in a news conference,
“so I just kind of used my experience.”  
 Ortiz, 34, had already hit his 11 homers in the final round
when Ramirez, 26, was struggling with four homers and six outs.
Each player is allowed 10 outs per round, with any hit ball that
doesn’t clear the fence for a home run counting as an out.  
 Ortiz strolled to home plate to towel off Ramirez and give
his Dominican Republic countryman a hug.  
 “I told him, ‘Take it easy, don’t get too tired,’ because
that’s what the Home Run Derby is all about,” Ortiz said in a
news conference. “I wasn’t worried about winning and losing, it
was giving the fans a good show.”  
 The words of advice didn’t help Ramirez, who had only one
more homer before reaching 10 outs.  
 Ortiz said in an on-field television interview that he
dedicated his victory to fellow Dominican  Jose Lima , a former
major league pitcher who died in May of a heart attack at the
age of 37.  
 “This is an honor for me to be here, to be part of Major
League Baseball, to be a part of those fans that support us
every day,” Ortiz said. “I wanted to come here and make sure
the fans enjoyed what we do. We definitely wanted to put on a
good show for them.”  
 Cabrera and Hart  
 The Detroit Tigers’  Miguel Cabrera , who is second in the
American League this season with 22 home runs and tied for the
major league lead with a .346 batting average, was knocked out
in the second round. So was  Corey Hart  of the Milwaukee Brewers,
who hit 13 homers in the first round and none in the second.  
 Nick Swisher  of the New York Yankees,  Vernon Wells  of the
Toronto Blue Jays,  Chris Young  of the Arizona Diamondbacks and
 Matt Holliday  of the St. Louis Cardinals all failed to advance
past the first round.  
 State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest
U.S. home and auto insurer, donated $573,000 to the Boys and
Girls Clubs of America based on the 95 total home runs hit in
the contest.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in Anaheim, California, at
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        