-- Dish Network, Best Buy, `Zorro', Warner Music, P&G: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-13T11:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/dish-network-best-buy-zorro-warner-music-p-g-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Dish Network Corp. , a provider of
satellite television services, may not be able to register “TV
Everywhere” as a trademark, according to filings with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  
 Englewood, Colorado-based Dish filed applications in
September 2009 to register the phrase as a trademark.  
 The Patent Office sent Dish a notice July 1 that the
application was suspended because of other pending applications.
In June 2009,  Time Warner Inc.  filed four applications to
register “on demand everywhere” as a trademark.  
 An earlier application to register “TV everywhere” was
filed in August 2005 by  IdeaMax Corp. , of Covina, California.
That application was abandoned in September 2006.  
 An application to register “MyTV Everywhere” was filed in
January 2007 by  Proxure Inc. , of San Luis Obispo, California.
That application was abandoned in April 2010.  
 An Israeli company did successfully register a trademark
containing the phrase “TV everywhere.” In November 2008,  Siano
Mobile Silicon Ltd.  of Netanya, Israel, registered “Siano --
Enabling TV Everywhere.” That company is a maker of chips that
enable TV on mobile and hand-held devices.  
 Best Buy’s European Push Lands Company Spanish Trademark Fight  
 Best Buy Co. , an electronics and appliance retailer, is
involved in a European trademark dispute with a Spanish company,
the U.K.’s Daily Mail  reported .  
 Worldwide Sales Corp.  of Spain has done business as Best
Buy International for the past 16 years and opposes the
Richfield, Minnesota-based retailer’s use of the name in Europe,
according to the Daily Mail.  
 Best Buy has said it plans to open 80 megastores in Europe
in a partnership with London-based  Carphone Warehouse Group PLC ,
the newspaper reported.  
 A representative of Best Buy told the Daily Mail that the
trademark dispute would have “absolutely no material impact”
on the company’s plans to operate in Europe.  
 Mars, BBDO Settle Trademark Dispute with Zorro Productions  
 Mars Inc., the world’s largest chocolate maker, and the
owners of the “Zorro” trademark have settled their trademark
dispute, according to court filings.  
 Zorro Productions Inc.  of Berkeley, California, sued the
closely held Mars Inc. for trademark infringement in federal
court in San Francisco in March. The suit related to the
candymaker’s use of a masked figure in its advertising that
Zorro Productions claimed infringed its rights to the “Zorro”
mark.  
 The Zorro character began as a pulp-fiction character from
California’s colonial era, and was popularized in a Walt Disney
Co. television program in the 1950s and, later, in a 1998 movie
starring Antonio Banderas and Catherine Zeta-Jones.  
 Zorro Productions controls the Zorro marks and has, over
the years, licensed Zorro costumes, publications and film, stage
and television productions, according to the company Web site.  
 In the suit the trademark-holder said it had experienced
damages in excess of $500,000 and that Mars’ alleged
infringement had generated profits of more than $500,000.  
 Details of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the court
filing, which was approved by counsel for both sides. The two
companies “are exchanging documents to memorialize the terms of
the settlement,” and will fill a dismissal after that’s
completed.  
 Codefendant with Mars was its advertising agency,  Omnicom
Group Inc. ’s BBDO Worldwide unit.  
 Zorro Productions is represented by Ross L. Libenson of the
Law Offices of Ross L. Libenson of Oakland, California. Mars and
BBDO were represented by  Christopher T. Holland  of  Krieg Keller,
Sloan Reilley & Roman LLP  and  Michael S. Cryan  of Washington’s
 Arent Fox LLP , Omnicom Group Inc.’s BBDO Worldwide unit.  
 The case is Zorro Productions Inc. v. Mars Inc., 3:10-cv-
01179-SC, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Warner Sues Porno Filmmaker for Copyright Infringement  
 Warner Music Group Corp.  sued a maker of adult films for
copyright infringement.  
 RK Netmedia Inc., of Miami Beach, Florida, is accused of
using songs by Warner’s artists in the soundtracks for
“extreme, sexually explicit videos” without permission.  
 These songs include performances by Michael Jackson, Katy
Perry, Missy Elliot, Sean Paul and The Notorious B.I.G.,
according to the complaint filed July 7 in federal court in Los
Angeles.  
 There is “little, if any dialogue” in the videos, Warner
says. Instead, while RK’s actors perform their scenes, musical
works are played through the filming.  
 Warner claims the music is used to give the illusion that
the scenes take place in an actual nightclub or pool party. In
some instances, “the performers ‘lip-synch’ the lyrics of the
song while engaged in intercourse or other sexual activity,”
according to court papers.  
 RK’s actions are “willful and deliberate,” Warner says,
claiming it’s “well-known to the public” that the company
doesn’t license its music for use “in such pornographic
videos.” The music company claims the filmmaker knew the songs
wouldn’t be licensed “so they simply stole them.”  
 The Florida company asserts the copyrights on all the
content on its websites, registers its films with the U.S.
Copyright Office and has sent out “takedown” notices under the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act, so presumably is sophisticated
about copyright law, Warner says in its pleadings.  
 The unauthorized use of its music has “severely impaired
and diminished the value” of its content, according to the
music company.  
 It asked the court for an order barring all unauthorized
use of its music, and awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  
 Codefendant with RK Media is Realitykings.com, a website
that sells and distributes RK’s content.  
 Warner is represented by  David A. Steinberg  and  Marc Ellis
Mayer  of Los Angeles-based  Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp LLP .  
 The case is Warner Bros. Records Inc. v. RK Netmedia Inc.,
2:10-cv-04991-CBM-JEM, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 Fitness Australia Says New Music License Fees Are ‘Unaffordable’  
 Fitness Australia , a fitness-industry trade group, said it
will appeal a decision by that nation’s Copyright Tribunal to
increase the license fees 1,500 percent, the organization said
in a  statement .  
 The rate has been raised from 96.8 Australian cents per
class to $15, or $1 per attendee, the organization said.  
 Fitness Australia, which is based in Alexandria, New South
Wales, will file an appeal of this decision to the Federal Court
of Australia.  
 The  Photographic Performance Company of Australia Ltd. ,
which grants licenses for music performance, has asked that the
new license rate be introduced in November 2010.  
 The increased fees “are unaffordable for the fitness
industry,” Lauretta State, the chief executive officer of
Fitness Australia, said in the organization’s statement.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Patents  
 Kimberly-Clark, P&G Again Sued for Infringing Tampon Patent  
 Kimberly-Clark Corp.  and  Procter & Gamble Co.  were sued for
patent infringement by a Washington-based patent holder.  
 Allegra Hemphill claims her patent 4,557,720, which was
issued in December 1985, is infringed by feminine hygiene
products made by the two consumer-products company. Dallas-based
Kimberly-Clark’s Kotex and Poise products infringe, as does
Cincinnati-based P&G’s Always, according to the complaint filed
July 9 in federal court in Washington D.C.  
 The patent holder said she informed each company of the
infringement, and the infringement continued unabated.  
 She asked the court to award her “a reasonable royalty,”
money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. Hemphill
asked that the damages be tripled to punish the two companies
for their actions.  
 Hemphill is unrepresented by counsel. She has previously
sued the two companies for patent infringement in May 2005, and
July 2007. In both instanced, the court dismissed those cases
upon the consumer-products companies’ request.  
 The case is Hemphill v. Kimberly-Clark Corp, 1:10-cv-01159-
RMC, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington
D.C.).  
 Protectus to Get Patent on System to Prevent Needle Stick Injury  
 Protectus Medical Devices Inc. , a maker of safety products
for medical professionals, said in a  statement  it has received
notice it will be issued a patent on a new safety-syringe
device.  
 According to the  National Institute for Occupational Safety
and Health , healthcare workers are at risk of contracting AIDS
or two different strains of hepatitis from accidental needle
sticks. Workers most frequently stick themselves with
contaminated needles when trying to recap them, transferring a
body fluid between containers, and failing to dispose of used
needles in special puncture-resistant containers.  
 Each year from 600,000 to 1 million needle stick-related
accidents occur in the U.S., according to the Protectus website.
The cost of healthcare supplied and services to treat those who
get an accidental stick is more than $3 billion, the
Minneapolis-based company said on its  website.   
 Present federal regulations required healthcare employers
to supply “the best available safety devices” to cut down on
potential needle stick injuries.  
 The technology covered by the prospective patent is a
spring-activated, automatic self-sheathing syringe. The
technology helps protect users and workers without their having
to perform any conscious action, according to the company
statement.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 IP Moves  
 Seyfarth Shaw Hires Patent Specialist Lenkin From Fulbright Firm  
 Seyfarth Shaw LLP  hired Alan M. Lenkin for its IP practice,
the Chicago-based firm said in a  statement .  
 Lenkin , a patent specialist, joins from Houston’s  Fulbright
& Jaworski LLP . He does both transactional work and litigation.
He has represented companies whose technologies have included
computers, telecommunications, aerospace, medical devices and
semiconductors.  
 He has an undergraduate degree in systems analysis and
engineering from George Washington University and a law degree
from Loyola University, Los Angeles.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        