-- Donald Trump Eyes Profit From Georgia Investments, Including Casinos, Golf
-- Helena Bedwell
-- 2010-07-13T09:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/donald-trump-eyes-profit-from-georgia-investments-including-casinos-golf.html

          
          
             Donald J. Trump  is considering real
estate investments including casinos and golf courses in the
former Soviet republic of Georgia, said Michael Cohen, executive
vice president of the Trump Organization.  
 “I’m here to walk the land and smell the dirt,” Cohen
said in an interview late yesterday in the Georgian capital
Tbilisi. “My trip comes after Mr. Trump was impressed by
President  Mikheil Saakashvili ’s visit to New York and the
conversation they had about the future of Georgia. We’re looking
for profit from Georgia.”  
 Cohen arrived in Georgia yesterday on a three-day fact-
finding trip, and will visit the Adjara region on Georgia’s
Black Sea coast tomorrow. He declined to elaborate on the scale
of Trump’s possible investments in Georgia, saying only that the
U.S. billionaire is “willing to invest if there’s something he
likes.”  
 Saakashvili travelled to the U.S. in April and met with
officials including New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . The
Georgian leader has stepped up efforts to revive  foreign direct
investment , which fell 51 percent in 2009 from a year earlier to
$759 million as the global economic slump curtailed appetite for
emerging markets.  
 The Georgian government last year turned to the Middle East
in particular in search of investment. In October, Saakashvili
said he had netted as much as $1 billion of investment from the
United Arab Emirates within the next two to three years. A month
later, a trip to Qatar yielded a pledge to “invest heavily” in
Georgia.  
 Name Recognition  
 Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co., part of the
country’s sovereign wealth fund, has conducted a fact-finding
trip, though the company hasn’t announced its investment plans.  
 “Maybe what’s stopping them is that they don’t have a
brand,” Cohen said, adding that the Trump Organization faces no
problems with name recognition. “With a name like Trump, with
the money and the domestic brand group, it sounds like a winning
proposition to me.”  
 Ivana Trump , an ex-wife of Trump, traveled to Georgia last
December to meet with Saakashvili and consider investments in
tourist resorts on the country’s Black Sea coast.  
 Cohen said his trip was unrelated to Ivana Trump’s visit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helena Bedwell  in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        