-- Double-Dippers Are All Wet Ignoring Yield Curve: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-07-13T01:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/double-dippers-are-all-wet-ignoring-yield-curve-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             There have been whispers, or maybe
it’s just wishful thinking, that the Federal Reserve might buy
more long-term bonds, lowering interest rates and making housing
more affordable. (You know that modified mortgage that didn’t
work out so well? Have we got a deal for you!)  
 At 4.6 percent, 30-year  mortgage rates  are already at
historic lows, yet  housing demand  cratered as soon as the
government’s homebuyer tax credit expired in April. If you think
lowering long-term rates and reducing the spread between short
and long rates will stimulate the economy, think again. The
steep yield curve is the most powerful thing the economy has
going for it right now.  
 Not that there’s anything magical about two points and a
line connecting them. It’s just that the yield curve, or what it
represents, is possibly the best leading indicator of the
business cycle. The Fed doesn’t need to fiddle around with the
yield curve or plot another “Operation Twist,” a coordinated
and ultimately unsuccessful effort by the Fed and Treasury in
1961 to lower long-term rates (to stimulate investment) and prop
up short-term rates (to stem capital outflows). By holding the
short rate at zero, which is not without its share of risks, the
Fed is doing everything it can to avoid another recession.  
 How so? There’s “absolutely no possibility” of the
nominal yield curve inverting with short rates at zero, says
 Arturo Estrella , professor of economics and department head at
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York. Investors
aren’t going to pay the government to hold their cash for 10
years.  
 Impossible, Improbable  
 Just because nominal long rates can’t go below zero, does
that mean the U.S. won’t go into recession?  
 The yield curve has  inverted  prior to all of the last seven
recessions, with no false signals since 1967, according to
Estrella, whose  website  provides all kinds of research and data
for the uninitiated.  
 Estrella uses the monthly average spread between the 3-
month Treasury bill and the 10-year Treasury note to filter out
the noise. The lead time between the appearance of a negative
monthly spread and recession can be anywhere from three to 18
months. In the most recent instance, the spread turned negative
in July 2006, and the U.S. economy slipped into recession in
December 2007, according to the National Bureau of Economic
Research, the official arbiter of the  business cycle .  
 Under normal circumstances, the current spread of almost
300 basis points between short and long rates would be highly
stimulative. Banks can borrow at next to nothing and lend to the
U.S. Treasury, pocketing the difference. No fuss, no muss, no
credit risk. The profit goes right to the bottom line, helping
to recapitalize the banks, which will be in a better position to
make loans to creditworthy borrowers.  
 Banks Sidelined  
 Yet these aren’t normal times. Banks are either unable or
unwilling -- perhaps due to  expected losses  on commercial real
estate loans -- to lend. Demand for credit is still weak, too.
 Loans and leases  at commercial banks have declined for 16
consecutive months, according to the Fed. That contrasts with
solid increases in their  holdings  of Treasury securities.  
 To accuse banks of engaging in highly profitable “curve
trades” in lieu of private-sector lending misses the point.
That’s how it always works. When the economy goes into
recession, the Fed lowers the short rate and steepens the yield
curve. Private sector credit demand is weak while the
government’s appetite is strong. Banks are happy to lend to
Uncle Sam. Those loans expand the money supply, which gooses
demand in the short run.  
 1990 Parallels  
 While a steep yield curve is a sign of an expansionary
monetary policy, the Fed needs the banks to get in the game.
Instead they’re content to earn the equivalent of the funds rate
on the $1 trillion of  excess reserves  they are holding in their
accounts at the Fed.  
 In this way, the current cycle resembles the aftermath of
the 1990 recession when banks, burdened with losses on
commercial real estate, weren’t able to expand their balance
sheets.  
 So the best thing the Fed can do if it is concerned about a
faltering recovery is keep the funds rate at zero. The short
rate is the more powerful tool when it comes to moving the
economy. (If it weren’t, why does every central bank in the
world target a short rate?) That’s true even though most of us
can’t borrow at the interbank lending rate of 0 to 0.25 percent.  
 “If corporations and banks can fund themselves at zero,
credit would not be a problem,” Estrella says. “You could have
slowdown for some other reason.”  
 Slowdown, yes; recession, no. That’s the message of the
yield curve. Its track record is impeccable. It beats
forecasters, econometric models, even the Fed, which seems to
resist the inherent message in the spread.  
 For all those double-dippers still splashing around in the
pool, it’s time to get out, towel off and learn to love a slow
recovery.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        