-- Dubai Curbs Iran Trade Under Sanctions Regime Hurting Business
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-07-14T12:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/dubai-curbs-trade-with-iran-under-new-sanctions-regime-hurting-business.html

          
          
             Business with Iran at  CP World , a
freight forwarder in Dubai, has fallen 20 percent in the last
two months and director Abhijit Pradhan says it may drop further
as the emirate cracks down on trade with the Islamic Republic.  
 “If this gets really vigorous, then surely there will be a
very big impact on exports and imports,” Pradhan said in a July
10 interview.  
 The United Arab Emirates, which lies  across the Persian
Gulf  from Iran, is tightening restrictions on trade with the
Islamic Republic in line with new sanctions aimed at curbing
Iran’s suspected nuclear weapons program. Trade between Iran and
the U.A.E., which in two years slipped from the first to third-
biggest Iranian commercial partner, will halve to $6 billion in
2010 from 2008, according to Dubai’s Iranian Business Council.  
 The clampdown will hurt Dubai, which is in its second year
of recession after suffering the world’s worst property crash
and a debt crisis last year.  
 “It will have an impact on Iran because it depends on
imports through Dubai but it will affect the economy of Dubai
too because Iranian business has quite a grip there,” said
 Mohammed Shakeel , an independent business consultant based in
the capital Abu Dhabi. “Given the economic climate in Dubai,
this is significant.” Dubai’s economy will contract about 0.5
percent in 2010, the International Monetary Fund said May 25.  
 For the past several months, customs agents in Dubai, home
to the largest port in the Middle East and the second largest of
the seven emirates in the U.A.E., have been inspecting all
shipments to Iran, said  Morteza Masoumzadeh , director of the
Iranian Business Council and owner of a shipping firm which
mostly transports from Dubai to Iran. Exports to the Islamic
Republic from Dubai fell 9 percent in June from a year earlier,
according to the  Dubai Chamber of Commerce .  
 Idle Ships  
 Since the UN  Security Council  on June 9 approved a fourth
round of sanctions on Iran, which were followed by tougher U.S.
and European Union restrictions, the Dubai Financial Services
Authority warned banks to treat transactions with all Iranian-
based entities as “ high risk .”  
 Masoumzadeh said only one of his company’s four ships are
delivering goods to Iran now, with the other three largely idle.
Business, which has also been hit by the global financial
crisis, has fallen 70 percent in the past two years, he said.  
 “Our business with the previous sanctions was already hit
hard,” Masoumzadeh said in a June 27 interview. His Jumbo Line
Shipping Agency transports sugar, rice, cooking oil, steel and
iron to Iran. “Up to what extent can we continue?”  
 Dubai-based Simatech Shipping, one of the largest shippers
to Iran, says in the past month its customers have experienced
increasing difficulties in obtaining re-insurance for their
goods destined for the Iranian market.  
 Abu Dhabi Leverage  
 There are 8,000 Iranian businesses in Dubai and 400,000
Iranians living in the emirate, according to the business
council. U.A.E. government figures show 100,000 Iranian
residents of the country, mostly in Dubai.  
 Dubai had to seek a $20 billion bailout last year from
wealthier Abu Dhabi, which owns 90 percent of the U.A.E.’s oil
reserves. That gave Abu Dhabi leverage to pressure Dubai to
limit trade with Iran at U.S. urging, said  Philippe Dauba- Pantanacce , senior economist for the Middle East and North
Africa at Standard Chartered Plc in Dubai.  
 “We know that Abu Dhabi has been putting some pressure on
Dubai,” he said. “It is putting huge constraints on the way
you can trade and it is becoming more expensive.”  
 Aircraft Parts  
 A federal grand jury in Washington this month  charged  Mac
Aviation Group, an Irish trading company, with purchasing F-5
fighter aircraft parts, helicopter engines and other aircraft
components from U.S. firms and illegally exporting them to Iran
via Dubai and Malaysia between August 2005 and July 2008.  
 Some of the trade may still be diverted to less policed
coastal areas in other emirates across the Gulf from Iran such
as Ras al-Khaimah, another U.A.E. emirate.  
 U.A.E. Minister of State for Foreign Affairs  Anwar Gargash 
didn’t respond to emails and calls seeking comment.  Khater Massaad , an adviser to Ras al-Khaimah Crown Prince Sheikh Saud,
said the emirate doesn’t trade with Iran and respects
international laws.  
 The U.A.E.’s central bank asked financial institutions in
the federation to freeze the accounts of 41 individuals and
companies in compliance with United Nations Security Council
sanctions,  Emirates Business 24/7  reported on June 28, citing a
bank circular. There was no response to telephone calls and e-
mails to the central bank seeking details of the list.  
 “The blocking of 41 bank accounts was in line with
sanctions, although the basis of it is illegal,”  Ramin Mehmanparast , Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, said in a July
8 interview from Tehran.  
 An Iranian business leader on July 6 accused the U.A.E. of
going beyond the UN sanctions. “We don’t like the behavior of
the Emiratis,” said Masoud Daneshmand, the Tehran-based head of
the Iran-U.A.E. Chamber of Commerce.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Dhows laden with goods in the Dubai Creek.  
                       
                         
                           Charles Crowell/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Goods are loaded onto dhows lining the Dubai Creek in Dubai, United Arab Emirates in this file photo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Goods are loaded onto dhows lining the Dubai Creek in Dubai, United Arab Emirates in this file photo. Photographer: Charles Crowell/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
