-- EBay Sued for $3.8 Billion by XPRT Over Infringement of Patents on PayPal
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-07-14T01:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ebay-sued-by-xprt-ventures-for-3-8-billion-over-patent-on-payment-system.html

          
          
             EBay Inc. , the most-visited U.S. e-
commerce site, and units including PayPal Inc. were sued by XPRT
Ventures LLC for $3.8 billion over claims the online retailer
infringed patents related to e-commerce payment systems.  
 EBay infringed six patents for online payments and stole
trade secrets by sharing information in a patent application
after making a confidentiality agreement, XPRT, based in
Greenwich, Connecticut, said today in a complaint in U.S.
District Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “XPRT asserts EBay unfairly stole the idea and method of
payment used in EBay’s PayPal and similar electronic payment
systems,” XPRT said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 “We are reviewing the complaint filed today,” said Alina
Piacentino, a spokeswoman for San Jose, California-based EBay.
“We believe it is without merit, and intend to defend ourselves
vigorously.”  
 EBay rose 79 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $21.01 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  
 EBay and it units have been using the alternative payment
activities “asserted in XPRT’s patents’ claims since at least
2002,” lawyers for XPRT said in court papers. “EBay has
benefited enormously from the use of the inventors ideas without
compensation to the inventors.”  
 Business Relationship  
 In September 2001, the inventors of the payment patents
contacted EBay to establish a potential business relationship,
offering them a preview of their patent applications before they
would made public, according to court documents. The same month
a lawyer representing EBay agreed to treat the information and
applications of the inventors as confidential so they could be
reviewed and analyzed.  
 The inventors told EBay how their technology could provide
it with added revenue by using their automatic fund transfer
concept in EBay’s online auction system, giving them a
“significant business advantage over competing online payment
systems,” court papers show.  
 The inventors told the online retailer systems such as
PayPal, which EBay did not own at the time, could be modified to
use the concept.  
 Billpoint, the payment method used by EBay, was losing
millions of dollars a year because most of its customers were
using credit to make purchases, forcing EBay to pay merchant
fees. The investors “presented EBay with an opportunity to
solve” this problem.  
 PayPal Purchase  
 EBay announced its plans to buy PayPal in July 2002, to
modify and integrate it into its e-commerce payment system,
according to the complaint. EBay “knew or should have known
that such modification and combination would violate inventors’
patent application claims.”  
 XPRT claims it is owed at least $600 million from the more
than 4.4 billion transactions that generated more than $10
billion in revenue using the PayPal payment system since the
fourth quarter 2002 through 2009.  
 The company will face more than $3.2 billion in
infringement damages over the life of its patents, according to
court documents. The patents expire at various times between
January 2021 and December 2024.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        