-- ECB Criticizes Hungary Government's Plan to Cut Central Bankers' Salaries
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-07-13T12:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ecb-criticizes-hungary-government-s-plan-to-cut-central-bankers-salaries.html

          
          
             The European Central Bank told
Hungary’s government to drop plans to cut  Magyar Nemzeti Bank 
President  Andras Simor ’s salary by 75 percent, saying the move
threatened to undermine the bank’s independence.  
 A plan to cap salaries at 10 times the average monthly
gross salary, which is 2 million forint ($8,993), should only be
applied to future governors and not to the current monetary
policy chief, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in a
statement late yesterday.  
 “The draft law should be amended to comply with the
principle of central bank independence,” Trichet said. “The
draft law should specifically provide that such an amendment may
apply only to future appointments.”  
 The proposal, part of a wider push by the new government to
cap state salaries, has added to tensions between the cabinet
and the central bank after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  called on
Simor to quit for being slow to reduce interest rates and for
having kept investments in Cyprus instead of Hungary. Simor has
said he plans to serve out his term, which expires in 2013.  
 A central bank in which “monetary policy is independent of
short-term political and economic interests is of outstanding
importance,” the Magyar Nemzeti Bank said in a statement posted
on its  website  today.  
 The government wants to cap public salaries as part of
measures to reduce the  budget deficit  to meet terms of an
 International Monetary Fund -led loan. The bulk of the revenue
needed to meet this year’s 3.8 percent deficit target of gross
domestic product year would come from a 187 billion forint ($843
million) extra levy on financial institutions, mostly banks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        