-- Economy Says Buy Stocks in Bernanke Research on Uncertainty From Stanford
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-07-13T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/economy-says-buy-stocks-in-bernanke-research-on-uncertainty-from-stanford.html

          
          
             Stanford University economics
associate professor  Nicholas Bloom  knows just what to do when
executives and investors don’t: Buy shares.  
 “All my money is in the stock market,” said the former
adviser to the U.K. Treasury Department, who has published three
papers studying the impact of uncertainty on the economy.  
 While heightened insecurity can depress growth by prompting
companies to put off investment and hiring, the effect is
temporary, according to Bloom’s studies of periods such as the
aftermath of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. Within six months,
output and employment bounce back as anxiety wanes, he said.  
 That result echoes research published in 1980 by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  when he was teaching at
Stanford in California. The “resolution of uncertainty,” he
wrote, can lead to “an investment boom” by businesses.  
 James Paulsen , chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management in Minneapolis, and  Joseph Quinlan , chief market
strategist at U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth
Management in New York, are betting Bloom is right. Paulsen,
whose firm manages about $375 billion, sees the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index ending the year at 1,300 to 1,350, while
Quinlan, who helps oversee around $308 billion, forecasts a rise
to 1,250.  
 The index was down 10 percent yesterday from its 2010 high
in April, closing at 1,095.34, even after rising 7.1 percent in
the last six trading days. The  MSCI World Index  of 24 developed
nations is also 10.7 percent below its April high, as investors
have moved money from shares into bonds. Behind the declines:
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and doubts about the ability of
global policy makers to reorient and revive their economies in
the wake of the 2008-2009 worldwide recession.  
 ‘Enemy of Growth’  
 “Uncertainty is the enemy of growth,” said  Richard Berner , co-head of global economics for Morgan Stanley in New
York. He trimmed his forecast for U.S. gross domestic product in
the second half of 2010 to an annualized rise of 3.25 percent
from 3.5 percent.  
 Companies are hedging their bets. U.S. corporations had
$1.84 trillion in cash and other so-called liquid assets at the
end of the first quarter, up 26 percent from a year earlier,
according to the Fed.  
 Japanese businesses held 202.7 trillion yen ($2.3 trillion)
in currency and deposits on their balance sheets as of March 31,
the most since the Bank of Japan began compiling quarterly data
in 1997. Nonfinancial companies in the euro area had a
nonseasonally adjusted surplus of 46 billion euros ($58.5
billion) between gross disposable income and spending on real
assets in the fourth quarter, compared with a deficit of 152
billion euros in the second quarter of 2007, according to
European Central Bank data.  
 Whip Inflation  
 While businesses and investors always have questions about
policy makers’ intentions,  Larry Kantor , head of research at
Barclays Capital in New York, compares the current environment
to the 1970s, when investors doubted officials could whip
inflation. Then-Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  drove the benchmark
interest rate to  20 percent  and succeeded in reining-in price
pressures. Now the skepticism centers on whether authorities can
deliver smooth and sustained growth, Kantor said.  
 “We are, I think, sliding into a situation where we’re
likely to see several bad years ahead,” Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Paul Krugman  said in a July 6 interview with Carol
Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.”  
 “Given what I see in the political process, the odds are
against us avoiding a really prolonged bad period,” he said.  
 Pessimism Overdone  
 Such pessimism is overdone, said Paulsen, arguing that the
corporate sector “has plenty of capability” to invest and hire
after a surge in earnings. U.S. profits increased by  a third  in
the first quarter from a year earlier, according to the Commerce
Department.  
 There are already signs that companies are starting to put
some of that money to work after postponing purchases while the
economy was contracting. Orders for nondefense capital goods
excluding aircraft, a proxy for future business investment,
climbed at a 29 percent annual pace during the three months
ending in May, the latest Commerce data available.  
 “Many companies delayed their procurement of IT-related
capital expenditures throughout the recession,”  Timothy Main ,
chief executive officer of  Jabil Circuit Inc. , said on a June 22
conference call with analysts. “There’s certainly a significant
catch-up” in spending taking place.  
 Shares in the St. Petersburg, Florida-based electronics
manufacturer jumped  10.6 percent  to $15.03 the following day,
after Jabil reported third-quarter profit excluding some items
of 40 cents a share, beating the average analyst estimate of 34
cents in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Bottom Line  
 While companies are stepping up investment, they have been
holding back on hiring because they don’t know how mooted policy
changes will affect their bottom line, said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at New York-based Moody’s Analytics. Private-sector
payrolls rose 83,000 in June, less than the 110,000 gain
economists polled by Bloomberg News predicted.  
 The uncertainty among business executives “runs the
gamut,” Zandi said. Banks are unsure how much extra capital
regulators will require them to set aside, power companies are
waiting to see if the government caps carbon emissions and
human-resource departments are still parsing the impact of the
10-year health-care overhaul Congress passed in March, he said.  
 Another unknown is the fate of former President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts on personal income, capital gains and dividends,
which expire at the end of 2010 unless Congress extends them.  
 ‘Nervous’ Executives  
 Business people “are nervous about all of the policy
debates and policy decisions being made,” Zandi said. “They’re
important and we need to engage in these discussions, but I do
think it’s now time for policy makers to put some of these
things to rest and give some certainty to business people so
they will go out and hire.”  
 Some of the ambiguity could lift after Congressional
elections in November. With unemployment at 9.5 percent in June
-- the  14th consecutive month  the rate has topped 9 percent,
American confidence in President  Barack Obama  sank to a new low
in a Washington Post-ABC News poll published yesterday, raising
doubts about his Democratic Party’s chances of retaining control
of both the House and Senate.  
 “None of us knows whether Republicans are going to have
moderate success, significant success or historic success,”
said  William Lane , Washington director for Peoria, Illinois-
based  Caterpillar Inc. , the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment. Still, it’s clear that Congress will be
“re-centered after November,” he said.  
 ‘Black Cloud’  
 Uncertainty is reverberating elsewhere in the global
economy. Britain’s first coalition government since World War II
has said it will cut its budget deficit to 1.2 percent of GDP by
2015-16 from 11.3 percent. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  defended the fiscal stringency, arguing that it will
lift a “black cloud” hanging over consumer and business
sentiment.  
 “Having the confidence that there is a government with a
plan dealing with the country’s biggest problem is, I think,
absolutely paramount,” Osborne said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria
GPS” on July 11.  
 Mike Farley , chief executive officer of U.K. homebuilder
 Persimmon Plc , says he’s still cautious about buying land as he
awaits Osborne’s announcement in October about specific spending
cuts.  
 “The fundamentals in the housing market are OK, it’s the
macro issues where the uncertainties lie,” he said in a July 6
interview.  
 More Stress Tests  
 European leaders are seeking to bring clarity to their
financial systems by stress-testing 91 of their banks; the
results are due July 23. The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index  rose 9.4 percent last week, its biggest
weekly gain in a year, as authorities seek to reassure investors
about the health of financial institutions and spur lending. The
risk is they won’t see the tests as tough enough, leaving
questions about how banks could withstand losses if the region’s
debt crisis worsens.  
 “If confidence can be restored through these stress tests,
then that would be good news in eliminating an enormous overhang
over growth,” said  Raghuram Rajan , a former International
Monetary Fund chief economist who now teaches at the University
of Chicago in Illinois.  
 In Japan, political uncertainty was heightened after Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  lost control of parliament’s upper house on
July 12, undermining legislative efforts to cut the world’s
largest public debt and creating the possibility of a third
leadership change in a year.  
 ‘Political Gridlock’  
 “Political gridlock will make it difficult for Kan to take
any drastic actions,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  
 Officials may be better off resolutely tackling problems in
the economy instead of taking their time searching for the
optimal solution, Bloom, 37, said his work shows.  
 “There is a dividend for policy makers to be decisive, as
once their policies become clear, pent-up demand flows
through,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net 
 Simon Kennedy  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nicholas Bloom, Stanford University economics associate professor. Source: Stanford University via Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
