-- Egypt to Create Oil Jobs on Sinai Peninsula to Quell Bedouin Tribe Unrest
-- Ola Galal
-- 2010-07-13T14:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/egypt-to-create-oil-jobs-on-sinai-peninsula-to-quell-bedouin-tribe-unrest.html

          
          
             Egypt said it will set up an oil
services company in Sinai to help create jobs in the peninsula,
the scene of clashes between police and Bedouin tribes in recent
years.  
 Sinai for Petroleum Services will drill wells, lay
pipelines and build storage tanks in the North Sinai and South
Sinai provinces, the Cairo-based  Oil Ministry  said in a faxed
statement today. The company’s chairman and half of the
employees will be from the area, the ministry said.  
 “It’s a welcome development,” Elijah Zarwan, Cairo-based
senior analyst at the  International Crisis Group , said. “One of
the local population’s persistent claims is that jobs in the
peninsula’s rapidly developing economy go to Egyptians from the
Nile Valley,” he said by telephone.  
 Some Bedouin tribes in Sinai have clashed sporadically with
police over the past four years, protesting what they see as
government discrimination and a lack of jobs. Interior Minister
 Habib El-Adli  said in June that police only target drugs and
arms dealers as well as smugglers who have set up hiding places
in central and northern Sinai.  
 Police rounded up thousands of Sinai Bedouin from 2004 to
2006, most of them without charge, after bomb attacks that
targeted beach resorts, killing 150 Egyptians and foreign
tourists. The government blamed the attack on a Sinai-based
Islamist group.  
 Egyptian authorities also frequently seize weapon caches in
the peninsula, which borders Jordan, the Gaza Strip and Israel.  
 Egypt’s Oil Ministry said it wants to increase efforts to
explore for oil and gas and attract international companies to
the peninsula. The Gulf of Suez and Red Sea to the west of Sinai
comprise Egypt’s main oil-producing region, where more than 180
rigs operate, according to the ministry.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Ola Galal  in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        