-- TeliaSonera May Face Class Action Lawsuit From Estonian Unit's Ex-Owners
-- Ott Ummelas
-- 2010-07-13T13:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/teliasonera-may-face-class-action-lawsuit-from-estonian-unit-s-ex-owners.html

          
          
             TeliaSonera AB , Sweden’s largest
telephone company, may face a class-action suit by the former
minority holders of  AS Eesti Telekom , who say the state received
preferential treatment in the buyout last year.  
 Asset manager Kawe Kapital, a former shareholder, received
promise from other former owners for half the required 300,000
krooni ($24,000) to be deposited for litigation costs, said Kawe
partner Kristjan Hanni yesterday. Former holders that were
forced to sell shares after a buyout bid say TeliaSonera last
September gave Estonia an edge when it committed to pay itself
100 percent of Eesti Telekom’s profit for three years, making it
liable to pay a 21 percent dividend tax that effectively gave
the state better financial terms than others.  
 “Minority shareholders were never offered anything
corresponding to these tax revenues of about 2 euros per
share,” he said in an email interview. “We have a clear reason
due to this treatment to try and secure compensation from
TeliaSonera in the form of a class action that would correspond
to the value of assets taken from us against our will.”  
 TeliaSonera, which owned 60 percent before making its offer
on Aug. 24, bid 3.33 billion kronor ($444 million) in cash for
the remaining shares, or 5.94 euros a share for Eesti Telekom.
Estonia’s government, which owned 27 percent of Eesti Telekom,
last September accepted an improved offer from TeliaSonera that
included an extra dividend of 6.99 krooni per share. This helped
TeliaSonera exceed the 90 percent threshold for a so-called
squeeze-out. The suit would affect about 1,400 shareholders
forced to sell shares in the squeeze out.  
 Total Compensation  
 Total compensation would equal about 2.8 million euros
($3.5 million), assuming a price of 2 euros per share, Hanni
said. He expects financial commitments from other former owners
topping the full sum of 300,000 krooni on July 20. The legal
deadline to deposit the required funds to go ahead with the
class-action suit is Aug. 2.  
 Former owners contributing 1.5 krooni per share for
litigation costs would pay lawyers 10 percent of potential
compensation, while those not depositing any funds would have to
pay 30 percent of any proceeds, according to an agreement with
the Sorainen law office.  
 The case would be the first class-action suit in Estonia
related to minority buyouts, after such an option was
established in 2006, said Urmas Volens, a specialist counsel
with Sorainen, in a phone interview today.  
 TeliaSonera spokeswoman Irene Krohn said the company
“complied with the laws and regulations that apply” and
“achieved a very high level of acceptance for the bid,
according to an e-mailed response to Bloomberg question. She
declined further comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        