-- Telkom Falls to 4-Month Low as CFO Nelson Quits Days After Chief Departs
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-13T16:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/telkom-south-africa-says-peter-nelson-to-resign-as-chief-financial-officer.html

          
          
             Telkom South Africa Ltd ., Africa’s
largest fixed-line phone company, fell to its lowest in four
months after saying Chief Financial Officer  Peter Nelson  quit,
days after the departure of its chief executive officer.  
 The  stock  of Pretoria-based Telkom declined 3.4 percent to
33.56 rand, its lowest closing price since March 15. Telkom has
 dropped  15 percent over the past 12 months, giving the company a
market value of 17.5 billion rand ($2.3 billion).  
 “It’s bad,”  David Lerche , a telecommunications analyst at
Avior Research Ltd., said in a telephone interview from
Johannesburg, adding the stock may post further declines.
“Nelson brought a lot of sanity and common sense to Telkom. He
was tidying the finances. He was getting that business poised
for something of a turnaround.”  
 Telkom on July 9 appointed  Jeffrey Hedberg , head of its
Nigerian unit, as acting CEO following the unexpected exit of
 Reuben September , who left on July 7 after Telkom initially said
he will remain with the company until his contract ends in
November. Nelson would’ve accepted the CEO job “with both
hands” if offered to him, he said in a June 21 interview.  
 Nelson, appointed in November 2008, will leave on Oct. 9,
Telkom said in a statement today. Telkom spokesman Pynee Chetty
declined to give reasons for Nelson’s quitting in a mobile-phone
interview and said he had no more information on the matter.  
 ‘Trickles Down’  
 September, who took the post in 2007, was the third CEO to
leave the company in seven years. His  departure  also follows
that of Naas Fourie, head of strategy,  Thami Msimango , head of
international operations,  Marius Mostert , executive for network
provisioning, and Stafford Augustine, head of procurement.  
 Telkom spent $410 million over the past three years to buy
Multi-Links Nigeria, a data provider that has yet to deliver a
 profit , and $63 million for  Naspers Ltd. ’s M-Web Africa unit. It
also wrote off a 430 million-rand loan to Telkom Media, a South
African pay-TV operator it sold two years after getting a
license without starting broadcasts. Telkom is now shifting into
mobile-phone services as customers switch from fixed-line phone
calls. It said June 21 it may sell Multi-Links.  
 Nelson’s departure “will make implementation of their
strategy that much more difficult,” said Avior’s Lerche, who
has a “hold” rating on the stock. “If you’ve got disruptions
at the top, it all trickles down.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        