-- Eastern European Shares Advance for Sixth Day on Earnings, Greek Debt Sale
-- Jason Webb
-- 2010-07-13T11:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/emerging-market-stocks-snap-three-day-gain-as-china-shares-drop-on-curbs.html

          
          
             East European  shares  rose for a
sixth day after earnings that beat analysts’ estimates at Alcoa
Inc. and a Greek debt sale at lower-than-forecast yields
bolstered investor confidence in the global economic recovery.  
 The  MSCI EM Eastern Europe Index  advanced 1.6 percent to
194.71 at 12:40 p.m. in London, poised for the longest stretch
of gains in three months. Russia’s  Micex Index  climbed 1.5
percent, heading for the highest closing level in almost three
weeks. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  was little changed as
Asian shares fell on concern China will keep real-estate curbs.
Earlier the gauge retreated as much as 0.5 percent.  
 Alcoa kicked off the U.S. earnings season yesterday with
second-quarter results that topped projections and forecast
higher global demand for aluminum.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ,
the biggest maker of luxury cars, raised its 2010 earnings
forecast today, adding to speculation the global economy will
weather Europe’s debt crisis. Greece sold 1.625 billion euros
($2.1 billion) of 26-week Treasury bills at a yield of 4.65
percent. ING Groep NV had forecast a rate near 5 percent.  
 “The Greek auction is certainly welcome news,” said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging markets strategist at RBC Capital
Markets in London. “We’ve got quite a busy week in terms of
data. So those things could certainly derail sentiment in the
next few days.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped for a seventh day, declining
nine basis points to 3.04 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 Romania’s Economy  
 The leu weakened for a third day against the euro, losing
0.2 percent, on concern Romania’s recession will be deeper than
forecast. The economy will probably contract more than 1.5
percent this year after a sales-tax increase introduced to
satisfy terms of an International Monetary Fund loan that
requires the country to shrink its budget deficit, Ziarul
Financiar reported, citing Finance Minister  Sebastian Vladescu .  
 The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.6 percent, the biggest
retreat among benchmark stock indexes in major emerging markets,
after the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
reiterated that it will maintain curbs on speculative purchases
and increase market supply, while China’s banking regulator said
it has made no changes to policies on  home loans .  Poly Real
Estate Group Co.  and Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.
led the drop.  
 China Property  
 Chinese shares are the world’s worst performers this year
among major markets after Greece’s, with the Shanghai  gauge 
losing 25 percent since December on concern tighter monetary
policy and real estate regulation will slow growth in the
world’s fastest-expanding major economy.  
 In China, “it’s hard to believe that the government would
reverse its crackdown on the property industry so quickly and
anyone who hoped so is now disappointed,” said  Zhang Ling , a
fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.  
 China’s  property prices  fell 0.1 percent in June from the
previous month, ending 15 months of gains, statistics bureau
data showed yesterday. New lending of 603 billion yuan ($89
billion) last month was the least in three months, the central
bank said July 11.  
 Infosys Technologies Ltd., India’s second-largest software
exporter, tumbled 3.4 percent, the most since September, after
profit declined 2.6 percent to 14.9 billion rupees ($318.5
million) in the three months through June from a year earlier.
That was less than the 15.6 billion rupee average of 25  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. India’s Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index rose 0.3 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        