-- Energy Bill in Senate May Reduce Pollution From Power Plants, Reid Says
-- Lisa Lerer
-- 2010-07-13T22:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/energy-bill-in-senate-may-reduce-pollution-from-power-plants-reid-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate may consider carbon
dioxide pollution cuts from power plants as part of the energy
legislation to be debated in two weeks, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today.  
 “We’re going to work on pollution,” the Nevada Democrat
told reporters in Washington. A “rough draft” of the proposal
is “focused just on the utilities sector” and would curb
carbon dioxide and other “bad stuff in the air,” Reid said.  
 He declined to describe the plan as a cap on carbon dioxide
and other greenhouse gases. “Those words are not in my
vocabulary,” Reid said.  
 Cap-and-trade legislation, which imposes limits on
greenhouse gases and creates a market for carbon dioxide
pollution rights, narrowly passed the House last year and
stalled in the Senate.  
 A group of Democrats led by Senator  John Kerry  of
Massachusetts wants a revamped cap-and-trade proposal in this
month’s energy bill.  
 Other Democrats, including North Dakota’s  Byron Dorgan , say
a cap-and-trade program could to lead to higher and more
volatile energy prices. They favor a plan without carbon dioxide
caps that requires power companies to buy more electricity from
pollution-free sources such as wind turbines and solar panels
and toughens energy-efficiency standards.  
 Possible Debate Date  
 Reid said he hopes to bring the energy bill up for debate
in the Senate the week of July 26. Reid said the legislation
probably will deal with the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico, promote “clean energy” sources, spur job creation and
reduce U.S. energy consumption.  
 Under the House cap-and-trade bill, greenhouse gas
emissions from nearly every sector of the U.S. economy would be
cut 17 percent from their 2005 level by 2020. The House plan to
cut the emissions that scientists have linked to climate change
didn’t advance in the Senate.  
 Many Republicans, including Senator  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky, called it the equivalent of a national energy tax.
Some Democrats, including Dorgan and Senator  Blanche Lincoln  of
Arkansas, also said they were concerned it could cost jobs as
the U.S. economy emerges from the worst recession since the
Great Depression.  
 Democrats hold 58 seats in the Senate, where 60 votes are
usually required to pass major legislation.  
 Kerry-Lieberman Plan  
 Kerry and Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut
independent, unveiled a new cap-and-trade plan in May that tried
to win needed Republican votes by adding federal support for the
construction of new nuclear reactors and financial incentives
for coastal U.S. states that expand offshore drilling for oil
and natural gas.  
 The only Republican to help write the revamped cap-and-
trade bill, Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, withdrew
his support before it was unveiled.  
 Kerry and Lieberman are trying again to bolster Democratic
support for carbon caps and win the necessary Republican votes
by scaling back their plan to the electricity sector, which
accounts for about a third of U.S. greenhouse gases.  
 Kerry and Lieberman’s latest proposal calls for power
plants to cut their carbon dioxide emissions 17 percent by 2020,
according to a discussion draft being circulated in Washington.
The cap-and-trade program for power plants would start in 2013.  
 The minimum price for pollution allowances, each
representing one metric ton of carbon dioxide, would start at
$12 each with a maximum of $25.  
 ‘Little Republican Support’  
 Graham and Senator  Olympia Snowe , a Maine Republican, have
said they might be willing to support carbon caps for the
electricity sector. Still, some senators questioned today
whether there’ll be enough Republican votes to overcome the
division among Democrats over carbon caps.  
 “We have very little Republican support,” Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, told reporters.  
 Republican opposition helped defeat cap-and-trade plans in
the Senate in 2003, 2005 and 2008, said Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat. “We’ve lost three times and I
don’t want to lose again,” Feinstein, who said she supports
carbon caps for power plants, told reporters.  
 President  Barack Obama , Vice President  Joseph Biden  and
Senate Democrats met at the White House today for talks on what
legislation to push this year heading into November’s elections.
While energy legislation was discussed, “we didn’t get into a
lot of specifics,” Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico
Democrat, told reporters.  
 Bingaman, the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, which approved a bill last year that
includes the renewable-electricity and energy-efficiency
mandates favored by some Democrats, has said he doubts there are
enough votes to pass a cap-and-trade program for power plants
this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        