-- Era Infra May Raise $107 Million in Share Sale to Construct Indian Roads
-- Subramaniam Sharma
-- 2010-07-13T10:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/era-infra-may-raise-5-billion-rupees-from-share-sale-to-fund-road-projects.html

          
          
             Era Infra Engineering Ltd. , an
Indian builder of roads, power plants and sports stadiums, is
considering raising about 5 billion rupees ($107 million) from
the sale of shares to select investors to fund highway projects,
Group Chief Financial Officer  Joy Saxena  said.  
 The New Delhi-based company may raise money from the stock
sale in the next six to 12 months, Saxena said in an interview
at his office today. The exact amount it may raise will depend
on the price it gets for the shares, he said.  
 Builders including Era Infra are betting they will win
state contracts to build highways, utilities and ports as the
government vows to invest more in public works. The nation’s
 Planning Commission  has said India will need to spend $1
trillion on infrastructure between April 2012 and March 2017,
twice the amount it had recommended in the previous five years.  
 “Every infrastructure company, whoever is delivering
projects on time, will take the bigger cake,” said Saxena.
“The performance level is a key factor.”  
 Shares of  Era Infra  fell 0.4 percent to 205.2 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. They have declined 2 percent since
the start of the year, compared with the 3 percent gain in the
benchmark Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , of the Bombay Stock
Exchange.  
 Era Infra’s board in July last year had approved raising
about $200 million from India or overseas, including through a
so-called qualified institutional placement of shares. The
builder has 104 billion rupees of orders in hand, Saxena said.  
 The company in the past three months has won three highway
projects worth 33.7 billion rupees, including widening of the
151.2 kilometer stretch between Sitapur and Bareilly in the
northern state of Uttar Pradesh, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        