-- Merkel to Oversee Signing of Siemens Energy, Rail Deals on Russia Visit
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-07-13T21:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/merkel-to-oversee-signing-of-siemens-energy-rail-deals-on-russia-visit.html

          
          
             German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  will
oversee the signing of deals including a 2.2 billion-euro ($2.8
billion) train order for Siemens AG when she meets with Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  this week to boost business ties.  
 Merkel and Medvedev arrive today in Yekaterinburg, a city
in the Ural Mountains region, to hold talks and meet business
leaders from both countries. German and Russian companies will
sign a series of agreements July 15, Medvedev’s foreign policy
aide,  Sergei Prikhodko , told reporters yesterday in Moscow.  
 Siemens will agree to help develop a technology hub in the
Moscow suburb of Skolkovo, and set up a wind-power venture with
Russian Technologies Corp. and utility OAO RusHydro, Prikhodko
said. The company will separately agree to supply OAO Russian
Railways with 240 regional trains, said  Marc Langendorf , a
spokesman for Munich-based Siemens.  
 Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is seeking
help from western companies to upgrade its sprawling but worn
out infrastructure and diversify the economy. Medvedev said July
12 that Russia should create “modernization alliances” with
countries such as Germany, France, Italy and the U.S., putting
its foreign policy on a more pragmatic footing.  
 Trade between Germany and Russia fell 40.6 percent last
year to $39.9 billion. Trade in the first four months of this
year was $15.2 billion, according to the Kremlin.  
 Medvedev and Merkel will also discuss issues of European
security and Russia’s cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, Iran’s nuclear program, Afghanistan and the Group
of 20 Summit in Seoul in November, Prikhodko said. The leaders
will also talk about energy cooperation and simplifying visa
rules, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        