-- Tesco Urged to Make Lowball Bid For Carrefour Assets
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-07-13T07:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/tesco-urged-by-investors-to-make-lowball-bid-for-carrefour-s-asian-assets.html

          
          
             Tesco Plc  investors want the U.K.’s
largest retailer to bid for Carrefour SA’s Southeast Asian
supermarket assets. Just not at the indicated price.  
 Carrefour  is seeking offers for its units in Malaysia,
Thailand and Singapore and Tesco is among the possible buyers,
people familiar with the matter said last week. The combined
operations may fetch $800 million to $1 billion, they said, a
valuation that according to RBS analyst  Justin Scarborough  would
be too high for any bidder.  
 “If Tesco keep putting money into their strong markets,
and Thailand is clearly one, then that would be grand,” said
 Phil Doel , an investment manager at F&amp;C Asset Management in
London, whose funds hold about 1 percent of Tesco shares. “It
depends on price and the return they can get.”  
 Tesco generates about a third of sales outside the U.K.,
where growth is slowing amid heightened competition and easing
inflation. Asia accounts for about 15 percent of the retailer’s
revenue and is its fastest-growing division by earnings, which
rose 24 percent last year. Tesco plans to add 4.9 million square
feet of new store space in the region this year.  
 Tesco spokesman  Tom Hoskin  declined to comment on whether
the Cheshunt, England-based retailer would make offers for the
Carrefour stores.  Florence Baranes-Cohen , a spokeswoman for the
French supermarket company, also declined to comment.  
 Carrefour’s 39 Thai hypermarkets and one convenience store
generated 598 million euros ($750 million) of net sales last
year. Total revenue reached 329 million euros in Malaysia, where
Carrefour has 19 hypermarkets, and 85 million euros in the two-
outlet Singapore division, the annual report shows.  
 `Very Rich&apos;     
 Tesco’s share rose as much as 1.9 pence, or 0.5 percent, to
397.25 pence and traded at 396.9 pence at 8:35 a.m. in London
trading. The stock has lost 7.3 percent this year, compared to
the 3.5 percent gain of Carrefour.  
 A price of $1 billion would be about 0.8 times sales.  
 “It seems like a very rich price,” said  Caroline Gulliver , an analyst at Execution Noble in London. “The market
typically values food retailers at around 50 percent of sales,
not 80 percent.” Carrefour paid 0.55 times sales for Brazil’s
Atacadeo discount grocery chain in 2007, Gulliver said, adding
that Tesco doesn’t “usually over-pay for assets.”  
 “You would need a very big synergy for any transaction at
the prices mooted the other day to make any financial sense,”
said RBS’s Scarborough.  
 In addition to Tesco, Japan’s Aeon Co., Hong Kong’s Dairy
Farm International Holdings Ltd. and Thailand’s Big C
Supercenter Pcl may make bids for the Carrefour assets, three
people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg last week.
Spokespeople at all the companies declined to comment.  
 &apos;Obliged&apos;  
 Carrefour Chief Executive Officer  Lars Olofsson  told
shareholders at its annual meeting in May that the Paris-based
retailer is “obliged” to listen to offers for its business in
markets where leadership is unattainable. Asia is the retailer’s
smallest division, accounting for 7.5 percent of net sales.  
 Tesco doesn’t break down its figures by individual country.
Revenue at the  Asian unit , including operations in Thailand,
Malaysia, China, Korea, Japan and India, climbed 20 percent to 9
billion pounds last year. Tesco has no presence in Singapore.  
 Tesco Lotus , the U.K. company’s Thai unit, increased profit
by more than 10 percent last year. In Malaysia, Tesco became
market leader after the 2006 purchase of Makro Cash &amp; Carry
stores, which almost doubled its selling space there. The grocer
plans to step up openings to boost space in the country by 27
percent this year, including seven hypermarkets.  
 Past transactions involving Tesco and Carrefour included
the 2006 transfer of some Tesco stores in Taiwan for Carrefour
outlets in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Slovak
government later banned Tesco from buying the assets as it would
have given the U.K. retailer excessive market power.  
 ‘Strategic Sense’  
 Homever, the South Korean discount chain acquired by Tesco,
was previously owned by Carrefour. Tesco paid about 1.3 times
sales for Homever in 2008 because the business had high margins
and came with “significant property assets,” said  James Anstead , an analyst at Barclays Capital in London. Carrefour’s
Asia assets probably have lower margins than the group, he said.  
 “Growth in the next decade is going to come from southeast
Asia and China, not Europe and America, so putting capital into
high growth areas makes strategic sense,” said  Andy Lynch , who
manages about $1.9 billion at Schroder Investment Management,
including Tesco shares. “The question is, at what price?”  
 For Related News and Information:
Top retail news: RTOP &lt;GO&gt;
Tesco M&amp;A stories: TSCO LN &lt;EQUITY&gt; TCNI MNA &lt;GO&gt;
Tesco balance sheet: TSCO LN &lt;EQUITY&gt; FA BS &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tesco urged to pursue Carrefour Asian assets  
                       
                         
                           Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The logo of Carrefour SA is displayed on shopping carts at the hypermarket in Kota Damansara, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The logo of Carrefour SA is displayed on shopping carts at the hypermarket in Kota Damansara, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Thai flag flutters beside a sign for a Tesco Lotus in Bangkok. Photographer: Udo Weitz/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Carrefour SA CEO  Lars Olofsson told shareholders in May that it is 'obliged' to listen to offers for its businesses in markets where leadership is unattainable. Photographer: Fabrice Dimier/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
