-- Ethiopia on Track to Halve the Poverty Rate by 2015 (Correct)
-- William Davison
-- 2010-07-14T09:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ethiopia-on-track-to-halve-the-poverty-rate-by-2015-united-nations-says.html

          
          
             (Corrects time period in second paragraph of story
published on July 13.)  
 Ethiopia will probably meet the
Millennium Development Goal of halving the poverty rate by 2015
assuming it maintains current economic growth levels, according
to the draft copy of a report written by the United Nations.  
 The percentage of the population living on less than 1,075
birr ($79) per year fell to about 32.7 percent in 2008/09 from
48 percent in 1990 after economic growth averaged 8 percent over
the past decade, said the report, e-mailed to Bloomberg News by
a government official who asked not to be identified because he
was not authorized to release the document. The report is
written in cooperation with the government.  
 The government has “made an enormous progress in the
provision of social services such as education, health, and
infrastructure by spending a large share of its budget in the
pro-poor sector,” the report said. “This could be taken as the
best practice from which others may learn.”  
 Poverty reduction is central to policy in a country where
half of children are “chronically malnourished,” 47 percent
are stunted and 38 percent underweight, the UN said. Still,
economic growth remains vulnerable to poor weather and external
financing because of the poor domestic savings rate, according
to the report.  
 “The sustainability of this growth trajectory leaves much
to be desired,” the UN said.  
 Rising inequality in urban areas and the poor quality of
education in many schools represents a threat to the millennium
goals, according to the report.  
 Ethiopia is also on target to achieve its goal of universal
primary school education by 2015, while it is less likely to
meet the targets on child mortality and environmental
sustainability. The East African country is unlikely to achieve
goals related to gender equality and maternal health, the UN
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        