-- European Stocks Rise for Sixth Day as BP Surges
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-07-13T16:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/european-stock-index-futures-increase-unilever-danone-shares-may-advance.html

          
          
             European stocks  climbed for a sixth
day to a three-week high as Alcoa Inc. began the U.S. earnings
season with profit that beat estimates, Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG raised its forecast and BP Plc gained.  
 BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, jumped the
most in 15 months after saying higher volumes in 2010 will boost
profit. BP increased 2.9 percent after installing a new cap on
its leaking oil well in the Gulf of Mexico and as Abu Dhabi said
it’s considering making an investment in the company.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  advanced 1.9 percent to 255.99,
erasing this year’s losses. The measure has risen 8.2 percent
over the past six days amid easing concern about the economic
recovery and speculation that the selloff in equities since
April has overshot the outlook for company profits. The gauge
remains 5.9 percent below this year’s high.  
 Earnings “forecasts look too low and we expect a strong
majority of companies to beat their numbers,” said  Graham Bishop , the London-based head of pan-European equity strategy at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “We already know a great deal
about the performance of the global economy through the second
quarter. Consensus economic forecasts have actually been revised
materially higher.”  
 Portugal’s  PSI-20 Index  was the second-weakest western
European market today as Moody’s Investors Service cut the
nation’s credit rating by two notches to A1 because of a growing
debt burden and weak economic growth prospects. The gauge gained
0.1 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 and France’s CAC 40
surged 2 percent. Germany’s DAX rallied 1.9 percent.  
 Greek Bond Sale  
 Greece’s  ASE Index  surged 2.6 percent as the nation sold
1.63 billion euros ($2.1 billion) of 26-week Treasury bills at a
rate below the 5 percent charged by the European Union for its
bailout package, easing concern the country faces punitive costs
to borrow.  
 In Germany, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research
said its  index of investor and analyst expectations , which aims
to predict developments six months ahead, fell for a third month
to a 15-month low of 21.2 in July from 28.7 in June. Economists
had forecast a drop to 25.3, according to the median of 34
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 BMW rallied 8.3 percent to 42.13 euros, leading a gauge of
auto stocks to the biggest gain among 19  industry groups  in the
Stoxx 600. The luxury-car maker forecast 2010 sales volumes will
rise by about 10 percent to more than 1.4 million units, with a
full-year profit margin of more than 5 percent expected for the
automobiles segment. Rival  Daimler AG  advanced 5.4 percent to
43.81 euros.  
 Automakers Advance  
 Peugeot SA climbed 5.3 percent to 24.37 euros and
Volkswagen AG preferred shares gained 5.2 percent to 77 euros.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its price estimate on the French
carmaker by 3 percent to 34 euros and on the German automaker by
4 percent to 78 euros, saying increased demand and “attractive
valuations” favor the industry, according to a report today.  
 BP  advanced 2.9 percent to 410.35 pence, extending
yesterday’s 9.4 percent jump. The oil company installed a new
cap on its leaking Gulf of Mexico well and will start testing
today whether this will stop the gusher while work continues on
a permanent plug. Separately, the Financial Times reported that
BP expects to be able to write off the oil-spill cleanup costs
against taxes, without saying where it got its information.  
 Abu Dhabi Crown Prince  Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan 
said the emirate is considering making an investment in BP.  
 ‘Still Thinking’  
 “We are still thinking about it,” he said in an interview
in Abu Dhabi today, when asked about potentially buying a stake
in the London-based oil producer. “We are looking across the
board. We have been partners with BP for years.”  
 Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer reported second-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ projections as higher metal
prices boosted sales.  Earnings  from continuing operations were
13 cents a share, exceeding the 11-cent average estimate of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Profits for S&P 500 companies are projected to have
increased 34 percent in the second quarter and by the same
amount in 2010, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Intel Corp., the biggest maker of semiconductors
which reports quarterly earnings after the close of U.S.
exchanges today, is among 23 companies in the index to announce
results this week.  
 Burberry Group Plc surged 3.7 percent to 818.5 pence, the
highest level since at least 2002. The U.K.’s largest luxury
retailer posted a 27 percent gain in first-quarter sales,
beating analysts’ estimates, led by growth in Asia and
deliveries to wholesale customers.  
 Unilever, BAT  
 Unilever , the world’s second-largest maker of consumer
products, gained 2.9 percent to 1,898 pence and British American
Tobacco Plc advanced 2.6 percent to 2,277 pence as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. upgraded both companies to “buy” from “neutral.”  
 SEB AB surged 4.9 percent to 48.75 kronor after the second-
largest bank in the Baltic countries returned to profit in the
second quarter as loan losses in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania
decreased.  
 DNO International ASA rallied 4.9 percent to 8.74 kroner,
the highest close since April, after the Daily Telegraph
reported that RAK Petroleum Pcl has made an offer to buy the
remainder of the Norwegian oil producer. DNO Chief Executive
Officer  Helge Eide  said he had “no comment and no information”
on the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader speaks on the telephone while on the floor of the London Metal Exchange in London. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
