-- Dollar Falls to Two-Month Low as Profit Outlook, Greek Debt Sale Buoy Risk
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-13T20:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/euro-declines-against-dollar-yen-as-moody-s-cuts-portugal-s-credit-rating.html

          
          
             The dollar fell to a two-month low
versus the euro as speculation U.S. corporate earnings will beat
analysts’ estimates and Greece’s sale of debt encouraged
investors to buy currencies related to economic growth.  
 Sterling rose for the first time in four days against the
dollar as the U.K.’s inflation slowed in June less than
economists forecast. The euro dropped earlier against the dollar
as Moody’s Investors Service reduced Portugal’s credit rating.  
 “Everybody loves equities, and that has squeezed out a lot
of euro shorts,” said  Dean Popplewell , an analyst at the online
currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. in Toronto. “It shows the
market was caught flatfooted by owning dollars over the last few
trading sessions.” A short is a bet a currency will fall.  
 The dollar declined 0.9 percent to $1.2716 versus the euro
at 4:03 p.m. in New York, from $1.2596 yesterday. It earlier
slid to $1.2739, matching the level on May 12. The euro
appreciated 0.8 percent to 112.50 yen, from 111.62. The yen
climbed 0.2 percent to 88.47 per dollar, from 88.62.  
 Norway’s krone advanced 1.4 percent to 6.2658 versus the
dollar and the Mexican peso gained 1.1 percent to 12.6978 on
speculation investors increased trades in which they borrow
where interest rates are low to buy higher-yielding assets. The
Federal Reserve’s target lending rate of zero to 0.25 percent
makes the dollar popular for funding such transactions.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 1.5 percent after
rallying 5.4 percent last week. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
advanced 1.4 percent today.  
 Alcoa Earnings  
 Alcoa, the biggest U.S. aluminum producer and the first
company in the Dow to give second-quarter results, reported
sales and profit that exceeded estimates and the company
forecast stronger global demand.  
 The euro rose against the greenback as Greece sold Treasury
bills at a rate below the 5 percent charged by the European
Union when it rescued the nation from default.  
 Greece sold 1.625 billion euros ($2.070 billion) of 26-week
Treasury bills at a yield of 4.65 percent, the debt agency said
today. Investors bid for 3.64 times the securities offered.  
 The euro will rally to $1.31, a level last seen on May 4,
according to strategists at Citigroup Inc. including New York-
based  Tom Fitzpatrick , citing trading patterns.  
 The New York-based bank established a long position on the
16-nation currency at $1.2578 after it formed a reverse head-
and-shoulders pattern. Investors should exit the trade if the
euro falls to $1.2460, according to Citigroup. A long position
is a bet a security will gain.  
 Head and Shoulders  
 A head-and-shoulders pattern is formed when a currency
makes three consecutive peaks on a chart, with the middle being
the highest. A breach of the neckline, connecting the two lowest
points, may signal the end of a trend. A reverse head-and-
shoulders pattern has three troughs.  
 The pound rose 0.9 percent to $1.5170 as the Office for
National Statistics reported that Britain’s inflation slowed in
June less than economists forecast.  
 Consumer prices climbed 3.2 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 3.4 percent advance in May. Economists predicted
a 3.1 percent increase, according to the median of 27 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The  dollar  remained lower against the yen after the
Commerce Department reported that the U.S. trade deficit
unexpectedly widened to $42.3 billion in May, from $40.3 billion
in the previous month. The median forecast of 72 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a narrowing to $39 billion.  
 Portugal Downgraded  
 The euro weakened earlier versus the dollar as Portugal was
cut two notches to A1 by Moody’s, which cited a growing debt
burden and weak economic growth prospects.  
 European officials urged banks to try to raise money
themselves before seeking state support if stress tests designed
to demonstrate the resilience of the region’s banking system
reveal vulnerabilities.  
 “It is firstly up to the banks themselves,” Dutch Finance
Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in Brussels yesterday after a
meeting with euro-area counterparts. “They will get a certain
period to refinance themselves in the market, but the countries
will immediately announce that there is a certain backstop.”  
 European Union regulators are examining the strength of 91
banks to determine whether they can survive potential losses on
sovereign-debt holdings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        