-- Ex-Blagojevich Aide Testifies to Pressure to Enlist Emanuel for Fundraiser
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-13T20:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ex-blagojevich-aide-testifies-he-was-pressed-to-hold-emanuel-fundraiser.html

          
          
             Then-Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich  or a top staff member pushed to get Rahm Emanuel to
hold a fundraiser for the governor while Emanuel, then a
congressman, sought a state grant for a charter school in his
district, a former Blagojevich aide testified.  
 The request came in 2006, John Wyma, 43, a former chief of
staff to governor, told a jury today at Blagojevich’s federal
criminal trial in Chicago. Wyma, who is now a lobbyist, said he
wasn’t sure whether request came from the governor or his chief
of staff. Emanuel is now chief of staff to President  Barack Obama .  
 “The timing was bad,” Wyma said. “To ask to have a
fundraiser while he had an unresolved state issue was poor
judgment.” Wyma said he didn’t reach out of to Emanuel until
after the question of the grant had been resolved.  
 Wyma is one more prosecution witness whose testimony is
aimed to show Blogojevich repeatedly sought to link campaign
funds to official acts.  
 A twice elected Democrat, Blagojevich, 53, is accused of
trying to trade his power to appoint a U.S. senator to succeed
Obama in return for campaign cash or personal favors.  
 He also allegedly sought a campaign contribution from an
Illinois horse track operator in exchange for a promise to sign
a bill diverting casino revenue to the racing industry, and
tried to tie a pediatric physician reimbursement rate increase
to a $50,000 donation from the head of a children’s hospital.  
 Blagojevich Defense  
 Blagojevich has said he is innocent of “each and every
charge.” The ex-governor will testify in his own defense, one
of his attorneys, Sam Adam Sr., told trial judge  James B. Zagel 
today. The trial started on June 3.  
 Witnesses including Wyma and the governor’s former chiefs
of staff  Lon Monk  and John Harris have testified about pressures
to raise campaign money for the governor. The Emanuel fundraiser
request might have came from Monk, Wyma said.  
 Emanuel’s brother, Ari, is co-chief executive officer of
the William Morris Agency, a Beverly Hills talent firm. Rahm
Emanuel has been subpoenaed by the defense to testify at the
Blagojevich trial.  
 Wyma testified under a grant of prosecutorial immunity.  
 Prosecutors have said they may rest their case as soon as
today. If they do, Zagel said he’ll send home the jury until
July 19, giving the governor’s lawyers time to prepare their
case.  
 With the jurors outside the courtroom, defense attorney
Adam previewed the ex-governor’s defense strategy for the judge,
seeking the court’s opinion on whether the evidence he hoped to
use would be allowed.  
 ‘Lack of Willfulness’  
 “The defense in this case is a lack of willfulness,” Adam
said. “The defense has a right to show he did not intend to
commit a crime.”  
 While Adam said Blagojevich relied on the advice of people
on his staff, some of whom are or were attorneys, the judge said
the only way such “advice of counsel” evidence could be heard
is through the testimony of the those advisers.  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08cr888, in the Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        