-- Ex-IKB Chief Ortseifen Should Be Acquitted, Lawyer Tells Dusseldorf Court
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-07-13T12:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ex-ikb-chief-ortseifen-should-be-acquitted-lawyer-tells-dusseldorf-court.html

          
          
             Former  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG 
chief executive officer  Stefan Ortseifen  should be acquitted of
charges he manipulated the lender’s share price in 2007 at the
beginning of the subprime-mortgage crisis, his lawyer said.  
 Ortseifen didn’t misstate IKB’s risks regarding asset-
backed securities tied to the U.S. mortgage market in the press
release his trial centers on, lawyer  Rainer Hamm  told the
Dusseldorf Regional Court in closing arguments today. IKB’s
troubles only started later and Ortseifen couldn’t have
predicted that, his lawyer said.  
 “The mistake is to infer from our knowledge today what Mr.
Orseifen should have known in July 2007,” said Hamm. “Must a
bank executive be smarter than the chiefs of ratings agencies
who tell us only now that they didn’t know at the time that they
got these products totally wrong?”  
 Ortseifen is the first German bank executive to be charged
over the financial crisis and is facing claims he misled
investors by downplaying effect of the looming U.S. subprime
crisis in a press release on July 20, 2007. IKB received a
bailout package 10 days later and subsequently got as much as 12
billion euros ($15.1 billion) in guarantees from Germany’s bank-
rescue fund.  
 Prosecutor Nils Bussee said July 7 that Ortseifen should
receive a 10-month suspended prison term and pay an “adequate”
penalty. The court is scheduled to issue a verdict tomorrow.  
 Predicament  
 Hamm said IKB’s financial predicament began a week after
the release was issued, after Deutsche Bank AG’s July 26
decision to cut IKB’s credit lines. The reputational damage that
caused left IKB unable to borrow from other lenders, he said.  
 When testifying at the trial, Deutsche Bank Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  denied the July 26 decision caused IKB’s
troubles. The lender was already in peril when Deutsche Bank
made its decision, Ackermann told the court.  
 Prosecutors claim that Ortseifen knew at the time that
IKB’s Rhineland Funding investment vehicle, which had invested
17 billion euros in structured securities, was facing severe
refinancing problems. By not including this information,
Ortseifen misled investors, according to prosecutors.  
 Hamm denied Ortseifen was required, or even allowed, to
include statements about Rhineland Funding in the company’s
disclosure, because it was a separate company from IKB.
Rhineland Funding’s refinancing problems only began when inter-
bank lending broke down, according to the defense.  
 The case is LG Dusseldorf, 14 KLs 6/09.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Dusseldorf via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        