-- Texas Rangers Seek Auction With Nolan Ryan Group as Lead Bidder for Team
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-13T17:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/texas-rangers-seek-auction-with-nolan-ryan-group-as-lead-bidder-for-team.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers proposed an
auction in nine days in which a group headed by  Nolan Ryan  and
 Chuck Greenberg  would be the lead bidder for the baseball club.  
 The proposal would give competing bidders eight days to
pass a background check and win approval from Major League
Baseball to try to buy the club, according to filings in the
Rangers’ bankruptcy case in Fort Worth, Texas.  
 Requiring the league’s blessing in eight days would give
potential bidders too little time, bankruptcy attorney  Thomas Salerno  said in an interview.  
 “It certainly is the way the league will control who buys
the team,” said Salerno, who battled the National Hockey League
over control of the bankruptcy auction of the Phoenix Coyotes.  
 The Ryan-Greenberg group yesterday sued the Rangers in an
attempt to stop Chief Restructuring Officer  William Snyder  from
talking to competing buyers. Snyder said last week that he may
try to find a new lead bidder to replace the Ryan-Greenberg
group.  
 Snyder didn’t immediately return a call today for comment.
A Rangers spokesman,  Mark Semer , declined to comment.  
 After filing for bankruptcy in May, the Rangers sought
court permission to sell the club to a group led by Greenberg,
an attorney, and Nolan Ryan, a Hall of Fame pitcher and the
team’s president, in a transaction it valued at $575 million.  
 Snyder was appointed by the judge to oversee two companies
that own the Rangers. The companies are units of HSG Sports
Group LLC, the holding company of Texas businessman  Tom Hicks .  
 Auction Canceled  
 The Rangers last week abandoned a request to hold a July 16
auction after Snyder withdrew his support,  Martin Sosland , the
Rangers’ bankruptcy lawyer, said.  
 The latest auction proposal doesn’t say whether it has
Snyder’s support.  
 There is an inherent conflict between the goals of U.S.
professional sports leagues and the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, said
Salerno, the attorney, who isn’t representing anyone in the
Rangers case.  
 The leagues want to control who buys a team and are willing
to settle for less money, he said. Bankruptcy law is designed to
raise the most amount of money possible to pay creditors, he
said.  
 In the Coyotes case, the league persuaded a bankruptcy
judge in Phoenix to reject a higher offer from BlackBerry
billionaire  Jim Balsillie . Instead, the league bought the team
itself for about $150 million, Salerno said.  
 “In the Coyotes, we left $100 million on the table because
of the league,” Salerno said.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        