-- Mexico Floods Shut Busiest U.S. Cargo Crossing, Creating Logjam
-- Thomas Black
-- 2010-07-14T01:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/mexico-floods-shut-busiest-u-s-cargo-crossing-creating-logjam-for-trucks.html

          
          
             Mexican trucks with goods bound for
the U.S. are backed up as much as two days as flooded highways
block access to Nuevo Laredo, the busiest international crossing
on the southern border, the president of an exporters’ trade
group said.  
 Trucks are being rerouted to Reynosa, 250 miles south of
San Antonio, and the flow of cargo may not return to normal for
as long as three days, said  Monica Gonzalez , president of the
National Council for the Exporting Maquila and Manufacturing
Industry. Rain from Hurricane Alex on July 1 and 2 washed out
roads and bridges in the states of Nuevo Leon, Coahuila and
Tamaulipas.  
 “It’s been chaos for company logistics,” Gonzalez said in
a telephone interview. “It’s causing a lot of disruption for
transportation and delivery times.”  
 The majority of the more than $300 billion in annual U.S.-
Mexico trade flows through Nuevo Laredo, located across the Rio
Grande from Laredo, Texas. Some factories are beginning to
reduce production or even halt operations because they can’t
ship out product or they lack supplies of component parts they
import through Nuevo Laredo, Gonzalez said.  
 Time is running out for many companies that have been
working off stocked parts to keep factories operating.
Businesses are also piling up inventory of finished goods while
waiting for the highway to Nuevo Laredo to reopen, said  Chris Hines , chief operating officer of Celadon Group Inc., which
operates trucks in the U.S., Mexico and Canada.  
 ‘Safety’ Margin  
 The number of Celadon trucks that have been able to cross
north into the U.S. and south into Mexico has dropped to about
35 to 40 per day, from about 150 per day, Hines said.  
 “People are getting more and more nervous,” Hines said by
telephone from Celadon’s central dispatch center in Queretaro,
Mexico. “This is why you have safety stocks, but those safety
stocks are starting to get smaller.”  
 The line of trucks waiting to cross into the U.S. at
Reynosa, which is across the border from McAllen, Texas, is more
than two kilometers (1.2 miles) long, Hines said. Kansas City
Southern said it suspended rail operations at the Nuevo Laredo
crossing because of damage to a bridge along the route that will
take a “few weeks” to repair.  
 Kansas City Southern is working with Union Pacific Corp. to
reroute traffic to border crossings at Brownsville and Eagle
Pass, Texas, the company said today in a statement. Some
manufacturing companies are resorting to air shipments to move
goods, Hines said.  
 Mexico’s Federal Roads and Bridges agency confirmed the
main highway into Nuevo Laredo remains closed because of
flooding.  
 Flooded River  
 Omar Ortiz, technical director of the agency, said in a
television interview yesterday that he couldn’t estimate when
the Nuevo Laredo highway will reopen because officials are still
releasing water from a dam that has caused the Rio Salado to
flood.  
 “It won’t take long to work its way out once the road is
open,” Hines said. “When will that road open is the million-
dollar question.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        