-- U.S. Appeals Court Strikes Down FCC Indecency Policy
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-13T20:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/fcc-fleeting-expletive-policy-struck-down-by-u-s-appeals-court-as-vague.html

          
          
                  July 13 (Bloomberg) --A federal appeals court in New York
struck down a U.S. Federal Communications Commission policy that
penalizes profanity in broadcasting, saying it violates the
television networks’ First Amendment right to free speech.  
 Media companies had challenged the agency’s move to fine
them for “fleeting expletives,” profanities uttered
spontaneously by performers during live TV broadcasts. The rule
was imposed after on-air outbursts by celebrities including
singers  Bono  and Cher.  
 The appeals court in Manhattan had rejected the policy in
2007, saying it was arbitrary under the law governing
administrative agencies. The U.S. Supreme Court reversed that
decision last year and directed the appeals court to consider
the constitutionality of the policy.  
 “The FCC’s policy violates the First Amendment because it
is unconstitutionally vague, creating a chilling effect that
goes far beyond the fleeting expletives at issue here,” U.S.
Circuit Judge  Rosemary Pooler  wrote in the opinion handed down
today by the three-judge panel in New York.  
 “We’re reviewing the court’s decision in light of our
commitment to protect children, empower parents, and uphold the
First Amendment,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in a
statement.  
 The four major networks --  News Corp. ’s Fox,  Walt Disney
Co. ’s ABC, CBS Corp.’s CBS and General Electric Co.’s NBC --
took part in the challenge. ABC declined to comment. CBS and NBC
weren’t immediately available for comment about the ruling.  
 ‘Live Broadcasting’  
 The latest decision “preserves the ability of the networks
to comfortably provide live broadcasting,” said  Carter Phillips ,
the lead lawyer for Fox Television in the case. It gives the
networks “everything we could realistically ask for,” he said.  
 The Parents Television Council, a Los Angeles-based
advocacy group that monitors television shows for sex, violence
and profanity,  criticized  the decision.  
 “What truly galls me is the broadcast networks’ argument
that the FCC chills free speech when they already have the
ability to air indecent material after 10 o’clock, after
children go to bed,” Dan Isett, director of public policy for
the group, said in an interview. “Now they want to air this
material at any time when children are awake.”  
 In her opinion, Pooler cited instances of offensive
fleeting expletives on live TV. The court quoted singer Cher as
saying during the 2002 Billboard Music Awards: “People have
been telling me I’m on the way out every year, right? So
f--k them.”  
 A year later, on the same program,  Nicole Richie  took the
stage to present an award to  Paris  Hilton, her co-star in the
Fox show “The Simple Life.”  
 “Have you ever tried to get cow s--t out of a Prada
purse?” Richie said. “It’s not so f-----g simple.”  
 The appeals court noted that the FCC held these broadcasts
and others in question “patently offensive” because the
material was “explicit, shocking, and gratuitous,
notwithstanding the fact that the expletives were fleeting and
isolated.”  
 At the Golden Globe Awards in 2003, Bono, the lead singer
of U2, accepted an award saying, “This is really, really
f-----g brilliant.”  
 The FCC responded to complaints by declaring that fleeting
expletives could be deemed actionably indecent and multiple
fines could be imposed.  
 Supreme Court  
 The networks challenged the policy, and the appeals court
found that the FCC had violated federal law covering how
agencies make regulations. The Supreme Court reversed that
decision, saying the FCC gave a sufficient explanation to comply
with the law and asking the appeals court to reevaluate the
indecency rules.  
 The appeals panel today agreed with the networks that the
FCC failed to let them know which words are “patently
offensive” for purposes of its policy.  
 “For instance, while the FCC concluded that ‘bulls--t’ in
a ‘NYPD Blue’ episode was patently offensive, it concluded that
‘d--k and d--khead’ were not,” Pooler wrote.  
 “Other expletives such as ‘p---ed off, ‘ ‘up yours,’ kiss
my a--’ and ‘wiping his a--’ were also found not to be patently
offensive,” Pooler said.  
 Pooler also said the world has changed since the FCC first
exercised its authority to regulate speech it deemed obscene in
1978, when comedian  George Carlin  gave a 12-minute “Filthy
Words” monologue on the radio. She cited the spread of cable TV
and the Internet and the availability of technology that allows
parents to block shows they don’t want their children to see.  
 The case is Fox Television Stations Inc. v. FCC, 06-1760,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  
 For Related News and Information:
CBS’s earnings: CBS US &lt;Equity&gt; TCNI ERN &lt;GO&gt;
Most-read stories on CBS: CBS US &lt;Equity&gt; MCN &lt;GO&gt;
Legal news about CBS: CBS US &lt;Equity&gt; TCNI LAW &lt;GO&gt;
Top legal stories: TLAW &lt;GO&gt;
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at 
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at 
9245 or  rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The FCC's approach to "fleeting expletives" can be accredited to U2 singer Bono, when he made comments at the 2003 Golden Globe Awards. Photographer: Robert Mora/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
