-- Fed Has No Plans for Further Monetary Easing, Officials Say
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/fed-has-no-plans-for-further-monetary-easing-officials-say.html

          
          
             Two Federal Reserve officials said
the central bank has no plans to deploy additional tools for
stimulating the economy and that the recovery is intact.  
 Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke , asked about possible
additional steps that could be taken to bolster growth, said in
an interview in Washington yesterday that “there are no plans
to do that at this point.” Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said “consideration of additional easing steps is very
far away.”  
 Their comments echoed remarks last week by the Dallas Fed’s
 Richard Fisher  and Kansas City’s  Thomas Hoenig , who said more
stimulus isn’t needed even after reports that private payrolls
in June grew less than anticipated and manufacturing cooled.
Princeton University economist  Paul Krugman  is among those
saying the Fed must do more, warning that the nation is in
danger of succumbing to a “deflationary trap.”  
 “It would take a very substantial, unanticipated adverse
shock” for further steps to be appropriate, Lacker, 54, said.  
 The Fed has several tools it could use to loosen monetary
policy even after it slashed  rates  to zero in December 2008 and
more than doubled its balance sheet to $2.34 trillion, Duke
said. It could alter its communication strategy, lower the
interest rate it pays on excess reserves or replace mortgage-
backed securities that are rolling off its balance sheet, she
said.  
 Even so, “I think we are in the right place” on monetary
policy. “There are a lot of reserves out there in the system,”
she said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We don’t think
the barrier is there’s not enough money out there.”  
 ‘Tight Credit’  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and fellow policy makers last
month affirmed a pledge to hold the  benchmark interest rate 
close to zero for an “extended period” and said “tight
credit” is restraining consumer spending.  
 “I’m comfortable with rates where they are now,” Lacker,
who doesn’t vote on rate decisions this year, told reporters at
the opening of an exhibit at the Richmond Fed on the history of
the central bank. “You have some surges, some slower periods.
It’s just going to be a choppy recovery. To my mind, what I’ve
seen in the data reports aren’t inconsistent with a moderately
paced recovery over time.”  
 Duke said “We are seeing moderate growth, we are seeing
subdued inflation.”  
 Treasuries were little changed yesterday, with the yield on
the 10-year note rising to 3.06 percent in New York from 3.05
percent on July 9. Stocks rose for a fifth day on optimism about
the outlook for corporate earnings, pushing the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  up 0.1 percent to 1,078.75.  
 Small Business Lending  
 Bernanke, speaking yesterday at a Fed-hosted conference in
Washington on small-business lending where Duke also appeared,
said small firms are having a tough time getting the loans they
need to expand or stay afloat and keep the U.S. recovery going.  
 “Making credit accessible to sound small businesses is
crucial to our economic recovery and so should be front and
center among our current policy challenges,” said Bernanke, 56.
“Consistent with maintaining appropriately prudent standards,
lenders should do all they can to meet the needs of creditworthy
borrowers.”  
 Investors’ expectations for a Fed rate increase have fallen
since the June meeting of policy makers. Investors are
discounting about 31 basis points of tightening over the next 12
months, a decline from about 42 basis points on June 22, the
first day of a two-day Fed meeting, according to data calculated
by Credit Suisse using the overnight index swap curve.  
 Growth Outlook  
 Growth in the world’s largest economy will average 2.8
percent from the current quarter through the second quarter of
2011, according to the median estimate of 52 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News from July 1 to July 8, down 0.1 percentage
point from last month.  
 “I think what’s been happening is some market participants
are over reacting to a couple of reports that have been a little
bit below what people expected,” Lacker said. “We had some
reports better than expected a couple of months ago. I think
this is going to be a recovery that’s like that over time.”  
 The Labor Department reported this month that private
employers  added 83,000 jobs  in June, less than the 110,000
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Homebuilders
started building dwellings at the slowest pace of the year in
May, after the expiration of a housing tax credit. Housing
starts fell 10 percent in May to a 593,000 annual pace.  
 ‘Doing Damage’  
 “I don’t expect a dramatic worsening” in housing, Lacker
said. “Housing is such a small portion of the economy now it’s
a little less capable of doing damage. I think we can withstand
some shocks to housing and some fluctuations to housing.”  
 Lacker said he expects the rate of inflation to begin to
increase toward the end of 2010.  
 “At the beginning of the year we were getting some low
inflation numbers, but inflation expectation measures remained
pretty stable,” Lacker said.  
 “Lately the core inflation numbers have firmed up a bit.
I think what we’re most likely to see is inflation gravitating
back to the 1.5 to 2 percent range,” Lacker said, adding that
the risk of deflation, or a broad-based decline in prices, is
low.  
 Lacker said he is skeptical the Fed’s Term Deposit Facility
will be an effective tool for removing more than $1 trillion in
excess reserves in the banking system. The Fed has held two
tests of the program, which is analogous to a certificate of
deposit, and will announce the results of a third test today.  
 “It’s not clear a term deposit facility is going to really
meaningfully tighten monetary conditions,” Lacker said. “Asset
sales are the proven effective way to drain reserves, to drain
monetary assets.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker. Photographer: Chris Keane/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
