-- First Quantum Seeks Workers for Ravensthorpe Mine, Sees March Completion
-- Firat Kayakiran
-- 2010-07-13T17:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/first-quantum-seeks-workers-for-ravensthorpe-mine-sees-march-completion.html

          
          
             First Quantum Minerals Ltd. , the
Canadian mining company that bought BHP Billiton Ltd.’s failed
West Australian nickel mine, is hiring 600 workers and plans to
restart the operation ahead of schedule.  
 BHP sold the $2.2 billion Ravensthorpe mine in December for
$340 million. Plunging nickel prices forced BHP to close the
mine eight months after commissioning.  
 “We hope to have completion of rebuilding work by the end
of March next year” and production will start immediately
afterward, First Quantum President  Clive Newall  said today by
telephone. In December, the Vancouver-based company said it
planned to resume operations at the mine within 18 months.  
 “This is a great boost for the community as a whole,”
Pascoe Durtanovich, chief executive officer of Ravensthorpe
shire council, said by phone. “A lot of the workers won’t come
from the local community itself because they’re working in other
mines, although there will be some.”  
 First Quantum is looking to fill a range of positions
including plant managers, geologists and mine supervisors,
Durtanovich said. The company placed advertisements in the  West
Australian  and the Sunday Times, a local newspaper.  
 First Quantum plans to operate the mine with as many as 700
workers, Newall said, adding that there are currently about 100
people on site. The project will reach annual capacity of 39,000
tons of nickel and 1,000 tons of cobalt six months after
starting production, he said. Output next year will be about
10,000 tons.  
 BHP Books Charge  
 BHP, based in Melbourne, booked a one-time charge of $3.6
billion in the 12 months through June 2009 for closing the mine.
The company in November 2008 cited changes to the planned ramp-
up rate, projected capital costs and a drop in prices for the
charges.  
 First Quantum  is spending $150 million on modifications to
the facility, Newall said. It’s replacing components that
weren’t “appropriate” and is “confident the modifications
we’re making to the plant will be successful,” he said. “The
process problems experienced by BHP are areas in which we have
particular expertise.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        