-- Flood Watches Issued for Philadelphia, Boston as Rain Threatens Northeast
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-13T16:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/flood-watches-issued-for-boston-philadelphia-as-rain-hits-u-s-northeast.html

          
          
             Heavy rain is moving into New York
and the U.S. Northeast, delaying air traffic and prompting flood
watches and advisories in Boston and Philadelphia.  
 A wall of steady rain pocketed with thunderstorms was
forecast to sweep into New York after noon, according to Brandon
Smith, a weather service meteorologist in  Upton, New York .  
 Airports in New York, Philadelphia, Washington and
Baltimore reported delays of at least 45 minutes, according to
the Federal Aviation Administration. As much as 2 inches of rain
had already fallen by noon in eastern Pennsylvania and western
New Jersey, according to the weather service at  Mount Holly, New
Jersey .  
 “Do not drive your vehicle into areas where the water
covers the roadway,” a weather service bulletin said. “The
water depth may be too great to allow your car to cross
safely.”  
 A small low pressure system is developing east of a larger
area of disturbed weather over the Ohio Valley, according to
Brandon. The smaller system is moving through moisture-laden air
as it comes east to New York, Philadelphia and  Boston .  
 “It is very efficient at making rain,” Smith said.  
 Flood Advisories  
 A flood advisory was issued for New York City and much of
New Jersey, according to the weather service. A flash flood
warning was issued for Philadelphia and Trenton.  
 The water level of Neshaminy Creek at Landhorne,
Pennsylvania, rose from just below 1 foot to 3.7 feet in four
hours, according to the weather service. The stream is expected
to crest at 5 feet by 2 p.m.  
 Storms expected in Boston, Rhode Island and eastern
Connecticut may bring as much as 3 inches of rain in isolated
areas, according to the weather service. The possibility of such
heavy rain prompted the agency to issue a flash flood watch for
those areas.  
 A flash flood watch means that rapid flooding of urban
areas and small streams is possible and drivers should be
“prepared for the possibility of significant flooding,”
according to the weather service.  
 Pinpointing Difficult  
 Exactly where the storms will leave the most rain is
difficult to forecast, said Bill Simpson, a weather service
meteorologist in Taunton, Massachusetts. Simpson said that a
similar wave of storms last weekend moved through Boston,
flooding some areas while leaving others relatively unscathed.  
 “That is the probably the scenario later this afternoon
through the overnight,” Simpson said by telephone.  
 On July 10, heavy rain and flooding trapped five cars in an
underpass in Somerville, Massachusetts, according to the State
Police. The rain also blocked a portion of Boston’s Storrow
Drive for a time and snarled traffic on Interstate 95 near the
Rhode Island state line.  
 The rain is expected to end tonight in New York and
temperatures will be in the high 80s tomorrow, according to the
weather service forecast. Temperatures in Philadelphia may reach
into the 90s tomorrow and the weather service said it may have
to issue an excessive heat advisory later this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        