-- Foxconn Urges Hong Kong Judge to Throw Out Conspiracy Suit Filed by BYD
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-07-13T11:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/foxconn-urges-hong-kong-judge-to-throw-out-byd-conspiracy-defamation-suit.html

          
          
             Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. 
urged a Hong Kong judge to throw out claims made by  BYD Co.  in a
countersuit that accuses Foxconn of gathering false evidence.  
 The claims should be struck because BYD failed to provide
any “material” facts or allegations to back its case filed Oct.
2, 2009,  Winston Poon , Foxconn’s lawyer, said at a hearing today
in the Court of First Instance in Hong Kong.  
 “Not only are the matters immaterial, they are also
vexatious,” Poon said. “They will waste the court’s time and
money.” Judge Louis Chan didn’t specify at the end of the
hearing when he would rule on Foxconn’s request.  
 BYD, backed by billionaire  Warren Buffett , countersued
after two Foxconn units filed a suit in 2007 that claimed BYD
recruited Foxconn employees and stole the companies’ trade
secrets. BYD, China’s largest maker of rechargeable batteries,
doubled its revenue from its handset business in 2005, 2006 and
2007 as a result, Foxconn said in court documents.  
 In its countersuit, BYD accuses its rival of unlawful
interference with its business, defamation and conspiracy to
injure. Foxconn was involved in planting documents and coercing
a former employee to confess he had stolen secrets, according to
BYD’s filings.  
 “The Foxconn parties embarked upon a course of conduct of
procuring and using false or fabricated evidence,” BYD said in
its suit. Foxconn’s “ultimate objective” was to damage the
business relationship between BYD and its  investors  and
customers, BYD said.  
 Business Secrets  
 In 2008, BYD failed to persuade a Hong Kong judge that the
case should be tried in Shenzhen, China, where BYD is based.
Judge Thomas Au in Hong Kong  ruled  he wasn’t convinced Shenzhen
was a preferable venue.  
 Liu Xiang Jun, former chief operating officer of one of the
Foxconn units, joined BYD in 2005. In a separate proceeding, he
was convicted in Shenzhen of infringing Foxconn’s business
secrets, according to court documents. Si Shao Qing and Zhang
Jian, who had worked for the same unit, were also convicted of
infringing Foxconn’s business secrets.  
 Foxconn, the world’s largest contract-manufacturer of
mobile phones, faces competition from BYD for orders of handset
components from customers including  Nokia Oyj .  
 BYD  fell 3.6 percent in Hong Kong to HK$54.40. The shares
have fallen 21 percent this year compared with a 6.6 percent
decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . Foxconn International
Holdings Ltd.  rose  0.4 percent to close at HK$5.13.  
 The case is HCA2114/2007, BYD Co. and Shenzhen Futaihong
Precision Industry Co. in the Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        