-- French Inflation Rate Falls More Than Forecast in June on Gas, Food Drop
-- Mark Deen
-- 2010-07-13T10:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/french-inflation-rate-falls-in-june-prices-unchanged-on-month-insee-says.html

          
          
             France’s inflation rate fell more
than economists forecast in June on a decline in gasoline and
food costs.  
 Consumer prices based on European Union methodology
increased 1.7 percent from a year earlier, less than the 1.9
percent rate in May, the national statistics office  Insee  said
today. Economists expected an increase of 1.8, according to the
median of 13 forecasts gathered by Bloomberg. Prices were
unchanged from May.  
 Crude prices declined 14 percent in May, leading to lower
costs for gasoline in June at the start of the summer driving
season. The decline in energy costs helped keep France’s
inflation rate below the European Central Bank’s 2 percent
target. The relief may prove short lived as crude prices gained
more than 2 percent in June.  
 “It makes sense that inflation is coming down,” said
Joost Beaumont, an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“Energy prices are on a rising trend, though this month they
provided a negative effect. The big picture is that oil and
commodity prices are putting upward pressure on inflation but
there’s still a huge output gap that is bearing down on prices.
Overall you put these two together and inflation is below the
ECB’s 2 percent target.”  
 Energy costs fell 0.6 percent in the month on a non-
harmonized basis, with the gasoline prices shedding 1.1 percent
in the month, Insee said. Food prices decline 0.2 percent from
May, the report said.  
 Spain’s inflation rate was unchanged in the month at 1.5
percent, a separate report showed today.  The core rate,
excluding food and energy prices, rose to 0.4 percent from 0.2
percent in May.  
 The final inflation rate for the euro region for June will
be published tomorrow at 11 a.m. by Eurostat, the Luxembourg-
based statistics office. The inflation rate fell to 1.4 percent
in June, from 1.6 percent in May, Eurostat said in its
preliminary report on June 30.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        