-- U.K. Stocks Gain for a Sixth Day as BP Rallies; ARM Holdings Shares Rise
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-13T15:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ftse-100-stocks-climb-for-a-sixth-day-as-bp-rallies-arm-shares-increase.html

          
          
             U.K. stocks  advanced for a sixth
day, led by BP Plc on speculation a new cap installed on its
leaking Gulf of Mexico oil well will help stop the gusher.  
 BP climbed to a five-week high as Abu Dhabi’s crown prince
also said the emirate is considering an investment in the energy
company. Anglo American Plc paced mining shares higher as metal
prices rose and Alcoa Inc. reported earnings that beat
estimates. GlaxoSmithKline Plc rallied 1.9 percent.  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  jumped 104, or 2 percent, to
5,271.02, extending last week’s biggest weekly gain in a year as
all but one stock advanced in London. The  FTSE All-Share Index 
rose 1.9 percent and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  climbed 2.2 percent.  
 “Upbeat earnings from Alcoa have set the pace amongst
equity traders who once again seem convinced that this latest
rally still has legs,” said London-based Will Hedden, a senior
sales trader at IG Index.  
 U.K. stocks briefly pared gains after Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded Portugal’s credit rating by two steps to A1.
The FTSE 100 has still retreated 9.5 percent from its April 15
high as BP shares tumbled and concern grew that the European
debt crisis may slow the economic recovery.  
 BP  climbed 2.9 percent to 410.35 pence. The company starts
testing today to see whether a new cap will stop the gusher on
its leaking Macondo oil well, which has been spewing as much as
60,000 barrels of oil a day into the ocean since an April 20
drilling-rig explosion that killed 11 workers.  
 Still Thinking  
 Abu Dhabi’s crown prince, a member of the board of one of
the world’s largest sovereign wealth funds, said the emirate is
considering buying a stake in  BP .  
 “We are still thinking about it,”  Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed  Al Nahyan said in an interview in Abu Dhabi today. “We
are looking across the board. We have been partners with BP for
years.”  
 Separately, the Financial Times reported that  BP  expects to
be able to write off the oil-spill cleanup costs against taxes,
without saying where it got the information.  
 Anglo American climbed 1.2 percent to 2,414.5 pence as base
metals including copper, nickel and tin climbed on the London
Metal Exchange. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining
company, gained 1.7 percent to 1,856 pence and Antofagasta Plc
increased 3.4 percent to 932.5 pence.  
 Mining shares also advanced as Alcoa reported second-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ projections as higher metal
prices boosted sales. Earnings from continuing operations were
13 cents a share, exceeding the 11-cent average estimate of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 GlaxoSmithKline  rallied 1.9 percent to 1,176.5 pence after
the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker agreed to pay about $460 million to
resolve a majority of lawsuits alleging its Avandia diabetes
drug can cause heart attacks and strokes, people familiar with
the accords said.  
 Glaxo agreed to settle about 10,000 suits for an average of
at least $46,000 apiece, the people said.  
 “This is exceptionally good news given the market has
discounted $6 billion liability,” for Avandia litigation, Gbola
Amusa, an analyst at UBS AG in London said in an interview. “We
had outlined an absolute worst-case scenario where $500,000 per
case would have to be paid.”  
 Primary Winner  
 ARM Holdings Plc , the U.K. designer of semiconductors also
used in Apple’s iPhone, climbed 3.3 percent to 308.9 pence as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. named the company as a “primary
winner” from the introduction of Apple Inc.’s iPad.  
 Analysts said they expect “most tablets to be designed
with low-power, ARM-based chips.”  
 Shares of  British American Tobacco Plc  rose 2.6 percent to
2,277 pence as Goldman Sachs upgraded Europe’s second-largest
cigarette maker to “buy” from “neutral,” as part of a report
on European Consumer product companies released today.  Unilever
Plc , the world’s second-biggest maker of consumer products,
gained 2.9 percent to 1,898 pence as the brokerage upgraded the
stock to “conviction buy” from “neutral.”  
 Northern Foods Plc  slipped 1.6 percent to 46 pence after
the U.K. maker of Goodfella’s pizza reported a 1.6 percent
decline in like-for-like sales in the first quarter after the
company exited from the Birds Eye business in June 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        