-- Fuel Oil Losses in Europe Decline as Russia Ships to Asia: Energy Markets
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-07-13T15:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/fuel-oil-losses-in-europe-decline-as-russia-ships-to-asia-energy-markets.html

          
          
             European refining losses on sales of
fuel oil fell to a one-month low as Russian supplies headed to
power stations and shippers in the Middle East and Asia.  
 Refiners are losing about $9.46 a barrel from processing
North Sea Brent crude into fuel oil compared with $9.84 on June
14 and as much as $14.76 on April 6, according to front-month
swaps cleared on Nymex Clearport. The discount averaged $8.23 a
barrel in the past year. Oil companies are typically willing to
lose money as long as they profit from higher-value products
such as  gasoline  and diesel.  
 “Fuel oil is leaving Europe for Asia and that has
tightened spot availability and narrowed fuel oil’s discount to
Brent,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , the London-based head of
commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA.  
 The combination of reduced export tariffs and falling
domestic requirements during the summer months is stoking
Russian exports of the residue from distilling crude, just as
demand from Asia and the Middle East increases. Middle East
power stations will boost consumption an average 2.5 percent
annually between now and 2015, the International Energy Agency
said in a report on June 23.  
 Russian production climbed 6.7 percent in the first five
months of the year, reaching the highest level in almost three
years in March, according to Energy Ministry data. Shipments
from Russia may rise to as much as 56 million metric tons this
year, from 54 million in 2009, according to Moscow-based
Petromarket Research Group.  
 Import Surge  
 Kuwait’s power consumption increased to an all-time high
last month, the state news agency KUNA reported June 16. Imports
of high-sulfur fuel oil into the  Fotco  Oil Terminal in southern
Pakistan rose by more than 50 percent in the 12 months to May
31, Bloomberg data show.  
 “We expect a surge in fuel-oil imports from countries such
as Pakistan, India and Iraq,” said Fawaz Valiaani, chief
executive officer of Dubai-based Valliani Capital Ltd., which
trades in energy and commodities in the Middle East and Africa.
“Demand for fuel oil in power generation is on the increase.”  
 Fuel oil demand rose in Thailand by 22.2 percent in March,
as natural gas imports from neighbouring Myanmar fell, the IEA
said in its monthly report today. Its demand rose 7.8 percent in
April, the report said.  
 Russia produces a greater proportion than some of its peers
because its lower-grade facilities aren’t able to process the
commodity more than once, forcing it to seek foreign markets
when domestic demand ebbs. Fuel oil, or bunker, accounts for
about 27 percent of the nation’s refining output, compared with
less than 10 percent in Germany.  
 Tax Advantages  
 “Fuel-oil capacities in Russia are excessive compared to
domestic demand,” said  Constantine Cherepanov , an oil analyst
at UBS AG in Moscow.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  cut the duty on heavy oil-
product exports to $96.90 a ton on July 1 while the tariff on
light oil products was reduced to $179.90. Russia changes its
export duty on fuels every month.  
 Bunker consumption is also rising in Singapore, the world’s
largest refueling port for tankers and container vessels. Sales
jumped 7.5 percent to a record 3.47 million tons in May from a
year earlier, the country’s Maritime & Port Authority said.  
 “High demand from the power-generation sector in the
Middle East, Pakistan and other countries as well as solid
bunker fuel sales in Asia should counterbalance” rising fuel
oil exports from Russia,  David Wech , head of research at Vienna-
based JBC Energy GmbH, said by e-mail.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “Fuel oil is leaving Europe for Asia and that has tightened spot availability and narrowed fuel oil’s discount to Brent”. Photographer: Jimmy Jeong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
