-- GE Puts Up $200 Million in Contest Seeking Ideas for `Smart' Power Grid
-- Rachel Layne
-- 2010-07-13T17:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ge-puts-up-200-million-in-contest-seeking-ideas-for-smart-power-grid.html

          
          
             General Electric Co.  called for
entries in a 10-week contest to speed global power-grid
upgrades, promising investment and marketing help for the best
submissions from a $200 million fund.  
 Jeffrey Immelt , chief executive officer, is seeking ideas
to tap into what the Electric Power Research Institute estimates
is a $200 billion market for smart-grid technologies in the next
decade. GE is spending about $10 billion on environmentally
friendly products by 2015 through his five-year-old
“ecomagination” program.  
 “We want to accelerate the process,” Immelt told reporters
today in a conference call from an event in San Francisco to
present the contest and new products such as an electric car-
charging station. “We want to make GE really the go-to brand
both from a customer and entrepreneurial standpoint.”  
 GE is the world’s biggest maker of jet engines, locomotives
and power-plant turbines. It initiated the “ecomagination
Challenge” in collaboration with venture capital firms  Emerald
Technology Ventures AG , Foundation Capital, Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Beyers and RockPort Capital. About $100 million of
the fund will be provided by GE, with the rest from the firms.  
 Distribution, Licensing  
 “This allows us to see a big funnel of ideas very
quickly,” Immelt said, adding that those chosen will be given
the “full muscle” of the GE brand, including distribution
agreements, licensing, research-center fellowships, or equity
stakes. “From sales to branding to technology to
manufacturabilty they’re going to get the full power of what GE
can bring you, which is substantial.”  
 GE  considers the market tied to the smart grid globally at
about $15 billion to $20 billion today, rising to about $120
billion by 2030, using what Immelt called third-party estimates.
He said he expects to expand GE’s digital-energy business, now
at about $2 billion, by a factor of 10 over 20 years.  
 GE’s power-generation equipment provides about one-third of
the world’s electricity. The company today presented two
products -- an electric-car charging station and a home energy-
use manager -- tied to the “smart grid,” a distribution and
transmission system that helps control consumers’ appliances to
save energy, reduce costs and increase reliability.  
 The WattStation will cut car-charging time in half to as
few as 4 hours, while the Nucleus communication and data-storage
device will monitor home energy use and costs, GE said today in
a statement. Both products are set to debut next year, said
Immelt.  
 GE rose 32 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $15.25 at 1:06 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained less than 1 percent this year.  
 Overseeing Investments  
 The contest seeks proposals for renewable energy, grid
technologies and “eco” homes and buildings, and carries five
$100,000 awards for what the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company judges as the most innovative submissions.  
 GE will oversee the investment, gauge potential
partnerships, use its research centers to accelerate development
and coordinate with customers to evaluate strategy and take a
product to market, the company said.  
 GE plans to take entries through Sept. 30, aims for a list
of finalists in late October, and seeks to name winners around
Nov. 8,  Beth Comstock , chief marketing officer, said in the
interview with reporters.  
 The GE WattStation was created by Yves Behar, an
industrial designer, to help utilities manage demand from
electric vehicles. It will reduce charging time by as much as 18
hours, the company said in its statement. The device will be
available in 2011 with home versions later that year.  
 The WattStation will address a $1.5 billion market, Immelt
said today at the event in San Francisco.  
 The Nucleus is part of a group of what GE dubs Brillion
smart-home energy-management products including a programmable
thermostat, in-home display, smart-phone application and smart
appliances for the entire house, the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        