-- General Growth Files $8.5 Billion Restructuring Plan, Plans Split in Two
-- Chris Bourke
-- 2010-07-13T17:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/general-growth-properties-files-8-5-billion-restructuring-plan-to-court.html

          
          
             General Growth Properties Inc. , the
second-largest U.S. mall operator, filed a reorganization plan
saying it will split itself into two companies when it exits
bankruptcy in October.  
 Under the proposal in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York,
General Growth will fully repay debt and other claims, raise as
much as $8.5 billion of new capital and issue stock in two new
companies to current shareholders.  
 Today’s filing marks the start of the last stage of General
Growth’s bankruptcy case, which began after the company failed
to refinance its debt during the credit crunch. At the time,
commercial real estate prices in the U.S. had dropped 15 percent
and retail sales had fallen as job losses forced consumers to
pull back.  
 “Things went from bleak to full payment,” said  Kirk Ruddy , senior vice president of trading at APS Capital Corp. and
a former Bear Stearns Cos. claims trader.  
 The company’s exit from bankruptcy is being funded by
Brookfield Asset Management Inc., Fairholme Capital Management
LLC and Pershing Square Capital Management LLC, General Growth
said today in a statement.  
 The company has already won court approval to restructure
$15 billion of secured debt tied to 144 properties.  
 General Growth in May received court approval to move
forward with financing commitments from the companies after
rejecting a competing bid from  Simon Property Group Inc. , the
largest mall owner.  
 180 Properties  
 It expects to emerge from reorganization in October and
remain the second-largest mall owner in the U.S., with 180
properties in 43 states.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009.  
 The two new General Growth companies will divide the
assets, with the larger one keeping the name and most of the
malls and receiving at least $6.3 billion of the new investment,
according to the statement.  
 The smaller company will get mixed-use residential
properties and $250 million through a rights offering, said
 David Keating , a spokesman.  
 The Chicago-based company filed for bankruptcy after
amassing a $27 billion debt load while making acquisitions.
Since the filing, it has restructured $15 billion worth of its
project-level debt.  
 The Teacher Retirement System of Texas agreed yesterday to
invest $500 million in the company.  
 The filing of the plan “is an important milestone in our
restructuring process,” Chief Executive Officer  Adam Metz  said
in the statement.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   church@bloomberg.net .
 Chris Bourke  in London
at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        