-- George Steinbrenner Is Remembered With Fans' Tears, Senate Proclamations
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-14T00:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/george-steinbrenner-is-remembered-with-fans-tears-senate-proclamations.html

          
          
             The death of  George Steinbrenner ,
who built a champion in the Bronx, was felt throughout New York
City and beyond.  
 Steinbrenner, 80, died this morning in Tampa, Florida.  
 About 1,150 miles north, fans in the Bronx borough of New
York paid tribute to Steinbrenner outside the $1.5 billion
ballpark that now is part of his legacy. They were there to
remember “The Boss,” who brought seven World Series
championships and created a sports brand during his 37-year
tenure.  
 “He always gave us, as fans and a community, a
distraction,” said 42-year-old Bronx resident Robert Sanchez,
wiping tears from under his sunglasses. “Especially for us in
the neighborhood, we grew up under the lights of the stadium,
and he’s the man who made it go.”  
 Under threatening rainclouds, some left notes, candles and
photos outside Gate 4 of the 2-year-old ballpark, not far from
home plate.  
 “Thank you for making our lives a little happier,” read
one note, left by the Taveras family of the Bronx.  
 The Yankees’ .566 winning percentage since Steinbrenner led
an investment group in January 1973 that bought the Major League
Baseball franchise from CBS Corp. was the best in Major League
Baseball. It’s the only franchise to draw more than 4 million
fans at home for four straight seasons, from 2005 through 2008.  
 The Yankees said they’ll wear commemorative patches on
their uniforms for the rest of the season to honor the passing
of Steinbrenner and longtime Yankee Stadium announcer  Bob Sheppard , who started on opening day April 17, 1951, and died
two days ago at age 99.  
 Flags Lowered  
 The flags at City Hall were lowered to honor the
“quintessential New Yorker,” Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in
an e-mailed statement.  
 “This is a sad day not only for Yankee fans, but for our
entire city, as few people have had a bigger impact on New York
over the past four decades,” said Bloomberg, the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  
 Steinbrenner was born in Ohio, where his family owned
shipbuilding companies.  
 U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York,
offered a Senate resolution to honor Steinbrenner, a U.S. Air
Force veteran. Steinbrenner returned glory to a struggling
franchise that Schumer had rooted for since childhood, he said.  
 “He turned a scrappy group of baseball players into a team
New Yorkers are proud to support,” Schumer said, according to a
transcript of his statement made on the floor of the Senate.
“The Yankees of his day are reminiscent of the Yankees of the
1920s, ‘30s, ‘40s, ‘50s and early ‘60s. All New Yorkers and
baseball fans owe George Steinbrenner a huge thank you for
changing the face of American baseball.”  
 Wide Impact  
 While politicians and builders may have had more of a
physical impact on New York, Steinbrenner’s reach was felt
throughout the city and beyond, according to  Harvey Schiller ,
former president of YankeeNets, the holding company that for a
time owned the Yankees and New Jersey Nets.  
 “What he did, which the others didn’t do because they
didn’t own the Yankees, is he was in every house,” Schiller
said in a telephone interview. “His team was in the newspaper
every day. It didn’t matter if it was kids in school, or when
you went into a pizza restaurant in San Francisco, there was
always a guy wearing a Yankees hat.”  
 Steinbrenner’s group bought the Yankees for a net price of
$8.7 million. Today, it is worth $1.6 billion, the most in
baseball, according to an annual ranking by Forbes magazine.  
 Teams’ Tributes  
 The New York Mets, with whom Steinbrenner competed for the
passion of local baseball fans, remembered him today as a
“larger-than-life figure and a force in the industry.”  
 “The rise and success of his teams on the field and in the
business marketplace under his leadership are a testament to his
skill, drive and determination,” the Mets said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 New York’s National Football League teams also paid tribute
in e-mailed statements. Jets owner  Woody Johnson  called
Steinbrenner an inspiration, an American icon “whose passion
and enthusiasm became part of the fabric of New York City.”
Giants President  John Mara  said Steinbrenner’s death left a void
in the sports world and the city, calling him “as generous and
charitable a person as has ever been in sports.”  
 Some fans went to the Bronx today in search of tickets for
the Yankees’ first game after the All-Star break on July 16,
when they’ll honor Sheppard. Old-Timers Day, an annual
celebration in which retired Yankee players compete in an
exhibition game before the regular contest, is July 17.  
 Stadium Visits  
 People also arrived for tours of the stadium that opened a
year ago and played host to the team’s 27th World Series
championship on Nov. 4.  
 Bill Oberle, a 62-year-old who lives in the City Island
section of the Bronx, said he came to Yankee Stadium when
Yankees catcher  Thurman Munson  died in a plane crash in 1979.
His visit today was different.  
 “This is more of a celebration of George’s life,” Oberle
said.  
 Danny Taveras, a 22-year-old who lives near the stadium,
looked toward the future of the team, whose 56-32 record is the
best in baseball this season.  
 “This World Series that we’re going to win this year, it’s
going to be for George,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tyler Bauer looks at a candle and two roses placed at Gate 4 at Yankee Stadium, after the death of George Steinbrenner. Photographer: Eric Thayer/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) --  Rick Horrow, founder of Horrow Sports Ventures Inc. and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, discusses the legacy of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Horrow speaks from St. Andrews, Scotland. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Eric Shanks, president of Fox Sports, talks with Bloomberg's Michele Steele about the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and the network's plans to honor him during tonight's broadcast of the 81st Major League Baseball All-Star Game.
     They speak from Angels Stadium in Anaheim, California. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Marty Appel, former publicist for the New York Yankees, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about George Steinbrenner's business strategies as principal owner of the Yankees.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida. He was 80. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Ray Negron, director of community relations at Spalding Sports Worldwide Inc. and former special adviser to George Steinbrenner, explains the impact the late Yankees owner had on his life and the South Bronx. 
     Negron speaks with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Sports reporter Jim Gray discusses the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. 
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Gray speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist Scott Soshnick reports on the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Soshnick speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
