-- George Steinbrenner, Yankees' Win-or-Else Boss, Dies
-- Laurence Arnold
-- 2010-07-13T17:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/george-steinbrenner-the-boss-who-rebuilt-yankees-franchise-dies-at-80.html

          
          
             George Steinbrenner , the mercurial
and free-spending owner of the New York Yankees who presided
over the restoration of one of the great franchises in
professional sports after turning it into baseball’s version of
a soap opera, has died. He was 80.  
 He died today in Tampa, Florida, according to a statement
by his family. He suffered a heart attack, the Associated Press
reported. Major League Baseball is in the midst of its annual
midseason break for the All-Star Game, being played tonight in
Anaheim, California.  
 The man known as “The Boss” took baseball by storm in his
37-year tenure, helping to usher in free agency and
multimillion-dollar contracts, changing managers 24 times and
serving two suspensions.  
 “We’d be winning games and he’d be semi-embarrassed
because we’d win on a squeeze bunt or a base hit,” recalled  Joe Torre , who spent 12 seasons as manager through 2007. “He wanted
to mutilate people.”  
 Steinbrenner’s  Yankees  won two early championships,
followed by a 13-year playoff drought during which his
combustible personality overshadowed the team’s performance. The
franchise regained its footing in the 1990s, fueled by
Steinbrenner’s prodigious spending, and won four World Series in
a five-year span through 2000, inviting comparisons to previous
sports dynasties.  
 Seven Titles  
 In all, the Yankees won seven of their record 27 world
championships during Steinbrenner’s reign, most recently in
2009, the first season after he turned over day-to-day
operations to his youngest son, Hal.  
 Steinbrenner’s Yankees lured the game’s top players with
blockbuster contracts funded by the team’s league-leading
attendance, global popularity and regional sports network. His
aggressive business tactics widened the Yankees’ lead as
baseball’s richest team while irking other owners.  
 “I’m going to miss him,”  Marvin Miller , the former head
of Major League Baseball’s players union, said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t mean he was pro-union in any sense of the
word, but he was clearly not of the school of the hard-line
owners that felt the unions were treasonous.”  
 By 2005, the Yankees were the most expensive sports team
ever assembled in North America, with a payroll of $208 million.
They became the first baseball franchise worth more than $1
billion the following year in Forbes magazine’s annual rankings.
In April 2010, Forbes estimated the Yankees’  value  at $1.6
billion.  
 Caught Catfish  
 Steinbrenner helped establish that players were free
agents, able to move teams and sign with the highest bidder, by
plucking pitcher Catfish Hunter from the Oakland Athletics in
1974 with a five-year, $3.5 million contract, a record at the
time. Two years later, he landed Oakland slugger Reggie Jackson,
the biggest star available on the first open free-agent market.  
 During the second of Steinbrenner’s two suspensions from
baseball, from 1990 to 1993, Yankee management led by General
Manager  Gene Michael  stocked the franchise with future stars --
including shortstop  Derek Jeter  and pitcher  Andy Pettitte  -- who
would lead the team to its most successful run of the
Steinbrenner era.  
 That core group of homegrown players led the Yankees to 13
straight playoff appearances, through 2007, and World Series
titles in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2009.  
 New Stadium  
 After numerous threats to leave the Bronx for New Jersey or
Manhattan if attendance didn’t pick up, Steinbrenner decided to
build a new  Yankee Stadium  next to the one that housed the team
since 1923. The new $1.3 billion stadium opened in 2009.  
 New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, today saluted
Steinbrenner as “a champion who made New York a better place”
and said flags at City Hall Plaza would be lowered.  
 George Michael Steinbrenner III was born July 4, 1930, in
Rocky River, Ohio, the oldest of three children of shipping
magnate Henry Steinbrenner and his wife, Rita Haley. His drive
in sports and business was imbued early.  
 “My father expected me to do well in everything,”
Steinbrenner  recalled . “He was a big man, a great athlete, and
a fine student. He graduated from MIT near the top of his class
and became the school’s only NCAA champion in track and field
ever. That’s what I was up against. I was an only son, and I
knew he was always watching.”  
 Before turning 10, Steinbrenner used a loan from his father
to buy baby chickens and went into business selling eggs.  
 Ran Hurdles  
 He attended Culver Military Academy in Indiana, then
Williams College in Massachusetts, where he studied English
literature and ran hurdles, as his father had.  
 After serving two years as an aide to an Air Force general
in Ohio, he indulged his love of sports as an assistant football
coach at Northwestern and Purdue universities. He returned to
the family fold in 1957 by joining Kinsman Marine Transit, the
Great Lakes shipping company his grandfather and great-
grandfather had founded in 1901.  
 He succeeded his father as company president in 1963 and,
four years later, led a group that took over a bigger rival,
 American Ship Building . The resulting company was the largest
grain carrier on the Great Lakes.  
 “This was a rocket rise to wealth, but all the while part
of his focus stayed on sports,” Roger Kahn wrote in his  book  on
the 1978 Yankees. “In a sense, sport to George was like that
beckoning green light Jay Gatsby saw and sought on a dock he
could not reach.”  
 Basketball Bankruptcy  
 Steinbrenner bought a basketball team, the Cleveland
Pipers, which went bankrupt when its league collapsed.  
 He leaped into the big time in 1973, leading a group of
investors that bought the Yankees from CBS Corp. for $10
million. Rich history aside, the Yankees were a .500 team at the
time and hadn’t made the World Series since 1964. Though his
initial investment was just $168,000, Steinbrenner would buy out
his partners over the years to become principal owner.  
 Steinbrenner was indicted in 1974 on charges of making
illegal contributions to President  Richard Nixon ’s re-election
campaign. Pleading guilty to a felony and a misdemeanor, he
admitted he tried to “influence and intimidate” employees of
his company to lie about the donations. Avoiding prison, he was
fined $15,000.  
 Commissioner  Bowie Kuhn  banned Steinbrenner from the game
for two years, then reduced the sentence to 15 months. Years
later, President  Ronald Reagan  would grant Steinbrenner a
pardon. Steinbrenner thanked his lawyers by doubling their
$50,000 fee.  
 ‘The Bronx Zoo’  
 In Steinbrenner’s fifth season, 1977, the Yankees won the
first of two straight championships while enduring feuds among
three outsized personalities: Steinbrenner, Jackson and manager
 Billy Martin . The team earned the nickname “The Bronx Zoo.”  
 After losing to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1981 World
Series, the Yankees missed the postseason every year until 1995.
Steinbrenner changed managers 12 times during the 1980s. The
combative Martin alone was hired and fired five times over 14
seasons.  
 One of his most destructive feuds was with legendary
Yankees catcher  Yogi Berra , who managed the team to a third-
place finish in 1984. Sixteen games into the next season,
Steinbrenner fired him, choosing to send an intermediary to
deliver the news rather than do it personally.  
 Worst Mistake  
 So angry was Berra that he vowed never to step foot in
Yankee Stadium while Steinbrenner was in charge. Steinbrenner
patched the rift in 1999, apologizing at an in-person meeting.
Berra’s wife, who attended the meeting, said Steinbrenner told
Berra that the way he fired him was “the worst mistake I ever
made in baseball.”  
 Berra, 85, said in a statement today, “George and I had
our differences, but who didn’t? We became great friends over
the last decade and I will miss him very much.”  
 In 1990, Steinbrenner paid an admitted gambler, Howie
Spira, $40,000 for damaging information about star outfielder
 Dave Winfield , with whom Steinbrenner was feuding. Commissioner
 Fay Vincent  banned Steinbrenner from baseball for life, then
reinstated him for the 1993 season.  
 Steinbrenner grew incrementally more patient in his later
years, the Yankees prospering amid the stability. Torre’s 12-
year run as manager began in 1996, and  Brian Cashman  has been
general manager since 1998.  
 ‘Divide and Conquer’  
 Steinbrenner’s patience didn’t necessarily translate to
softer treatment of the people under him. In a 2009 memoir, co-
written with Tom Verducci, Torre said Steinbrenner governed with
a “divide and conquer dynamic” that encouraged employees to
denigrate others.  
 Steinbrenner capitalized on the franchise’s popularity in
2002 by launching the Yankees Entertainment & Sports (YES)
Network, a regional cable network built around Yankees
programming. The Yankees owned 40 percent of the venture. In
2008, the network’s estimated $2 billion value surpassed that of
the franchise proper.  
 In stepping back after the 2007 season, Steinbrenner named
sons Hank and Hal co-chairmen of Yankee Global Enterprises LLC,
the holding company of the team and its television network. He
appointed daughters Jennifer and Jessica, and wife Joan, as vice
chairwomen.  
 On occasion, Steinbrenner poked fun at his image. In a 2004
credit card commercial, he appeared with his arm in a sling,
ostensibly from having signed too many checks.  
 Raced Horses  
 He and his family spent summers at  Kinsman Stable , his
horse farm in Ocala, Florida, which produced six Kentucky Derby
entrants. Steve’s Friend had the best showing, finishing fifth
in 1977.  
 Steinbrenner married the former  Joan Zeig  in 1956. Like
their father, each of their four children graduated from Culver
Military Academy.  
 Steinbrenner brought his passion for the military to the
Yankees. At his behest, a sign was hung in the corridor leading
from the clubhouse to the field. Each game, Yankees players read
the words of Gen.  Douglas MacArthur : “There is no substitute
for victory.’  
 “I keep telling my guys, always remember that winning is
everything,” Steinbrenner said in an interview on YES in 2005.
“Winning is important. It’s a way of life.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Yankees owner George Steinbrenner during a ticker-tape parade in New York after the Yankees won the 2000 World Series Series. Photographer: Doug Kanter/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) --  Rick Horrow, founder of Horrow Sports Ventures Inc. and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, discusses the legacy of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Horrow speaks from St. Andrews, Scotland. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Eric Shanks, president of Fox Sports, talks with Bloomberg's Michele Steele about the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and the network's plans to honor him during tonight's broadcast of the 81st Major League Baseball All-Star Game.
     They speak from Angels Stadium in Anaheim, California. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Marty Appel, former publicist for the New York Yankees, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about George Steinbrenner's business strategies as principal owner of the Yankees.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida. He was 80. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Ray Negron, director of community relations at Spalding Sports Worldwide Inc. and former special adviser to George Steinbrenner, explains the impact the late Yankees owner had on his life and the South Bronx. 
     Negron speaks with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Sports reporter Jim Gray discusses the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. 
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Gray speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist Scott Soshnick reports on the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Soshnick speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- George Steinbrenner, principal owner of the New York Yankees, died early today in Tampa, Florida after suffering a massive heart attack. Bloomberg's Michele Steele reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     New York Yankees principal owner George Steinbrenner who is said to have died this morning, aged 80. Photographer: Joe Tabacca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       George Steinbrenner’s Family Confirms His Death at Age 80  
                       
                         
                           Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg 
                         
                         New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner speaks during a ground breaking ceremony for the Yankees' new stadium in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner speaks during a ground breaking ceremony for the Yankees' new stadium in New York. Photographer: Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       George Steinbrenner’s Family Confirms His Death at Age 80  
                       
                         
                           Tim Sloan/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         George Steinbrenner, owner of the New York Yankees, receiving an honorary degree from The Ohio State University. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     George Steinbrenner, owner of the New York Yankees, receiving an honorary degree from The Ohio State University. Photographer: Tim Sloan/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       George Steinbrenner’s Family Confirms His Death at Age 80  
                       
                         
                           Robert Sullivan /AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and manager Joe Torre hold the World Series Trophy after the Yankees beat the Atlanta Braves. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and manager Joe Torre hold the World Series Trophy after the Yankees beat the Atlanta Braves. Photographer: Robert Sullivan /AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       George Steinbrenner’s Family Confirms His Death at Age 80  
                       
                         
                           Paul Hawthorne/Getty Images 
                         
                         New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner attends the 11th Annual Living Landmarks Gala at The Plaza Hotel in New York City. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner attends the 11th Annual Living Landmarks Gala at The Plaza Hotel in New York City. Photographer: Paul Hawthorne/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner talks to the press during the 1989 season in New York. Stephen Dunn/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     New York Yankees President Michael Burke and George Steinbrenner during an announcement that an ownership group led by Steinbrenner are the new owners of the Yankees on January 3, 1973 at Yankee Stadium in New York. Source:Olen Collection/Diamond Images/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       George Steinbrenner, Boss of Yankees, Dies at 80  
                       
                         
                           Pat Carroll/NY Daily News Archive via Getty Images 
                         
                         Yankees owner George Steinbrenner batting to right field. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Yankees owner George Steinbrenner batting to right field.Photographer: Pat Carroll/NY Daily News Archive via Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       George Steinbrenner, Boss of Yankees, Dies at 80  
                       
                         
                           B Bennett/Getty Images 
                         
                         Jim Spencer of the New York Yankees pours champagne on team owner George Steinbrenner as they celebrate winning the 1978 World Series over the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jim Spencer of the New York Yankees pours champagne on team owner George Steinbrenner as they celebrate winning the 1978 World Series over the Los Angeles Dodgers. Photographer: B Bennett/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
