-- Germans Show No Inclination to Give Up on Euro, Spurring Boom
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-07-14T13:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/germans-showing-no-inclination-to-give-up-on-euro-spurring-a-business-boom.html

          
          
             For Germany, bailing out its
neighbors to save the euro is proving a price worth paying.  
 Rising share prices and foreign sales at  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG  and  Siemens AG  show why it may be worth keeping the
single currency even as some voters balk at the cost of rescuing
Greece and demand a return to the deutsche mark. As exporters
benefit from the lower  labor costs  and currency stability
fostered by the euro’s 1999 introduction, unemployment has
dropped close to an 18-year low and the  DAX Index  is the 16-
nation bloc’s best performing major benchmark this year.  
 That’s reinforcing Germany’s status as a pillar of euro
stability rather than a weak link as European policy makers
scramble to stop the region lurching back into recession. While
academics including  Martin Feldstein  say the Greek crisis could
splinter the euro and investor  George Soros  urges Germany to do
more to ease economic tensions in the region, the currency is
rebounding. The euro has gained 6.6 percent against the dollar
since hitting a four-year low on June 7.  
 “A break-up would be a big, big problem for the German
economy, probably bigger than for most others,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at Barclays Capital in London.
“Industries in Germany have gained so much market share in
Europe. For Germany, it’s a lose-lose situation.”  
 Trading Edge  
 Germany is reaping the rewards of the discipline imposed on
its economy over the past decade after reunification in 1990
dragged down growth and saw the country being labeled the “sick
man” of Europe. With the euro preventing governments from
devaluing their way to growth, Germany squeezed labor costs just
as economies from  Spain  to Greece allowed employment costs to
rise before being forced to run up record budget deficits when
the global recession hit.  
 The result has sharpened Germany’s trading edge over the
euro-region economy’s southern periphery. Europe’s largest
economy became 13 percent more competitive against its neighbors
in the 11 years through 2009, mirroring similar declines in
Spain and Greece, according to a wages-based indicator designed
by the  European Central Bank .  
 The pay-off is evident in the performance of Siemens,
Europe’s largest engineering company. Since 2001 it has recorded
23.1 billion euros ($29 billion) in restructuring costs,
according to estimates by Morgan Stanley. That efficiency-drive
helped boost the European share of Siemens’ sales to 41 percent
in 2009 from 32 percent in 2004 and pushed its operating margin
above those of  General Electric Co. , Alstom SA and ABB Ltd.  
 DAX Increase  
 Exporters have pushed the DAX 3.9 percent higher this year,
with Siemens shares increasing 18 percent and BMW, which
yesterday raised its earnings forecast, climbing 32 percent. The
 Spanish  and  Greek benchmarks  have lost 14 percent and 29
percent, respectively, and the U.S.  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
has declined 0.6 percent.  
 “Talking to companies you get the feeling that they are
really quite positive about their earnings and expectations,”
said  Stefan Moeckel , a fund manager at WestLB Mellon Asset
Management in Dusseldorf, Germany, which manages about 40
billion euros. He says the DAX may reach 7,000 this year,
compared to its level of 6,173 at 2:45 p.m. in Frankfurt today.  
 Commerzbank AG  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said
July 8 Germany is growing at a faster pace than anticipated.
Deutsche Bank AG predicts that the German economy will expand 2
percent this year, more than France, Italy and Spain.  
 German Irritation  
 German voters are yet to be convinced about the benefits of
the euro as they foot the biggest share of the bailouts agreed
by leaders earlier this year to rescue the currency. Fifty-one
percent of respondents in a poll published on June 30 by the
mass-selling Bild tabloid called for a return to the deutsche
mark. That’s up from a third who wanted the euro scrapped in
March 2008.  
 The reason for their irritation is that Greece and other
so-called peripheral economies “broke the rules” of the euro
by living beyond their means, said  Joerg Kraemer , chief
economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt. Of the 610 billion euros
pledged by governments, Germany could have to pay as much as 170
billion euros.  
 While Kraemer says quitting the euro is “not on the
agenda,” Morgan Stanley’s co-chief global economist  Joachim Fels  has said that may change. Inflation expectations may
accelerate if investors question governments’ commitment to
fiscal discipline, he says, prompting a German rethink of
membership.  
 A German exit is “clearly not a near-term possibility,”
Fels said in a May 18 interview on Bloomberg Television. “It is
a distinct possibility longer-term.”  
 Exit Benefits  
 There may even be some benefits to Germany from quitting
the bloc, said  Christopher Smallwood , an associate of London-
based investment consultancy Capital Economics Ltd. A new
deutsche mark could appreciate enough to cut the country’s trade
surplus, depressing prices and forcing the government to stoke
demand at home, he said in a July 11 report.  
 “The huge external surplus, from which German consumers
derive no benefit, would be translated across into increased
public and consumer spending,” said Smallwood. “The standard
of living of German households would rise substantially.”  
 Germany’s focus on  exports  and budget discipline has drawn
criticism from billionaire investor Soros, who says the country
should buy more goods from other countries and labels Germany
“the main protagonist” for Europe’s crisis. “Germany is
endangering the European Union,” Soros said in Berlin on June
23.  
 Shelter  
 Euro membership has nevertheless sheltered Germany, which
relies on exports for 41 percent of gross domestic product, from
the ravages of the global financial crisis, said  Juergen Pfister , chief economist at Munich-based lender Bayerische
Landesbank. Prior to the euro, the mark was a haven in times of
turmoil and prone to volatility, surging about 50 percent
against the Italian lira in the first half of the 1990s.  
 “The deutsche mark would have appreciated massively as a
result of the financial crisis, harming German exports and
making the 2009 recession much worse,” said Pfister. “The euro
provides stability.”  
 Mark Cliffe  at ING Bank NV calculates that any splintering
of the euro area would mean a deflationary shock in Germany and
a slump in output of about 10 percent over two years.  
 Instead, German companies are cashing in on the euro’s 16
percent decline since November as it makes  BMW  and Volkswagen
AG’s Audi cars cheaper abroad and swells their value when the
revenue is repatriated. Shares of  TUI AG , Europe’s largest
travel company, have risen 39 percent this year and the company
on July 6 raised its forecast for global container shipping,
citing a “notable” recovery.  
 Export Filter  
 Exporters’ success is filtering into the broader German
economy. Unemployment declined for a 12th month in June and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s
standardized measures shows a jobless rate of 7 percent in May,
2.7 percentage points lower than the U.S.’s. Business confidence
reached a two-year high in June, according to the Ifo institute.  
 “In a way, we are the winner because of the high
exports,” said  Christa Randzio-Plath , the former chairwoman of
the European Parliament’s monetary affairs committee and now
professor at the University of Hamburg. “We would pay for going
out of the euro area.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Merkel helps save Euro  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Merkel shows no way to give up on Euro. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Merkel shows no way to give up on Euro. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 18 (Bloomberg) -- Joachim Fels, co-chief global economist at Morgan Stanley, talks with Bloomberg's David Tweed about the outlook for the euro and European inflation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Smallwood, an associate at Capital Economics Ltd., talks about the prospects for the breakup of the euro zone.
     Smallwood speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
