-- German Investor Confidence Drops for Third Month as Bank Stress Tests Loom
-- Jana Randow
-- 2010-07-13T09:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/german-investor-confidence-slides-for-third-month-as-crisis-hobbles-growth.html

          
          
             German  investor  confidence declined
for a third month in July as Europe’s debt crisis threatens to
cripple economic growth and banks undergo stress tests to prove
their durability.  
 The Mannheim-based  ZEW Center for European Economic
Research  said today its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict developments six months
ahead, fell to a 15-month low of 21.2 from 28.7 in June.
Economists had forecast a drop to 25.3, according to the median
of 34 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey .  
 Governments across the 16-nation euro region are cutting
spending to rein in excessive budget deficits, threatening to
undermine the economic recovery. At the same time, regulators
are carrying out stress tests on 91 lenders aimed at reassuring
investors that banks have enough capital to withstand shocks.  
 “Investors are becoming increasingly worried about a
deterioration of sentiment worldwide, which signals that
Germany’s export-led recovery will slow down before long,” said
 Andreas Rees , chief German economist at UniCredit MIB in Munich.
“We’ll see an impact around the turn of the year. A double-dip
is a serious risk scenario.”  
 The euro rose after the report to $1.2572 from $1.245. The
benchmark  DAX share index  resumed its climb after a brief dip.
It gained 4 percent last week.  
 Current Conditions  
 Latest data suggest economic growth accelerated in the
second quarter. German exports surged 9.2 percent in May,
unemployment fell in June and business confidence unexpectedly
rose to a two-year high. ZEW’s gauge of current conditions
turned positive for the first time in two years, jumping to 14.6
from minus 7.9 in June.  
 The Bundesbank on June 11 raised its growth forecasts,
predicting expansion in Europe’s largest economy of 1.9 percent
this year and 1.4 percent in 2011, up from 1.6 percent and 1.2
percent respectively.  Exports , which accounted for 41 percent of
gross domestic product last year, will be one of the “main
driving forces,” the central bank said.  
 Executives from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ,  Volkswagen
AG ’s Audi unit and  Siemens AG  credit the euro’s 17 percent
decline against the dollar since November for boosting
competitiveness and making revenue earned overseas worth more
when they bring it home.  
 Slower Recovery  
 Volkswagen’s sales in China surged 46 percent in the first
half of the year after the company introduced new models to
attract consumers in the world’s largest vehicle market.  
 “The economy won’t be able to maintain its pace of
expansion in the second half of the year,” said  Ralph Solveen ,
head of economic research at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“After a very, very strong second quarter, the recovery will
slow down. But it will continue.”  
 Budget cuts may hurt consumer confidence and spending and
curb demand for German goods in the euro area, its biggest
export market. Concern about the health of the banking sector
may also cloud the economic outlook.  
 A number of lenders will probably fail the stress tests
that are currently being conducted,  Guido Ravoet , secretary
general of the Brussels-based European Banking Federation, said
on July 9. Governments “must stand ready to assist these
banks” as they may struggle to tap markets for additional
capital, he said. The results of the tests are due to be
published on July 23.  
 “We don’t know how severe the tested scenarios will be,”
said  Rainer Sartoris , an economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt
in Dusseldorf. “It remains to be seen whether we will be much
smarter afterwards.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Secretary general of the Brussels-based European Banking Federation Guido Ravoet said that a number of lenders will probably fail the stress tests that are currently being conducted. Photographer: Alan Weller/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Simon Ballard, senior credit strategist at RBC Capital Markets, talks about stress tests for European banks.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
