-- German Bonds Fall After Greek Debt Sale Reduces Demand for Safest Assets
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-13T15:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/german-10-year-bond-yield-is-near-a-one-week-low-before-confidence-report.html

          
          
             German bonds fell after Greece sold
six-month securities at a lower interest rate than some analysts
expected, easing demand for the region’s safest assets.  
 The decline pushed bund yields up from near the lowest in a
week as Greece sold 26-week bills at a rate of 4.65 percent.
 Padhraic Garvey , a fixed-income strategist at ING Groep NV, had
predicted the funding cost would be about 5 percent. Portuguese
bonds dropped as Moody’s Investors Service cut the country’s
credit rating.  
 “With the pretty solid auction in Greece, sentiment has
turned a bit,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “This has been the main 
event for the bund market today.”  
 The yield on the 10-year German bund rose five basis points
to 2.63 percent as of 4:14 p.m. in London. The 3 percent
security maturing in July 2020 fell 0.41, or 4.1 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,264) face amount, to 103.17. The yield had
declined to 2.57 percent yesterday, the lowest since July 7, and
reached a record low of 2.5 percent on June 8.  
 Greek two-year securities rose, with the yield falling 130
basis points to 9.79 percent. The extra yield investors demand
to hold 10-year Greek debt over bunds slipped seven basis points
to 757 basis points. The spread has narrowed from 965 basis
points on May 7, the most since before the euro’s 1999 debut.  
 European stocks  climbed for a sixth day, with the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index  advancing 1.8 percent and erasing this year’s
losses. It has risen 8 percent since July 5.  
 ‘Thumbs Up’  
 Bunds had been steady earlier today after the  ZEW Center
for European Economic Research  said its index of investor and
analyst expectations fell to a 15-month low in July, a third
straight monthly drop, in the wake of Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis. German bonds have benefited as concern that nations in
southern Europe may default on their debt drove investors to the
safest assets.  
 “We are happy with the composition of the investor base,”
including foreign investors,  Petros Christodoulou , head of the
country’s debt management agency, said by phone. “Starting from
the very short end of the market, this is a thumbs up for the
fiscal policy that has been implemented.” Foreign investors
bought 20 percent of the securities sold today, he said.  
 Portugal, whose bonds are the worst performers in the euro
region after Greek debt, had its credit rating cut two steps to
A1 by Moody’s because of a growing debt burden and weak economic
growth prospects.  
 “The Portuguese government’s financial strength will
continue to weaken over the medium term,” Moody’s said in a
statement today, adding that the outlook is stable. “The
Portuguese economy’s growth prospects are likely to remain
relatively weak unless recent structural reforms bear fruit over
the medium-to-longer term.”  
 The yield on Portuguese bonds maturing in June 2020 rose 10
basis points to 5.53 percent. The two-year note yield was four
basis points higher at 3.32 percent. The  spread  over benchmark
German bunds widened by 3 basis points to 283 basis points.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top bond stories: TOP BON &lt;GO&gt;
For European bond sales: ECO20 EU &lt;GO&gt;
For European bond stories: TNI EUROP GBN &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        