-- Ghailani, Accused al-Queda Embassy Bomber, Loses Bid to Avoid Prosecution
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-13T22:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ghailani-accused-embassy-bomber-wasn-t-denied-speedy-trial-judge-rules.html

          
          
             Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , an accused
al-Qaeda terrorist charged in the 1998 bombings of two U.S.
embassies in Africa, wasn’t denied his constitutional right to a
speedy trial while detained for five years by the U.S. Defense
Department and Central Intelligence Agency, a judge ruled.  
 U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  rejected a bid by Ghailani
to dismiss all charges against him. Lawyers for Ghailani had
argued he was unlawfully held without trial for five years.
After he was captured in Pakistan in July 2004, Ghailani was
held for interrogation by the U.S. CIA for two years in secret
facilities and then detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for three
years.  
 Kaplan said that Ghailani would have been held for the
entire five years as an enemy combatant regardless of the
criminal charges.  
 “None of that delay prejudiced any interests protected by
the Speedy Trial Clause in any significant degree,” Kaplan said
in his ruling, dated yesterday. “In these specific
circumstances, Ghailani’s right to a speedy trial has not been
infringed.”  
 Captured in 2004  
 Peter Quijano, a lawyer for Ghailani, didn’t immediately
return a voicemail message left at his office seeking comment
about the ruling.  
 Ghailani is accused of helping deliver bomb-making
components, including TNT and oxygen tanks, in a truck detonated
outside the U.S. embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania on Aug. 7,
1998. Almost simultaneously, another bomb went off outside the
U.S. embassy in Nairobi, Kenya. The two blast killed 224 people,
including 12 Americans. At least 5,000 others were injured.  
 Afterwards, Ghailani fled, the U.S. says. He served as a
cook and bodyguard for  Osama bin Laden  and later as a document
forger, prosecutors said. He was indicted by a federal grand
jury in New York in December, 1998 on 286 separate charges,
including conspiring with bin Laden in a plot to kill and maim
U.S. citizens in both bombings. He faces as long as life in
prison if convicted.  
 Ghailani, who was captured in July 2004 in Pakistan and has
pleaded not guilty, was taken to Guantanamo in 2006 and
transferred to federal court in New York for trial. He is the
first detainee from Guantanamo to be tried in a U.S. civilian
court. Kaplan scheduled his trial to begin Sept. 27.  
 Five-Year Delay  
 Ghailani’s lawyers argued the indictment should be
dismissed, saying the five-year delay while he was in U.S.
custody violated his right to a speedy trial. Defense lawyers
also argued he was subjected to “physical and psychological
abusive treatment” while in U.S. custody and that the charges
should be dropped.  
 The U.S. said in court papers that after he fled Africa,
Ghailani “remained an active participant in al-Qaeda” and had
“valuable threat information.”  
 During a court hearing in January, U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  said Ghailani provided “actionable useful
intelligence” and that national security justified the delay in
Ghailani’s civilian trial.  
 Judge Kaplan agreed with the U.S. today, saying that
during the defendant’s time in the custody of CIA “the
government had reason to believe that this valuable intelligence
could not have been obtained except by putting Ghailani into
that program.”  
 CIA Interrogation  
 Kaplan said the delays were also attributable to the fact
that after the CIA interrogation was completed, the U.S. first
pursued trying Ghailani in military commission setting then
decided to prosecute him in civilian court.  
 “The defendant’s motion to dismiss the indictment due to
the denial of his constitutional right to a speedy trial is
denied,” Kaplan said. “The government is entitled to attempt
to hold Ghailani accountable in a court of law for his alleged
complicity in the murder of 224 people and the injury of more
than 1,000 others.”  
 Four others were convicted of the conspiracy in a 2001
federal trial in New York and are serving life sentences.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-CR-1023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York Federal Court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net  or  Patricia Hurtado  in New York Federal
Court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        