-- Glaxo Said to Pay $460 Million to Settle Avandia Damage Suits
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-07-13T21:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/glaxosmithkline-is-said-to-pay-460-million-to-settle-avandia-damage-suits.html

          
          
             GlaxoSmithKline Plc  agreed to pay
about $460 million to resolve a majority of lawsuits alleging
the company’s Avandia diabetes drug can cause heart attacks and
strokes, people familiar with the accords said.  
 Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest  drugmaker , agreed to settle about
10,000 suits for an average of at least $46,000 apiece, the
people said. The company had been facing more than 13,000 suits
alleging Glaxo hid the drug’s heart-attack risk, according to a
UBS AG analyst. The settlements come as Glaxo is set to face its
first Avandia trial in federal court in  Philadelphia  in October.  
 “This is exceptionally good news given the market has
discounted $6 billion in liability,” for Avandia litigation,
 Gbola Amusa , an analyst at  UBS  in London, said in an interview.
“We had outlined an absolute worst-case scenario where $500,000
per case would have to be paid.”  
 Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, is settling Avandia
claims as a U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  advisory panel met
today to consider whether Avandia’s ability to control blood-
sugar levels outweighs a possible increase in heart attacks,
strokes and deaths from cardiovascular disease.  Mary Anne Rhyne ,
a spokeswoman for Glaxo, declined to comment.  
 $1.1 Billion  
 Glaxo’s American depositary receipts rose 1.7 percent, or
60 cents, to $35.72 in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . Each ADR represents two ordinary shares. In London,
Glaxo shares gained 21.5 pence, or 1.9 percent, to close at
1176.5 pence.  
 Avandia generated $1.1 billion last year for Glaxo, only
about a third of the revenue it had before researchers linked
the medicine in 2007 to a 43 percent increased risk in heart
attacks. Avandia was once the world’s best-selling diabetes
pill, generating $3 billion in annual revenue for  London-based
Glaxo .  
 A former FDA official said Glaxo withheld from regulators a
study showing Avandia may cause heart attacks, according to two
people familiar with her deposition in a lawsuit against the
drugmaker.  
 Dr. Rosemary Johann-Liang, a former manager in the FDA’s
drug-safety unit, told lawyers suing Glaxo that the 2001 study
found Avandia posed a greater heart-attack risk than rival
medicines, the people said. Glaxo also didn’t turn over an
e-mail from researchers who concluded Avandia “strengthens the
signals” of heart ailments, she testified in a pre-trial
deposition last month, according to the people.  
 Johann-Liang’s deposition may be considered by the FDA
advisory panel, the people said. They declined to provide a
transcript of the testimony.  
 FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  told regulators weighing
Avandia’s risks at today’s hearing to “keep an open mind.” Her
remarks followed an agency analysis showing division among
regulators about the pill’s safety.  
 Carried Risks  
 Glaxo disputes Johann-Liang’s claims that it didn’t turn
over a 2001 review of Avandia’s health risks to federal
regulators, Rhyne, the company spokeswoman, said last week in an
e-mailed statement.  
 An FDA panel agreed in 2007 that the drug carried risks
though it should remain available. Almost a dozen more clinical
trials and studies have been completed in the past three years,
prompting the agency to re-examine the issue.  
 The panel could recommend Glaxo pull Avandia from the
market. A withdrawal of Avandia “might prompt a limited number
of additional suits but liability should be limited,” Amusa
said.  
 The FDA review was a factor in the decision by Glaxo
officials to start negotiating with lawyers for former Avandia
users, the people familiar with the settlements said.  
 During a first round of settlements of Avandia cases, Glaxo
agreed to pay about $60 million to resolve more than 700 suits
filed by attorneys such as Houston-based litigator  Mark Lanier 
and Philadelphia-based plaintiffs’ lawyer  Sol Weiss , the people
said.  
 Resolve Claims  
 Among lawyers settling Avandia cases in the second round of
resolutions are  Michael J. Miller , an Alexandria, Virginia-based
attorney who represents about 1,500 consumers who took the drug,
the people said. J. Paul Sizemore, a Los Angeles lawyer with
more than 1,000 Avandia cases, also has agreed to resolve the
claims, the people said.  
 Neither Miller nor Sizemore returned calls seeking comment
on the settlements. On his law firm’s  website , Miller said the
advantage of the accords is that they provide a “prompt
resolution” of claims that have taken three years to get to the
pre-trial stage.  
 “It’s a compromise that allows both sides to put this
behind them and move on,” Miller said in a note to clients.  
 Avandia claimants’ cases generated individual settlements
ranging from $46,000 to almost $70,000, depending on the
strength of the claims, the people said.  
 The settlements add more support to the idea that Glaxo may
be able to resolve its Avandia liability for about $1.1 billion,
said Amusa. He and other industry analysts have previously said
that the company might pay as much as $6 billion to resolve all
Avandia litigation.  
 $3.5 Billion  
 Glaxo set aside 2.3 billion pounds ($3.5 billion) for
“legal and other disputes” as of the end of March, the company
said April 28. It didn’t specifically mention litigation
relating to Avandia.  
 There are still at least 3,000 Avandia claims pending,
either on court dockets or subject to so-called  tolling
agreements , the people said. These accords allow lawyers to
stockpile claims without filing lawsuits while they investigate
the cases or negotiate with the company.  
 Lawyers representing former Avandia users who are pushing
ahead with claims against Glaxo include Denver-based litigator
 Joseph Zonies  and Kansas City, Missouri-based plaintiffs’
attorney  Thomas Cartmell , the people said. Neither lawyer
returned calls seeking comment.  
 The case is In Re Avandia Marketing, Sales Practices and
Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net  and;
 Trista Kelley  in London at   tkelley2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Glaxo is settling Avandia claims as a U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory panel is meeting in Washington.  Photographer: JB Reed/ Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- GlaxoSmithKline Plc agreed to pay about $460 million to resolve a majority of lawsuits alleging the company’s Avandia diabetes drug can cause heart attacks and strokes, people familiar with the accords said.
     Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, is settling Avandia claims as a U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory panel is meeting today to consider whether Avandia’s ability to control blood-sugar levels outweighs a possible increase in heart attacks, strokes and deaths from cardiovascular disease. Bloomberg's Catherine Larkin reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
