-- Greek Banks Drive Bill Rates Below EU Loans in Post-Crisis Sale
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-13T16:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/greece-sells-treasury-bills-at-4-65-less-than-rate-eu-wants-for-bailout.html

          
          
             For the first time since getting
bailed out in May, Greece sold Treasury bills at an interest
rate below the 5 percent charged by the European Union when it
rescued the nation from default.  
 The domestic auction suggests that confidence among banks
in Greece, which purchased 80 percent of the 1.625 billion euros
($2.1 billion) of 26-week bills today, is growing. Prime
Minister  George Papandreou ’s government cut wages, postponed
retirements and raised taxes to trim the euro-region’s second-
highest budget deficit and restore investor willingness to lend.  
 “It’s an encouraging sign that Greece can finance its
short-term requirement,” said  Michiel de Bruin , who oversees
$32 billion of European government debt at F&C Asset Management
in Amsterdam. “It’s a step in the right direction. But it’s
perhaps too early to say the situation has turned in the euro
zone. Investors are still focused on how the austerity measures
are implemented.”  
 The bills due Jan. 14 were sold at a rate of 4.65 percent,
the Public Debt Management Agency in Athens said today in a
statement. Investors bid for 3.64 times the bills offered, the
agency said.  
 Papandreou, 58, pledged to overhaul Greece’s pension system
to secure 110 billion euros in emergency loans from the EU and
the International Monetary Fund. The pension vote follows
passage in May of 30 billion euros in austerity measures.  
 Raising Revenue  
 His government has adopted budget cuts and additional
revenue-raising measures worth more than 14 percent of gross
domestic product since it took office in October. Finance
Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said last week the country may
beat a target to reduce the budget deficit to 8.1 percent of
gross domestic product this year from last year’s 13.6 percent
of GDP, the second highest in the euro region.  
 Europe’s debt crisis was triggered after Papandreou’s Pasok
party took power and said the deficit was more than 12 percent
of GDP, twice the previous government’s estimate. That sparked a
surge in bond yields as Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Service cut the nation’s credit rankings to below investment
grade.  
 Portugal  earlier today had its credit rating cut two
levels to A1 at Moody’s. The ratings company cited risks
economic growth will remain weak after the nation allowed its
budget deficit to balloon.  
 Portuguese Bonds Fall  
 Portuguese bonds extended declines after the rating cuts,
with the yield on the benchmark 10-year security rising 10 basis
points to 5.54 percent. That widened the yield premium investors
demand to hold the bonds over German debt of similar maturities,
the benchmark for the euro region, by 5 basis points to 285
basis points.  
 Papaconstantinou said he was satisfied with the results of
today’s auction, and said the government may resume bond sales
next year.  
 “We are satisfied,” Papaconstantinou told reporters in
Brussels today. At least 10 foreign banks took part, he said.  
 While the rate at the auction was lower than estimated by
some strategists, it was still the highest since a sale of
similar-maturity bills on Sept. 30, 2008, two weeks after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., when the rate was
5.09 percent.  
 “The auction today looked good, but the real test for me
would be when they return to the bond market to borrow longer
term,” said  Wilson Chin , a fixed-income strategist at ING Groep
NV in Amsterdam.  
 Elevated Yields  
 Two-year notes extended gains following the sale, with the
yield of the debt due in March 2012 falling 158 basis points to
9.50 percent. The cost of insuring against default on Greek
bonds through credit-default swaps fell 16 basis points to
828.5, the lowest level in three weeks, according to CMA
DataVision prices.  
 Greek  bond yields still show elevated concern about a
default. Ten-year bonds  yield  756 basis points, or 7.56
percentage points, more than German debt. While that’s down from
a record 965 basis-point spread on May 7, just before a 750
billion-euro EU-IMF regional rescue was announced, it’s about
three times the average of 256 basis points since the Lehman
failure.  
 Signs are emerging that the economies of the most indebted
members in the euro region may be stabilising. Italian
manufacturing rose 1 percent in May from April, and Spain’s
climbed for a third month, government reports showed in the past
two weeks. Ireland’s Central Statistics Office said June 30 that
the economy expanded for the first time in more than two years
in the first quarter.  
 Tax Increases  
 Papaconstantinou said yesterday that he expected deficit
cuts in the second half of 2010 to be as good as in the first
six months.  
 The government has raised taxes on tobacco, fuel and
alcohol and the broadest value-added tax was raised to 23
percent from 19 percent. Public workers had their bonus payments
eliminated and their overall wages reduced. The planned overhaul
of the pension system means they will have to work longer and
will collect less when they retire. The administration has also
begun a crackdown on tax evasion aimed at boosting revenue
through cutting exemptions and deductions and clamping down on
underpayments.  
 The government plans to raise another 3 billion euros from
the sale of state-controlled assets including  Hellenic Railways
Organization SA  and  Thessaloniki Water & Sewage Co SA .  
 Deficit Shrinks  
 The measures may be having an effect. The budget deficit
fell by 46 percent in the first half of the year, with revenue
rising 7.2 percent, helped by the tax increases, the Finance
Ministry said yesterday.  
 Foreign buyers accounted for 20 percent of the bill
purchases today, according to  Petros Christodoulou , head of the
debt agency in Athens. Christodoulou said he was satisfied with
foreign participation even as non-domestic buyers had bought
around 30 percent of the bills at sales in the past.  
 “The fact that the requested amount in the first auction
after the country entered the EU-IMF regime was covered 3.6
times should be considered as a success,” said  Fokion Karavias ,
general manager of global markets at EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA in
Athens. “The success of the coverage ratio has boosted
confidence.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Foreign investors were among buyers at the sale, Petros Christodoulou, head of the Greek debt agency, said in an interview. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou talks about the prospects for the nation's banks passing European Union stress tests.
     Papaconstantinou also discusses the 46 percent drop in Greece's budget deficit in the first half. He speaks in Brussels with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
