-- Libyans Say Gaza Aid Ship on Course, Denying Report It's Diverted to Egypt
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-13T21:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/libyan-group-says-aid-ship-still-bound-for-gaza-denying-israeli-comment.html

          
          
             A ship carrying a cargo of aid will
remain on course for the Gaza Strip, according to a group led by
a son of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  that chartered the
vessel. The group denied an Israeli military report that the
ship will divert to Egypt.  
 An Israeli military official, who spoke anonymously by
regulation, said the ship’s captain had told Israel’s navy that
he would head for Egypt with the cargo from the Tripoli-based
 Gaddafi International Charity and Development Foundation .  
 “The ship is still going to Gaza,” Youssef Sawani, the
foundation’s executive director, said late yesterday by
telephone from Libya.  
 “I was just talking with the captain of the ship and owner
of the ship and members of the organization on board,” Sawani
said. “The Israeli navy told the ship not to head to Gaza and
asked the ship to go to any other destination it wants. The
response of the ship’s captain was that the ship is still in
international waters and Israel has no right to order it not to
go to Gaza.”  
 Nine pro-Palestinian activists from Turkey were killed on
May 31 after Israeli commandos raided one of six aid ships in a
flotilla trying to breach Israel’s embargo on the Hamas-
controlled territory. Israel loosened its restrictions on the
transport of goods by road into Gaza in response to
international criticism following the operation, while
maintaining the maritime blockade.  
 The Libyan group vowed yesterday on its website that it
would breach the naval cordon off the Palestinian enclave and
dock today at dawn. Sawani said the trip was “a peaceful
humanitarian mission.”  
 Left From Greece  
 The owner of the ship, which departed from Greece July 10,
has said he didn’t want the vessel involved in any
confrontation, according to the website of the Gaddafi
organization, headed by  Saif Al-Islam Qaddafi . The vessel was
asked to change its destination or turn back in an initial radio
contact, an Israeli army spokesman had said.  
 An Israeli military inquiry on July 12 blamed faulty
planning, intelligence and decision-making by officers for the
deadly results of the May raid. The panel’s head, reserve Major
General  Giora Eiland , said lessons learned from the operation
should be helpful in “the next event.”  
 The ship carrying Libyan aid won’t be allowed to reach Gaza
under “any circumstances,” Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said in a July 11 interview on Israel Army Radio.  
 Israel says it is trying to prevent weapons from reaching
Gaza by sea.  
 ‘No Reason’ to Break  
 “There is certainly no reason to try and break the
blockade since humanitarian aid flows unimpeded into Gaza,”
said Foreign Ministry spokesman  Yigal Palmor . “There are
appropriate ways to send aid, either through Ashdod or Egypt.”
Ashdod is a port in southwestern Israel.  
 The Gaddafi organization said in an earlier statement on
its website that an Israeli gunboat was “intercepting” the
ship and asked it to dock at Egypt’s El-Arish port.  
 The May incident strained ties with Turkey, once Israel’s
closest ally in the Middle East. Israel rejected calls for an
international investigation into the incident, including demands
from Turkey, and set up its own inquiries. The civilian panel
will hear testimony from Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ,
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and Chief of Staff Lieutenant
General  Gabi Ashkenazi  next month.  
 Israel and Egypt have been blockading Gaza since Hamas
seized full control there in 2007 after winning Palestinian
parliamentary elections the previous year. The Islamic group is
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., the European
Union and Israel.  
 Import Restrictions  
 Palestinians, backed by the United Nations and human-rights
groups, say the restrictions on food imports and construction
materials have created a humanitarian crisis.  
 Israel’s Cabinet agreed on June 20 to allow in all foods
and limit the shipment of construction materials. Israel said
building supplies could be used to build rockets, bunkers or
bombs.  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the war, killing a foreign worker,
the Israeli army said.  
 Israeli bombing and ground operations during the offensive
destroyed more than 3,000 homes, and Israel’s restrictions on
construction materials have prevented Palestinians from being
able to rebuild, the UN said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        