-- Libyan Organizers Say Israeli Navy Boat Intercepts Gaza-Bound Aid Vessel
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-13T13:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/libyan-group-says-israeli-navy-intercepts-aid-ship-destined-for-gaza-strip.html

          
          
             An Israeli navy boat intercepted a
Libyan aid ship bound for the Gaza Strip and told the crew that
it won’t be allowed to reach the Palestinian territory, the
organizers of the shipment said.  
 The Tripoli-based Gaddafi International  Charity and
Development Foundation , which is behind the plan to challenge
Israel’s naval blockade of Gaza, didn’t provide any further
details in its faxed statement today.  
 The Israel military made radio contact with the ship and
asked about its destination and passengers, an Israeli army
spokesman said by phone, speaking anonymously according to
regulation. The army hasn’t received a reply, the spokesman
said. The Al-Jazeera news channel said in a news flash that the
Israeli military told the ship to head to an Egyptian port.  
 Nine pro-Palestinian activists from Turkey were killed on
May 31 after Israeli commandos raided one of six aid ships in a
flotilla trying to breach the embargo. Israel loosened its
restrictions on the transport of goods by road into Gaza in
response to international criticism of the operation, though it
maintains a naval blockade of the area.  
 Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said in an
interview on Army Radio two days ago that the boat would not be
allowed to reach Gaza under “any circumstances.”  
 Israel and Egypt have been blockading Gaza since Hamas
seized full control there in 2007 after winning Palestinian
parliamentary elections the previous year. The Islamist militant
group is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., the
European Union and Israel.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        