-- Hidden New York Revealed With 80,000 Photos in Latest AIA Guide
-- James S. Russell
-- 2010-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/hidden-new-york-revealed-with-80-000-photos-in-latest-aia-guide.html

          
          
             Fran Leadon, an authority on New
York City byways, wore out four pairs of shoes tramping as much
as 20 miles a day to update the classic “AIA Guide to New York
City.”  
 “I love discovering these quiet corners of New York,”
Leadon said as I joined him recently on a city walk, referring
to a quiet enclave of vine-clad 19th-century row houses called
Vinegar Hill. It missed out on the boom decade’s wave of
gentrification that seems to have swallowed up much of Brooklyn.  
 We had walked just a couple of blocks from newly
transformed loft buildings in the borough’s Dumbo neighborhood.
They tuck under the spectacular (and ear-splitting) approaches
to the Brooklyn and Manhattan bridges. The street has a high-end
children’s store and the Jacques Torres Chocolate shop.  
 The AIA guide, sponsored by the New York Chapter of the
 American Institute of Architects , is a 1,055-page love letter to
the city. It obsessively details the greatness of well-known
neighborhoods, while luring the reader to bucolic corners of
Staten Island and the hidden Art Deco grandeur of the Bronx.  
 Leadon, who helped update the work of the original authors,
the late Norval White and Elliot Willensky, had the daunting
task of reflecting the biggest explosion of development in New
York since the 1950s. He says he took 80,000 photographs.  
 Since the last edition, 10 years ago, glassy residential
towers have sprung up all over Manhattan -- yet more
surprisingly along the East River’s edge in Queens and in
downtown Brooklyn. New life seeped into almost every corner of
the city in spite of the destruction of the World Trade Center’s
twin towers in 2001, when many thought the terror attacks would
stunt the urban revival of the 1990s.  
 New New York  
 Along with the rise, fall and tentative rebirth of Ground
Zero, Leadon includes the Meatpacking district’s collection of
buildings by big-name architects -- Gehry, Nouvel, Gwathmey,
 Shigeru Ban  -- that huddle along or teeter over the wildly
popular High Line Park. He’s frequently skeptical of the new New
York, saying of his comments in the new edition, “The tone is
more pointed.”  
 He documents the robust renovation that has energized the
neighborhoods all around the planned Atlantic Yards
megadevelopment. “None of these areas were in the last edition
of the guide,” he said. The riches he uncovers explode the
argument that Forest City Ratner’s contentious project was
needed as an antidote to blight.  
 Artisanal boutiques for hipsters, glassy condos for young
professionals, and dour masonry apartment blocks with metal-
grate balconies for the Hasidic Jewish community coexist (if not
always happily) in a heady mix in once humble Williamsburg.
Leadon will have you wandering the forested hills of Staten
Island where picturesque villages of ramshackle mansions survive
amid the stamped-out tract-house acres.  
 ‘Cocktail Cabinet’  
 The small type and some 7,000 entries can seem intimidating
at first, but ample illustrations draw you into the guide’s rich
mosaic. Leadon adds his own acerbic assessments to the witty
comments and bad puns he inherited. In the guide he compares the
Standard Hotel that looms over the High Line Park to an “open
cocktail cabinet in concrete.”  
 Happily, the book points out eateries, flea markets and
other respites from the neck-craning scrutiny of floral stone
garlands and bright terra cotta zigzags.  
 “I wanted to keep the tone of earlier editions, which were
clearly written by someone walking around and living in the
city,” Leadon said.  
 Reflecting New Yorkers’ greater nostalgia for the past --
perhaps an inevitable response to an era of great change --
Leadon offers extensive “necrologies”: entries describing
beloved demolished buildings.  
 Greek Revival  
 To find that rare temple-fronted Greek Revival hidden on a
side street, you’ll traverse commercial streets where a miasma
of smells and brightly colored signs in dozens of languages have
spruced up trash-strewn neighborhoods once left for dead. Art
Deco apartment buildings and leafy row-house streets in vast
swaths of the city now stand proudly restored.  
 You can be sure that intrepid urban preservationists
rediscovered them thanks to this monumental guide.  
 The “AIA Guide to New York City” is from Oxford
University Press (1,055 pages, $39.95). To order this book in
North America, click  here .  
 ( James S. Russell  writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       AIA Guide to New York City  
                       
                         
                           Oxford University Press via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of the book "AIA Guide to New York City" by Norval White, Elliot Willensky and Fran Leadon. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of the book "AIA Guide to New York City" by Norval White, Elliot Willensky and Fran Leadon. Source: Oxford University Press via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Manhattan Bridge and the DUMBO area of Brooklyn. The formerly industrial neighborhood has many young professionals and newly transformed loft buildings. Photographer: Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Manhattan Bridge and the DUMBO area of Brooklyn. The diverse neighborhood is populated with artisanal boutiques for hipsters, glassy condos for young professionals and dour masonry apartment blocks with metal-grate balconies for the Hassidic Jewish community.  Photographer: Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Author Fran Leadon in the Vinegar Hill section of Brooklyn, New York. Leadon co-authored the fourth edition of the "AIA Guide to New York City."  Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
