-- Lifting U.S. Drilling Moratorium Is Too Risky, Bromwich Says
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-07-13T16:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/lifting-u-s-drilling-ban-is-too-risky-in-wake-of-bp-spill-bromwich-says.html

          
          
             Lifting the moratorium on deep-water
oil drilling is too risky as companies have yet to show they are
capable of preventing and containing spills following the  BP Plc 
disaster, the main regulator for U.S. offshore drilling said.  
 Drillers must do a better job, and investigators must
gather more data on the causes of BP’s Macondo well leak in the
Gulf of Mexico before drilling can resume,  Michael Bromwich ,
director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement, said today at a hearing in New Orleans.  
 “So long as the spill is out there and has not been
contained and the oil-spill response capabilities are all being
consumed by the current spill,” Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  finds it too risky, Bromwich said. “He hopes that prior
to Nov. 30 he will have the comfort level to allow some deep-
water exploratory drilling to continue, but he is not there
yet.”  
 The moratorium on deep-water drilling may be adjusted to
allow some new wells to go forward before Nov. 30, Bromwich told
a commission formed by President  Barack Obama  to investigate the
spill. Oil companies and officials of Gulf Coast states
including Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  say the ban may do
more economic harm than the actual spill.  
 Bromwich plans public hearings over the next 60 days to
determine what additional safety measures are needed. Salazar
announced the new moratorium yesterday after a federal judge
rejected an initial ban imposed in May as a response to the
April 20 explosion on the BP-leased Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig that triggered the largest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Job Losses  
 The new moratorium identifies at-risk wells based on
drilling configurations and technologies instead of water depth.
The previous version barred drilling deeper than 500 feet (152
meters), a distinction U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman 
questioned in rejecting the ban.  
 “This second suspension of deepwater drilling is a clear
sign that the administration is unwilling to follow the advice
of their own scientists,” Jindal said today in a  statement .
“The ultimate effect of this second moratorium is the same as
the first -- to shut down drilling operations in the Gulf and
risk killing an estimated 20,000 jobs in Louisiana.”  
 The new ban has idled 21 rigs in the Gulf, 12 fewer than
the number affected by the original moratorium, Bromwich said.
Companies including  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. , the largest
U.S. deep-water oil driller, have said they will move rigs to
other countries as a result of the U.S. ban.  
 Reorganizing MMS  
 William Reilly , co-chair of the presidential commission and
former U.S. Environmental Protection Agency administrator, said
the ban is causing economic damage to the region. Reilly asked
Bromwich if inspectors could be placed on affected rigs.  
 “Inspections leave a margin for error,” Bromwich said.  
 Bromwich is charged with reorganizing the renamed Minerals
Management Service, the agency within the Interior Department
that oversaw oil and gas development on federal properties.  
 “The industry has been too casual in the oil spill
response plans they’ve submitted,” Bromwich said. “Frankly, I
think my agency has been too casual in approving them.”  
 The National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Spill
and Offshore Drilling held its first hearing in New Orleans
yesterday. It is co-chaired by Reilly and  Robert Graham , a
former Florida governor and U.S. senator.  
 “We’re not going to politely ask industry anymore to fix
things,” Bromwich said. “We’re going to demand that they fix
things.”  
 The damaged Macondo well has been gushing as much as 60,000
barrels of oil a day, according to government scientists, after
the initial explosion killed 11 workers and sank a $365 million
Transocean Ltd. rig being leased by BP. London-based BP had
spent about $3.1 billion on containment efforts, cleanup and
legal claims as of July 6, according to company data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Snyder  in New Orleans at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Michael Bromwich, director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement. Photographer: Astrid Riecken/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
