-- Ignatieff Hits Highway on `Liberal Express' Tour Amid Tepid Voter Support
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-07-13T18:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ignatieff-hits-highway-on-liberal-express-tour-amid-tepid-voter-support.html

          
          
             Michael Ignatieff , leader of the
opposition Liberal Party in Canada, is boarding a bus today as
part of a nationwide tour to connect with voters after polls
showed his party struggling to improve on historically low
support levels.  
 Ignatieff’s two-month “Liberal Express” tour will take
him to all of Canada’s 10 provinces and three territories, where
he will attend barbecues and visit farmer’s markets and other
local events, according to the  itinerary  posted on the party’s
website.  
 “We’ve got to take politics from here and out to the
barbecues, to the backyard, to the deck of the cottage -- that’s
where it’s got to be,” Ignatieff told reporters on Parliament
Hill before boarding the bus. “We’ve got to reconnect to
Canadians.”  
 The tour comes as an Angus Reid poll yesterday  showed 
Ignatieff’s approval rating at 14 percent, less than half the 31
percent voters give to both Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and
New Democratic Party Leader  Jack Layton . The poll of 2,031
Canadians conducted between July 6 to July 8 also found 39
percent of voters find Ignatieff “out of touch” and 37 percent
think he is “arrogant.” By comparison, 34 percent of
respondents called Harper “out of touch,” while 22 percent
said the same of Layton.  
 The Liberal Party, once dubbed “Canada’s natural governing
party,” had its worst-ever showing in the October 2008
election. The Angus Reid poll showed the party with 27 percent
support, close to the 26 percent in the 2008 election. The
Liberals have 77 of 308  seats in Parliament , including just
seven of 92 districts in Canada’s four western-most provinces.  
 Ignatieff will leave Ottawa today and tour Ontario towns
for the rest of the week, before visiting Quebec next week.  
 The Conservatives, who have portrayed Ignatieff as a globe-
trotter who’s “just visiting” Canada because he spent decades
outside the country, said in  a statement  posted on their website
today the tour is more proof “he’s just in it for himself.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        