-- Lilly's Alzheimer's Gamble Aims at $10 Billion Patent Loss
-- Meg Tirrell
-- 2010-07-13T20:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/lilly-s-alzheimer-s-drug-gamble-aims-to-replace-10-billion-patent-losses.html

          
          
             With two Alzheimer’s drugs in the
final stage of human testing and two more being developed behind
them,  Eli Lilly & Co.  is committed to one of the riskiest bets
in medicine to fill a potential $10 billion revenue  gap .  
 Therapies now in use only address symptoms of the disease;
they don’t cure or even slow it. And the search for new
treatments has been fraught with failure, the latest involving
 Pfizer Inc. ’s Dimebon, which wasn’t shown to benefit patients in
an advanced study reported in March.  
 Lilly researchers say their early use of biomarkers,
signals in the blood that show the medicines hit their targets,
gives them confidence the late-stage therapies will work. A drug
that stops or reduces memory loss may be worth more than $5
billion a year, said  Tony Butler , an analyst with Barclays
Capital. At the same time, Lilly faces generic competition by
2016 to  products  with about $10 billion in annual sales, or
almost half its revenue last year.  
 “There’s a lot of pressure to show success,” said Butler,
who is based in New York, in a telephone interview. “It’s a
very risky area.”  
 Both of Lilly’s late-stage treatments are designed to
reduce plaque in the brain called  beta amyloid , thought by
researchers to be a main contributor to Alzheimer’s. The pill
semagacestat inhibits an enzyme called gamma secretase that’s
tied to amyloid production. The intravenous therapy solanezumab
is an antibody that binds to soluble beta amyloid, and helps
clear the material through the bloodstream.  
 Clinical Trials  
 The second of two 21-month trials for semagacestat finished
enrollment in May, while two 18-month studies of solanezumab are
close to 70 percent enrolled, said Eric Siemers, medical
director of Lilly’s Alzheimer’s research team, in an interview
at the company’s Indianapolis headquarters. The clinical trials
are designed for at least 1,000 patients and are being conducted
at more than 220 sites in about 30 countries.  
 In each drug’s case, the company will report results after
the second study concludes. Lilly is reporting earlier-stage
data from its Alzheimer’s program this week at the  International
Conference on Alzheimer’s Disease  that started July 10 in
Honolulu. That includes additional biomarker information on
solanezumab.  
 ‘We really know our drugs are having an effect in the
brain,” Siemers said. “Now, is it enough of an effect? We
don’t know.”  
 Developer of Prozac  
 A leader in neuroscience since introducing Prozac as an
antidepressant almost a quarter-century ago, Lilly still derives
the bulk of its sales from that field. The drugmaker’s two top-
sellers in 2009 were the schizophrenia drug Zyprexa, with $4.9
billion in revenue, and the depression treatment Cymbalta, at
$3.1 billion. Those medicines, though, lose patent protection in
2011 and 2013, respectively, while Lilly’s $1.7 billion cancer
medication Alimta faces generic competition in 2016.  
 Lilly rose 8 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $35.21 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. In the last
year, the shares gained 6.9 percent, compared with the 11
percent increase of the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals
Index .  
 Investors  and  analysts  are closely watching the progress of
Lilly’s two late-stage Alzheimer’s drugs, said Butler, who
recommends holding Lilly’s shares and doesn’t own any. He named
those along with a late-stage diabetes treatment called Bydureon
as the most prominent of the company’s eight molecules nearing
U.S. Food and Drug Administration review. Butler estimates that
drug could bring Lilly as much as $1.5 billion in annual sales.  
 Low Expectations  
 Expectations for the Alzheimer’s treatments, though, are
low, said  Michael P. Krensavage , manager of Krensavage Partners
LP, a hedge fund that owns Lilly shares.  
 “Investors don’t really seem to want to give Lilly  credit 
for its Alzheimer’s drugs,” Krensavage said. “It’s been such a
tough disease that investors have grown quite skeptical.”  
 The company also has one Alzheimer’s drug in mid-stage
trials and has just introduced another into human testing. Lilly
scientists including Siemers declined to comment on the way
those medicines work, citing competitive reasons.  
 The company also declined to say how much it’s spending on
its Alzheimer’s program, although  Jan Lundberg , Lilly’s
president of research and development, said, “in the
 neuroscience  area, it’s definitely the top priority.”  
 Lundberg’s Arrival  
 Lundberg, 57, who came to Lilly in February after 10 years
as head of global discovery research at London-based  AstraZeneca
Plc , said his interest in Alzheimer’s is driven by more than
shareholder pressure. His mother started showing symptoms of the
disease a few years ago, when she was 80, he said.  
 “She’d never been sick in her whole life; completely
healthy and active,” Lundberg recalled. “But then I remember
she called once and said, ‘I forgot how to make pancakes. Can
you tell me the recipe?’ It’s a phone call I’ll never forget.”  
 Months later there was a call from a shop saying his
mother, who lived in his native Sweden, had forgotten how to get
home. Over the next year, her mood changed, she became
aggressive and couldn’t sleep through the night, he said. She
was prescribed one of the approved medicines meant to ease the
symptoms of Alzheimer’s, in a class of drugs called
 cholinesterase inhibitors .  
 Drug Didn’t Help  
 “It didn’t help her at all,” Lundberg said. “She just
became worse, I think. It was a progressive decline. I remember
meeting her, and she sat just like you and looked at me. But her
eyes were empty.”  
 She died about a year and a half ago, after falling and
fracturing her hip, he said. When Lundberg was ready to leave
AstraZeneca, it was Lilly’s commitment to Alzheimer’s that
helped bring him to Indianapolis, he said.  
 “Of course if you see a company that could help or prevent
this, it’s extremely motivating,” said Lundberg. With Lilly’s
two late-stage medicines, “I feel we are in the lead.”  
 Drugmakers such as New York-based Pfizer and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. , as well as  Johnson & Johnson , of New Brunswick, New
Jersey, aren’t far behind.  
 Lilly’s semagacestat and an antibody called bapineuzumab
from Pfizer and J&J are the most advanced of the treatments in
major clinical trials,  Michael Weiner , a professor of medicine,
radiology, psychiatry and neurology at the University of
California in San Francisco, and director of the  Center for
Imaging of Neurodegenerative Diseases  at the VA Medical Center,
said July 1 in a telephone interview. Bristol-Myers, based in
New York, also has an earlier-stage gamma secretase inhibitor.  
 On the Market  
 Three stages of clinical testing are usually required to
gain U.S. regulatory approval for a new treatment.  
 Medicines on the market include cholinesterase inhibitors
such as Tokyo-based  Eisai Co.  and Pfizer’s Aricept, the world’s
best-selling drug for Alzheimer’s. They work to prevent the
breakdown of acetylcholine, a chemical important for learning
and memory, according to the Alzheimer’s Association.  
 “There’s no evidence that they actually slow the
underlying degenerative process associated with Alzheimer’s
disease,” said  Richard Mohs , Lilly’s team leader of Alzheimer’s
research. “If our medications work, their effects would be
additive to any benefit that you get from a cholinesterase
inhibitor.”  
 Lilly built its Alzheimer’s strategy around using
biomarkers in earlier-stage trials, Siemers said. That helped
ensure the drugs were having the intended effect and enabled
researchers to find the appropriate dose for final-stage
studies, he said. For semagacestat, the marker was a reduction
of beta amyloid in the blood or spinal fluid, while for
solanezumab it was an increase of the protein because the
antibody is designed to bind to it.  
 “We wouldn’t take a compound into Phase 3 unless we had a
biomarker response in Phase 2 that told us it was having the
appropriate effect in the brain,” Siemers said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jan Lundberg, Lilly's president of research and development, said his mother started showing symptoms of Alzheimer's a few years ago, when she was 80. Photographer: Doug McSchooler/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- With two Alzheimer’s drugs in the final stage of human testing and two more being developed behind them, Eli Lilly & Co. is committed to one of the riskiest bets in medicine to fill a potential $10 billion revenue gap. Bloomberg's Monica Bertran reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jan Lundberg, executive vice president of science and technology at Eli Lilly & Co., center, Richard Mohs, research team leader, right, and Eric Siemers, medical director of Lilly's research team, stand for a photo in a laboratory at the company's headquarters in IndianapolisPhotographer: Doug McSchooler/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jan Lundberg, executive vice president of science and technology at Eli Lilly & Co., right, speaks about Alzheimer's research findings with Richard Mohs, research team leader, center, and Eric Siemers, medical director of Lilly's research team, before posing for a photo in a laboratory at the company's headquarters in Indianapolis. Photographer: Doug McSchooler/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Eric Siemers, medical director of Eli Lilly & Co.'s research team, speaks during an interview at the company's headquarters in Indianapolis.  Photographer: Doug McSchooler/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Richard Mohs, research team leader for Eli Lilly & Co., listens during an interview at the company's headquarters in Indianapolis.  Photographer: Doug McSchooler/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The headquarters building of Eli Lilly & Co. stands in Indianapolis.  Photographer: Doug McSchooler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
