-- Imports Point to Pickup in U.S. Spending, Morgan Stanley Says
-- Carlos Torres
-- 2010-07-13T16:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/import-surge-points-to-acceleration-in-u-s-spending-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             The gain in U.S.  imports  in May
points to a pickup in business and consumer spending that
indicates the U.S. economy last quarter was the healthiest in
four years, according to economists at Morgan Stanley.  
 The value of goods bought from abroad climbed by $5.5
billion in May, the biggest gain so far this year, to $194.5
billion, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
Washington.  Excluding  a drop in demand for foreign petroleum,
the increase was an even larger $7.6 billion, the biggest
advance since comparable records began in 2000.  
 The gain in imports exceeded the rise in  exports , pushing
the deficit with the rest of the world to the highest level in
18 months. Because overseas purchases of machinery and equipment
contribute to economic growth, they offset some of the drag on
gross domestic product associated with a wider trade deficit.  
 “With much of the upside surprise in imports in a surge in
capital goods, the outlook for domestic investment looks even
stronger,”  David Greenlaw  and  Ted Wieseman , Morgan Stanley
economists in New York, said in a note to clients.  
 The value of imports was $42.3 billion larger than that of
exports, the biggest deficit since November 2008. The median
forecast of economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News called for the
gap to narrow to $39 billion from April’s $40.3 billion.  
 The bigger-than-projected trade gap prompted Greenlaw and
Wieseman to lower their estimate of second-quarter U.S. economic
growth to a 3.6 percent annual pace from 4 percent.  
 Excluding Trade  
 The pickup in business investment meant the world’s largest
economy probably grew at a 4.4 percent rate excluding trade and
inventories, more than they previously projected and the best
performance by that  measure  since the first quarter of 2006.  
 American companies bought 5.5 percent more capital goods in
May, the biggest gain since March 2006, today’s report showed.
The increase was led by growing demand for computers, drilling
equipment, industrial machines and engines.  
 Greenlaw and Wieseman bumped up their second-quarter
forecast for the increase in business spending on  equipment and
software  to 21 percent at an annual rate from 18 percent, which
would make it best biggest gain since the first three months of
1998.  
 Purchases of foreign-made consumer goods climbed by $2.62
billion in May and auto demand increased by $2.22 billion,
according to today’s report, showing little letup in the
consumer spending that accounts for about 70 percent of the U.S.
economy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        