-- Stocks in India to Cap Gains on Valuations, Downgrades, Merrill Lynch Says
-- Rajhkumar K Shaaw
-- 2010-07-14T10:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/indian-stocks-to-cap-gains-on-valuations-downgrades-merrill-lynch-says.html

          
          
             India’s benchmark stock index , the
best performer among measures for the 20 biggest equity markets
last quarter, may cap gains after share prices exceeded the
outlook for earnings,  Bank of America Merrill Lynch  said.  
 “Markets are slightly on the higher side of valuations,”
 Jyotivardhan Jaipuria , head of research at the local unit of
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in an interview in Mumbai
yesterday. “We will have a spell of earnings downgrades now
which is largely driven by what’s happening around the world.”  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , is
 trading  at 17.3 times estimated profit, the highest in Asia
excluding Japan, after climbing 2.7 percent this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts are the least optimistic
on Indian stocks, with “buy” ratings at a record low of 45.6
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s second-largest software
exporter, said yesterday that profit in the three months ended
June fell 2.6 percent to 14.9 billion rupees ($318 million),
short of the 15.6 billion rupees average forecast of 25 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The euro’s 6 percent drop
against the rupee dragged down the value of sales in Europe,
which accounts for 20 percent of its business, the company said.  
 Housing Development Finance Corp. , the nation’s largest
mortgage lender, said today earnings in the three months rose 23
percent to 6.95 billion rupees, lower than the 7.53 billion
rupee average of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Year of Consolidation’  
 “2010 is a year of consolidation,” said Jaipuria, 47, a
runner-up among the top-ranked analysts by Institutional
Investor magazine. “We are looking at a low single digit return
for the markets this year, may be about 5 percent.”  
 The Sensex, which surged 81 percent in 2009, may limit its
advance to 6 percent to 19,000 by the end of the year as gains
in the country’s biggest stocks are “more or less fairly
priced,” said  Rajen Shah , chief investment officer at Angel
Broking Ltd., ranked by Dun & Bradstreet as the brokerage with
the  biggest  distribution network in the nation.  
 The Sensex rose 1 percent in the second quarter,
outperforming measures for the so-called BRIC nations that also
include Brazil, Russia and China. It dropped 0.3 percent to
17,938.16, the first decline in five days.  
 Shah said he likes stocks that are likely to benefit from
domestic growth, and he’s bullish on shares of companies linked
to agriculture, such as tractor makers and fertilizer makers.  
 “One should buy when valuations are compelling and
reasonable,” Shah said yesterday in an interview in Mumbai.
“At this point I don’t see value in frontline stocks. I see
that in small and mid-cap stocks.”  
 Merrill’s Jaipuria prefers banks, carmakers and
pharmaceutical companies. India’s economy may expand 9.4 percent
in the fiscal year to March, the fastest pace since 2007, the
International Monetary Fund said last week.  
 “The risk is more to the global economy than to the
domestic economy,” Jaipuria said. “The global economy still
has lots of ‘ifs’ and ‘buts.’”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Vikas Pershad, chief executive officer at Chicago-based hedge fund Veda Investments LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy for Chinese and Indian stocks.
     Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. may overtake local rival Bank of China Ltd. on its trading debut today to become the world’s seventh-largest lender by market value, according to analysts and investors. Pershad also discusses the outlook for U.S. and European stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
