-- Infosys Leads Indian Software Stocks Lower After Earnings Miss Estimates
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-07-13T07:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/infosys-technologies-first-quarter-net-income-declines-to-318-million.html

          
          
             Infosys Technologies Ltd.  led Indian
software exporters lower in Mumbai trading after the company
reported profit unexpectedly fell and forecast billing rates
will extend declines.  
 India’s second-largest provider of technology services fell
3.5 percent to 2,795.50 rupees as of 1:14 p.m. in Mumbai trading,
leading the benchmark Sensitive Index lower. Industry leader
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.  dropped 2.7 percent and
Bangalore-based Wipro Ltd. declined 2 percent.  
 Chief Financial Officer  V. Balakrishnan  said today the
company is cautious about the outlook on Europe and that the
drop in billing rates will probably deepen to 2 percent this
year. Infosys cut prices to retain and win  business  from
European customers after the euro’s 6.3 percent decline against
the rupee dragged down the value of sales in the region, which
accounts for about 20 percent of Infosys’s business.  
 “Europe is definitely a concern,” said Jagannadham
Thunuguntla, chief strategist at SMC Capitals Ltd. in New Delhi.
While Infosys is among India’s best-run companies, “even they
will come under pressure,” he said.  
 First-quarter  net income  fell 2.6 percent from a year
earlier to 14.9 billion rupees ($318 million), Bangalore-based
Infosys said today. Profit missed the 15.6 billion rupees
average of 25 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Profit
probably missed estimates because of higher-than-expected wage
costs, said  Nitin Padmanabhan , an analyst with Indiabulls
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  
 Euro Weakness  
 The weakness of the euro, which has lost about 12 percent
against the dollar this year, and ripples from the Greek debt
crisis will result in a 12 to 15 percent loss in income for the
Europe-based business of Indian information-technology vendors,
according to estimates from Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  
 “If the euro trails at the same level -- or worse, drops
even further -- then Indian companies may lose more than 20
percent on each European deal,” Sudin Apte, a Pune, India-based
analyst at Forrester, wrote in a July 1 note to clients. “In a
market that has shown success only in pockets, this economic
challenge may make vendors lose their interest in the
geography.”  
 Billing rates will likely fall 2 percent in the year ending
March 2011 after they declined 1.6 percent in the first quarter,
CFO Balakrishnan said.  
 Uncertain Environment  
 Sales rose 13 percent to 62 billion rupees in the April-to-
June quarter, from 54.7 billion rupees a year earlier, in line
with the 62 billion rupees average of 28 analyst estimates. The
software-services provider, which  derived  66 percent of its
revenue from companies in North America and 23 percent from
Europe last fiscal year, added 38 clients and a net 1,026
employees during the quarter, for a total of 114,822 workers, it
said in a statement.  
 “While the global economic environment remains uncertain,
we continue to see greater demand for services,” Chief
Executive Officer  S. Gopalakrishnan  said in the statement. “The
challenge for the industry is to enhance the investment to grow
the business, given the uncertainty in the environment.”  
 Worldwide information technology spending, which includes
computer equipment and software purchases, will grow 9.3 percent
this year from an estimated $1.4 trillion in 2009, according to
Forrester. Spending in the U.S. will outpace gross domestic
product growth as companies make up for orders delayed during
last year’s recession, the researcher said.  
 Higher Dollar Sales  
 Infosys, which designs and builds software programs,
maintains computers and provides back-office support for clients
including Citigroup Inc. and BT Group Plc, raised its forecast
for full-year sales. The company now says revenue will range
from $5.72 billion to $5.81 billion, compared with the $5.57
billion to $5.67 billion range it projected in April.  
 The company in April said it expected full-year earnings
per American Depositary share to increase by as much as 8.6
percent to $2.50. Infosys revised that today to earnings of as
much as $2.52 per ADR.  
 While orders will continue to increase, “it’s only when
they have the volumes in, and they have more than they can
handle, that they can start having a say on pricing again. But
that’s still some time away,”  Padmanabhan , who rates Infosys
“outperform,” said before the announcement. “You won’t see a
reversal of price cuts for now.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        