-- Intel Tops Analysts' Estimates, Says Recovery Has Legs
-- Ian King
-- 2010-07-13T21:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/intel-forecast-beats-estimates-after-second-quarter-s-record-chip-revenue.html

          
          
             Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, reported record second-quarter sales and topped
analysts’ estimates with its forecast for this period, allaying
concern that a rebound in technology spending is losing steam.  
 Third-quarter  sales  will be $11.6 billion, plus or minus
$400 million, the Santa Clara, California-based company said
today in a statement. Analysts had estimated $10.9 billion on
average, according to a  Bloomberg survey .  
 Intel, the first big technology company to report second-
quarter earnings, renewed optimism that the industry will avoid
getting mired in another slump. Reporting its third straight
quarter of sales growth after last year’s contraction, Intel
said corporate spending is strengthening, signaling that the
economy isn’t headed back into recession.  
 “This takes your probability for a double-dip way down,”
said  Keith Goddard , president of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Capital
Advisors Inc., which owns Intel stock as part of $800 million in
assets under management. “There are collateral positives for the
whole tech space.”  
 Intel jumped $1.13, or 5.4 percent, to $22.14 in extended
trading. The stock, which has climbed 3 percent  this year , had
closed at $21.01 in regular Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 Second Quarter  
 Second-quarter net income was $2.89 billion, or 51 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $398 million, or 7 cents, a year
earlier, when Intel paid a European Union fine.  Analysts 
estimated a profit of 43 cents a share.  
 The report followed better-than-anticipated earnings from
Alcoa Inc. and an increased forecast for aluminum consumption --
further evidence that the economic recovery has staying power.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.5 percent today,
extending its longest rally in three months, and the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index surged 1.9 percent. All 10 industries in the
S&P 500 advanced.  
 Intel’s forecast boosted shares of rival  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. , which rose 5.7 percent to $7.95 in late trading.
Microsoft Corp., the world’s largest software maker, climbed
2.3 percent to $25.70.  
 Revenue increased 34 percent to $10.8 billion last quarter,
compared with an average estimate of $10.3 billion.  
 Margin Forecast  
 Intel lifted its forecast for  gross margin  -- the
percentage of sales remaining after deducting production costs
-- to 66 percent for the year, from a previous prediction of
64 percent. For the current period, the margin will be
67 percent, the company said.  
 Corporations continue spending on PCs and servers, Chief
Financial Officer  Stacy Smith  said. He also indicated that
customers haven’t built up excessive chip stockpiles, a concern
among investors before the earnings report.  
 “We saw a resurgence of the enterprise market,” he said
in an interview. “We see inventory levels that are healthy.”  
 The company kicks off three weeks of earnings reports by
the largest U.S. technology companies, including International
Business Machines Corp.,  Google Inc.  and Microsoft Corp. Intel’s
dominance of the market for microprocessors, the main component
in computers, makes its sales a barometer of industry demand.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  expects the PC market
to rise as much as 16 percent annually through 2014, helping
maintain Intel’s sales gains. Analysts have taken a different
view. They estimate that Intel’s revenue growth will slow to
6 percent next year and 1 percent in 2012, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  
 Intel also is predicting wider profit margins for the
longer run. Smith has said he expects the gross margin to range
between 55 percent and 65 percent in coming years. That compares
with 50 percent to 60 percent over the past decade.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Paul Otellini, chief executive officer of Intel Corp., speaks at the Innovation Economy Conference in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Intel Corp. Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Santa Clara, California, about the outlook for sales.
     Intel, the world's biggest chipmaker, reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts' estimates with its forecast for this period, allaying concern that a rebound in technology spending is losing steam. Smith also discusses the company's investments in China. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
