-- Calumet Plans Debt Amid Fastest Pace of Sales Since April: New Issue Alert
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-07-14T08:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/interactive-data-to-sell-700-million-of-eight-year-debt-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             Calumet Specialty Products Partners
LP , the Indianapolis-based refiner of specialty hydrocarbon
products, plans to sell debt as companies issue bonds at the
fastest pace since April.  
 Calumet Specialty will sell $450 million of notes as soon
as July 16, according to a person familiar with the transaction,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 Debt sales were $7.65 billion yesterday, pushing July
issuance to $29.7 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the busiest start of a month since April,
Bloomberg data show. Borrowers are taking advantage of stability
in the market to sell bonds before the bulk of earnings reports,
said  Tom Murphy  at Columbia Management in Minneapolis.  
 “It shouldn’t surprise anybody that corporate America is
trying to rush through the eye of the needle here to do as much
issuance as they can, as we get past volatility and before we
have some seasonal issues that make the new-issue calendar
quiet,” said Murphy, who helps manage more than $20 billion of
investment-grade credit.  
 Company bond sales are returning to levels seen before
concern about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis slowed May issuance
to the least since October 2008. Month-to-date volume has jumped
69 percent from the similar period in June, surged 85 percent
from May and fell 0.76 percent from $29.9 billion in the April
period, Bloomberg data show.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed 3 basis points to 200 basis
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master index. Absolute yields rose 2 basis points to
4.35 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 ‘Yields Are Pretty Low’  
 “There’s decent spread in the marketplace here, but from
an all-in yield perspective, the yields are pretty low
historically,” Murphy said.  
 Petroleos Mexicanos, the state-owned oil company, led
corporate bond sales yesterday, issuing $2 billion of 10.5-year
dollar-denominated bonds, Bloomberg data show.  
 NXP BV had the biggest sale of high-yield, high-risk debt,
issuing $1 billion of notes due in 2018 after increasing the
size of its offering from $600 million, Bloomberg data show.  
 Junk-bond spreads narrowed 15 basis point to 670 basis
points yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. High Yield Master II index. Absolute yields fell 8 basis
points to 8.9 percent. High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds
are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB by
Standard & Poor’s.  
 Target Sells  
 Target Corp. , the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
sold $1 billion of 10-year debt yesterday in its first bond
offering since January 2008, Bloomberg data show.  
 The retailer’s 10-year notes were sold at a yield of 3.91
percent, or 80 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds may be used to repay
existing debt, fund construction of new branches, remodel
existing stores, finance share repurchases, and acquire real
estate, other assets and companies, Minneapolis-based Target
said in a regulatory filing.  
 U.S. stocks are rallying for a second consecutive week
after earnings results from  Alcoa Inc.,  the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, and  CSX Corp ., the third-largest U.S.
railroad by 2009 revenue, beat analysts’ estimates.  
 Calumet Specialty  plans to use proceeds from its debt sale
to repay bank debt, the company said in a statement distributed
by Business Wire. The statement didn’t specify the timing of the
sale.  
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is the world’s largest retailer. Union
Pacific Corp. is the biggest U.S. railroad, followed by
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC.  
 Following is a description of at least $4.74 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP.  plans to sell debt in a
benchmark offering, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Proceeds from the 3- and 5-year notes will be used
for general corporate purposes, said the person, who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set. A benchmark offering is
typically at least $500 million.  
 PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL’S  Australian unit hired
Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
help it sell five-year bonds in U.S. dollars, according to a
person familiar with the matter. The bonds may be rated A3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and may be sold this week, the person
said, asking not to be identified as the plan is private. PTT
Exploration & Production is Thailand’s only publicly-traded oil
and gas explorer.  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year bonds, along with
warrants and peso debt, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Chile will use the proceeds
for general purposes, the filing said. The country is seeking
financing for repairs after a Feb. 27 earthquake and subsequent
tsunami killed more than 400 people and caused as much as $30
billion of damage. Moody’s upgraded Chile’s rating to Aa3 from
A1 on June 16, citing “economic and financial resilience even
in the face of major adverse shocks, including February’s
historic earthquake.”  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank hasn’t decided which currency to
sell the bonds in, he said. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 QATARI DIAR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CO. sale of dollar bonds
is due to be priced today, a banker involved in the transaction
said. The five-year securities may yield about 185 basis points
more than U.S. Treasuries and the 10-year bonds may have a
spread of 195 basis points, the banker said. The property arm of
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund plans to sell $3.5 billion of
bonds.  
 IRSA INVERSIONES Y REPRESENTACIONES SA, Argentina’s biggest
real-estate company, may complete its sale of 10-year dollar
bonds by July 16, said a person familiar with the transaction.
Citigroup Inc., Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Banco Santander SA
are arranging the sale, said the person who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. He said the size of the
offering hasn’t been determined.  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP. said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
plans to issue seven-year debt to repay existing indebtedness,
Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 High Yield  
 INTERACTIVE DATA CORP., the Pearson Plc unit that provides
financial market data and services, plans to sell $700 million
of notes due 2018 that will help fund the company’s buyout by
Silver Lake Technology Management LLC and Warburg Pincus LLC,
according to a person familiar with the offering who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set. The Bedford,
Massachusetts-based company will also use a five-year, $160
million revolving line of credit and a 6.5-year, $1.33 billion
term loan to back the buyout. Moody’s Investors Services
assigned a Caa1 rating to the proposed securities on July 1.  
 CALUMET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS PARTNERS LP, the Indianapolis-
based refiner of specialty hydrocarbon products, plans to sell
$450 million of senior notes. Proceeds will be used to repay
bank debt, the company said in a July 12 statement distributed
by Business Wire. Calumet Specialty plans to market the 10-year
notes beginning through July 16, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. Standard & Poor’s assigned the notes a B
rating.  
 GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC. , the U.S. home-nursing
company that is buying Odyssey HealthCare Inc., plans to sell
$305 million of eight-year notes, the Atlanta-based company said
in a May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying the timing of
the transaction. Proceeds will be used to help fund the
takeover, according to the filing. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the unsecured notes a B- credit rating on June 29. Moody’s
Investors Service rated the notes a grade of B2 and ranked $925
million of loans three steps higher at Ba2, it said in a report.  
 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities that’s buying Psychiatric Solutions
Inc., plans to sell $400 million of senior unsecured debt to
help finance the acquisition, it said in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 PROMSVYAZBANK OJSC , Russia’s third-largest private bank,
plans to sell $200 million of six-year loan participation notes
at a yield of 11.25 percent, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale.  
 AKBANK TAS , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
plans to sell five-year, dollar-denominated eurobonds worth up
to $1 billion, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock
Exchange. Moody’s Investors Services assigned a provisional Ba1
rating. Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Standard Chartered Plc are managing the sale.  
 CEDAR FAIR ENTERTAINMENT CO., the operator of amusement
parks that called off a takeover by an Apollo Management LP
affiliate, said it plans to sell $500 million of senior
unsecured notes due in 2020. Proceeds will be used to repay
existing debt, the Sandusky, Ohio-based company said in a May 20
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Moody’s Investors Service
rated the company’s senior notes B2, citing the refinancing
meaningfully improves the company’s liquidity position and
provides the company flexibility to reduce debt and manage
through a period of attendance-constraining high unemployment
notwithstanding the increase in cash interest costs resulting
from the refinancing.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC., the maker of tire and wheel
systems for off-highway equipment, said it plans to sell at
least $150 million of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds will be
used to repurchase the 8 percent senior unsecured notes due in
2012 and for general corporate purposes, the Quincy, Illinois-
based company said in a May 13 statement distributed by Business
Wire.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC., the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 ENERGYSOLUTIONS INC ., the Salt Lake City-based nuclear
services company, has amended its credit facility and plans to
refinance that debt with borrowings under new loans and an
offering of senior notes, the company said today in a statement
distributed by Marketwire.  
 FIRST PACIFIC CO., an investment-management firm based in
Hong Kong, plans a U.S. dollar bond sale as part of its
refinancing and debt management program. The net proceeds from
the bonds would be used to repay borrowing, the company said in
an e-mailed statement.  
 POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  
 INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell
approximately $650 million of Islamic bonds in October, Dahlan
Siamat, director for Islamic financing at the finance ministry,
said in a telephone interview in Jakarta. The government sold
its first international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  
 NOMURA HOLDINGS INC.  Japan’s largest brokerage, plans to
sell dollar-denominated sukuk, or Islamic bonds, in Malaysia,
according to a July 6 company statement. Nomura may sell $100
million of Ijarah sukuk that will mature in 2012. The securities
will yield 160 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, said  Jamelah Jamaluddin , chief executive officer
of Kuwait Finance House (Malaysia) Bhd., a unit of Kuwait’s
biggest Islamic bank, the sale arranger.  
 OAO GAZPROMBANK , the lending unit of Russia’s gas export
monopoly, hired Barclays Capital, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, and UBS AG to organize meetings with investors in Europe
and Asia starting July 5, according to two people with knowledge
of the transaction.  
 CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESAROLLO SA Peru’s state
development bank known as Cofide, plans to sell as much as $250
million of dollar-denominated bonds, according to Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Linares. Linares said in an interview
in Lima, that the lender is selling long-term debt as it boosts
lending to local infrastructure projects. “Peru’s need for
infrastructure is huge,” Linares said. “The government is
trying to promote foreign investment in a long list of
projects.”  
 SRI LANKA plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds, according
to its central bank. The South Asian country’s third-ever
overseas offering is likely after August, Central Bank of Sri
Lanka Assistant Governor C.J.P. Siriwardena said in a telephone
interview on June 30.  
 GEORGIAN RAILWAY LTD. hired Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for a sale of bonds in dollars, according
to a banker involved in the transaction.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 BANK OF EAST ASIA LTD.  hired Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to help it sell subordinated 10-year bonds in
dollars, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter. The banks are meeting potential investors in Hong Kong
and Singapore, the person said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia
is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 INDOSAT PALAPA CO., a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest
phone operator, delayed a planned dollar bond sale until market
conditions improve, a person familiar with the matter said May
26. Indosat began meetings with investors in Asia, the U.S. and
Europe on May 12 to gauge demand for a global bond sale,
according to a company statement sent to the Indonesian stock
exchange that day. Moody’s assigned a provisional Ba1 rating to
the notes and S&P rated them BB, one step lower.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering a “no-
deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 KAZAKHSTAN plans to sell between $500 million and $750
million in bonds to investors abroad in the autumn, Kazakh
Finance Minister  Bolat Zhamishev  said in a May 14 interview. The
bonds will probably be denominated in dollars and will be used
to set a benchmark for corporate borrowing, Zhamishev said.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL , the Thai oil explorer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to help it sell global bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the
plan is private.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt through next year, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell 
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales this year
after Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment
banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5
to 10 years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The
securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 -- With assistance from Katie Evans and Gabrielle Coppola in New
York and Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City. Editors: Mitchell
Martin,  Cecile Gutscher   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        