-- Iran `Abducted' Nuclear Scientist Takes Refuge in Washington, Iran TV Says
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-13T19:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/iran-abducted-nuclear-scientist-takes-refuge-in-washington-iran-tv-says.html

          
          
             An Iranian scientist who Iran says
was abducted by the U.S. took refuge in the Persian Gulf
country’s interests section at the Pakistani Embassy in
Washington early today, Iranian state television said.  
 Shahram Amiri “has requested a prompt return to Tehran,”
the broadcaster said on its  website  today. The scientist, who
taught at a military-run university in Tehran, said in a video
message aired on state television on June 7 that he was abducted
by the U.S. last year in Medina, Saudi Arabia.  
 ABC News reported on March 31 that Amiri was a nuclear
scientist who defected to the U.S. in an operation planned by
the Central Intelligence Agency, citing people who were briefed
by intelligence officials. The U.S. is trying to block Iran from
pursuing a nuclear weapons capability, while Iran insists it has
no such goal.  
 “Following the release of my interview on the Internet and
the disgrace the abduction brought up for the American
government, they were seeking to quietly return me to Iran using
certain countries’ airlines,” Amiri was  quoted  as telling the
state broadcaster by telephone today.  
 American ‘Losers’  
 The U.S. “sought to put a cap on the seizure while denying
the whole case but eventually did not succeed,” he was quoted
as saying. “Since the release of my comments on the Internet,
the Americans saw themselves as the losers in this saga.”  
 Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  rejected that
characterization. “He’s free to go, he was free to come,”
Clinton said today. She added that Amiri would have left
yesterday if he had not had trouble arranging flights through
transit countries.  
 Iran is under United Nations sanctions over its nuclear
program, which the U.S. and its allies say may be a cover for
building atomic weapons. Iran maintains that its atomic research
is for peaceful purposes such as electricity generation.  
 Amiri has said he was on a pilgrimage when he was seized in
an operation involving “terror and kidnap teams” including the
U.S. and Saudi intelligence services, according to a video aired
on state TV last month. The video was recorded on April 5 and
obtained by Iranian intelligence, according to the state-run
 Fars  news agency.  
 Nadeem Kiani, the press attaché for Pakistan’s embassy in
Washington, confirmed that Amiri was at Iran’s interests
section, which isn’t housed in the embassy. “The Iranian
section informed us of this person, that he is doing OK and that
he wants to go to Iran,” Kiani said.  
 Travel Documents  
 Kiani said he thought that Amiri doesn’t have a passport
and said that the interest section could provide him with travel
documents. “Our role is sort of facilitator,” Kiani said.  
 State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley , when asked
whether Amiri had provided the U.S. with information, said he
couldn’t answer. He said that Amiri “informed us that he wishes
to go home.”  
 Another U.S. official, who asked not to be identified, said
today that Amiri wasn’t tortured or imprisoned by the U.S. Amiri
had said in the April video that he was tortured by CIA agents
who asked him to give a TV interview to a U.S. network and say
he was an important figure in Iran’s nuclear program, according
to the Fars news agency.  
 Several conflicting videos of men purporting to be Amiri
have appeared. Hours after the first Iranian TV report was
posted on the website YouTube on June 8, a second film was
uploaded showing a man who said he was the scientist and was
living in the U.S. of his own free will.  
 Another Video  
 In a third video, broadcast by Iranian state television on
June 29, a similar-looking man, who also said he was Amiri, said
he had just escaped from U.S. security agents in Virginia.  
 Iran had evidence that the U.S. had a role in Amiri’s
disappearance, Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  said in
October. Iranian authorities have called the academic a
“scholar and researcher,” without attributing any nuclear work
to him.  
 Iran said on July 3 that it provided new documents related
to Amiri’s abduction by the CIA to the Swiss Embassy in Tehran,
which represents U.S. interests in Iran, according to the state-
run  Press TV  news agency. Iran’s Foreign Ministry called last
week for his “unconditional release” and repatriation.  
 The U.S. broke diplomatic ties with Iran three decades ago
after Iranian militants took 52 Americans hostage in Tehran in
1979. They were released after 444 days.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said Iran had evidence that the U.S. had a role in Amiri’s disappearance. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
