-- Itau Tops Goldman Sachs in Brazilian Bond Underwriting
-- Veronica Navarro Espinosa
-- 2010-07-13T21:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/itau-overtakes-goldman-sachs-citigroup-as-brazil-bond-underwriters-grow.html

          
          
             Itau Unibanco Holding SA  overtook
Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Brazilian bond
underwriting, leading a push by local banks to grab market share
from international banks hurt by the global financial crisis.  
 Itau, the country’s largest bank by market value, jumped
four spots this year to become the fourth-biggest manager of
overseas sales by the Brazilian government and companies, the
highest ranking for a local underwriter since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 1999. Itau, based in Sao Paulo, has co-
managed offerings worth $5.1 billion this year, trailing only
HSBC Holdings Plc,  Banco Santander SA  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Four Brazilian banks are among the top 10 underwriters, the
most since 1999, allowing them to benefit from a two-fold rise
in overseas issuance this year to $17.2 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazilian banks held up better
during the financial crisis than their foreign counterparts,
with none of them appearing in a list compiled by Bloomberg of
the global firms posting the biggest losses.  
 “Brazilian banks took over when the others were
concentrating on their international problems,”  Ceres Lisboa , a
bank analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in Sao Paulo, said in
a telephone interview. They “filled the void,” she said.  
 Banco do Brasil SA , the state-controlled lender based in
Brasilia, rose to seventh from 11th in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Osasco-based  Banco Bradesco SA , the
country’s second-biggest bank by market value, climbed to eighth
from 13th and Banco Votorantim SA, the financial services unit
of Votorantim Group, is 10th after managing no transactions in
2009.  
 Citigroup’s Drop  
 Brazilian banks’ presence in underwriting “gained speed
during and after the crisis because some of the foreign banks
had reduced substantially their capability,”  Alberto Kiraly ,
head of investment banking of Banco Votorantim in Sao Paulo,
said in a telephone interview. Brazilian “banks have made
important progress,” he said.  
 Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said in a
November interview in London that Latin America’s biggest
economy has been protected from a credit-driven asset bubble by
“strong prudential regulations.”  
 Citigroup , the New York-based bank that reported more than
$100 billion of credit losses and writedowns tied to the U.S.
subprime mortgage crisis, slid to 11th this year in Brazilian
bond underwriting from fourth in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sale Pickup  
 “Brazil is a priority market for Citigroup,”  Alex Samuelson , a spokesman with the bank in New York, said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  
 New York-based Goldman Sachs, which reported losses and
writedowns of $9.1 billion, dropped to ninth from sixth. Credit
Suisse, the Zurich-based bank that posted losses and writedowns
of $20.4 billion, fell to 22nd from 10th in 2009 and third in
2007.  
 A Credit Suisse spokeswoman in New York declined to
comment.  Michael Duvally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman in New York,
didn’t return e-mails seeking comment.  
 Brazilian bond sales are rebounding this month after the
European debt crisis pushed emerging-market borrowing costs
higher and snapped a record start in offerings. Sao Paulo-based
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA sold $300 million of 10-year
bonds today, according to Bloomberg data. Brazil’s largest
airline hired Itau, Citigroup and Bank of America Corp. to
arrange the sale, said a person familiar with the transaction
who declined to be identified because he’s not authorized to
speak publicly.  
 Record Start  
 Brazilian companies sold $1.1 billion of international debt
this month after issuing just one bond, worth $200 million, in
May and June. The $15 billion that companies sold from January
to April was the most on record for the first four months of a
year since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1999.  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian
corporate dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 13 basis
points to 328 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s
CEMBI index. The yield gap has declined 26 basis points since
reaching a 10-month high of 354 on May 25.  
 The  so-called spread  on Brazilian government bonds over
Treasuries narrowed 14 basis points to 209, a two-month low.  
 The cost of credit-default swaps to protect against a
default on Brazilian debt for five years fell five basis points
to 121, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.757 per dollar.  
 Growing Competition  
 International banks are seeking to win back market share in
Brazil after pulling through the financial crisis, boosting
competition for underwriting business, said Lisboa at Moody’s.  
 Banks have charged on average this year fees equal to 0.25
percent of the amount of debt sold to arrange Brazilian debt
offerings, down from 0.36 percent in 2009 and the lowest in at
least 11 years, Bloomberg data show. In the U.S. bond market,
banks have charged 0.33 percent on average this year.  
 “Competition will be name of the game,” Lisboa said.
“Brazilian investment banks have positioned themselves in that
market and now they’re very strong.”  
 UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, said in April it agreed
to buy the Brazilian brokerage Link Investimentos for about $112
million, a year after selling its Brazilian unit, UBS Pactual
SA, for $2.5 billion to raise capital following the crisis. UBS
ranks 20th in Brazilian underwriting this year, down from 18th
in 2009 and first in 2007.  
 Pactual Hire  
 The Link purchase “will provide a platform to further
expand our business and product offering in the country,”  Doug Morris , a UBS spokesman in New York, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “UBS has remained very active with
Brazilian clients over the past several months.”  
 UBS’s former Pactual unit, now known as Banco BTG Pactual
SA and owned by Brazilian billionaire  Andre Esteves , said today
that it hired  Sandy Severino  in New York to underwrite
international debt sales. In April, Severino, who has worked at
Deutsche Bank AG and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., left
Citigroup, where he arranged Brazilian bond sales and syndicated
loans, BTG Pactual said in a statement.  
 Alexandre Aoude , global head of fixed income at Itau in Sao
Paulo, said it won’t be as easy for foreign banks to re-enter
the market as it was years ago. Itau’s 10 transactions this year
include a $500 million offering by Marfrig Alimentos SA, the
world’s fourth-largest meatpacker, and a $750 million sale by
BRF Brasil Foods SA, the country’s biggest food producer.  
 “Before it was easy for them to leave and come back,”
Aoude said in a May 19 interview in New York. “They didn’t have
any type of local competition. Nowadays, every time that they do
that, we get more market share.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Central bank President Henrique Meirelles said that Latin America’s biggest economy has been protected from a credit-driven asset bubble by “strong prudential regulations.” Photographer: Marcia Zoet/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
