-- Ivanhoe Plans to Scrap Accord With Rio Limiting Scope for New Investment
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-07-13T20:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ivanhoe-plans-to-scrap-accord-with-rio-limiting-scope-for-new-investment.html

          
          
             Ivanhoe Mines Ltd.  plans to scrap an
accord limiting its ability to bring new investors into the $4.6
billion Oyu Tolgoi mining project in Mongolia, intensifying a
dispute with Rio Tinto Group, its largest shareholder.  
 Ivanhoe issued Rio a 60-day notice of intention to dissolve
the so-called strategic investor covenant, which governs Rio’s
investment in the company, Vancouver-based Ivanhoe said today in
a statement. Termination would free Ivanhoe to issue more than 5
percent of its stock to one or more investors, it said. Ivanhoe
 rose  14 percent in Toronto trading.  
 Rio, which owns 30 percent of Ivanhoe, said last week it
was taking Ivanhoe to arbitration over a shareholders plan
implemented by the Canadian company. At stake is the ownership
of Ivanhoe and Oyu Tolgoi, which has been described by Rio as
the world’s largest untapped copper and gold resource.  
 “Rio Tinto has been a supportive strategic partner for
Ivanhoe in advancing the Oyu Tolgoi Project to full-scale
construction,” David Huberman, lead independent director at
Ivanhoe, said in the statement. “We intend to continue our
cooperation as we pursue additional financing options.”  
 Ivanhoe also said  Andrew Harding , chief executive officer
of Rio’s copper division, resigned from Ivanhoe’s board prior to
its meeting yesterday.  
 Aluminum Corp. of China , China’s biggest producer of
aluminum, indicated an interest in acquiring a minority stake in
Ivanhoe or in the Oyu Tolgoi project, Rio said in a July 7
filing. Chinalco, as the Chinese company is also known, is Rio’s
biggest investor.  
 Ivanhoe rose C$2.14 to C$17.07 at 4:10 p.m. in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading. The percentage gain was the biggest
since Aug. 25. Rio, based in the U.K., rose 1.1 percent, to
3,135 pence in London trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        