-- Mizuho Financial Plans to Raise $8.4 Billion Through Public Share Offering
-- Finbarr Flynn
-- 2010-07-13T09:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/mizuho-financial-plans-to-raise-8-4-billion-in-sale-of-shares-to-public.html

          
          
             Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s
second-largest publicly traded bank by assets, is raising as
much as 748 billion yen ($8.4 billion) in its second share sale
in a year to comply with stricter global capital rules.  
 Mizuho  plans to sell as many as 6 billion shares for 130
yen each, according to a filing made to the Ministry of Finance
today. The Tokyo-based bank’s stock closed at 135 yen today, the
lowest in seven years.  
 The offering adds to $43 billion in new equity raised by
Mizuho and its two largest local rivals since December 2008, as
regulators push for greater capital buffers to avert another
credit crisis. Mizuho may avoid having to sell more stock as
banks will likely be given additional time to comply with the
new rules for financial strength, said  Ismael Pili , an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd.  
 “The capital standards set to be introduced at year-end may
not be as onerous as we expected,” said Tokyo-based Pili. Banks
may get at least 10 years to meet new criteria, giving them
enough time for them to build capital “organically,” he said.  
 Banks should increase the quality of capital they hold by
the end of 2012, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said
in a report published Dec. 17. Regulators may grant banks
transition periods of up to a decade to implement capital rules
to ease concerns that lenders and their economies won’t be able
to bear the burden of tougher requirements until a recovery
takes hold, according to bankers, regulators and lobbyists
involved in the talks.  
 Capital Ratios  
 Mizuho will still trail  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. 
and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  in financial strength,
according to Fitch Ratings Ltd. Mizuho’s core Tier 1 ratio, a
measure of its ability to absorb losses, was 4.2 percent at the
end of March, compared with 7.8 percent at Mitsubishi UFJ and 7
percent for Sumitomo Mitsui, Fitch estimates.  
 A share sale of 800 billion yen would allow Mizuho to boost
its core capital ratio to 5.6 percent, according to Fitch.  
 Stock sales by Japan’s largest lenders have depressed bank
shares, with the  Topix Banks Index  slumping to the lowest level
since at least January 1983 this month. Japanese banks trade at
a discount to  book value , Bloomberg data show.  
 “With the big banks having their financing out of the way,
I think Japanese banks are attractive,” said  Nicholas Smith ,
director of equity research at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. in
Tokyo. “There may be some upside for Mizuho and other banks at
current valuations.”  
 Earnings Boost  
 Mitsubishi UFJ  has fallen 5 percent in Tokyo trading since
pricing its latest stock sale in December. Sumitomo Mitsui
shares have dropped 12 percent since the bank priced its share
offering in January.  
 Mizuho returned to profit in the fiscal year ended March 31
and predicts net income will jump 80 percent to 430 billion yen
in the current 12-month period. That is the highest full-year
profit forecast among Japan’s publicly traded banks.  
 Bank earnings may get a boost this year from lower-than-
expected bad-loan costs, according to MF Global’s Smith.  
 Takashi Tsukamoto , Mizuho’s chief executive officer, said
June 22 he and two bank unit presidents will take a 30 percent
pay cut for three months as the lender reduces dividends. Six
Mizuho executives including Tsukamoto received more than 100
million yen in compensation in the year ended March 31, the
highest executive pay reported by a Japanese bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        