-- Japan Pension Fund Becomes Net Bond Seller in Risk for Government Finances
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-07-13T06:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/japan-pension-fund-becomes-net-bond-seller-in-risk-for-government-finances.html

          
          
             Japan’s public pension fund sold
more government bonds than it bought for the first time in nine
years, underscoring concern that an aging population will make
domestic investors less able to finance state borrowings.  
 The fund sold a net 443.2 billion yen ($5 billion) of
Japanese government bonds in the year ended March 31, according
to Bank of Japan data released last month. It held 79.5
trillion yen of the securities at the fiscal year end, 11.6
percent of the outstanding amount.  
 Households have funded Japan’s  record debt  because much of
their 1,400 trillion yen in financial assets is being used by
banks, pension funds and insurance companies to buy government
bonds. More retirees will tap their pensions as the  population 
gets  older , a trend that the diminishing ranks of young people
will find difficult to offset, said economist  Junko Nishioka .  
 “The large domestic pool of savings, which has helped
absorb government bonds, is going to shrink,” Nishioka said.
“It won’t affect bond yields in the near term, but it will
become a huge problem in the long run.”  
 Yields  on Japan’s 10-year bond have held below 1.4 percent
for most of this year and were 1.125 percent at 3:55 p.m. in
Tokyo. The Nikkei newspaper reported the information on the
pension fund’s bond sales earlier today.  
 Domestic Investors  
 Prime Minister Naoto Kan has been warning that Japan’s
finances may collapse unless it reins in the world’s biggest
public debt. His idea of an increase in the 5 percent sales tax
to help pay for welfare costs for the elderly didn’t resonate
with voters in a July 11 election, as his coalition lost its
majority in the upper house.  
 “The only way Japan can survive is to undertake fiscal
rehabilitation at the same time as boosting economic growth,”
said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Tokyo. “Japan should stop runaway budget deficits as
early as possible.”  
 Even as it struggles to contain its liabilities, Japan has
benefited from low borrowing costs because about 94 percent of
its bonds are held by domestic investors. The country may need
to increase dependence on foreign buyers of its debt over time
because of the graying population, according to Finance
Ministry official  Masaaki Kaizuka .  
 “We may see the need to increase reliance from abroad,
whether we want to or not,” Kaizuka, director of debt
management, said on May 12.  
 Dig Into Reserves  
 The rising number of retirees increases pension payouts,
prompting funds to dig into reserves and leaving less leeway to
invest in government bonds, RBS’s Nishioka said. Reserves for
national and employee pensions are estimated at 128 trillion
yen as of March 2010, down from 141 trillion yen three years
earlier, according to Finance Ministry data.  
 The retirement of baby boomers -- defined in Japan as
those born between 1947 and 1949 -- may strain the public
coffers as soon as 2012,  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at
Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said in an interview
in May. “That may be when Japan’s sovereign risk becomes
evident,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        