-- Asian Stocks Advance; Samsung Climbs on Intel's Record Revenue
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-14T10:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/japanese-australian-stock-futures-rise-on-intel-earnings-advantest-gains.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  rose, set for their
highest close in three weeks, after the world’s biggest
chipmaker reported record second-quarter sales and Singapore
raised its economic growth forecast, driving optimism the global
economy is recovering.  
 Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of
semiconductors, climbed 3.5 percent in Seoul after Intel Corp.
estimates for third-quarter revenue exceeded those of analysts.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company, increased
2.1 percent in Sydney after oil and metal prices rose.  Toyota
Motor Corp. , the world’s largest automaker, jumped 4 percent in
Tokyo on optimism the recovery will stoke demand for consumer
products. DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Southeast Asia’s largest
lender, gained 1.8 percent in Singapore.  
 “The Intel result could be a precursor to a potentially
robust U.S. reporting season,” said  Prasad Patkar , who helps
manage about $1.6 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in
Sydney. “Markets were very weak with the expectation that the
U.S. economy would plunge into a double-dip recession, and this
would be a good catalyst to reassess that pessimism. Singapore’s
economic expansion potentially signals strong demand from its
Asian and other trade partners.”  
 The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index  rose 1.4 percent to 117.61 as
of 7:31 p.m. in Tokyo, on course for its highest close since
June 22. About four stocks gained for each that fell. The gauge
has slumped 8.9 percent from its high this year on April 15 as
Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese steps to curb property prices
fueled concerns the global economy will falter.  
 Regional Indexes  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 2.7 percent today.
Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  climbed 1.9 percent and New
Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  advanced 0.6 percent. Hong Kong’s  Hang
Seng Index  increased 0.6 percent while Singapore’s  Straits Times
Index  added 0.8 percent.  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.4
percent. Yesterday, the gauge rose 1.5 percent in New York,
extending the index’s longest rally in three months, as
improving outlooks from companies such as Alcoa Inc. and
Novellus Systems Inc. bolstered confidence in the economy.  
 Samsung jumped 3.5 percent to 824,000 won in Seoul, its
biggest increase in four months.  Advantest Corp. , the world’s
largest maker of chip-testing equipment, climbed 5.7 percent to
2,013 yen in Tokyo.  
 Intel, which kicked off three weeks of second-quarter
earnings reports by the biggest U.S. technology companies, said
third-quarter sales will be about $11.6 billion.  
 Analysts had estimated $10.9 billion on average, according
to a  Bloomberg survey . The company also said second-quarter net
income was $2.89 billion, or 51 cents a share, compared with
analysts’  estimates  of a profit of 43 cents a share.  
 Materials Stocks  
 “It’s hugely significant that Intel, which represents
high-tech companies, should report stronger than estimated
results,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at
Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  
 Komatsu Ltd. gained 5.4 percent to 1,790 yen in Tokyo. The
world’s second-largest maker of construction equipment raised
its first-half profit forecast by 41 percent to reflect rising
demand from Asia and Latin America.  
 BHP Billiton rose 2.1 percent to A$38.40 in Sydney on
higher oil and metal prices.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, advanced 1.3 percent to A$67.38.  
 Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s biggest trading company, climbed
2.2 percent to 2,000 yen. Jiangxi Copper Co. jumped 3.1 percent
to 25.28 yuan in Shanghai.  PetroChina Co. , China’s largest oil
company, gained 0.3 percent to HK$8.77 in Hong Kong.  
 Metals, Oil  
 The  London Metal Exchange Index , a measure of six metals
including copper and zinc, rose 1.1 percent yesterday. Copper
futures for September delivery advanced 0.3 percent in New York
yesterday, while crude oil for August delivery climbed 2.9
percent to the highest level in more than two weeks.  
 Toyota increased 4 percent to 3,250 yen.  Honda Motor Co. ,
Japan’s second-largest carmaker, added 3.9 percent to 2,741 yen.
Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia televisions and Cyber-shot
cameras, rose 1.8 percent to 2,592 yen.  
 The brighter global economic outlook also drove the yen
down to as much as 113.28 per euro today from 112.90 in New York.
Against the dollar, it depreciated to as low as 89.11 yen from
88.74. A weaker yen boosts overseas income at Japanese companies
when converted into their home currency.  
 Australian retailers also rallied today after a measure of
 consumer confidence  surged in July by the most in 13 months,
snapping three months of declines.  
 Australians’ ‘Upbeat View’  
 David Jones Ltd. , Australia’s second-largest department
store chain, advanced 2 percent to A$4.59. JB Hi-Fi Ltd., the
nation’s  second-largest electrical retailer, climbed 1.2
percent to A$19.02. The sentiment index jumped 11.1 percent to
113.1 points, according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne
Institute survey of 1,200 consumers conducted between July 5 and
July 11 and released today in Sydney.  
 “The solid base for consumer sentiment is coming from an
upbeat view on the economy,” said  Bill Evans , chief economist
at Westpac Bank in Sydney.  
 Jiangling Motors Corp.  jumped 6.8 percent to 15.95 yuan in
Shanghai after saying first-half net income increased, while
Beiqi Foton Motor Co. surged 2 percent to 18.09 yuan on higher
vehicle sales.  
 China CNR Corp. , a maker of rail and subway cars, rallied
3.1 percent to 5.26 yuan. China Citic Bank Corp. said it and
China Development Bank Corp. agreed to lend Argentina $273
million to help the country buy trains from China CNR.  
 Lending Curbs  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific gauge fell yesterday after China
reaffirmed a commitment to lending curbs and India’s Infosys
Technologies Ltd. reported worse-than-estimated profit. The
decline cut the average price of shares in the index to 14.1
times estimated  earnings , close to the 13.7 times reached on
July 2, the lowest level since December 2008.  
 The region’s stocks also climbed today after Singapore
raised its growth forecast for a third time this year as
manufacturing output surged and the opening of two casinos
boosted services, spurring a recovery that’s prompted the
central bank to tighten monetary policy.  
 DBS Group advanced 1.8 percent to S$14.78.  Capitaland Ltd. ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest developer, climbed 1.6 percent S$3.77.
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., a shipping line that counts the
Americas as its biggest market, gained 2 percent to S$2.04.  
 “Given Singapore is a highly trade-dependent country, its
economic growth signals the global economy is recovering, with
trade as a main driver,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a strategist in
Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $65 billion. “Intel’s result indicates consumer spending
is expanding.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney on   sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney on   lpham14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index rose 1 percent to 117.13 as of 9:50 a.m. in Tokyo, snapping two days of losses. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Intel Corp. Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Santa Clara, California, about the outlook for sales.
     Intel, the world's biggest chipmaker, reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts' estimates with its forecast for this period, allaying concern that a rebound in technology spending is losing steam. Smith also discusses the company's investments in China. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
