-- Jerusalem Committee Approves Construction of 32 Apartments in City's East
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-13T08:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/jerusalem-committee-approves-construction-of-32-apartments-in-city-s-east.html

          
          
             A Jerusalem municipal planning
committee approved the construction of 32 new homes on land
Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East war and that
Palestinians want as their capital.  
 The committee, meeting yesterday, approved construction in
the Pisgat Zeev area of four new buildings with eight apartments
each and granted permits for new homes in Arab neighborhoods of
the city, Mayor  Nir Barkat ’s spokesman, Stephan Miller, said
today in a telephone interview.  
 Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in November declared a
partial construction freeze in settlements in the West Bank,
lasting until September. Israel stopped short of halting
building in east Jerusalem, which it annexed and declared part
of its capital in a move never internationally recognized.  
 Miller said that the Pisgat Zeev construction was first
approved in 2000 and that even after yesterday’s vote the plan
must be endorsed by about 20 different municipal departments
before building can begin. Some 42,000 Israelis live in Pisgat
Zeev, according to 2008 figures from the  Jerusalem Institute for
Israel Studies .  
 Plans to build 1,600 homes for Jews in a different area of
east Jerusalem, announced during a March visit by Vice President
 Joe Biden , prompted criticism of Israel by the U.S. and delayed
the start of indirect peace talks with the Palestinians.  
 Ahmad Majdalani, a member of the Palestine Liberation
Organization’s executive committee, described yesterday’s
approval of construction plans as a “provocation” and called
on the U.S. to “clearly state its position regarding
settlement-building.”  
 “The American administration promised that no construction
would be carried out during the four months of proximity
talks,” he said, referring to the U.S.-mediated indirect talks
that began in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        