-- Black Armbands, Lowered Flags Mark Death of Yankees `Boss' Steinbrenner
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-07-14T07:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/jeter-new-york-yankees-teammates-mourn-death-of-the-boss-steinbrenner.html

          
          
             Flags above Angel Stadium’s center
field were lowered to half staff. New York Yankees players and
coaches wore black armbands on their left sleeves. A moment of
silence to honor deceased Yankees owner  George Steinbrenner 
preceded Major League Baseball’s All-Star Game in Anaheim,
California.  
 “It’s a difficult time on a great day for baseball,”
Yankees manager  Joe Girardi , who also was the American League
manager last night, said in a news conference before the
National League beat the AL 3-1. “A great man in baseball
passed. He has meant so much to the game of baseball.”  
 Yankees shortstop  Derek Jeter  said the key to understanding
the man known as “The Boss” was to appreciate his roots as a
football coach. Steinbrenner, who died yesterday in Tampa,
Florida, at the age of 80, was an assistant football coach at
Northwestern and Purdue universities in the 1950s.  
 “He was an old football coach, so he sort of looked at the
baseball season like we played 12 games and you had to win every
single day,” Jeter said at the news conference. “He expected
to win every night, every day. He expected perfection and that
rubbed off on the organization.”  
 The common perception of Steinbrenner as a demanding
employer was only part of the story, Yankees pitcher  Andy Pettitte  said.  
 ‘Tough Support’  
 “George used to hand me Bible verses before some of my
playoff starts,” Pettitte said at the news conference. “He was
tough but he was always there to support you. It was tough
support. He expected a lot, he demanded a lot.”  
 Alex Rodriguez , a Yankee All-Star along with Jeter and
Pettitte, remembered a handwritten note that arrived in the
clubhouse for him during his first season with New York in 2004.
It had the initials GMS on it and the words “I’M COUNTING ON
YOU” in capital letters. Rodriguez said he still has the note.  
 “He’s a man who had more passion than anyone,” Rodriguez
said.  
 Girardi, who played for Steinbrenner and has managed the
team since 2008, said the owner’s expectations perhaps hid the
fact that “there was a gentle side to this man.”  
 “I never felt his expectations were overbearing,” Girardi
said. “He just wanted what we wanted, to win.”  
 The new Yankee Stadium, opened last year, will be one of
Steinbrenner’s legacies, the players said. So too, they said,
will be years of personal relationships.  
 Jeter Planned Visit  
 Jeter, 36, said he had planned to visit Steinbrenner in
their mutual hometown of Tampa on the Yankees’ off days today
and tomorrow. Instead, he said, his last memory of the owner
will be when Steinbrenner and the team got their 2009 World
Series championship rings at the beginning of this season.  
 “I’ve known him since I was 18 years old,” Jeter said.
“We were more friends than anything. I’d go visit him in the
offseason. We had bets on Michigan-Ohio State football games.
It’s tough because he’s more than just an owner to me, he’s a
friend of mine and he will be missed.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in Anaheim, California, at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        