-- Karzai Push for Talks With Taliban Renews Risk to Afghan Women, Group Says
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-07-13T07:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/karzai-push-for-talks-with-taliban-renews-risk-to-afghan-women-group-says.html

          
          
             U.S.-backed efforts by President
 Hamid Karzai  to reconcile with the Taliban and other Islamic
militants threaten to reverse improvements in the lives and
rights of Afghanistan’s women,  Human Rights Watch  said.  
 The revival of Taliban control in southern and eastern
Afghanistan has forced women to abandon jobs and social work,
the New York-based advocacy organization  said in a report  today.
Guerrillas have destroyed at least 456 girls schools, the Afghan
 human rights  commission said in March.  
 Interviews with Afghan women in Taliban-controlled regions
show that “as the prospect of negotiations with the Taliban
draws closer, many women fear that they may also pay a heavy
price for peace,” Human Rights Watch said in its report.  
 The Taliban’s renewed campaign against any public role for
Afghan women has focused on Kandahar, Afghanistan’s second-
largest city, which served as the Taliban’s headquarters during
their rule in the 1990s. The Taliban last year claimed
responsibility for shooting dead Sitara Achakzai, a women’s
activist who served on the provincial legislative council.  
 On April 13, a gunman in Kandahar ambushed and shot dead a
22-year-old woman named Hossai who worked as an aid worker with
 Development Alternatives Inc.,  a consulting firm based in the
Washington suburb of Bethesda, Maryland. The following night,
another woman aid worker in the south received an anonymous
letter warning that she, too, would be killed if she did not
stop working for her employer, an international organization,
Human Rights Watch said.  
 Sanctions  
 Since January, Karzai has pushed for the lifting of UN
sanctions on some Taliban leaders, curbs which freeze their
assets abroad and prevent them from traveling, in a bid to pull
them into peace negotiations. The U.S. special envoy for
Afghanistan and Pakistan, Ambassador  Richard Holbrooke , has
supported a revision of the list of 137 Taliban leaders
subjected to the sanctions.  
 In March, Karzai’s administration held several days of
direct talks with another militant insurgent group, the Hezb-i-
Islami (Islamic Party) led by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, which Human
Rights Watch said “is also known for its repressive attitudes
towards women.”  
 Any insurgents who rejoin Afghanistan’s society and
politics “must respect women’s rights,” U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said May 13 at a  conference with Karzai  in
Washington. Afghan groups have criticized Karzai for
surrendering women’s rights to win political support. In March
2009, he signed into law a bill that required women of the
Muslim Shiite sect to submit to their husbands’ demands for sex
and to restrictions on their movement outside the home.  
 ‘Active Role’  
 Karzai’s efforts to reconcile with Taliban leaders “should
not be seen as a zero sum process and women are fundamental to
the future development of Afghanistan,” State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in response to a reporter’s
question yesterday.  
 While Karzai included women as 20 percent of delegates at a
national conference last month to plan a peace process, women
have had little presence in the government bodies preparing
peace feelers, the  Afghanistan Independent Human Rights
Commission  said in March. Women “must not only be consulted”
in preparing peace talks, “but must play an active role at the
negotiating table,” the commission said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        