-- Kawasaki Heavy May Buy Steel Plates From China, South Korea for First Time
-- Masumi Suga
-- 2010-07-13T08:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/kawasaki-heavy-s-ship-unit-may-purchase-china-korea-made-steel-plates.html

          
          
             Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. ,
Japan’s third-largest maker of heavy machines, may buy steel
plates from China and South Korea for the first time to build
ships if domestic prices rise too much.  
 “We wouldn’t deny the possibility of using imported
steel,”  Nobumitsu Kambayashi , the president of Kobe, Japan-
based Kawasaki Heavy’s shipbuilding unit, said yesterday in an
interview. “If we fail to agree with domestic mills on prices
and we find overseas-made steel offers an advantage in terms of
quality, delivery and price, we will have to turn to it.”  
 Kawasaki’s comments come as  Nippon Steel Corp.  and  JFE
Holdings Inc.  press customers to accept higher prices because of
the increased cost of iron ore and coal, two key steelmaking raw
materials. The move underscores the rising competition Japanese
steelmakers face from China, whose five largest mills overtook
Nippon Steel in terms of production last year, displacing it
from its slot as the world’s second-largest steelmaker.  
 Kawasaki’s venture with China Ocean Shipping Group Co. in
Nantong, eastern China, has already purchased a small amount of
steel for use in vessel handrails and stairs from Shanghai-based
 Baosteel Group Corp.  on an experimental basis, Kambayashi, 62,
said. Like Kawasaki’s domestic shipyards, the Chinese venture
buys higher-performance plates produced at Japanese mills
including JFE.  
 Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third-largest carmaker, is
evaluating Baosteel’s products for global purchasing, the
Chinese mill announced yesterday. Japan’s Mitsui Engineering &
Shipbuilding Co. this year received a sample of plate produced
by Posco, South Korea’s largest mill, and may use it after
checking prices and services, spokesman  Masatoshi Inui  said
yesterday in a phone interview.  
 Price Negotiations  
 Price negotiations for the six months to Sept. 30 may drag
on for another month, Kambayashi said. Kawasaki Heavy  shares 
rose 1.9 percent to 219 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange,
compared with a 0.4 percent drop on the Topix index.  
 To curb costs, Kawasaki Shipbuilding is also seeking to use
futures contracts to hedge against price volatility of steel
plates, Kambayashi said. Vessels are typically delivered to
customers about three years after contracts are signed, making
it hard for shipyards to pass higher costs onto buyers if prices
fluctuate.  
 “We’d like to make use of futures if we can,” Kambayashi
said.  
 Iron Ore Futures  
 Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG started
offering so-called iron-ore swaps in 2008. The swaps allow users
to fix prices in advance for single cargoes. While Kambayashi is
“interested” in the plan, his company might still have trouble
hedging costs since it doesn’t produce steel, he said.  
 The contract price of iron ore will rise more than 20
percent this quarter, JFE’s steel unit President  Eiji Hayashida 
said June 22. This would follow a 90 percent gain in the
preceding quarter.  
 Japanese mills and domestic yards are in the final stage of
talks to raise plate prices by 20,000 yen ($225) a metric ton
for the April-September period, the Japan Metal Daily said June
22, without giving price levels. Kawasaki Shipbuilding is still
in negotiations and is asking mills not to raise prices,
Kambayashi said.  
 JFE is Kawasaki’s largest steel supplier. The group was
formed in 2002 through the merger of NKK and  Kawasaki Steel ,
which was spun off from Kawasaki Heavy in 1950.  
 “Shipbuilders and steelmakers have closely worked together
in the postwar period,” he said. “We should continue walking
along together,” Kambayashi said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        