-- Kazakhstan Plans to Levy New Crude-Oil Export Tax on Chevron-Led Venture
-- Nariman Gizitdinov
-- 2010-07-13T15:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/kazakhstan-plans-to-levy-new-crude-oil-export-tax-on-chevron-led-venture.html

          
          
             Kazakhstan plans for the first time
to tax exports of crude oil from a venture led by  Chevron Corp., 
in the government’s latest effort to seek a bigger share of
revenue from the country’s energy wealth.  
 Kazakhstan’s cabinet today approved a crude-oil export tax
of $20 a metric ton, said Farida Batyrbayeva, an Astana-based
spokeswoman at the Ministry for Economic Development and Trade.
The tax, which applies to most oil producers in the central
Asian nation, will take effect 30 days after it is published in
official media, she said by telephone.  
 A spokeswoman for TengizChevroil wasn’t immediately
available and didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment.
Chevron, based in San Ramon, California, owns 50 percent of
TengizChevroil, which operates the biggest field in Kazakhstan.  
 The new duty marks another step in the government’s
campaign to boost its share of revenue from the country’s most
valuable export. The government is also seeking a stake in the
Karachaganak field, by pursuing producers there for what it says
are unpaid taxes. It has already secured a share of the giant
offshore Kashagan project in the Caspian Sea.  
 Kazakhstan, which holds 3 percent of the world’s proven oil
reserves according to BP Plc, began taxing crude exports in May
2008, then cut the duty to zero from $139.79 a metric ton in
January 2009. The earlier tax applied to about 40 producers
including Karachaganak Petroleum Operating BV, in which  BG Group
Plc  and  Eni SpA  hold stakes, and KazMunaiGas Exploration
Production.  
 TengizChevroil was exempt from the earlier duty.  
 ‘Clearly’ Negative Impact  
 “The wider reintroduction of such duty will be a
significant charge for the majority of oil companies operating
in Kazakhstan,”  Dominic Lewenz , head of oil and gas research at
Almaty-based Visor Capital, said in a note to investors today.
The tax will “clearly be negative” for the producers, though
its impact on each company would vary, Lewenz said.  
 The cabinet’s decision to begin taxing TengizChevroil came
after Kazakhstan’s economic crimes agency said on July 8 that
the prosecutor general’s office found that Chevron’s biggest
venture in the country had illegally produced 212 billion tenge
($1.4 billion) of oil.  
 The government is also cracking down on Karachaganak, the
only major oil development without state participation.
Kazakhstan is seeking to buy a 10 percent stake in Karachaganak,
the country’s second-largest producing oil field. Chevron owns
20 percent of the venture.  
 Fraud Probe  
 The government has lodged claims for unpaid taxes against
Karachaganak’s owners, and the economic crimes agency said in
May it was investigating the Karachaganak venture for fraud.  
 The dispute over Karachaganak bears some similarity to
changes in ownership at the Kashagan project, the country’s
biggest oil development so far. Eni and its partners in
Kashagan, an offshore project in the Caspian Sea, agreed in 2008
to pay higher royalties and cede shares to state-run KazMunaiGaz
National Co., after the government condemned cost overruns and
delays there. The partners in Kashagan expect to produce first
oil in 2012.  
 TengizChevroil and Karachaganak together accounted for
about 45 percent of Kazakhstan’s 76.4 million tons in oil output
last year.  
 Karachaganak Seeks Exemption  
 Karachaganak Petroleum has sought to recover more than $1
billion in export duties from the government through an
arbitration hearing in London, Energy Minister  Sauat Mynbayev 
said last September. The company said today in an e-mailed
statement that it should be exempted from export duties because
of the “tax stabilization provisions” within its production
sharing agreement, without giving details.  
 Kazakhstan would generate 60 billion tenge in additional
revenue this year from the new export duty, and 177 billion
tenge in 2011, Interfax reported today, citing Finance Minister
 Bolat Zhamishev .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nariman Gizitdinov  in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        