-- KB Financial's New Chairman Euh Laments Cost `Obesity,' Vows Reductions
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-13T07:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/kb-financial-s-new-chairman-euh-laments-cost-obesity-vows-reductions.html

          
          
             KB Financial Group Inc.  Chairman  Euh Yoon Dae  said South Korea’s largest financial-services company
has too many employees and inefficient management, and repeated
a pledge to cut costs and introduce new services.  
 “KB is suffering from an excessive  workforce  and rising
wages, while bad-loan risks increase,” Euh said in prepared
remarks for his inaugural speech to shareholders in Seoul today.
“It’s like a patient suffering from obesity. The company needs
a fundamental change and it’s time to treat the diseases hurting
its competitiveness.”  
 Euh, who begins his three-year term as chairman today, aims
to boost KB Financial’s stock  value  by at least 30 percent as he
cuts costs, shifts workers from the head office in Seoul to
branches and increases fee income with services including mobile
banking. He takes the post 10 months after Hwang Young Key
resigned on Sept. 29 under government pressure to take
responsibility for investment losses at former employer, Woori
Finance Holdings Co.  
 “The most urgent task and challenges ahead for the new
chairman will be how to boost efficiency and profitability at
KB,” said  Kim In , an analyst at Eugene Investment & Securities
Co. in Seoul. “The step, which inevitably will involve cutting
staff, will face strong resistance from employees and it will be
some time until we see tangible results from Euh’s leadership.”  
 KB Financial  shares  rose 1.2 percent to close at 51,300
won, the highest closing price since June 14, in Seoul, compared
with the benchmark Kospi index’s 1 percent gain.  
 Pay Cut  
 The new chairman aims to boost management efficiency by
reducing  KB Financial’s  cost-to-income ratio, which rose to 54
percent last year from 42 percent in 2005 by cutting costs and
enhancing risk management, he said today.  
 As part of overall cost reduction initiative, the new
chairman will take a pay cut for himself, Euh told reporters
today after the shareholders’ meeting. Euh also plans to add new
revenue sources through existing businesses and spin off its
credit-card division from its banking unit, he said.  
 The chairman today reiterated that his priority is
improving efficiency and financial health, rather than acquiring
rivals, including Woori Finance. He added that he will remain
flexible on acquisition opportunities.  
 South Korea’s Financial Services Commission is preparing to
unveil a plan to sell the government’s 57 percent stake in  Woori
Finance  after mid-July, which analysts say will trigger
consolidation in South Korea’s banking industry.  
 “Until we make ourselves healthier, there’ll be no
acquisitions,” Euh said today. “For the time being, we can’t
afford it.”  
 Woori’s strength in providing banking services to South
Korea’s biggest companies could fill gaps at KB Financial, which
is focused on individual borrowers and savers, Euh said last
month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       KB Financial Chairman Laments Cost ‘Obesity’  
                       
                         
                           Presidential Council of Nation Branding via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Euh Yoon Dae chairman of KB Financial Group. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Euh Yoon Dae chairman of KB Financial Group. Source: Presidential Council of Nation Branding via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
