-- Kokusai Says Japan Yields May Drop to Record as Pimco Avoids on Demand Gap
-- Yumi Ikeda
-- 2010-07-13T05:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/kokusai-asia-s-biggest-bond-fund-says-japanese-yields-may-drop-to-record.html

          
          
             Kokusai Asset Management Co., which
runs the world’s second-largest bond fund, said Japan’s
government yields may drop to a record, even as larger fund
supervisor Pacific Investment Management Co. expressed concern
about the nation’s rising debt levels.  
 Japanese 10-year  yields  may slide below 1 percent toward a
record low reached in 2003 if concern about an economic slowdown
increases, said  Akio Kato , team leader for Japanese debt at
Kokusai in Tokyo. Bonds may gain as the Democratic Party of
Japan, which lost its upper-house majority in elections on the
weekend, reaches out to smaller parties by demanding the Bank of
Japan do more to keep borrowing costs low, he said. Pimco is
limiting investment in Japan’s bonds on concern about the
sustainability of demand for the world’s biggest public debt.  
 “When policymakers face a gridlock, they tend to turn to
the BOJ,” said Kato at Kokusai, which runs the $39 billion
Global Sovereign Open fund, Asia’s biggest. “They are wondering
how to spur and maintain growth when the global economy is
losing momentum. They will ask the BOJ to do more.”  
 Ten-year yields are poised to drop below 1 percent by the
end of September, he said.  
 Pimco said the nation’s government bonds face declines in
the longer term. Japan’s public pension fund sold more
government securities than it bought in the 12 months ended
March 31, the first net sales in nine years, underscoring
concern that an aging population will make domestic investors
less able to finance state borrowings.  
 ‘Limited Exposure’  
 “Once Japan is dependent upon non-Japanese investors to
support the JGB market, we do foresee some problems,”  David Fisher , head of global product management for Pimco, said on a
conference call from Tokyo today. “This is one of the main
reasons why in the global bond portfolio we have very, very
limited exposure to JGBs despite the fact that yields are not so
terribly unattractive on a hedged basis.”  
 Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond yielded 1.125 percent as of
2:06 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The yield declined to
1.055 percent on July 1, the lowest level since August 2003. It
fell to a record 0.43 percent in June of that year.  
 The BOJ may agree to extend the term of a credit program
introduced in December or boost debt purchases should concern
about a second global recession push the  Nikkei 225  Stock
Average below 9,000 and the yen stronger than 85 per dollar,
Kato said.  
 Yields May ‘Plunge’  
 That may happen in a few months and push 10-year yields
below 1 percent, he said. If yields stay below that key
psychological level, they may extend declines as they did in
2003, Kato said.  
 “I won’t be surprised if yields plunge to the 2003
level,” Kato said. “There are increasing elements that may
cause a bubble. I see more buying factors for bonds, compared
with 2003.”  
 If yields decline to 1 percent by Sept. 30 as Kato
projects, investors who buy today would make a return of 1.3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The BOJ will keep its benchmark rate at 0.1 percent at the
end of a two-day meeting starting tomorrow, according to all 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank has left
borrowing costs at that level since December 2008.  
 Debt Purchases  
 The central bank buys 1.8 trillion yen ($20.3 billion) of
government bonds from lenders each month. The BOJ in December
unveiled a 10 trillion yen program to offer three-month loans at
an interest rate of 0.1 percent, that it later doubled to 20
trillion yen. In June this year, Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and
his policy board introduced a 3 trillion yen program to
encourage lending to businesses.  
 Lingering concern about Europe’s fiscal problems and a
slowdown in the U.S. economy, will spur Japanese investors to
put their cash into government securities, Kato said. That trend
was apparent yesterday, when bonds advanced after the DPJ’s
defeat, he said.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  campaigned for the election on a
pledge to rein in the world’s largest public debt by raising the
nation’s sales tax from five percent and cutting spending.  
 “Yields could’ve gone up as the DPJ’s worse-than-expected
defeat meant fiscal rehabilitation plans are set to stall,”
Kato said. “Instead, the market showed how much the cautious
outlook for the global economy continued to support bonds.”  
 The DPJ won 44 seats in the election, losing some of the 54
it had at stake, according to results compiled by public
broadcaster NHK. The coalition government’s lack of a majority
will force it to negotiate with smaller groups to pass
legislation.  
 “Minority parties agree on one thing: the BOJ should do
more,” Kato said. “That means pressure will increase for the
BOJ to keep monetary easing for a longer time or act toward more
easing.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 Ikeda4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        