-- Korean Won Rises as Alcoa Earnings, Global Recovery Signs Spur Risk-Taking
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-13T01:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/korean-won-rises-as-alcoa-earnings-global-recovery-signs-spur-risk-taking.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won strengthened,
nearing a two-week high, as signs the global economic recovery
will withstand Europe’s debt crisis spurred demand for emerging-
market assets.  
 Overseas investors  added  to their holdings of Korean shares
for a fourth day as economists forecast Singapore will tomorrow
report economic growth in excess of 20 percent for a second
straight quarter. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares advanced
after  Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported
earnings that beat analyst estimates. The euro traded near a
one-week low on speculation tests to demonstrate the resilience
of the region’s banks will fail to assure investors.  
 “The market is optimistic over earnings results,” said
 Yun Semin , a currency dealer at Busan Bank in Seoul. “But we’re
also seeing people waiting for the results on Europe’s bank
stress tests so it’s hard to see the won trading in one
direction.”  
 The won climbed 0.3 percent to 1,197.90 per dollar as of
9:56 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
yesterday touched 1,193.75, the strongest level since June 24.
Yun forecast the currency will trade in a range of 1,192 to
1,204 today.  
 The  Kospi  share index was headed for its best close since
April after Alcoa said earnings from continued operations were
13 cents a share in the second quarter, exceeding the 11-cent
average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Alcoa is
the first company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average to report
earnings for the three months through June.  
 European financial ministers said in Brussels yesterday
they want banks to try to raise money themselves before seeking
state support if stress tests by regulators reveal
“vulnerabilities” to losses on sovereign-debt holdings.  
 The yield on South Korea’s 3.75 percent bond due June 2013
rose one basis point 3.97 percent, the highest rate in four
months for a benchmark three-year  note . A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        