-- Nakheel's 4 Percentage-Point Margin on Loans a `Good Rate,' Analysts Say
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/nakheel-s-4-percentage-point-margin-on-loans-a-good-rate-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Nakheel PJSC’s plans to offer
lenders interest of 4 percentage points more than benchmark
rates as part of the Dubai-owned developer’s $10.5 billion debt
restructuring provides a good return to banks, analysts said.  
 Nakheel, the state-owned builder of a palm tree-shaped
island development off Dubai’s coast, will offer the new
interest rate on its loans in dollars and dirhams at a meeting
today, two bankers with knowledge of the plan, said yesterday.
In return, lenders would agree to extend the life of the loans
by five years, said the people, declining to be identified
because the matter is private.  
 “This is a pretty good rate and a very decent return from
the banks’ perspective,”  Janany Vamadeva , an analyst at HC
Securities in Dubai, said in a phone interview. “And 400 basis
points compares favorably with the Dubai World proposal.”  
 Nakheel said March 25 that its secured bank creditors will
receive 100 percent of their principal and accrued interest
under an agreement to extend the loan maturities. The developer
has one dollar loan outstanding, a $1.85 billion facility that
was signed in August 2007 and is due to expire in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 A spokesman for Nakheel’s parent, Dubai World, which is
also seeking to restructure debt, declined to comment. A
spokesman for Dubai’s Department of Finance, which pledged $8
billion to help the Nakheel restructuring, also declined to
comment.  
 Not Final  
 The proposed terms aren’t final, according to one of the
people. The loans make up part of the overall liabilities that
Nakheel is seeking to reorganize, which also include outstanding
payments to suppliers and contractors. The spreads on the new
loans will be wider than the Emirates interbank offered rate or
the London interbank offered rate, the bankers said.  
 The proposals “are overall good although not as good as
what Nakheel’s trade creditors were offered,”  Andre Andrijanovs , a London-based emerging-markets credit analyst at
bond-trading firm Exotix Ltd., said in an e-mail. “I would not
see an immediate impact on prices as there are a few more
restructuring stories in the pipeline that could keep the market
edgy.”  
 Nakheel and Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main
state-owned holding companies, are seeking to renegotiate terms
on their debt after the deepest financial crisis since the 1930s
roiled the emirate’s real-estate market and left companies
unable to raise new funding. Property prices have fallen more
than 50 percent in the city state as banks cut mortgage lending.  
 Dubai World  
 Dubai World said on May 20 it had reached an agreement with
its seven biggest lenders, among them  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc , and the Dubai government on
restructuring $23.5 billion of liabilities. Dubai World offered
creditors 1 percent interest on loans and additional interest on
maturity ranging from 1 percent to as much as 2.5 percent.  
 Nakheel suppliers and contractors are being paid 100
percent of their claims, 40 percent through a cash payment and
60 percent in the form of a publicly traded Islamic bond, or
sukuk, paying a 10 percent annual return, the company has said.  
 Nakheel said on June 30 it had begun settling bills from
its biggest trade creditors, involving a payout of 4 billion
dirhams ($1.09 billion). More than 60 percent of its trade
creditors agreed to new payment terms, it said.  
 United Arab Emirates’ banks may need to set aside 10
percent to 20 percent of their loans to Dubai World to cover
losses after it announced a $23.5 billion debt restructuring,
Moody’s Investors Service said June 29.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'The Palm Jumeirah' development, also known as Palm Island, built by property developers Nakheel PJSC in Dubai. Source: Nakheel via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
