-- Nasdaq Stock Market to Begin Trade Halt Pilot for 100 Companies Next Month
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/nasdaq-stock-market-to-begin-trade-halt-pilot-for-100-companies-next-month.html

          
          
             Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  will start a
pilot program next month for halting U.S. stocks it lists during
periods of volatility, introducing a fourth standard for slowing
down trading on American equity venues.  
 The market will subject 100 companies to pauses starting
Aug. 1 when rapid price changes occur in 30 seconds, according
to a proposal to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
program would halt equities for smaller swings than are covered
by the SEC’s market-wide circuit breakers for shares that rise
or fall 10 percent within five minutes, a plan adopted after the
May 6 plunge that erased $862 billion in 20 minutes.  
 Because of the shorter intervals, Nasdaq’s program more
closely resembles the New York Stock Exchange’s liquidity
replenishment points, restraints aimed at restoring order in
fast-moving markets by allowing humans to oversee the pricing
process.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Knight Capital Group Inc.
argued against rules designed to pause trading that don’t apply
uniformly across almost 50 different equity venues in the U.S.  
 “The SEC allows individual markets to implement stock-by-
stock circuit breaker protection,” said  Eric Noll , executive
vice president for transaction services at Nasdaq OMX.
“Therefore, in the interest of providing the best volatility
protection for our issuers and investors, Nasdaq has developed a
circuit breaker which will provide protection for Nasdaq-listed
securities, straightforward rules and price discovery.”  
 Disparate Rules  
 A May 18  report  by the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission found that different trading conventions on U.S.
equity venues may have created uncertainty during the May 6
selloff, speeding the withdrawal of bids and offers. The
disappearance of buy requests allowed prices for orders to
cascade lower as market-maker bids called stub quotes were
executed for as low as a penny a share.  
 Under the Nasdaq  program , stocks that cost up to $25 would
be delayed on Nasdaq for a minute when shares move at least 10
percent in 30 seconds. In most cases, such swings would halt
trading on all venues because they would also trigger the SEC’s
nationwide circuit breakers.  
 Companies priced above $25 could see trading paused on
Nasdaq for moves of less than 10 percent. Those stocks would
stop should shares move 5 percent or 3 percent, depending on the
price, Nasdaq said.  
 Orderly Trading  
 The system will monitor executions in each stock “to
determine whether the market is trading in an orderly fashion”
and whether to conduct an electronic auction to restore balance,
Nasdaq told the SEC. The pilot will last for six months, pending
SEC approval. The  filing , which wasn’t made public immediately,
was submitted June 18 and amended a week later.  
 Measures to curb volatility on NYSE and Nasdaq, as well as
the SEC’s market-wide circuit breakers, apply to individual
securities. A fourth  circuit breaker  governs all securities and
futures trading when the Dow Jones Industrial Average falls at
least 10 percent from the prior day’s closing price. Whether
stock and futures exchanges halt shares and for how long depends
on the amount of decline and when it occurs.  
 When rapid-fire orders triggered liquidity replenishment
points on  NYSE Euronext’s  biggest exchange on May 6, trading
shifted into slow mode with electronic auctions overseen by
human market makers. Other venues ignored prices on the exchange
because quotes weren’t immediately accessible.  
 Price Volatility  
 The report by the SEC and CFTC said regulators were
analyzing the effect of the NYSE’s replenishment points during
the May 6 decline. They noted claims that LRPs exacerbated price
volatility on May 6 by causing a net loss of liquidity as orders
were routed to other trading venues, although they said the
effect was still being examined.  
 “Although the impact on May 6 of the triggering of slow
trading modes in some exchanges but not others is not yet
completely understood, it seems clear that the absence of
coordination between exchanges and other trading venues should
be addressed,”  Greg Tusar , co-head of electronic trading at
Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, and  Matthew Lavicka , chief
operating officer for cash equities at Goldman Sachs & Co.,  told 
the SEC in a letter on June 25. Both businesses are run by
 Goldman Sachs  in New York.  
 Knight  said NYSE’s replenishment points and the Nasdaq’s
measure may contribute to a “great deal of confusion and
uncertainty” since they could be triggered at the same time and
as other restrictions also affect trading. The interaction of
various halts is of “particular concern,” the Jersey City, New
Jersey-based broker-dealer said.  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in Senate testimony on May
20 that the regulator would “examine the role and operation of
LRPs to assess their effect on overall market quality.” If
adverse effects are discovered, the agency would “take
immediate steps to rectify that impact,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        