-- Neff Wins Court Approval for Debt Reorganization Plan Vote Over Objections
-- Don Jeffrey
-- 2010-07-13T00:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/neff-wins-court-approval-for-debt-reorganization-plan-vote-over-objections.html

          
          
             Neff Holdings LLC , the bankrupt
construction-equipment rental company, won court permission to
send its reorganization plan to creditors for a vote over the
objections of unsecured creditors.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  in New York today
approved Neff’s disclosure statement, an explanation of the
plan, and overruled the creditors’ committee’s objections.  
 “None of these objections have merit,” Chapman said.  
 The judge still plans to rule on the committee’s motion to
investigate and obtain documents on the leveraged buyout of Neff
in 2007 and an exchange offer for notes in 2008. The creditors’
committee said the buyout “may be subject to legal challenge.”  
 Lightyear Capital LLC and other investors acquired Neff for
$935.9 million in 2007, according to court papers.  
 Neff filed for Chapter 11 creditor protection in May with a
prearranged plan to eliminate more than $400 million of debt.
The Miami-based company cited an “abrupt decline in non-
residential construction,” which lowered revenue.  
 Debt for Equity  
 Under the plan, lenders will exchange debt for equity or
receive cash. A proposed $119 million equity rights offering is
backed by secured lenders Wayzata Investment Partners and Apollo
Capital Management.  
 As an alternative to the rights offering, Neff agreed to
allow potential bidders for its assets. The judge approved
procedures for the bids over the objections of the creditors’
committee, which sought to have the deadline for the bids moved
back to allow potential investors more time.  
 The deadline for bids is July 26 and an auction if
necessary would be Aug. 5.  
 Neff’s revenue fell 31 percent in 2009 to $191.7 million,
Neff, the 13th-largest equipment-rental company in the U.S.,
said in court papers.  
 The case is In re Neff Corp., 10-12610, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        