-- Three New Orleans Officers Plead Not Guilty in Katrina Bridge Shootings
-- Allen Johnson Jr.
-- 2010-07-14T20:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/new-orleans-police-face-charges-in-bridge-shooting-after-hurricane-katrina.html

          
          
             Three of four New Orleans police
officers accused of shooting unarmed civilians in the aftermath
of Hurricane Katrina pleaded not guilty to charges that could
carry the death penalty.  
 The four officers are accused of firing on a family on the
east side of the Danziger Bridge on Sept. 4, 2005, killing a 17-
year-old boy and wounding four other people. Ronald Madison, a
40-year-old man with mental disabilities, was shot and beaten on
the west side of the bridge and died on the scene, the U.S.
Justice Department  said  yesterday. Two years ago, Louisiana
dropped state murder charges stemming from the same incident.  
 “The charges were read, they entered pleas of not guilty
and a detention hearing was set for 11 a.m. Friday,” said Eric
Hessler, an attorney for Robert Gisevius, who along with fellow
officers Anthony Villavaso and Kenneth Bowen, left court today
handcuffed and shackled wearing green prison jumpsuits.  
 Villavaso was not a flight risk, his lawyer Roger Kitchens
said. His client, who was charged by the state of Louisiana with
first-degree murder in the same incident before those charges
were dismissed in 2008, made every court appearance while
continuing to serve on the force, Kitchens said.  
 The fourth defendant, former officer Robert Faulcon, was
arrested in Houston yesterday, said Jack Hoffstadt, an attorney
for Bowen.  
 Internal Affairs  
 After a New Orleans police internal affairs probe cleared
the officers of any wrongdoing in the incident, a special state
grand jury in 2006 indicted Villavaso, Bowen, Faulcon and
Gisevius on murder charges.  
 That case was dismissed in 2008 after a prosecutor showed
grand jury testimony to a potential witness, according to
Anthony Radosti, vice president of the private, nonprofit
Metropolitan Crime Commission and a retired New Orleans police
fraud investigator.  
 Radosti said in an interview that he began looking into the
incident for the commission about two weeks after the shootings,
in response to three separate complaints from police officers.
Radosti said he filed a complaint with the parish district
attorney’s office in late 2005, alleging the police department’s
investigation was “ineffective and a cover-up.”  
 During the two-year federal probe, three other officers
pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice charges, saying they
lied to investigators about events on the bridge.  
 Bowen, Gisevius, Villavaso and Faulcon are charged in the
27-count federal indictment with civil rights and weapons
crimes. They face a maximum of life in prison or the death
penalty, the Justice Department said in a statement yesterday.  
 Officers in Danger  
 The shootings took place one week after Hurricane Katrina
flooded most of New Orleans. The accused policemen responded to
police radio reports of fellow officers in danger.  
 Two former homicide detectives assigned to investigate the
shootings, Arthur “Archie” Kaufman and Gerard Dugue, were
charged with conspiracy to obstruct justice for allegedly trying
to cover up the incident. Claude Kelly, Dugue’s lawyer, said his
client and Kaufman will appear in court on July 27.  
 “He is totally innocent,” Kelly said of his client.
“He’s 60 years old and he served 30 illustrious years on the
New Orleans Police Department. To charge him at this stage of
his life and the tail end of his career is just a tragedy.”  
 Stephen London, Kaufman’s lawyer, was out of town and not
available for comment.  
 The indictment charges that the six defendants conspired to
“cover up what happened on the bridge” by filing charges
against two victims of their conspiracy -- Jose Holmes, who was
injured, and Lance Madison, brother of Ronald Madison.  
 Five other New Orleans Police Department officers have
pleaded guilty to various charges this year in connection with
the alleged cover-up, the U.S. said.  
 The case is U.S. v. Bowen, 2:10-cr-00204, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  
          
          


  


        