-- New York Police Send Investigators to Probe Bomb Attacks on Fans in Uganda
-- Chris Dolmetsch
-- 2010-07-13T18:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/new-york-police-send-investigators-to-probe-bomb-attacks-on-fans-in-uganda.html

          
          
             The New York City Police Department
is sending investigators to Uganda to help probe two bomb
attacks that killed at least 74 people in the capital of Kampala
as crowds watched the final game of the World Cup.  
 One New York City police detective who was in South Africa
for the World Cup was en route to Uganda earlier today, while a
sergeant and three other officers were scheduled to leave today
from New York, Police Commissioner  Ray Kelly  said at a press
conference outside police headquarters in lower Manhattan.  
 The investigators are part of a “large contingent”
heading to the African nation from the Joint Terrorism Task
Force in New York, said  Richard Kolko , a Federal Bureau of
Investigation spokesman. The FBI, which leads the task force,
said yesterday it would send agents from New York to aid in the
probe.  
 Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  condemned the attacks and
said the nation’s security forces would hunt down the
perpetrators. Ugandan police late yesterday arrested people
suspected of carrying out the attacks, Inspector-General Kale
Kayihura told reporters today.  
 Task force agents have been dispatched overseas previously
to help in terrorism investigations, including teams of FBI
agents sent to East Africa in August 1998 to probe the near-
simultaneous bombings of U.S. embassies in Tanzania and Kenya
that killed 224 people and injured more than 5,000.  
 Restaurant, Rugby Club  
 The July 11 blasts in the Ugandan capital, Kampala,
occurred at separate venues where crowds had gathered to watch
the soccer World Cup final. The first explosion went off at the
Ethiopian Village Restaurant in the southern part of the city,
while a second followed at the Kyadondo Rugby Club in eastern
Kampala about 50 minutes later.  
 One U.S. citizen was among those killed in the explosions,
Joann Lockard, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in Kampala,
said yesterday in an interview. She said Americans were also
injured in the attacks.  
 Somalia’s Islamist al-Shabaab militia, which the U.S.
accuses of having links to al-Qaeda, claimed responsibility for
the Uganda blasts. Al-Shabaab said it targeted Uganda because of
that nation’s deployment of troops to serve an African Union-led
peacekeeping force in Mogadishu.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        