-- New Zealand's Retail, Housing Data Back Case for Gradual Rate Increases
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-14T01:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/new-zealand-retail-sales-rise-for-a-second-month-adding-to-rate-pressure.html

          
          
             New Zealand house sales and core
consumer spending declined, driving down the currency and
providing scope for central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  to raise
the benchmark interest rate only gradually this year.  
 House sales  fell for a third month in June and it took
longer to sell a property, according to Real Estate Institute
figures published today. A separate report showed  retail sales 
excluding vehicles and fuel declined for a second month in May.  
 New Zealand’s currency snapped seven days of gains on
concern weak consumer spending will restrain economic growth.
Bollard last month boosted the  official cash rate  a quarter-
point to 2.75 percent, the first increase in three years, and
said he expected to raise borrowing costs gradually this year.  
 “In respect of the household sector, things are still
difficult,” said  Craig Ebert , a senior market economist at Bank
of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “It’s one of a number of
indicators that is starting to question the strength of the
recovery and therefore the degree to which the Reserve Bank can
remove stimulus.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar fell as low as 71.72 U.S. cents after
the reports from 71.96 cents in late New York trading yesterday.
It bought 71.92 cents at 12:35 p.m. in Wellington.  
 All 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last week
expect Bollard will raise the cash rate to 3 percent on July 29.
Eleven expect a least a quarter-point increase at all four
scheduled reviews this year. Four forecast at least one pause.  
 Households ‘Cautious’  
 “There is a growing possibility that the pause in the
bank’s tightening cycle comes earlier than our current
forecast” of December, said  Philip Borkin , an economist at
Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd. in Auckland.  
 Bollard on June 10 said New Zealand’s economic growth was
accelerating, buoyed by exports and a recovery in the labor
market. He said households were “cautious” and he expected
that to continue.  
 Still, the governor said he decided to start raising
borrowing costs from a record low due to emerging  inflation 
pressures.  
 “Retail and housing numbers are not the be all and end all
of monetary policy,” said BNZ’s Ebert. The central bank “needs
to take a broad perspective about where the economy is going and
what’s happening to price pressures. On the inflation front,
there are still some issues there even with slow growth.”  
 Bollard, who is required to keep annual inflation between 1
percent and 3 percent, last month forecast underlying prices
would accelerate over the next year. A report on July 16 will
show consumer prices rose 1.9 percent in the 12 months ended
June 30, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey 
of 15 economists.  
 Retail Sales  
 Core retail  sales , which exclude vehicles dealers, fuel
outlets and workshops, unexpectedly fell 0.2 percent from April,
when they declined 0.1 percent, Statistics New Zealand said
today. The median estimate of economists was for a 0.6 percent
increase.  
 Total sales rose 0.4 percent, less than the 0.5 percent
expected, after vehicle sales surged in the month.  
 Spending will likely recover later in the year, buoyed by
cuts in income tax, said Ebert. Finance Minister  Bill English  on
May 20 announced reductions for all workers, and an increase in
the sales tax to 15 percent, both effective on Oct. 1.  
 Consumers are saying it is a better time to make a purchase
as the economy and their personal finances improve, according to
a UMR Research Ltd. poll of 1,100 people in June. Forty one
percent said it was a good or excellent time to buy, up from 38
percent in April, UMR said in an e-mailed report.  
 Five-Month Low  
 “We see recovery, but it’s likely to take time,”
 Warehouse Group Ltd. , the nation’s largest discount retailer,
said in a presentation to investors last month.  
 House sales fell to a five-month low of 4,575 in June, the
Auckland-based Real Estate Institute said in an e-mailed
statement. Sales slumped 24 percent from a year earlier.  
 The median time to sell a home rose to 45 days from 43 days
in May, the institute said.  
 “Buyers are still somewhat reluctant to commit,” said
 Mark Smith , an economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington.
“We don’t anticipate much of a pick-up in building consents
over the coming months, with residential investment unlikely to
make a large positive contribution to growth over the middle of
2010.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Home construction takes place at a housing development in Aotea, near Wellington. Photographer: Mark Coote/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
