-- Nigerian Body Asks Oil Companies to Improve Reporting of Production Data
-- Vincent Nwanma
-- 2010-07-13T16:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/nigerian-body-asks-oil-companies-to-improve-reporting-of-production-data.html

          
          
             Nigeria , Africa’s biggest crude
producer, asked oil companies operating in the West African
country to provide more accurate production data.  
 Companies will be required to submit data from wellheads,
flow stations and export terminals, Assisi Asobie, chairman of
Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, or NEITI,
said in an interview today in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial hub.
Producers currently report only the volume exported, he said.  
 “We want to have figures from these three points because
there are leakages partly as a result of physical tampering of
the system or the age of the pipelines,” Asobie said. “We want
to know how much is lost.”  
 Receipts from crude exports account for about 90 percent of
 Nigeria ’s foreign-exchange earnings. Attacks by armed groups in
the Niger River delta, home to the country’s oil and gas
industry, cut output by more than 28 percent between 2006 and
2009, according to Bloomberg data. Nigeria is the fifth-biggest
source of U.S. oil imports.  
 To improve the accuracy of reporting, Nigeria will install
more meters on oil pipelines, Asobie said.  
 “When we do that, the production figures we get will be
more accurate,” he said.  
 NEITI has also asked agencies involved in monitoring oil
companies reports to modernize their recording systems and
harmonize their figures, “especially how they record what they
receive from the oil companies,” Asobie said.  
 The agencies include the Federal Inland Revenue Service,
the Department of Petroleum Resources, the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp. and the  Central Bank of Nigeria .  
 “If you go to ask them separately, their figures don’t
always tally, and together, their figures do not agree with
figures from the oil companies,” Asobie said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        