-- Nokia Siemens Said to Be in Talks to Buy Motorola Unit, Journal Reports
-- Pavel Alpeyev
-- 2010-07-14T03:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/nokia-siemens-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-motorola-unit-journal-reports.html

          
          
             Nokia Siemens Networks  is in
negotiations to purchase  Motorola Inc. ’s telecommunications-
equipment business, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the situation.  
 The deal, which may come in the next few weeks, may be
worth $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion, the newspaper said. The
business, which mostly makes older equipment, would give Nokia
Siemens access to Motorola’s customers in the U.S. such as
Verizon Wireless and Sprint Nextel Corp., according to the
report.  
 The venture of  Nokia Oyj  and  Siemens AG  is cutting jobs and
shutting offices to adjust to falling demand and price
competition from  Ericsson AB , the world’s largest wireless
equipment supplier, and China’s Huawei Technologies Co. Nokia
Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Rajeev Suri  in November said the
company will expand through acquisitions and partnerships while
trimming its existing operations.  
 Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland, in November said it will
eliminate as many as 5,760 jobs worldwide to adjust to slower
growth in telecommunications equipment. The venture reported a 9
percent sales decline in the first quarter and posted a
quarterly operating loss of 226 million euros ($288 million) on
restructuring and amortization charges.  
 No one at Motorola and Nokia Siemens responded immediately
to after-hours phone calls seeking comment.  
 Sales at Ericsson dropped 27 percent in the first quarter,
while Alcatel-Lucent SA reported a loss of 515 million euros in
the period. Profit in 2009 at closely held Huawei, China’s
biggest maker of phone equipment, more than doubled to 18.3
billion yuan ($2.7 billion), the company said in March.  
 Motorola, based in Schaumburg, Illinois, in February said
it plans to combine its handset and set-top-box unit into one
business in the first quarter of 2011, and separate its network
division. Co-Chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  in May said the
company may consider selling the equipment unit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        