-- Obama Names Lew to Head White House Budget Office
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-14T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/obama-is-said-to-name-jack-lew-as-budget-director-to-replace-peter-orszag.html

          
          
             When  Jack Lew  left the White House
as President  Bill Clinton ’s budget director, the annual federal
budget surplus stood at $236 billion. As Lew returns to run
President  Barack Obama ’s budget office, the deficit stands at an
estimated $1.6 trillion.  
 “Jack’s challenge over the next few years is to use his
extraordinary skill and experience to cut down that  deficit  and
put our nation back on a fiscally responsible path,” Obama said
yesterday in announcing his nomination of Lew as director of the
 Office of Management and Budget.   
 The resume for Lew, 54, includes a stint as policy director
for House Speaker Thomas P. “Tip” O’Neill, a Massachusetts
Democrat. Currently, he serves as Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ’s chief operating officer and, according to the  agency’s
website , her “alter ego.”  
 A graduate of Harvard University and Georgetown Law School,
his experience also runs from academia, as chief operating
officer at New York University for five years, to the private
sector, as managing director of  Citigroup  Inc.’s   Alternative
Investments  until January 2009 and COO of Citi’s  Global Wealth
Management before that.  
 Political Skills  
 Associates and lawmakers attest to the political skills of
Lew, whose new responsibilities will involve more than
attempting to balance record government spending and borrowing.
His task will include trying to persuade a divided Congress to
embrace Obama’s tactics for both stimulating the economy and
controlling spending. Obama has pledged to cut in half an annual
deficit that stood at $1.4 trillion during his first year as
president.  
 “I find him to be very thoughtful, very smart, very
capable,” said Senator  Judd Gregg  of New Hampshire, one of the
Republicans most critical of deficit spending. “He’s taking on
a job, however, where the numbers don’t match up.”  
 Federal spending has outrun receipts by $100 billion per
month at its peak. The Treasury Department yesterday reported a
deficit of $68.4 billion last month, down from $94.3 billion in
June 2009. The annual deficit is forecast at $1.6 trillion.  
 “This country does not have a policy which is going to
lead us out of what is a disastrous financial situation,” Gregg
said.  
 Obama has appointed a bipartisan commission to recommend
ways out of a politically volatile budgetary imbalance which
could include raising taxes, cutting spending or both.  
 Orszag Replacement  
 Lew, facing confirmation by the Senate, is to replace  Peter Orszag  as budget director. Lew’s first job will be fashioning a
2012 budget that Obama will recommend in February.  
 “Jack is the ideal person to lead OMB,” partly because
“he knows how to make the tough choices,” Democratic Senate
Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  of North Dakota said in a
statement yesterday. “And he knows how to reach across the
aisle to find bipartisan solutions.”  
 Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, a Republican House
leader, called Lew “pragmatic” and “well-qualified.”  
 “The grave threat posed by our looming fiscal crisis will
require leaders to chart a new course and get a grip on the
explosion of government spending,” Ryan said. “I anticipate a
spirited debate on how to lift this crushing debt burden.”  
 Orszag, 41, the first member of Obama’s Cabinet and first
economic adviser to leave the administration, last month asked
federal agencies to reduce their fiscal 2012 budget requests by
5 percent. He inherited a decade of deficits fueled by former
President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts and war spending.  
 Clinton Administration  
 Lew served as Clinton’s budget director from mid-1998 to
the end of the administration in January 2001, when the  OMB’s
website  puts the surplus at the $236 billion figure. He was the
budget office’s deputy director before that.  
 Joseph Minarik , chief economist at OMB from 1993 to 2001,
recalled that his former boss worked long hours and sometimes
brought his children to work on weekends. He said Lew faces a
tougher situation now.  
 “In many ways the circumstances of economic and budget
policy making have become more difficult than they were” when
Obama took office in January 2009 and “inherited the biggest
fiscal mess probably in the history of the United States,
possibly in the history of the world,” Minarik said in an
interview.  
 Lew is “extremely careful and meticulous. He’s earned
respect on both sides of the political aisle,” Minarik said.
People on Capitol Hill, he added, “will welcome him back.”  
 Lew served as O’Neill’s principal domestic policy adviser
from 1979 to 1987. His policy portfolio included Social Security
and Medicare, taxes and trade.  
 He assumed his current post at the State Department at the
start of the Obama administration.  
 Clinton, in staff email yesterday, greeted Obama’s
announcement as “obviously bittersweet.” Lew’s experience in
her husband’s administration, she said, “makes him uniquely
prepared to lead at this time.”  
 “I was actually worried that Hillary would not let him
go,” Obama joked yesterday. “I had to trade a number of number
one draft picks to get Jack back at OMB.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lew listens to Obama speak at White House. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
