-- White House Invites CEO Proposals on Taxes, Trade
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-07-13T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/obama-adviser-canvasses-executives-proposals-on-tax-code-trade-deficit.html

          
          
             White House senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett  invited executives to send ideas about changing the U.S.
corporate tax code, reducing the deficit and expanding trade, as
the Obama administration fights the perception of tensions with
U.S. businesses.  
 “While we may disagree on some issues, we have an open
door and are always willing to consider input and ideas from
everyone, including the business community,” Jarrett wrote
yesterday to  Verizon Communications Inc.  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Ivan Seidenberg , who is also chairman of the
 Business Roundtable , a Washington group of CEOs.  
 President  Barack Obama  has been trying to bolster relations
with corporate leaders, recruiting executives for presidential
committees and inviting business leaders to lunch at the White
House, even as some business organizations have battled the
administration on issues such as financial regulation and a
health-care overhaul. Last week, Seidenberg was named to a panel
on increasing U.S. exports.  
 Jarrett, who has been an administration ambassador to
businesses, met with Seidenberg and Business Roundtable
President  John Castellani  on June 30 to discuss a  49-page memo 
they had sent to White House Budget Director  Peter Orszag ,
listing legislation they said would have “a dampening effect on
economic growth and job creation.”  
 Financial regulatory proposals, including new rights for
shareholders to nominate directors, topped the list of concerns,
along with trade issues and the health-care legislation,
according to the letter, written for the  Business Roundtable  and
the  Business Council .  
 Need for Regulations  
 “While we have also been clear that we will continue to
disagree with some in the business community on some issues,
including the need for a set of new regulations for the
financial industry, we agree that it is important to avoid
unjustified regulatory costs and burdens,” White House deputy
communications director  Jennifer Psaki  said.  “We have offered
the opportunity to business groups to put forward suggestions
for regulatory actions we can review as part of the ongoing
process.”  
 In her letter to Seidenberg yesterday, Jarrett said she
welcomed ideas about “revenue-neutral corporate tax reform”
and “specific ideas to achieve the president’s goal of fiscal
sustainability.”  
 Jarrett was responding to a July 8 letter from Seidenberg,
which said Business Roundtable members are prepared to work with
the White House on  tax-code changes  to help businesses raise
capital and compete in global markets, on ways to reduce the
federal  deficit , and on implementing health-care legislation and
financial regulations.  
 In a June 22 speech to the Economic Club of Washington,
Seidenberg had said the government is “injecting uncertainty
into the marketplace and making it harder to raise capital and
create new businesses.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     White House senior advisor Valerie Jarrett. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
