-- Obama AIDS Plan Aims to Cut Infections by 25%
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-07-13T20:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/obama-s-aids-plan-adds-30-million-in-bid-to-reduce-u-s-infections-by-25-.html

          
          
             The White House released the first
comprehensive U.S. domestic strategy against AIDS today, aiming
to reduce the number of cases by 25 percent in five years and
expand early access to medicines.  
 The  National AIDS Strategy  fulfills President  Barack Obama ’s campaign pledge to unify efforts among federal agencies
and state partners. It will be implemented with $30 million from
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, said  Kathleen Sebelius , secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services.  
 The policy will increase prevention efforts among gay men
and blacks -- groups with the highest rates of new HIV
infections -- and get medicines to 85 percent of patients within
three months of diagnosis,  according to the plan . While the U.S.
attack on AIDS overseas has been led by the President’s
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or PEPFAR, domestic efforts
consist of a patchwork of programs.  
 “The unveiling of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy marks an
important and eagerly awaited step,” said Kevin Carmichael, co-
chair of the Ryan White Medical Providers Coalition, in a
statement. The coalition represents providers of medical care
and drugs to AIDS patients. “For the sake of our patients, we
hope adequate resources are dedicated to help achieve this,”
Carmichael said.  
 Mounting Tally  
 HIV is contracted by about 56,000 Americans each year, and
the mounting tally of people living with the disease shows no
sign of stopping, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  
 The administration’s proposed 2011 fiscal year budget
called for an estimated  $27.2 billion  in total spending for
domestic and international efforts against AIDS, according to a
report by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a Menlo Park,
California-based nonprofit health research group. The foundation
lists more than 20 U.S. programs or agencies that receive money
to prevent the disease or help patients cope with it.  
 “Unless they put the resources behind this, there’s not a
lot to this plan,” said  Ged Kenslea , spokesman for the AIDS
Healthcare Foundation, in an interview at the White House. The
group provides care for 139,000 patients worldwide. “There’s a
political calculus here that they’re absolutely terrified to
spend any money.”  
 Coordinate Efforts  
 The plan calls for U.S. agencies including the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention and the Health and Human Services
Department to coordinate efforts to prevent and treat AIDS, and
base such programs on techniques that are proven to work. The
departments of Labor, Justice, Housing and Urban Development,
Veterans Affairs, and the Social Security Administration will
also be required to participate in the program and report their
progress.  
 “We are experiencing a domestic epidemic that demands a
renewed commitment, increased public attention, and
leadership,” Obama said in a letter accompanying the report
today. “Now is the time to build on and refocus our existing
efforts to deliver better results for the American people.”  
 Budget Crises  
 State governments facing budget crises have curtailed
funding for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program, which provides
AIDS treatment for the poor, just as U.S. guidelines were
broadened to start treatment earlier, according to the  National
Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors . Last year,
about 125,479 patients received medicine from the program, known
as ADAP.  
 The number of poor patients on waiting lists to receive
AIDS drugs rose to more than 2,000 patients in July, the highest
ever, according to the alliance of state directors. The White
House allocated $25 million last week to improve access to ADAP
treatments.  
 This year Gilead Sciences Inc., the world’s biggest maker of
AIDS drugs, expanded its assistance programs to cover as much as
$2,400 a year in out-of-pocket patient expenses and extended
price freezes to mitigate the shortfall in funding, according to
Citibank analyst  Yaron Werber . About 22 percent of Gilead’s U.S.
sales come from the state-run funds, he said in a research note
on June 4.  
 The new strategy will call for annual reports from U.S.
health agencies on progress of federally funded programs. The
White House Office of National AIDS Policy, which crafted the
new plan after getting input from AIDS groups and agency
officials, will oversee inter-governmental coordination and
progress in controlling the disease, according to the documents.  
 “Americans have become less fearful of HIV and AIDS,”
Sebelius said today at a press briefing at the White House.
“We’re driving down infection rates slightly, but not fast
enough. We’re keeping pace when we should be gaining ground.  
 “We can’t afford that kind of complacency,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       United States President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Ron Sachs/ Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         United States President Barack Obama delivers remarks on the National HIV/AIDS Strategy in the East Room of the White House in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     United States President Barack Obama delivers remarks on the National HIV/AIDS Strategy in the East Room of the White House in Washington. Photographer: Ron Sachs/ Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
