-- Ocean Power Seeks Stimulus Money, Not Investor Funds, CEO Dunleavy Says
-- Louise Downing
-- 2010-07-13T14:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ocean-power-seeks-stimulus-money-not-investor-funds-ceo-dunleavy-says.html

          
          
             Ocean Power Technologies Inc.  will
seek government funding in the U.S. and abroad as it develops
buoys that generate electricity from waves, Chief Executive
Officer  Charles Dunleavy  said.  
 The Pennington, New Jersey-based company, which trades on
Nasdaq and in London, has no plans to raise funds from public
markets, Dunleavy said today in a telephone interview. The
company in April said it had won a $1.5 million grant from the
U.S. Department of Energy to help scale up its 150-kilowatt buoy
to 500 kilowatts.  
 “We hope to show some additional success that would
supplement the grant from the U.S. DoE,” Dunleavy said. “We’re
very actively engaged not just in the U.S. but also in the
U.K.”  
 Ocean Power has not raised  money  in public markets since
April 2007, when it secured $100 million through its Nasdaq
initial public offering.  
 In the first half of 2010, wave power companies raised
$21.6 million in venture capital and private equity and no money
on the public markets, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance
data.  
 Ocean Power today said its net loss rose to $19.2 million
for the year ended April 30 from $18.3 million the previous
year, as spending on product development swelled by $4.6
million. Its shares today rose 0.4 percent to $5.18 at 10:02
a.m. in New York.  
 Product development costs this year won’t be as high as
last year, Dunleavy said. Ocean Power can scale up production
“fairly quickly” because it uses local suppliers and
outsources manufacturing of the majority of its components, he
said. The company doesn’t plan to build its own factories.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Louise Downing  in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        