-- Optimism on U.S. Stocks Wanes as Growth Outlook Drops, Merrill Survey Says
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-13T12:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/optimism-on-u-s-stocks-wanes-as-growth-outlook-drops-merrill-survey-says.html

          
          
             Investors were the most bearish on
U.S. stocks in at least four years as money manager scaled back
their outlook for global growth and raised their cash holdings,
a BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research survey showed.  
 A net 14 percent of respondents, who together manage about
$530 billion, said the U.S. was the region they would most like
to have under-represented in their investments, a level not
since November 2006. Last month, the same amount said America
was the region on which they would most like to have an
overweight stance.  
 The  MSCI World Index , a gauge of stocks in 24 developed
countries, has fallen 12 percent from this year’s high on April
15 amid concern that European sovereign debt levels may harm
global growth. The U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has tumbled
11 percent in the same period compared with a 6 percent drop in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  
 “There has been a definite change in perception of the
U.S. being somehow insulated from what is happening in the rest
of the world,” said  Gary Baker , head of European equity
strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch at press briefing in London
today. “Investors are starting to question those assumptions.”  
 A Labor department report this month showed U.S. employers
eliminated jobs in June, adding to concern the economy is
falling back into recession. Payrolls declined by 125,000 after
an increase of 433,000 in May.  
 Growth Expectations  
 Asset allocators have scaled back their expectations for
global growth, according to the survey. A net 12 percent of
respondents now forecast a weaker economy in the next 12 months
compared with 42 percent who said they expected a stronger
economy two months ago.  
 Respondents raised their cash balances to 4.4 percent,
while hedge funds have cut their net exposure to equities to 18
percent, the lowest level since March 2009. A net 39 percent
also said they were taking lower-than-normal risk in their
portfolio.  
 “July’s survey echoes the sentiment that investors
expressed during the recession in early 2009,” said Baker.
Investors “are not saying there is going to be another
recession but they are saying expectations of strong global
growth are going to be lower.”  
 Global asset allocators have already reduced their holdings
in U.S. stocks. A net 7 percent of the survey, which was
conducted from July 1 to July 8, said they were overweight the
region. That compares to 20 percent in June.  
 This benefited European stocks with a net 10 percent now
underweight the region versus 34 percent underweight in June.
Emerging-market equities remained the respondents’ region of
choice.  
 As of January last year, Merrill Lynch changed the format
of its survey and no longer publishes full historical data. A
total of 202 fund managers participated in this month’s survey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        