-- Mortgage-Bond Yield Spreads Approach Lowest Level on Record
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-13T21:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/mortgage-bond-yield-spreads-that-guide-home-loan-rates-approach-record-low.html

          
          
             Yields  on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
mortgage securities that guide U.S. home-loan rates approached
record lows relative to Treasuries as evidence of climbing
borrowing costs and homeowners’  refinancing  difficulties reduce
concern that supply will increase.  
 Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
bonds narrowed 0.03 percentage point to about 0.65 percentage
point more than 10-year Treasuries as of 4:45 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap reached 0.59
percentage point on March 29, two days before the Federal
Reserve ended its buying of $1.25 trillion of home-loan debt.  
 Foreign investors such as central banks have been flocking
to so-called agency mortgage bonds and debt as a haven, boosting
holdings by more than $50 billion this year, according to  Fed
data . Mortgage rates may be rising from record lows and bond-
prepayment reports released July 7 show limited refinancing,
suggesting there will be less new supply to meet demand as
borrowers pay off loans within bonds held by the Fed.  
 “The Fed’s going to take that cash and they’re not going
to reinvest it,” said  Paul Norris , a senior money manager at
Dwight Asset Management Co. who oversees about $15 billion at
the Burlington, Vermont-based company that he joined last year
from Washington-based Fannie Mae.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Matthew Jozoff 
predicted in a July 9 report that about $125 billion to $150
billion of debt will come to the market from the Fed’s portfolio
over the next year “at these rate levels.”  
 Fannie Mae Yields  
 While numerous factors are set to restrain mortgage-bond
spreads, “refi-driven supply is the ‘fly in the ointment,’”
they wrote. Jozoff declined to comment further today.  
 Yields on the Fannie Mae bonds have advanced to 3.77
percent from a record low of 3.63 percent reached July 6, down
from 4.67 percent on April 5,  Bloomberg data  show. The gain has
been slower than benchmark Treasuries, whose yields have begun
rising as stocks rally, damping demand for the safest assets.  
 Spreads on the securities, which have fallen from 0.82
percentage point on June 30, today reached the lowest level
since April 15.  
 Bond investors are finding “the alternatives away from the
mortgage market” less attractive,  Brett Rose , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone interview.  
 Reasons include a narrower difference between yields on
shorter- and longer-term Treasuries that’s shrinking their
potential to earn more by buying longer-dated debt, and concern
that corporate bonds will remain volatile, Rose said.  
 Market Contraction  
 The $5.2 trillion market for agency mortgage securities is
made up of those guaranteed by government-supported Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, and federal agency Ginnie Mae. Current-coupon
bonds, or those trading closest to face value, are guiding rates
on almost all new U.S. home lending following the collapse of
the non-agency market and a retreat by banks.  
 “One of the reasons they’ve done well is because they’re a
high quality, higher yielding asset class,” said  Curtis Arledge , chief investment officer of fixed income at New York-
based BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager.
“That’s what has been most in demand since mid-April”  
 Supply also may be restrained by the limited amount of
loans for home purchases, rather than refinancing, being taken
out. Applications for such financing is holding near the lowest
levels since 1997 after the expiration of tax credits, according
to the Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association.  
 Issuance May Rise  
 At the same time, the conclusion of programs in which
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bought delinquent loans out of their
securities is likely to help boost net issuance to an average of
$27 billion in the next three months, according to a report
yesterday by New York-based Citigroup analysts.  
 The market contracted by $3 billion in June, after
shrinking by at least $28 billion in each month since February,
they said. Gross issuance, which doesn’t take into account the
dynamic in which refinancing means some debt is returning to the
market, may average $106 billion over the next three months, up
from $98 billion in June, they said.  
 While prepayment speeds for lower-coupon, more recently
issued securities turned out to be faster than expected in June,
those for other bonds were slower, which “underscores the
dichotomy in the mortgage market right now” in which a record
U.S. housing slump has left many borrowers unable to qualify for
refinancing, said  Brad Henis , an analyst at the bank.  
 “The fact is that prepayment risk has been lower because
homeowners don’t have equity appreciation in their homes, so
they’re not as quick to refinance,” Arledge said. “The
prepayment option that you’re short when you buy mortgages has
not been worth as much.”  
 Average Mortgage Rate  
 The  average rate  on a typical 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
tumbled to a record low 4.57 percent in the week ended July 8,
down from this year’s high of 5.21 percent in April, according
to McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac.  
 Agency debt aside from home-loan securities also has
benefited from increased foreign interest in relatively safe
dollar-denominated debt with greater yields than Treasuries
after markets were roiled by Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and
signs the U.S. economic recovery is faltering.  
 When Fannie Mae sold $6 billion of its benchmark corporate
notes on July 8, central banks and foreign investors made up the
largest share of buyers in two years. Central banks, which don’t
include the Fed, bought 55 percent of the debt, up from 36
percent in its last sale of similar securities on May 19,
according to the company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        