-- Total, Anadarko May Bid for Deep-Water Drilling in Black Sea Off Bulgaria
-- Elizabeth Konstantinova
-- 2010-07-13T07:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/total-anadarko-may-bid-for-deep-water-drilling-in-black-sea-off-bulgaria.html

          
          
             Total SA ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp .
and other international oil companies have shown interest in a
deep-water drilling permit in the Black Sea off Bulgaria,
Deloitte Bulgaria Chairman  Ilian Vassilev  said.  
 The Bulgarian government has invited applications for deep-
water drilling near the country’s southern Black Sea coast over
an area of 6,940 square kilometers (4,313 square miles) known as
the Silistar bloc, Vassilev said in an interview in Sofia
yesterday. Deloitte advises the government on exploration
projects.  
 “The documents for the tender dossier are available for
purchase until the end of this month,” Vassilev said. “There
is international interest in the tender, as this is the first
deep-water drilling permit issued by Bulgaria.”  
 The Black Sea, which for 40 years divided the Soviet bloc
from U.S. ally Turkey, is now a frontier region, attracting
explorers from as far away as Brazil and Texas. The post-Cold
War thaw, combined with record-high energy prices and
technological advances, has led oil companies to reconsider its
deep, unexplored waters.  
 Turkey is the region’s most intense explorer of the Black
Sea, while Bulgaria and Romania have explored the sea’s shallow,
coastal waters. There are three deep-water exploratory wells so
far, off Turkey’s coast. The Black Sea has an average depth of
2,000 meters, which hinders drilling as most countries in the
region lack experience and equipment.  
 Turkey’s state oil company  Turkiye Petrolleri AO , invested
$5 billion in the past decade to explore the Black Sea and has
identified 10 drilling prospects to cover Turkey’s consumption
for 40 years, Chief Executive Officer  Mehmet Uysal  said in an
Oct. 1 interview.  
 Bulgaria’s announcement of the tender coincides with
efforts by the European Commission, the European Union’s
executive arm, to limit deep-water drilling following BP Plc’s
spill in the Gulf of Mexico. EU Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  urged governments not to grant oil-exploration permits
for six months.  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp., a Texas-based oil company, holds
a stake in the leaking Gulf of Mexico Macondo well.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        