-- Otkritie Hiring 90 Bankers as Russian Brokerage Plans 25% Initial Offering
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-07-13T14:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/otkritie-hiring-90-bankers-as-russian-brokerage-plans-25-initial-offering.html

          
          
             Otkritie Financial Corp. , the
brokerage 20 percent owned by Russian state-controlled lender
VTB Group, is hiring 90 bankers this year before selling a 25
percent stake in an initial public offering.  
 Otkritie will add 40 new bankers to the 50 it has already
hired this year, bringing the total to almost 400, Chief
Executive Officer  Roman Lokhov  said in an interview in Moscow.
The company plans to raise as much as $375 million in an IPO at
the start of 2012 to fund expansion and acquisitions, he said.  
 After starting as a retail broker in 1995 and expanding
into corporate finance three years ago,  Otkritie  was the second
biggest trader of futures and options on the dollar-denominated
RTS exchange in May with a 15.2 percent market share, behind
Internet-based brokerage  ITInvest , according to data compiled by
the bourse. Otkritie plans to build its business by buying a
Russian regional lender and will open sales and distribution
offices in New York and Hong Kong this year.  
 “In two years we will be publicly traded,” Lokhov said.
Otkritie will compete with Troika Dialog, Renaissance Capital
and VTB among Russia’s biggest investment banks, he said.  
 Lokhov joined Otkritie in October 2007 from  GL Trade , the
French developer of securities-trading software, to lead the
bank’s new trading activities and international expansion.  
 The Moscow-based company will merge its commercial and
investment banks with part-owned Bank Petrovsky into a single
lender by Oct. 1, Lokhov said in the July 8 interview. The
combined company will move into 10 floors of office space in
central Moscow by the end of the year.  
 $1.5 Billion Valuation  
 International Finance Corp ., the World Bank’s private-
sector arm, may acquire a 15 percent stake in the merged bank,
Otkritie said last month. Otkritie acquired a 25 percent stake
in St. Petersburg-based lender  Petrovsky  in February 2009.  
 Otkritie may be valued at $1.5 billion by the time of the
IPO of a 20 to 25 percent stake, Lokhov said.  
 The brokerage opened an office in Frankfurt and hired  Yuri Aldakimov  from Citigroup Inc. and recruited  Robert Mantse  from
Alfa Bank to cover metals and mining in Moscow this month. The
brokerage recruited  Igor Kraevsky  and  Alexander Churikov  from
Absolut-Invest to research small caps along with Alexander
Afonin from  IFD Kapital Group , who will cover fixed income.
 Dmitry Lyutyagin , previously at Veles Capital, starts this week
as the brokerage’s second oil analyst.  
 Lokhov moved Otkritie’s brokerage business to London after
taking the helm. “We wanted to bring Russia as close as
possible to the conditions that international investors want to
have,” Lokhov said. “They don’t want to have any country risk,
they want to have a FSA-regulated company and they don’t want to
deal with brokers based in Cyprus.”  
 ‘Strategic Alliance’  
 Otkritie invested “heavily” in 2008 to develop “direct
market access” trading for institutional clients similar to the
platforms offered by CA Cheuvreux and  Jefferies Group Inc . “We
got access to 30 markets worldwide in commodities, derivatives
and equities with a strong emphasis on Russia,” said Lokhov.  
 The company has focused on arranging small listings on
Micex’s Innovations and Investments exchange where it organized
an offering last month of drugmaker  OAO Diod  that raised $10
million and a listing last week by  OAO Russian Navigation
Technologies , a transport monitoring provider, which raised the
same amount. The bank lags behind Troika, RenCap and VTB in
equity and debt capital-market deals.  
 VTB acquired a 19.9 percent stake in Otkritie as part of
“a strategic alliance,” according to a statement by VTB in
March 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        