-- Housing Recovery Begins in Mexico With Homebuilder Shares Poised to Rally
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-13T20:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/housing-recovery-begins-in-mexico-with-homebuilder-shares-poised-to-rally.html

          
          
             Consorcio ARA SAB Chairman  German Ahumada Russek  says the 2009 recession caused revenue at the
Mexican homebuilder to stall. As the economy improves this year,
he expects total sales will increase 10 percent.  
 “There’s practically no inventory in Mexico City,” said
Russek, chairman of the country’s  third-largest homebuilder  by
market value, in a telephone interview from the Mexican capital
two weeks ago. “People are definitely a lot more optimistic now
that employment is recovering.”  
 Homebuilders are poised to rally as Mexican jobs rise to a
record and government-subsidized mortgages boost demand,
according to Alejandro Garza, a money manager at Emerging
Markets Management LLC, and  Ben Laidler , head of Latin America
strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. The  Habita  index of six Mexican
homebuilders including ARA,  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB ,
 Desarrolladora Homex SAB  and  Corporacion GEO SAB  has fallen 14
percent this year, compared with a 0.2 percent gain for Mexico’s
benchmark IPC Index.  
 “We are very bullish on the housing sector,” said Garza,
who helps manage $12.7 billion in equities at the Arlington,
Virginia-based company. “The uptick in the domestic economy
should also be very favorable for the homebuilders.”  
 Jobs may surpass the record 14.48 million this month, Labor
Minister  Javier Lozano  said, as Latin America’s second-biggest
economy recovers from a 6.5 percent contraction in 2009, the
steepest slump since the 1930s. Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said in an interview last week that the government may
increase its 4.1 percent growth forecast for this year.  
 Year’s Job Growth  
 Mexico added 513,373 jobs in the first half, reaching the
central bank’s forecast of 500,000 to 600,000 new positions for
all of 2010, after losing 181,271 positions last year. The data
in Mexico include only jobs that guarantee pension and health
benefits and require workers to contribute to the housing
agency.  
 Economy Minister  Gerardo Ruiz Mateos  said in an interview
last month that Mexico probably will add about 750,000 jobs this
year by boosting manufacturing sales to the U.S., which buys
about 80 percent of its exports.  
 Joblessness in Mexico declined to 5.1 percent in May after
reaching 6.4 percent in August 2009, the highest since records
began in 2000. In Brazil, the unemployment rate rose to 7.5
percent in May from 6.8 percent in December, the lowest since
records began in 2001.  
 The Habita index was trading at a 19 percent discount
relative to the IPC index yesterday. The two indexes on average
traded at a similar valuation during the past five years.  
 Impatient Buyers  
 The MSCI Mexico/ Consumer Discretionary Index , which
includes Homex and Urbi, will outperform the broader IPC index
this year, said JPMorgan’s Laidler. The IPC will rise 20 percent
to 38,500 by year-end, he said. He doesn’t have a forecast for
the Habita index of homebuilders. Urbi will gain 50 percent to
37 pesos by the end of the year, Laidler forecasts.  
 Urbi rose 2 percent to 24.64 pesos at 4:10 p.m. New York
time in trading on the Mexican stock exchange. Homex advanced
0.5 percent to 57.91 pesos, while GEO climbed 2.4 percent to
34.20 pesos and Consorcio ARA rose 0.3 percent to 7.99 pesos.  
 Alma Beltran, a spokeswoman for Urbi, Mexico’s largest
homebuilder by market value, didn’t respond to requests for
comment. Alejandro Haiducovich, a spokesman for GEO, the
country’s third-biggest homebuilder, declined to comment.  
 Housing Demand  
 Ahumada of Consorcio ARA said overwhelming demand caused
his company to lose sales in recent months when agents told
customers there was a six-month wait for some new developments
in the capital to be completed. Demand remains slow in some
parts of the country, such as tourist destinations and areas
where drug-related violence is high, he said. Total sales
increased 2.2 percent in 2009, according to company reports.  
 Sales  at Homex will increase as much as 14 percent this
year, following a 3 percent gain in 2009, Chief Executive
Officer  Gerardo de Nicolas Gutierrez  said in an e-mail. The
company, Mexico’s second-biggest homebuilder by market value,
added 2,000 jobs in the first quarter, he said.  
 “The improvement in job creation and recovery has a
positive impact on domestic demand and consumer confidence,”
Gutierrez said. “That has a positive impact on the consumption
of goods and services such as housing.”  
 The jobs recovery is giving the government’s housing
agency, known as Infonavit, more capital to provide mortgages,
Homex Chief Financial Officer  Carlos Moctezuma  said on a
conference call last month.  
 Regional Jobs Growth  
 Mexico’s job growth still trails that of Brazil, which
forecasts 2.5 million jobs this year. Mexico has added 819,953
jobs since President  Felipe Calderon , who campaigned as the
“president of employment,” took office in 2006. Brazil, with
double the population of Mexico, created 5 million jobs in that
period.  
 There are signs that consumer demand still lags behind the
broader economic rebound. Retail sales unexpectedly fell 0.1
percent in April from a year earlier.  
 Mexico’s economic growth probably will be less than in
Brazil, where the central bank expects a 7.3 percent expansion
this year. Peru’s central bank expects growth of 6.6 percent,
while Colombia’s government forecasts 3 percent.  
 Mexico had a housing crisis after the peso devaluation in
1994 sent interest rates surging, causing widespread defaults.
There’s little risk of a bubble similar to the ones in the U.S.
and U.K. in 2006 and 2007 occurring now because homebuilders and
banks learned their lesson in the 1990s, said  Carlos Hermosillo ,
an analyst at Mexico City-based brokerage Vector Casa de Bolsa
SA who covers 12 homebuilders and infrastructure companies.  
 Housing Shortage  
 At the end of 2009, Mexico had a housing shortage of 8.9
million units, according to the latest report from the agency in
charge of developing Mexico’s mortgage market, Sociedad
Hipotecaria Federal. The figure is the broadest measure of
housing needs and includes families without a residence as well
as those living in homes that are overcrowded or in ill-repair.  
 In the U.S., the number of contracts to buy previously
owned homes plunged 30 percent in May from the prior month, the
biggest decline in records dating to 2001, the National
Association of Realtors said July 1. A collapse in the subprime
mortgage industry, as well as reduced consumer confidence, has
weakened demand for real estate.  
 Jorge Alberto Moreno, a Mexico City resident who was hired
last year by Samsung Electronics Co., said the economic rebound
is providing him with security. He plans to purchase a new home
with his wife and son in the next year.  
 “We’re leaving the crisis behind and the situation is a
bit more stable,” said Moreno, 32, who works in Samsung’s
marketing department. “This gives us more confidence to make
these kinds of decisions that you wouldn’t make otherwise.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Consorcio ARA SAB Chairman German Ahumada Russek. Photographer: Santi Burgos/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
