-- Lower Federal Crop-Protection Subsidies May Imperil Insurers, Group Says
-- Alan Bjerga
-- 2010-07-13T20:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/lower-federal-crop-protection-subsidies-may-imperil-insurers-group-says.html

          
          
             The crop-insurance industry will be
forced to consolidate by a U.S. government plan to spend $6
billion less on subsidizing farmer policies, according to the
president of the insurers trade group.  
 All 16 companies that provide government-subsidized
policies to protect farmers from natural disasters, including
 Wells Fargo & Co.  and Ace Ltd., have agreed to the 20 percent
cut in funding over 10 years, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
 said today .  
 The deal, which companies had to sign to continue to receive
subsidies, will drive some companies out of business within two
years, said Bob Parkerson, the head of  National Crop Insurance
Services .  
 “Our hands were definitely tied, and we were marched
against the wall” to sign the agreement, Parkerson said in a
telephone interview from the group’s headquarters in Overland
Park, Kansas.  
 Under the USDA’s proposal announced June 10, payments for
government-subsidized administrative costs would be capped at
$1.3 billion next year, with the limit rising annually to $1.37
billion in 2015. Two-thirds of the cut will go toward federal-
deficit reduction, with the remainder sent to government land-
conservation programs, the USDA said.  
 The consent of crop insurers “lays the foundation for a
more sustainable crop-insurance program, reduces the federal
deficit, and improves the farm safety-net,” Agriculture
Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said in the USDA statement.  
 Excessive Returns?  
 Rural lawmakers, including the Senate Agriculture
Committee’s chairwoman, Arkansas Democrat Blanche Lincoln,
 criticized the agreement , saying it will lower overall farm
subsidies. Other members of Congress, including Representative
 Henry Waxman , a Democrat from California, have called spending
on the program wasteful.  
 A  USDA report  last year found that the industry’s average
rate of return on equity was about 17 percent from 1989 through
2008, exceeding what the department deemed a “reasonable” rate
by more than 4 percentage points.  
 The new Standard Reinsurance Agreement will lower average
returns to about 14.5 percent, according to USDA calculations.  
 Insurers have recorded underwriting gains on their crop
coverage every year except one since the Midwest was flooded in
1993, even as prices and demand for most U.S. property and
casualty policies have stagnated. U.S. commercial-insurance
rates have dropped every quarter since 2004, according to
industry data.  
 Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, and Zurich-based Ace
are the largest U.S. crop insurers, each with about a 16 percent
market share, according to 2009 data from the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners.  
 Nau Country Insurance Co., based in Ramsey, Minnesota, is
ranked third, selling 11 percent of crop-insurance policies, and
American Financial Group Inc., with headquarters in Cincinnati,
is fourth with a 9.1 percent share.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        