-- Lowest Trading No Obstacle to Stock Rebound in U.S.: Technical Analysis
-- Lu Wang
-- 2010-07-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/lowest-trading-no-obstacle-to-stock-rebound-in-u-s-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             The lowest trading in U.S. stocks
this year produced the biggest  weekly rally , meaning investors
who sat out the gain may be forced to buy shares once volume
picks up, Miller Tabak & Co. said.  
 “We believe volume is a ‘recognition factor’ and the light
trading recently is a sign of distrust and neglect, not overt
short-term pessimism,”  Philip J. Roth , chief technical market
analyst at Miller Tabak, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.
“We look for volume to increase before the recovery is on its
last legs, as a sign that some bears are reversing positions.”  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  jumped 5.4 percent last
week as reports on retail sales eased concern the economy will
contract and the International Monetary Fund raised its growth
forecast. Fewer than 6.7 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
stock exchanges on July 9, the lowest level this year. Last
week’s daily average of 8.2 billion compares with the 2010 mean
of 9.48 billion.  
 “While we believe it is true that the light volume
continues to indicate a dearth of investment demand, such a
background does not preclude a temporary recovery,” Roth wrote.
“There has been enough improvement to suggest an interim
recovery,” he said, citing the market’s breadth and momentum.  
 The S&P 500 last week rose above its average during the
past 30 days for the first time since sinking below it on June
22. The cumulative  advance-decline  line for securities listed on
the New York Stock Exchange, which represents the number of
daily gains minus the number of declines, jumped 9.2 percent,
the most since Oct. 9.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        