-- Toyota Finds Most Sudden Acceleration Crashes Are Driver Error
-- Angela Greiling Keane
-- 2010-07-14T17:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/toyota-finds-virtually-all-sudden-acceleration-crashes-caused-by-drivers.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. ’s investigation
of accidents involving unintended acceleration where motorists
said they pressed on the brake pedal shows that “virtually
all” involved drivers who pushed the accelerator instead, a
company spokesman said.  
 Toyota, the world’s  largest automaker , is looking into
causes of unintended acceleration in its cars and trucks and has
recalled more than 8 million worldwide in the past year for
defects such as pedals that stuck or snagged on floor mats. U.S.
auto-safety regulators are also probing the causes and haven’t
released their findings.  
 The Toyota City, Japan-based company has reviewed about
2,000 reports of unintended acceleration since March, including
analyses of information from event-data recorders when the
incidents involved crashes, said  Mike Michels , a Toyota
spokesman at the U.S. sales unit in Torrance, California.  
 “There are a variety of causes -- pedal entrapment, sticky
pedal, other foreign objects in the car” and “pedal
misapplication,” Michels said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Asked how many crashes were linked to pushing the
accelerator when motorists thought they were pushing the brake
pedal, he said, “virtually all.”  
 The company has yet to find evidence of electronic
malfunctions, he said.  
 Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each equal to two
ordinary shares, rose $1.23, or 1.7 percent, to $72.95 at 1:08
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 ‘Totally Ludicrous’  
 Auto-safety advocates including  Joan Claybrook , a former
administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration and president of the advocacy group Public
Citizen, have questioned driver error as a cause. They have said
automakers and regulators should take more seriously
possibilities such as the failure of electronic controls.  
 “That is totally ludicrous,” Claybrook said of Toyota’s
findings in a phone interview yesterday. “They should be
looking at the electronics in their cars and everyone knows
it.”  
 The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that NHTSA’s
analysis of Toyota data recorders found cases in which throttles
were open and brakes hadn’t been deployed.  
 NHTSA’s Comment  
 “Engineers at the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration are continuing to investigate the possible causes
of sudden acceleration, along with the National Academy of
Sciences and NASA,” said  Olivia Alair , a spokeswoman for the
U.S. Transportation Department, which includes NHTSA, in an e-
mailed statement today. “We have drawn no conclusions and
released no data. We will follow the facts and inform the public
when our investigation comes to an end.”  
 Attributing some of the sudden acceleration cases to driver
error makes sense because “it hasn’t been a summer of careening
Toyotas” after public attention focused on the issue, said
James Bell, executive market analyst for Kelley Blue Book in
Irvine, California.  
 “Toyota is now going to walk a very tight line,” Bell
said today in a phone interview. “They’re going to have to
impress on their current drivers that they have to pay attention
to their driving while at the same time they’ve built their
fortune on making vehicles that are appliance-like.”  
 Brake-Override Technology  
 NHTSA said in May that Toyota vehicles involved in
unintended-acceleration crashes may be linked to 89 deaths in 71
crashes since 2000.  
 The U.S. auto-safety agency previously investigated reports
of unintended acceleration in Audi 5000 sedans and in a  1989
report  concluded that human error was often the cause.  
 In the two decades since that report, more vehicles have
been equipped with brake-override technology, designed to stop a
car if the brakes and accelerator are applied simultaneously.
Toyota has said it will install brake-override software in all
new vehicles by model year 2011.  
 Toyota is facing more than 325 lawsuits in state and
federal courts related to unintended acceleration, which has
also been probed by U.S. lawmakers.  
 Company engineers last week showed Toyota’s main
engineering facilities in Toyota City and Higashi-Fuji, Japan.
Toyota demonstrated tests being run aimed at finding any
potential cause of sudden acceleration arising from the
electronic throttle control system and other components.  
 Toyota’s Tests  
 Tests include bombarding vehicles with electromagnetic
interference at more than twice the level that would occur in
real-world conditions, line-by-line evaluation of system
software and testing of vehicles in laboratories that replicate
hurricane-level rain and excessive heat and cold.  
 Toyota has yet to find further defects linked to unintended
acceleration beyond problems with floor mats and sticky
accelerator components,  Dino Triantafyllos , Toyota’s U.S. vice
president for vehicle quality, told reporters last week in
Toyota City.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Joan Claybrook, former administrator of the National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration, testifies during a hearing in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
