-- Pakistan Oil & Gas Plans to Spend $1 Billion on Exploration, CEO Alam Says
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-07-13T12:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/pakistan-oil-gas-plans-to-spend-1-billion-on-exploration-ceo-alam-says.html

          
          
             Oil & Gas Development Co. ,
Pakistan’s biggest fuels explorer, plans to spend $1 billion
this year to drill 48 new wells and increase production, to help
bridge the nation’s record energy deficit.  
 “We are following a very aggressive exploration policy,”
Chief Executive  Shah Mehboob Alam  said in an interview at his
office in Islamabad today. “We are targeting a number of
discoveries.”  
 Improved domestic energy supplies may help Pakistan’s
economy which has been hurt by terrorism and falling foreign
investment. Demand for energy is three times supply and daily
power outages have forced textile and engineering factories to
close and caused riots across the country.  
 “There is a huge need and also huge potential to increase
production by explorers,” said  Umer Ayaz , a research analyst at
JS Global Capital Ltd. in Karachi. “Pakistan has unusual risks
in exploration and also unusually high potential.”  
 Shares  of Oil & Gas Development rose 2.8 percent to 149.56
rupees at the 3:30 p.m. local time close on the  Karachi Stock
Exchange , the highest since Oct. 30, 2006. The stock has gained
35 percent this year compared with an 8 percent increase in the
 benchmark  index.  
 Pipeline Attacks  
 Oil & Gas plans to expand exploration in the western
province of  Baluchistan , where attacks on pipelines and
installations have disrupted gas supplies, Alam said. The
province is estimated to hold more than half the country’s gas
reserves.  
 The company expects the Zin Block in Baluchistan to
generate its first gas flows within two years. The block has
estimated gas reserves of 10 trillion cubic feet and drilling is
scheduled to start as soon as the government approves security
plans within the next two weeks, he said.  
 “We drilled only five out a planned 15 wells in
Baluchistan last year because of security issues,” he said.
“Now, we have submitted a plan to the Finance Ministry under
which the Frontier Corp. will raise a special force of 500 to
600 people.”  
 Baluch nationalists want political autonomy and a share of
the resources in the province, where the country’s largest gas
fields, including Sui, are located. The Frontier Corp. is part
of Pakistan’s paramilitary force.  
 The company is also working in fields in western
Baluchistan, including the Samandar field, west of Karachi, and
Shahana, which is near the border with Iran, Alam said.  
 Fresh Bids  
 Oil & Gas  will invite bids by tomorrow for the development
of Kunar Pasakhi Deep and Tando Allah Yar fields in the southern
province of Sindh, Alam said. Previously awarded tenders had
been canceled after being challenged in court for not complying
with regulatory procedures.  
 The two fields may produce 280 million cubic feet of gas a
day, 360 metric tons of liquefied petroleum gas a day and 4,300
barrels of oil a day, Alam said.  
 A “sizeable” discovery in the northwest will be announced
in “a couple of days,” Alam said, without giving details.  
 The company drilled 26 wells and made six  discoveries  in
the year ended June 30, including at Nashpa in the northwest,
which is producing 15 million cubic feet a day of gas and 4,700
barrels of oil a day, he said. Oil & Gas Development discovers
fuel in one out of every 2.3 wells drilled, compared with an
industry average of one in every 3.8, he said.  
 New Compressors  
 Oil & Gas Development will increase production after
installing new compressors to plug leaks at the Qadirpur gas
field by September, Alam said. The company plans to buy two new
rigs this year.  
 The Qadirpur field in the southern province of Sindh
contributes about 40 percent of the company’s total gas output.  
 Oil & Gas Development  produces about 1 billion cubic feet
of gas a day, or a quarter of the country’s total output. Its
oil production is 60 percent of the nation’s total of 62,000
barrels a day. Pakistan imports 85 percent of its oil needs.  
 The company’s profit in the 12 months ended June 30, will
be “higher than last year,” Alam said, without giving details.
Oil & Gas reported a net profit of 55.5 billion rupees ($647
million) in the year ended June 30, 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khaleeq Ahmed  in Islamabad at 
 kkhan8@bloomberg.net ;
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        