-- Pepsi's Mexico Chief Sees Sales Climbing 4% This Year as Economy Recovers
-- Jens Erik Gould
-- 2010-07-13T19:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/pepsi-sees-2010-mexico-sales-in-line-with-economic-growth-padierna-says.html

          
          
             PepsiCo Inc.  expects sales in Mexico
to increase about 4 percent this year, in line with the
country’s economic growth as it recovers from last year’s
recession, unit president Pedro Padierna said today.  
 PepsiCo’s  Sabritas  and Gamesa divisions sell snacks such as
potato chips and cookies. The company has profited from boosting
sales of smaller, cheaper products tailored to a consumer market
dealing with a slower economy, said Padierna, president of
Sabritas for Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean.  
 Mexico’s central bank says the economy will expand from 4
percent to 5 percent this year as increased U.S. demand for
exports fuels a recovery after gross domestic product shrank
last year the most since 1932. Domestic demand is slower to
recover as last year’s job losses make consumers hesitant to
spend.  
 “Until now, the recovery has been modest,” Padierna said
in an interview. “The economy will be a positive surprise by
the end of the year, when consumers are more confident.”  
 The company has spent more than $1 billion of the $3
billion investment in Mexico it announced in November 2008 to
expand plants and boost spending on marketing and product
development over five years, Padierna said.  
 Healthier Snacks  
 PepsiCo is making more snacks that are lower in fat and
calories to meet increasing demand for those types of products
in the region, Padierna said. For example, the company is using
healthier oils and potatoes without sodium, he said.  
 The company also just invested $100 million to expand
production, supply and water treatment facilities at Gamesa’s
plant in Celaya, Mexico, he said.  
 More consumers are buying products in convenience stores
such as  7-Eleven Inc.  and Oxxo, owned by  Fomento Economico
Mexicano SAB , Padierna said. PepsiCo, which sells most of its
products in the region through small stores, is changing its
production and distribution systems to adapt, he said.  
 “It’s a challenge because we have to make special products
for these types of stores,” Padierna said.  
 Sales in Mexico and 22 countries in Central America and the
Caribbean account for about $3 billion of PepsiCo’s annual
revenue, Padierna said, which was $43.2 billion in 2009.  
 PepsiCo’s Sabritas business, based in Mexico City, sells a
line of potato chips and markets Frito-Lay products including
Cheetos, Fritos, Doritos and Ruffles. The division also produces
and markets local brands such as Crujitos and Rancheritos.  
 PepsiCo’s Gamesa division, based in Monterrey, Mexico, is
the country’s largest producer of cookies. It also makes
pastries, cereals and oats, according to PepsiCo’s  website .  
 Padierna, who has worked for PepsiCo since 1987, has been
president of the Sabritas unit since November 2007.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        