-- Petrobras Second-Worst Oil Shares After BP as Sale Delay Worries Investors
-- Peter Millard
-- 2010-07-13T16:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/petrobras-second-worst-oil-shares-after-bp-as-sale-delay-worries-investors.html

          
          
             Petroleo Brasileiro SA is the
world’s second-worst performing  oil company  this year, behind
only BP Plc, on concern Brazil’s government will force the
producer to pay more than investors originally expected for
crude reserves.  
 The value of the 5 billion barrels of reserves, which the
government plans to swap for new stock, will determine the size
of the state-run company’s planned share sale this year and may
signal the extent to which President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s
administration can increase control. A higher price may force
Petrobras to sell more shares to pay for the oil, diluting
 minority shareholders , said  Max Bueno , an analyst with brokerage
Spinelli Corretora.  
 “The government wants to go back to the populace and say
‘we have a fair value on the reserves’,”  Ted Harper , who helps
manage $6.8 billion at Frost Investment Advisors, said yesterday
in a telephone interview from Houston. A postponement of the
share sale, which moved it closer to the October presidential
elections, “totally muddies the water and makes it potentially
politically charged,” he said.  
 Petrobras  sank  27 percent in the first half of 2010, its
worst start to a year since 1995. That compares with a 47
percent drop for  BP , which faces tens of billions of dollars in
damages from an April explosion that led to the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history. Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil Corp.,
the largest U.S. oil producer, and Europe’s biggest, Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, lost 16 percent and 10 percent, respectively.  
 Rising Estimates  
 Rio de Janeiro-based  Petrobras  may need to pay the
government as much as $8 a barrel for reserves, or up to $40
billion, Credit Suisse analysts led by  Emerson Leite  said in a
June 30 investor note. Earlier this year, the bank predicted
Petrobras would pay $5 to $6 a barrel for the oil, or as much as
$30 billion in new stock.  
 Petrobras’s press office declined to comment on the share
sale or recent share performance when contacted yesterday.  
 Shareholders in a  meeting  last month authorized a total
capital increase of 150 billion reais ($85 billion), including
stock to be issued in exchange for the reserves. Petrobras has
said it expects to raise as much as $25 billion from minority
shareholders.  
 Petrobras on June 22 delayed the sale until September,
postponing cash needed for a $224 billion spending plan to
develop the Americas’ largest oil find in three decades. The
company said it needed to wait for the government’s valuation of
the reserves before the public offering.  
 ‘Lost Credibility’  
 “What’s been haunting the shares for weeks now is this
high level of political intervention, and now it has lost
credibility among shareholders” after the delay,  Christopher Palmer , who oversees $5 billion as head of global emerging-
market stocks at Gartmore Investment Management Ltd., said June
29 in an interview from London. “How many billions of dollars
of shareholder value has been  destroyed  due to a lack of
credibility and communication?”  
 Brazilian presidential elections in October may lead the
government to put a high price on the reserves to avoid a
“political backlash,”  Leite  said.  
 Brazil Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  said yesterday
through his press office in Brasilia that the government won’t
interfere with the price of the reserves. The process won’t
“suffer electoral influence,” he said, according to the press
office.  
 Lula and  Dilma Rousseff , his party’s candidate, will “have
a hard time justifying” a value below $30 billion for the oil,
Eurasia Group analysts led by  Christopher Garman  said in a June
23 report. The opposition may argue it’s a “sweet-heart deal”
for Petrobras and foreign investors during the campaign, he
said.  
 ‘Billions of Dollars’  
 If the government adds a “dollar or two” to the price per
barrel, it will cause “billions of dollars in impact” on the
size of the share offering and the reduction in  earnings per
share ,  Eric Conrads , a hedge fund manager at Mexico City-based
Armada Capital SA, said in an interview on June 25.  
 Petrobras  fell 4 centavos, or 0.2 percent, to 27.19 reais
at 1:30 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading. Petrobras’s loss this year is
the second worst out of the world’s 35 biggest oil companies by
market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 BP jumped the most in  20 months  in London trading yesterday
on speculation the company may succeed in halting the oil spill.
BP extended its gains today, rising 2.9 percent to 410.35 pence.  
 Petrobras plans to issue enough shares in the deal to allow
the government and minority investors to maintain their stakes.
Brazil’s oil regulator hired Gaffney, Cline & Associates to
assess how much the reserves are worth.  
 Americas’ Largest Find  
 The swap and public offering are part of plans to finance
the development of fields including the offshore Tupi, the
Americas’ largest oil discovery since Mexico’s Cantarell in
1976. Petrobras may need to spend more than $224 billion after
the BP spill in the Gulf of Mexico increased insurance premiums
and deepwater drilling costs, Spinelli’s Bueno said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo on July 8.  
 Concern that deep-water drilling costs will jump is driving
up the cost of protecting against a default by  Petrobras , the
largest oil producer in waters below 1,000 feet, relative to
Petroleos Mexicanos, which has no output in deep waters.  
 Credit default swaps that protect against non-payment by
Petrobras over five years cost 177 basis points on July 9, or 35
more than its Mexican counterpart, according to prices compiled
by CMA DataVision. The gap reached a 17-month high of 47 basis
points, or 0.47 percentage point, on June 30, up from 19 on
April 20, when London-based BP’s rig explosion in the Gulf of
Mexico sent oil spewing into the ocean.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President of Brazil Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 28 (Bloomberg) -- Sarah Hunt, a portfolio manager at Alpine Mutual Funds, talks with Bloomberg's Adam Johnson about investing in oil stocks following the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
