-- Pfizer Officials Sued by Investors Over $2.3 Billion Marketing Settlement
-- Jef Feeley
-- 2010-07-13T19:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/pfizer-officials-sued-by-investors-over-2-3-billion-marketing-settlement.html

          
          
             Pfizer Inc.  directors should be held
liable for the drugmaker’s repeated violations of federal laws
governing drug-marketing practices that resulted in the company
having to pay a $2.3 billion settlement, a union pension fund
said in a lawsuit.  
 New York-based Pfizer’s board turned a blind eye to
criminal guilty pleas the company entered over marketing
practices for medicines such its Bextra pain-killing drug and
its Neurontin epilepsy pill, the Bricklayers Local 8 & Plasters
Local 233 Pension Fund, a Pfizer shareholder, said in the suit.
Directors’ inaction has hurt the value of investors’ stakes in
the company, the fund’s lawyers contend.  
 “The board and senior management made a calculated bet
that the negative consequences of getting caught would never
become significant,” the fund’s attorneys said today in the
Delaware Chancery Court complaint. “Defendants lost that bet.”  
 The $2.3 billion settlement to resolve government probes
into Pfizer’s marketing practices was the largest accord in
history to address such sales techniques. Proceeds from the
accord went to government health agencies including Medicare,
Medicaid and the military’s Tricare health plan.  
 Chris Loder , a Pfizer spokesman, didn’t return calls and
an e-mail for comment on the suit. Pfizer is the world’s biggest
drugmaker.  
 ‘Red Flags’  
 Pfizer has paid at least $2.7 billion to settle claims over
its marketing practices pressed by government regulators or by
consumers suing over its products, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  
 In addition to the $2.3 billion it paid over Bextra and
other drugs, the company paid $430 million to resolve
prosecutors’ claims that it illegally marketed Neurontin.  
 “The fact that Pfizer has been operated with a systematic
disregard for the laws governing its fundamental business was
not hidden from the board, which repeatedly and knowingly
disregarded red flags that clearly demonstrated the company’s
wrongdoing,” the fund’s lawyers said in the suit.  
 The fund wants directors held liable for the company’s
improper acts and seek to recoup “all profits, benefits and
other compensation” they reaped as board members.  
 The case is Bricklayers Local v. Ausiello and Pfizer Inc.,
CA5631, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        