-- Philippines May Keep Key Interest Rate at Record-Low 4% as Inflation Slows
-- Michael Munoz
-- 2010-07-14T05:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/philippines-may-keep-key-interest-rate-at-record-low-4-as-inflation-slows.html

          
          
             The Philippine may refrain from
raising borrowing costs tomorrow as slowing inflation gives
policy makers room to support growth amid concern Europe’s debt
crisis will hurt the global economy.  
 Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its  benchmark
interest rate  at a record-low 4 percent for a ninth meeting,
according to 13 of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. One
expects a quarter-point increase. The decision is due at about 4
p.m. in Manila tomorrow.  
 The Philippines has fallen behind Malaysia, India, Taiwan
and South Korea in raising interest rates as Asia’s policy
makers balance the need to sustain the region’s economic
recovery against the threats of inflation and asset bubbles.
President  Benigno Aquino , who took office June 30, plans to
boost growth to as much as 8 percent in 2011 to reduce poverty.  
 “Inflation has been relatively benign in the Philippines,
giving the central bank the flexibility to keep rates low,”
said  Prakriti Sofat , an economist at Barclays Capital in
Singapore. “Right now, we’re penciling in rate normalization to
begin in the last quarter of the year.”  
 Bangko Sentral has room to keep the benchmark rate
unchanged because  faster economic growth  doesn’t pose risks to
inflation, Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said today. Consumer
price gains eased a second month to 3.9 percent in June.  
 “We have some leeway in keeping the policy rate steady,”
Guinigundo said in an interview from his office in Manila. “The
urgency to respond to upside risks in  inflation  is not felt at
this point.” Next year’s growth target of as much as 8 percent
can be attained without stoking prices, he said.  
 Record Low  
 Benchmark six-year local-currency bond yields fell to a
record-low 6.15 percent today on speculation the central bank
will hold off on increasing rates. The nation’s main  stock index 
climbed for a third day and the Philippine  peso  snapped two days
of losses.  
 The International Monetary Fund said last week central
banks in emerging economies must remain responsive to potential
threats to growth even as they have tightened monetary policy
“appropriately.”  
 The Bank of Korea raised its benchmark rate last week for
the first time since the global crisis, and Malaysia increased
its overnight policy rate for the third time this year. The Bank
of Thailand may increase borrowing costs today, a separate
 survey  showed. Policy makers in Indonesia have kept rates
unchanged.  
 ‘Swift Policy Reversal’  
 “Monetary policy actions must remain responsive in both
directions,” the IMF said in its World Economic Outlook report.
“Should downside risks to global growth materialize, there may
need to be a swift policy reversal.”  
 Governments in Europe are embarking on austerity programs
to cut budget deficits and households in some of the world’s
largest economies are holding back spending, clouding the
outlook for the global rebound from last year’s slump.  
 Still, Philippine  export growth  accelerated to 37.3 percent
in May, a report showed yesterday. The $167 billion  economy 
expanded 7.3 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
the fastest pace in almost three years, boosting demand for
Banco de Oro Unibank Inc.’s loans and  JG Summit Holdings Inc. ’s
airline services.  
 BDO Unibank ’s second-quarter profit was better than a year
earlier and the lender is on track to meet its 8.1 billion-peso
($175 million) full-year profit goal, President  Nestor Tan  said
last week.  JG Summit  expects record sales and profit at its food,
property and airline units this year, President  Lance Gokongwei 
said in June.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        