-- Pimco Shifted Funds to Treasuries From European Debt Over Past Few Months
-- Garfield Reynolds
-- 2010-07-13T07:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/pimco-shifted-funds-to-treasuries-from-european-debt-over-past-few-months.html

          
          
             Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s largest mutual  fund , said it has been
shifting funds to U.S. Treasuries and away from European debt
over the past few months as it seeks the safest assets.  
 U.S. government bonds and the dollar are the main
beneficiaries when investors are seeking security,  David Fisher ,
Pimco’s head of global product management, said on a conference
call from Tokyo. Pimco is also recommending bonds in Canada,
Australia, China, South Korea, Brazil and Mexico, he said.  
 “The U.S. remains the flight-to-quality country,” Fisher
said. “The dollar remains the world’s most important reserve
currency. The euro is unlikely to take that mantle anytime soon.
That makes U.S. Treasuries a default flight-to-quality asset.”  
 The combination of concern about potential defaults in
Europe and the lowest U.S. inflation rate in four decades sent
Treasuries surging in 2010. U.S. government securities returned
5.9 percent in the first half, the best start to a year since
1995, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  
 Fisher’s comments echo those of  Bill Gross , Pimco’s co-
chief investment officer, who said in June that he was favoring
Treasuries as a fiscal crisis in Europe worsened.  
 Investors should avoid the bonds of Greece, Portugal, Spain
and Italy, Fisher said on the conference call.  
 Slowing Inflation  
 Inflation won’t be a problem in the U.K. and other nations
in Europe, the U.S. and Japan, and this will keep central banks
in those countries from raising interest rates any time soon,
Fisher said.  
 “The near-term risk is actually toward disinflation rather
than inflation in most of these countries,” Fisher said.
“Because interest rates are likely to remain low from central
banks, we think that bonds can provide relatively attractive
returns despite the very low starting level of yields.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year  Treasury  fell three
basis points to 3.04 percent as of 8:18 a.m. in London,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The yield slid to 2.88
percent on July 1, the lowest since April 2009.  
 The U.S. consumer-price index dropped 0.1 percent in June,
a third monthly decline, according to a Bloomberg survey before
the Labor Department’s July 16 report. Excluding food and energy,
 core  consumer prices rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier,
matching the smallest annual gain since 1966, a separate
Bloomberg survey showed.  
 Slowing inflation helps preserve the value of a bond’s
fixed payments.  
 Gross’s $234 billion  Total Return Fund  handed investors a
12 percent gain in the past year, beating about three-fifths of
its competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco,
based in Newport Beach, California, has about $1.1 trillion in
assets and is a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Garfield Reynolds  in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bill Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Bosomworth, head of portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich, talks about bond investments and the outlook for sovereign debt in Europe.
     Bosomworth speaks in Frankfurt with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Gross, manager of the world's biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks about the Treasury market and investment strategy.
     He speaks with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance." David Malpass, president of Encima Global, also speaks. (This is an excerpt of the interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
