-- PKO Seen Favored to Beat Paribas for $3 Billion Stake in Poland's Zachodni
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-07-13T13:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/pko-seen-favored-to-beat-paribas-for-3-billion-stake-in-poland-s-zachodni.html

          
          
             PKO Bank Polski SA , Poland’s largest
lender, is the favorite to buy Bank Zachodni WBK SA from Allied
Irish Banks Plc because  BNP Paribas SA , a rival bidder, received
state aid last year during the financial crisis.  
 BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, and  PKO  are on the
shortlist to acquire 70 percent of Zachodni, a person familiar
with the negotiations said today, declining to be identified
because details aren’t public. The stake is valued at 9.77
billion zloty ($3 billion) in Warsaw trading.  
 A takeover by a bank that got government funds isn’t a
“welcome scenario,” said  Stanislaw Kluza , head of Poland’s
financial regulator, at a news conference in Warsaw today.  
 BNP Paribas sold 5.1 billion euros ($6.4 billion) of
preference shares last year to the French government. In return,
BNP and other French banks agreed to increase lending. Kluza
declined to comment on BNP Paribas’s chances to purchase control
of Wroclaw-based Zachodni.  
 Dublin-based  AIB  needs to reach an agreement this year to
sell its holding in Poland’s third-biggest bank by market value
to help meet capital requirements set by Irish banking
regulators. Final bids for Zachodni are due in mid August, said
a person with knowledge of the situation, who declined to be
identified before process is finished.  
 Bond Sale  
 Polish Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad  said June 22 that
the government would support state-controlled PKO’s bid for
Zachodni. Three days later, PKO shareholders postponed their
vote on a 2009 dividend until the Zachodni deal is resolved. PKO
announced plans last week to sell as much as 5 billion zloty of
bonds to “speed up” expansion.  
 Katarzyna Zadlo , a spokeswoman for BNP Paribas in Warsaw,
declined to comment, as did  Elzbieta Anders , a spokeswoman for
PKO, and Allied Irish spokesman  Ronan Sheridan .  
 HSBC Holdings Plc  and  UniCredit SpA  dropped out of the
bidding, a person familiar with the matter said yesterday. HSBC
and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA of Italy were among the banks that
placed initial bids last month, two people familiar with the
transaction said July 2.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        