-- Portuguese Government-Bond Ratings Cut to A1 at Moody's; Outlook Is Stable
-- Joao Lima
-- 2010-07-13T11:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/portugal-downgraded-at-moody-s-on-high-debt-level-for-foreseeable-future-.html

          
          
             Portugal had its credit rating cut
two levels to A1 at Moody’s Investors Service on prospects for
weak economic growth and a growing debt burden after the
government allowed its budget deficit to balloon.  
 “The  Portuguese  government’s financial strength will
continue to weaken over the medium term,” Moody’s said in a
statement today, adding that the outlook is stable. “The
Portuguese economy’s growth prospects are likely to remain
relatively weak unless recent structural reforms bear fruit over
the medium-to-longer term.”  
 Portuguese bonds extended declines after the rating cuts,
with the yield on the benchmark 10-year bond rising 7 basis
points to 5.50 percent. That widened the yield premium investors
demand to buy the Portuguese bond over comparable German debt by
4 basis points to 284 basis points. The euro slipped to $1.253
at 9:20 a.m. in London from $1.260 yesterday.  
 The Portuguese government has raised taxes and cut spending
in an attempt to rein in the euro region’s fourth-largest budget
deficit, threatening to crimp growth in an economy that has
barely expanded in a decade. High-deficit nations such as
Portugal and Spain are adopting austerity measures after
Greece’s near-default led their borrowing costs to surge and
prompted the European Union to adopt a 750 billion-euro ($941
billion) financial backstop.  
 Watching Spain  
 “With the announcement on Portugal, I would say be on the
lookout for a downgrade on Spain,” said  Harvinder Sian , a
senior bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “My bias would be toward two notches.”  
 Portugal had a budget gap of 9.3 percent of gross domestic
product last year, more than three times the EU’s 3 percent
limit. Ireland’s shortfall was the largest in the euro region at
14.3 percent of GDP, followed by Greece at 13.6 percent and
Spain at 11.2 percent.  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Portuguese debt
rather than German equivalents surged to a more than decade high
of 349 basis points in May before the EU created the financial
backstop for nations struggling to raise funds.  
 Moody’s signaled on May 5 that it was considering cutting
Portugal’s rating for the first time over the deterioration in
its public finances. Portugal had held the third-highest Moody’s
investment grade since 1998. Moody’s isn’t planning further
action and is “very confident” Portugal will trim its deficit
to 3 percent of GDP by 2013,  Anthony Thomas , lead analyst at
Moody’s for Portugal, said today in a telephone interview.  
 Stable Outlook  
 Moody’s said its outlook on Portugal is now stable, a sign
that the ratings company has confidence in the government’s
deficit-cutting efforts, the country’s Finance Ministry said in
a statement today.  
 Even if Portugal makes good on that pledge, its debt burden
as a proportion of GDP will probably continue to grow over the
next two to three years, reaching almost 90 percent of output,
Moody’s said. Euro region nations pledged to keep the debt
within 60 percent of GDP to qualify for the single currency.  
 The country’s ratio of debt to GDP will start declining in
2013 to 84.8 percent from 85.9 percent in 2012 and 2011, the
Finance Ministry said on July 2. The ministry on that day also
said it aims to narrow its budget deficit faster than forecast
previously and meet the 3 percent limit in 2012, a year earlier
than in a previous plan. It kept its deficit targets for this
year and 2011 at 7.3 percent and 4.6 percent, respectively.  
 Deficit Cuts  
 The Portuguese government has said it’s cutting the wages
of top government officials, delaying some investments on
railway projects and temporarily raising value-added, personal-
income and corporate taxes in a bid to narrow the budget gap.
The Socialist government’s deficit-cutting moves are supported
by the Social Democrats, the biggest opposition party in the
Portuguese parliament.  
 Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  on May 18
said the government was maintaining its economic-growth forecast
of 0.7 percent for this year even after announcing more budget-
cutting measures that may curb domestic spending. Portugal’s GDP
rose 1.1 percent in the first quarter from the previous three
months, the fastest pace in almost five years.  
 The Finance Ministry on July 2 said it estimates economic
growth will slow to 0.5 percent in 2011, and will then
accelerate to 1.1 percent in 2012 and 1.7 percent in 2013.  
 Growth Constraints  
 Fiscal consolidation and bank de-leveraging could depress
Portugal’s growth in the short term, Thomas said. Standard &
Poor’s rates Portugal A-, since its last downgrade on April 27,
while Fitch Ratings has an AA- grade on the country’s debt.  
 Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, today said Portugal is
undertaking “huge” structural and fiscal changes after Moody’s
downgraded the country’s credit rating.  
 “I don’t really understand why at the very moment of these
tough decisions by the Portuguese government that this downgrade
is occurring,” Juncker said in an interview in Brussels.  
 Brian Coulton , head of global economics at Fitch Ratings
Ltd., said a downgrade of Portugal is “not totally obvious.”
He spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Head of global economics at Fitch Ratings Ltd. Brian Coulton, said a downgrade of Portugal is 'not totally obvious.' Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Coulton, head of European sovereign ratings at Fitch Ratings Ltd., talks about Portugal's credit rating cut by rival agency Moody’s Investors Service.
     Coulton, speaking in London, also discusses the stress tests on European banks. He talks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
