-- Posco Profit Almost Triples to $989 Million on Higher Steel Prices, Demand
-- Sungwoo Park
-- 2010-07-13T07:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/posco-profit-almost-triples-to-989-million-on-higher-steel-prices-demand.html

          
          
             Posco , Asia’s third-largest
steelmaker, posted its third straight gain in quarterly profit
after increasing prices and production on revived demand from
automobile and appliance makers.  
 Second-quarter  net income  almost tripled to 1.2 trillion
won ($989 million) from 430.5 billion won a year ago, Pohang,
South Korea-based Posco said today in a statement. That fell
short of the 1.46 trillion won average of 22 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the three months ended June 30
gained 25 percent to 7.93 trillion won.  
 Posco, part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. , and  its rivals  benefited as a global economic recovery
spurred demand for steel used in cars and appliances. The mill,
which derives about 70 percent of sales from the  domestic market ,
increased prices by as much as 32 percent this year to offset
higher costs of iron ore and coal.  
 “The earnings look good because Posco raised domestic
prices and sales, helped especially by car-sheet demand,”  Shin Yoon Shik , an analyst with Meritz Securities Co. in Seoul, said
before the announcement.  
 Hyundai Motor Co.  and  Kia Motors Corp. , South Korea’s
biggest automakers, led a 12th straight gain in monthly sales in
June, with Hyundai’s sales increasing 11 percent.  
 Posco , Asia’s biggest mill by market value, fell 0.2
percent to close at 500,000 won today in Seoul. The local
benchmark  Kospi index  was little changed. The announcement came
after the stock market closed.  
 Higher Costs  
 Crude steel production rose to 8.4 million metric tons in
the second quarter from 7.1 million tons a year ago, the company
said in a separate statement today. Product sales rose to 7.8
million tons from 7 million tons, it said.  
 Posco has fallen 19 percent this year on concern
steelmakers may fail to pass on increased costs to customers.
Brazil’s  Vale SA , the biggest supplier of iron ore, and  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  this year broke with a 40 year-tradition of
setting annual prices for iron ore and coal, winning as much as
a 90 percent gain for April quarter contracts.  
 “Profit margins in the current quarter may shrink
marginally as its latest price increases fell slightly short of
cost gains.” Meritz Securities’ Shin said.  
 Second-quarter operating profit was 1.84 trillion, Posco
said today. Then company raised its full-year forecast for
operating profit to 5.6 trillion won and sales to 33.5 trillion
won.  
 JFE Holdings Inc. , Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, and
two rivals agreed to a 12.5 percent price increase for coking
coal with BHP Billiton for the July quarter contracts, three
people with knowledge of the agreements said last month.  
 Regional steel prices  may increase in the fourth quarter
with Chinese government spending skewed to the second half
because of “stable” steel demand, Park Chan Wook, an analyst
with Deutsche Bank AG, said in a June 14 report.  
 Among Korean mills, Posco will be “the biggest
beneficiary” of China’s steel policy changes including the
removal of export rebates and a potential appreciation of the
Chinese yuan, Kim Jin Mook, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said in a July 6 report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        