-- Pound Rises After Data Show Higher-Than-Expected U.K. Inflation Last Month
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-13T15:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/pound-rises-after-data-show-higher-than-forecast-inflation-on-higher-costs.html

          
          
             The pound rose against the dollar,
snapping a three-day drop, as reports showed inflation above
economists’ forecasts and higher retail sales, stoking
speculation that the Bank of England may raise interest rates.  
 Britain’s currency rose against 12 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as the Office for National Statistics said June
 consumer prices  rose 3.2 percent from a year earlier, above the
3.1 percent forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The rate slowed from May’s 3.4 percent pace. A separate British
Retail Consortium survey showed stores posted the biggest annual
sales gain in three months.  
 “Although inflation is supposed to be coming down, it’s
not falling as expected,” said  George Tchetvertakov , head of
market research at Alpari Ltd., a U.K.-based online foreign-
exchange provider. “We could see sterling strength.”  
 The pound rose 1 percent, the most since July 1, to $1.5178
at 4:34 p.m. in London. It was little changed at 83.79 pence per
euro, after trading at the lowest level since June 21 yesterday.  
 The persistence of inflation is adding to pressure on
policy makers to raise rates, a potential spur for sterling,
which has dropped 6.1 percent against the dollar this year.
While the Bank of England last week maintained emergency
stimulus and held the benchmark rate at a record low as the
government cuts spending, policy maker  Andrew Sentance  last
month made the first push to raise rates in almost two years.  
 Short-Sterling Futures  
 The record-low benchmark interest rate may be contributing
to the pound’s weakness and keeping inflation above the bank’s 2
percent target, Sentence said today in Reading, England. He
favors a “gradual” removal of stimulus rather than any
“sudden lurch” that could undermine confidence, he said.  
 The yield on the short-sterling futures contract for June
2011 rose three basis points to 1.15 percent as investors added
to bets for higher borrowing costs.  
 “Some of today’s rally in the pound is likely due to
increasing expectation for the need to lift rates given the
stubborn performance of inflation,”  Andrew Wilkinson , senior
market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut, said today in an e-mailed note.  
 Government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year yield four basis
points higher to 3.38 percent. Higher interest rates may erode
the value of bonds’ fixed payments. The  FTSE 100 Index  of U.K.
shares jumped 1.8 percent, gaining for a sixth day and damping
the allure of fixed-income assets.  
 Retail sales by value rose 1.2 percent last month from a
year earlier at stores open at least 12 months, helped by warmer
weather, the BRC said today. The gain was the biggest since
March.  
 A gauge of U.K.  house prices  fell to an 11-month low, a
separate report showed. The number of real-estate agents and
surveyors saying U.K. house prices rose exceeded those reporting
declines by 9 percentage points, compared with a reading of 21
points in May, the London based Royal Institution of Chartered
Surveyors said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        