-- Powered by China, Clean Energy Investment Holds Steady in Q2
-- 
-- 2010-07-13T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/powered-by-china-clean-energy-investment-holds-steady-in-q2.html

          
          
               Powered by China, Clean Energy Investment Holds Steady in Q2 2010

   Funding Stays Level Despite Dwindling Funding for European Projects and
          Growing Concerns Over Greece and the US Economic Recovery

Business Wire

NEW YORK -- July 13, 2010

New investment in clean energy technologies, companies, and projects held
steady in the second quarter of 2010 at $33.9bn as a drop in investment in
European projects was offset by a continuing boom in China and a bounce-back
in the US, according to new estimates from research firm Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The quarterly total represented just a 1.5% slip from first quarter
2010, a 3.0% fall from Q2 2009, and came despite the Greek credit crisis,
poorly performing public markets, and a sluggish U.S. economic recovery.

“On a global level, the new numbers suggest that despite continuing worries
about the macro-economy, investors remain relatively optimistic about clean
energy’s longer term prospects,” said Bloomberg New Energy Finance chief
executive Michael Liebreich. “However, where investors are placing their bets
is changing rapidly. China continues its extraordinary surge and Europe is now
very much slumping, based on the all-important project finance figures."

Bloomberg New Energy Finance tracks third party investment on a quarterly
basis in three main categories – Asset Finance (funds provided for the
construction of electricity- or biofuels-generating projects), Public Markets
(funds raised over the stock exchanges via IPO’s and other offerings), and
Venture Capital / Private Equity. The company also takes other forms of clean
energy investment into account in its annual figures.

Asset financing accounted for $28.9bn of the $33.9bn in new funds invested in
Q2 2010, but was down 2.1% from Q1 2010 and off 3.7% from Q2 2009. China
appears to be continuing its massive build-out of new clean energy capacity.
The country, which installed 14,000MW of new wind last year, saw $11.5bn in
new asset financing in Q2 2010. That represented a 9.6% rise over the prior
quarter and a 72.1% jump from Q2 2009. U.S. asset financing also rose to
$4.9bn, from $3.5bn in the prior quarter and from $4.3bn in Q2 2009.

The picture looked substantially different in Europe where asset financings
totaled just $4.5bn, down from $6.6bn last quarter and far below the $14.9bn
in new investment in Q2 2009. Europe was first to embrace clean energy
technologies at substantial scale but now appears to be falling behind China.
Over the past four quarters, China has attracted $40.3bn in asset financings,
compared to $29.3bn in Europe and European project finance has fallen
consecutively in each of the last four quarters.

Asset financing typically accounts for just under two thirds of all new funds
invested in clean energy in a given year. Through the first six months of
2010, it has totaled $58.4bn, compared to $48.1bn in the same period in 2009,
representing a 21.4% gain.

New capital raised via the public stock exchanges remained anemic at $2.6bn.
While that represented a 29.2% jump from the $2bn raised in the prior quarter,
it pales in comparison to the $5.9bn raised in Q4 2009. The industry had hoped
to see key initial public offerings from U.S. cylindrical solar module maker
Solyndra, U.S. project developer First Wind, and Italy’s Enel Green Power.
Between them, the three firms had hoped to net approximately $6bn.

The markets did not cooperate, however. The S&P 500 Index fell 11.6% during
the quarter as concerns grew over the credit situation in Greece. The
WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index, or NEX, a composite of over 80
stocks selected by Bloomberg New Energy Finance to reflect the breadth and
width of the clean energy sector, fell 19.5% in the period. Solyndra has
pulled its IPO and instead raised funds privately. Enel now says it plans to
IPO in October. First Wind has made no major new announcements about its
planned offering.

One bright spot in public market activity was Tesla Motors’ $202m IPO in June
on Nasdaq after pricing its shares above a previously announced price band.
The company also collected $50m in a new strategic investment from Toyota. The
largest IPO of the quarter was from Hangzhou-based battery maker Zhejiang
Narada Power Source, which successfully completed a $300m float on the
Shenzhen Stock Exchange.

Venture capital and private equity financings remain a bright spot for clean
energy in 2010 compared to last year. VC/PE activity for the quarter totaled
$2.4bn. While that is down from $2.9bn in Q1 of the year, the total VC/PE
investment through the first half of 2010 of $5.2bn far surpasses the $3.2bn
raised over the same six-month period in 2009. Virtually all of Q2 2010’s
major VC/PE deals took place in the U.S. U.S. wind developer Pattern Energy
raised $400m; solar thermal electricity generation project and technology
developer BrightSource collected $150m; and electric vehicle maker Fisker
Automotive brought in $74m.

Bloomberg New Energy Finance has forecasted 2010 total new clean energy
investment at $180-$200bn. The firm’s macro annual figure takes into account
not just Asset Finance, Public Markets, and Venture Capital/Private equity
fundings but other forms of investment as well, such as spending on corporate
research & development and the financing of small-scale projects. The latter
of these should result in substantially more dollars invested this year as the
photovoltaic industry expands rapidly through the installation of thousands of
tiny residential and commercial systems worldwide.

Note: Bloomberg New Energy Finance has also revised somewhat its previous Q1
2010 figures upward. The change is due to new Q1 project financings discovered
in recent weeks, mostly in China.

ABOUT BLOOMBERG NEW ENERGY FINANCE

Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) is the world’s leading independent
provider of news, data, research and analysis to decision-makers in renewable
energy, energy smart technologies, carbon markets, carbon capture and storage,
and nuclear power. Bloomberg New Energy Finance has staff of more than 130,
based in London, Washington D.C., New York, Beijing, New Delhi, Hyderabad,
Cape Town, São Paulo, Singapore, and Sydney.

Bloomberg New Energy Finance Insight Services provide deep market analysis to
investors in wind, solar, bioenergy, geothermal, carbon capture and storage,
energy efficiency, and nuclear power. The group offers Insight Services for
each of the major emerging carbon markets: European, Global Kyoto, Australia,
and the U.S., where it covers the planned regional markets as well as
potential federal initiatives and the voluntary carbon market. Bloomberg New
Energy Finance’s Industry Intelligence Service provides access to the world’s
most comprehensive database of investors and investments in clean energy and
carbon. The News and Briefing Service is the leading global news service
focusing on clean energy investment. The group also undertakes applied
research on behalf of clients and runs senior-level networking events.

New Energy Finance Limited was acquired by Bloomberg L.P. in December 2009,
and its services and products are now owned and distributed by Bloomberg
Finance L.P., except that Bloomberg L.P. and its subsidiaries (BLP) distribute
these products in Argentina, Bermuda, China, India, Japan, and Korea. For more
information on Bloomberg New Energy Finance: http://www.newenergyfinance.com

ABOUT BLOOMBERG

Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for businesses and
professionals. Bloomberg combines innovative technology with unmatched
analytic, data, news, display and distribution capabilities, to deliver
critical information via the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL® service and Multimedia
platforms. Bloomberg's media services cover the world with more than 2,300
news and Multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. The
BLOOMBERG TELEVISION® 24-hour network reaches more than 240 million homes.
BLOOMBERG RADIO® services broadcast via Sirius XM Radio and 1worldspace™
satellite radio globally and on WBBR 1130AM in New York. BLOOMBERG MARKETS®
magazine, Bloomberg Businessweek magazine and the BLOOMBERG.COM® Web site
provide news and insight to business leaders and financial professionals. For
more information, please visit http://www.bloomberg.com.

The BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service and data products are owned and distributed
by Bloomberg Finance L.P. (BFLP) except that Bloomberg L.P. and its
subsidiaries (BLP) distribute these products in Argentina, Bermuda, China,
India, Japan and Korea. BLOOMBERG, BLOOMBERG NEWS, BLOOMBERG TELEVISION,
BLOOMBERG RADIO, BLOOMBERG MARKETS AND BLOOMBERG.COM are trademarks and
service marks of Bloomberg Finance L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, or
its subsidiaries. All rights reserved.

Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available:
http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=6356916&lang=en

Multimedia Available: http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=6356916

Contact:

Bloomberg LP
Sarah Feinberg, +1 202-654-4360
sfeinberg2@bloomberg.net
 
               
//<![CDATA[

                  $("div#story_content p:first").appendTo("div#press_release_subhead_holder");
              
//]]>
