-- Putin Providing BP Investor Haven as Yields Tumble on TNK-BP Dollar Bonds
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-14T16:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/putin-providing-bp-investor-haven-as-yields-tumble-on-tnk-bp-dollar-bonds.html

          
          
             The worst oil spill in U.S. history
is proving a bigger risk to debt investors than Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  as  BP Plc  bonds yield more than those of
its Moscow-based affiliate TNK-BP.  
 BP’s 5.25 percent dollar bonds due 2013 yield 117 basis
points, or 1.17 percentage point, more than the 7.25 percent
dollar notes due the same year from TNK-BP, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a turnaround from two months ago
when TNK-BP debt yielded as much as 392 basis points more than
BP.  
 Investors charged a 23 percentage point premium to buy TNK-
BP notes at the end of 2008 as a battle for control between BP
and its Russian billionaire partners led to employees being
denied work visas, an industrial espionage inquiry and the
ouster of then-Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley , who fled
Moscow citing security concerns. Now it’s London-based BP’s
bonds that have the higher yield as the cost for cleaning up the
April 20 spill in the Gulf of Mexico surpasses $3.5 billion.  
 “The risk of BP taking longer than planned to contain the
oil spill is far greater than that of TNK-BP being taken over by
the government,” said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps oversee about
$6 billion of emerging-market debt, including TNK-BP dollar
bonds, at Union Investment in Frankfurt. “The latter would
actually be credit-positive, essentially making TNK-BP quasi-
sovereign.”  
 BP’s 2013 bonds have dropped as much as 20 percent since
the explosion on its Deep Water Horizon rig sent up to 60,000
barrels of crude a day gushing into waters off the coast of
Louisiana. The U.S. administration forced BP to set $20 billion
aside to cover damage claims. The company has said it will seek
to raise half that amount by selling assets, though it’s ruled
out selling its 50 percent stake in TNK-BP.  
 BP Rally  
 BP installed a new cap on the leaking Macondo well and
planned to start testing yesterday while continuing work on a
permanent plug. The repairs helped lift BP shares 12 percent in
the past two days and the 2013 bonds gained 3.2 percent to trade
at 98.78 cents on the dollar yesterday, down 10 percent from
before the spill. TNK-BP’s 2013 notes have fallen 2.9 percent in
the same period and traded yesterday at 106.35 cents.  
 Moody’s Investors Service ranks BP at A2, its sixth highest
investment-grade rating, and TNK-BP three levels lower at Baa2.  
 TNK-BP has generated more than $25 billion of net income
and distributed over $20 billion in dividends since the tie-up
began in 2003, Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said last
year. The U.K. company, under its former Chief Executive Officer
John Browne, paid $7.7 billion in cash to Siberian oil producer
TNK’s shareholders, including  Viktor Vekselberg  and  Mikhail Fridman , to pool their assets and create TNK-BP under 50-50
ownership.  
 ‘Holy of Holies’  
 The transaction marked the last time a foreign shareholder
gained more than 49 percent in a strategic natural-resources
asset in Russia.  Royal Dutch Shell Group Plc  was forced to sell
control of its $22 billion Sakhalin-2 venture in 2006 to state-
run OAO Gazprom, ending regulatory threats to shutter the
project on environmental grounds.  
 Russia won’t allow the European Union to interfere in the
country’s energy industry unless Russian companies such as
Moscow-based Gazprom get greater access to EU markets, Putin
said at the time.  
 “If our European partners are expecting us to let them in
to the holy of holies of our economy, in this case we demand
reciprocity,” Putin said in May 2006, after meeting EU leaders
in the Russian resort town of Sochi.  
 Spies Probe  
 Disagreements over expansion strategy and control in 2008
pitted BP against Vekselberg and Fridman, the country’s third
and 16th richest men according to Forbes. TNK-BP’s offices were
raided by Russian security services, foreign employees were
denied work permits and an employee with dual U.K.-Russian
citizenship was arrested and charged with industrial espionage
as the conflict escalated. Former CEO Robert Dudley left Moscow
in July 2008 and tried to run TNK-BP from outside the country
before officially resigning in December five months later.  
 Hayward flew to Moscow last month to state BP’s commitment
to TNK-BP. Briefing reporters before meeting with Hayward,  Igor Sechin , Putin’s deputy in charge of the energy industry, said
the executive may resign, according to a Sechin aide who
declined to be identified because of government policy. BP
spokeswoman  Sheila Williams  said later that day Hayward didn’t
plan to resign. Sechin is also chairman of OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
largest oil company.  
 BP put Dudley, an American citizen, in charge of the day-
to-day cleanup effort in the U.S. last month.  
 ‘Out of Sync’  
 Russia’s government is “monitoring” TNK-BP’s work and
doesn’t expect any change in ownership, said  Dmitry Peskov ,
Putin’s spokesman. BP’s relationship with Putin’s government is
“cooperative and constructive,”  Andrew Gowers , a London-based
spokesman for BP, said in a phone interview.  
 Russia may use BP’s travails to push for changes in TNK-BP
to conform with rules that cap foreign ownership at 49 percent
for “strategic industries,” said  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at UralSib Financial Corp., the Moscow bank and
brokerage controlled by billionaire  Nikolai Tsvetkov .  
 “BP’s 50 percent holding in TNK-BP is out of sync with the
so-called rules of the game for foreign investment in Russia’s
strategic industries,” Weafer said.  
 Dollar Bonds  
 Russian government dollar bonds due in 2020 gained today,
pushing the yield down 8 basis points to 5.194 percent, the
lowest since April. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 4 basis points to
237, according to JPMorgan EMBI+ Indexes. That compares with 166
for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 213 for Brazil, which is
ranked two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  
 The so-called  yield  spread on Russian bonds is 60 basis
points below the average for emerging markets, according to
JPMorgan Indexes.  
 Credit-default swaps linked to Russian debt fell 11 basis
points to 169, near the lowest since May 18. The contracts,
which investors use to hedge against losses on debt or speculate
on creditworthiness, pay the buyer face value if a borrower
reneges on its obligations. Russia credit-default swaps cost the
same as contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower
at Ba2 by Moody’s. That  difference  has narrowed from 40 basis
points on April 20.  
 Ruble Rises  
 The ruble gained 0.4 percent to 30.6000 per dollar in
Moscow trading, its strongest close since May 18. Non-
deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements as they allow foreign
investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a specific
level in the future, show the ruble at 30.7350 per dollar in
three months.  
 The yield on ruble bonds sold by Gazprom, Russia’s biggest
company, is 201 basis points above the same-maturity Gazprom
debt in dollars, down from a yield difference of 600 a year ago,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread narrowed to as
little as 115 on June 11.  
 TNK-BP is BP’s “crown jewel,” accounting for more than a
quarter of global  production  and providing steady dividends,
said  Mikhail Galkin , head of fixed-income research at VTB
Capital in Moscow.  
 In the event of a sale by BP “it is logical to assume a
Russian state company would be the buyer, which is definitely
not bad from the credit perspective,” Galkin said. “The recent
weakness in TNK-BP bonds is a good buying opportunity as the
company is insulated from BPs woes.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. Photographer: Alexey Nikolsky/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Bosomworth, head of portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich, talks about bond investments and the outlook for sovereign debt in Europe.
     Bosomworth speaks in Frankfurt with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
