-- Qatari Diar May Price $3.5 Billion of 5, 10-Year Bonds As Soon As Tomorrow
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-13T13:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/qatari-diar-may-price-3-5-billion-of-5-10-year-bonds-as-soon-as-tomorrow.html

          
          
             Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment
Co. will price its first dollar bonds tomorrow, according to a
banker involved in the transaction, as the developer owned by
the country’s sovereign wealth fund seeks to raise $3.5 billion.  
 The five-year notes may be priced to yield about 200 basis
points over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries and the 10-year
debt may have a spread in the low 200-basis-point range, the
banker said, declining to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The company will complete meeting investors in the U.S.
today, he said.  
 The Gulf nation, the world’s biggest producer of liquefied
natural gas, tapped international debt markets in a multi-
tranche sale in November, raising $7 billion. Qatar is spending
billions of dollars diversifying its economy and plans to invest
in infrastructure projects, international oil and gas industry,
and sports and cultural attractions.  
 The  spread  investors demand to own developing nation bonds
over Treasuries narrowed 37 basis points this month to 3
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index. A basis point equals 0.01 percentage point.  
 Qatari Diar’s bonds will be sold by its finance unit,
Qatari Diar Finance QSC, and are guaranteed by the government, a
banker familiar with the plan said yesterday. The sale is
expected to raise $3.5 billion, the banker said then.  
 Investment Grade  
 In November, Qatar issued $3.5 billion of five-year bonds,
$1 billion of 30-year bonds and $2.5 billion of 10-year bonds.
The five-year securities maturing in January 2015 were priced to
yield 1.85 percentage points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries. The 10-year note was sold to yield 1.95 percentage
points over U.S. debt.  
 Borrowers from the Gulf sold $8.7 billion of bonds so far
in 2010, compared with about $15.5 billion in the year-earlier
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai
Electricity & Water Authority sold $1 billion of bonds in April,
while  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  raised $750 million by
selling five-year notes in March.  
 Barclays Plc, HSBC Holding Plc, Qatar National Bank SAQ,
Standard Chartered Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
managing Qatari Diar’s sale. The debt is rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-highest investment grade rating.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        