-- Qatar Shares Lead Gulf Markets Lower on Earnings, China Risk; QIB Falls
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-07-13T13:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/qatar-shares-lead-gulf-markets-lower-on-earnings-china-risk-qib-falls.html

          
          
             Qatar shares fell the most in more
than a week, leading a decline in the Gulf, on concern second-
quarter earnings may fall and as China reaffirmed a commitment
to curb lending.  
 Qatar’s  QE Index  slipped 0.8 percent, the most since July
4, to 6,959.34.  Industries Qatar,  the second-biggest
petrochemicals maker in the Middle East, retreated 1.9 percent
and  Qatar Islamic Bank  fell for the first time in seven days.
The  Bloomberg GCC 200  Index of stocks in the region dropped for
a second day, declining 0.2 percent.  
 “Investors are awaiting second-quarter results of big
companies,” said  Mohammed Ali Yasin , chief executive officer at
Shuaa Securities LLC in Abu Dhabi. “Day traders are
anticipating and moving with the global markets.”  
 Companies from Gulf Arab nations started releasing earnings
this month.  Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index  dropped as
much as 0.9 yesterday after  Saudi British Bank , the lender 40
percent owned by HSBC Holdings PLC, and  Saudi Investment Bank 
posted a decline in second-quarter net income.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell as much as 0.7 percent,
the biggest intraday decline since July 7. China will
“strictly” enforce housing policies, such as lending rules, to
prevent speculative investment, the Ministry of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development said today. Portugal had its credit
rating cut two notches to A1 at Moody’s Investors Service, which
cited a growing debt burden and weak economic growth prospects.  
 Industries Qatar retreated the most since June 30 to 97.6
riyals. Qatar Islamic Bank, the Gulf state’s biggest Shariah-
compliant lender, dropped 1.1 percent, the most since June 29,
to 73.9 riyals. The lender is expected to release earnings this
week.  
 Abu Dhabi’s  gauge  lost 0.4 percent, Oman’s  MSM 30 Index 
decreased 0.2 percent, while the  Kuwait SE Price Index  added 0.1
percent. Bahrain’s  gauge  slipped less than 0.1 percent and
Saudi’s index was little changed at 6,216.67.  
 Dubai’s  DFM General Index  gained 0.4 percent to the highest
this month.  Emaar Properties PJSC  led the advance, rising 1.5
percent to 3.30 dirhams. The Dubai-developer’s second-quarter
earnings are likely to “surprise on the upside” because of
income from the handover of apartments at Burj Khalifa, the
world’s tallest tower in Dubai, Deutsche Bank AG said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net  or  
          
          


  


        