-- Trade Gap in U.S. Unexpectedly Widened in May to $42.3 Billion
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-13T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/trade-gap-in-u-s-unexpectedly-widened-in-may-to-42-3-billion.html

          
          
             The trade deficit in the U.S.
unexpectedly widened in May to the highest level since November
2008 as a gain in imports outpaced growth in exports.  
 The  gap  expanded 4.8 percent to $42.3 billion as U.S.
companies imported more automobiles and consumer goods, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The deficit was
projected to narrow to $39 billion, according to the  median 
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports and exports rose to
the highest level since 2008.  
 The increase in trade flows showed a global economy that was
strengthening before recent figures signaled a pause last month
in growth in China, Europe and the U.S. The fallout from the
European debt crisis may limit overseas demand, while an increase
in the value of the dollar makes American goods less competitive
abroad.  
 “Exports grew in response to the strengthening of growth in
several of our major trading partners, especially in Asia,”
Steven Wood, president of Insight Economics LLC in Danville,
California, said before the report. “The turmoil in Europe has
been too recent to show up in the trade data yet.”  
 Estimates of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged from
deficits of $37 billion to $41.5 billion. The gap in April was
$40.3 billion. The figures indicate trade subtracted from gross
domestic product in the second quarter.  
 The deficit with China increased in May to the highest level
since October, while imports from India were the most ever.  
 Exports  from the U.S. to the rest of the world increased 2.4
percent to $152.3 billion, reflecting gains in industrial
materials, business equipment and semiconductors. Imports rose
2.9 percent in May to $194.5 billion, led by an increase in
demand for cars, pharmaceuticals, toys and clothing from abroad.  
 Alcoa Sales  
 Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported
yesterday second-quarter sales and profit that beat analysts’
estimates. The company said it expects aluminum sales for
automotive use to increase by 3 percent to 8 percent this year,
while sales for commercial trucks and trailers may gain 12
percent to 17 percent, Chief Executive Officer Klaus Kleinfeld
said on a conference call yesterday.  
 “We are really working very hard to fire on all
cylinders,” Kleinfeld said. “Undoubtedly we are not seeing the
environment we’ve seen in the past but we see the environment
getting better and continuously moving in the right direction.”  
 Today’s report showed the trade gap with China rose to $22.3
billion from $19.3 billion in the prior month. While the U.S.
exported 2.5 percent more to China in May, imports from the Asian
nation surged 12 percent.  
 June Figures  
 China, the world’s biggest exporter, on July 10 reported
that its overseas sales jumped 44 percent in June from a year
earlier and the  trade surplus  more than doubled to $20 billion,
the highest in eight months.  
 The surge in Chinese exports in June and the doubling of the
trade surplus may prompt U.S. lawmakers to intensify pressure on
China to step up the pace of yuan appreciation even as the
outlook for overseas demand cools.  
 China on June 19 indicated it was ending the yuan’s peg to
the U.S. dollar and has since allowed it to appreciate 0.8
percent. Still, the U.S. Treasury Department said July 8 the
Chinese currency “remains undervalued.”  
 Gains in U.S. consumer spending and business investment
suggest demand for goods made abroad will persist. Household
 purchases  increased 0.2 percent in May after no change the
previous month, while  inventories  at wholesalers rose in May for
a fifth month, according to figures from the Commerce Department.  
 U.S. Dollar  
 The outlook for  exports  has dimmed after the dollar climbed
3 percent since mid-April against a trade-weighted basket of
currencies of major trading partners amid concerns that efforts
to reduce government debt in Europe will hamper the economic
recovery.  
 The U.S. deficit with the European Union widened 7.5 percent
in May as imports outpaced a gain in exports, today’s report
showed.  
 In addition to making American goods more expensive to
European buyers, the dollar’s appreciation will also weigh on
sales in places where U.S. companies compete with European firms.  
 The quantity of imported petroleum declined, with the price
per barrel falling to $76.93 a barrel, according to today’s
report. A barrel of crude on the New York Mercantile Exchange
averaged $74.12 for the month, down from $84.58 in April.  
 The balance  adjusted for inflation , which is the figure used
to calculate gross domestic product, increased to $46 billion in
May. The gap was larger than the average $42.3 billion a month in
the first quarter, putting trade on track to subtract from growth
from April through June.  
 Obama on Exports  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  has made export growth a key
economic policy initiative. Last week, Obama reiterated the
administration’s goal of doubling U.S. exports during the next
five years to about $3.1 trillion by 2015, supporting 2 million
additional jobs.  
 “Export growth leads to job growth and economic growth,”
Obama said on July 7. Exports in 2008 accounted for about one in
three manufacturing jobs and pay 15 percent more on average, he
said. “So at a time when jobs are in short supply, building
exports is an imperative.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shipping containers are stacked at the Port of Wilmington, North Carolina. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
