-- Trade Gap in U.S. Unexpectedly Widened in May to $42.3 Billion
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-13T20:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/trade-gap-in-u-s-unexpectedly-widens-to-17-month-high-on-surge-in-imports.html

          
          
             The trade deficit in the U.S.
unexpectedly widened in May to the highest level in 18 months as
a gain in imports outpaced an increase in shipments abroad.  
 The  gap  expanded 4.8 percent to $42.3 billion as U.S.
companies imported more automobiles and consumer goods, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The deficit was
projected to narrow to $39 billion, according to the  median 
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports and exports rose to
the highest level since 2008.  
 The increase in trade flows shows how the global expansion
lifted sales at companies like  Alcoa Inc.  Export growth may cool
in coming months as the fallout from the European debt crisis
limits overseas demand and a recent strengthening of the dollar
makes American goods less competitive.  
 “Consumer spending hasn’t petered out yet and neither has
business spending,” said  Jay Bryson , senior global economist at
Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina. Still,
“you do have growth in some of the major trading partners
slowing down, particularly in Europe, coupled with the stronger
dollar. All those things will help slow export growth” he said.  
 Estimates of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from deficits of $37 billion to $41.5 billion. The gap in April
was $40.3 billion. The figures indicate trade subtracted from
gross domestic product in the second quarter.  
 Dollar, Stocks  
 The dollar fell against most of its major counterparts,
declining 0.9 percent to $1.2716 versus the euro at 4:04 p.m. in
New York. Stocks rose, extending the longest winning streak in
three months, after Alcoa reported earnings that topped
analysts’ estimates. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 1.5
percent to close at 1,095.34.  
 Confidence among U.S. small businesses fell in June to the
lowest level in three months, a private survey released today
showed. The National Federation of Independent Business’s
optimism index dropped to 89 from May’s 92.2 reading.  
 Another report from the Labor Department showed job
openings in the U.S. dropped to 3.2 million in May from 3.3
million.  
 The deficit with China increased in May to the highest
level since October, while imports from India were the most
ever.  
 Exports  from the U.S. to the rest of the world increased
2.4 percent to $152.3 billion, reflecting gains in industrial
materials, business equipment and semiconductors. Imports rose
2.9 percent in May to $194.5 billion, led by an increase in
demand for cars, pharmaceuticals, toys and clothing from abroad.  
 Alcoa Sales  
 Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, said yesterday
it expects aluminum sales for automotive use to increase by 3
percent to 8 percent this year, while sales for commercial
trucks and trailers may gain 12 percent to 17 percent, Chief
Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said on a conference call
yesterday.  
 “We are really working very hard to fire on all
cylinders,” Kleinfeld said. “Undoubtedly we are not seeing the
environment we’ve seen in the past but we see the environment
getting better and continuously moving in the right direction.”  
 Today’s report showed the trade gap with China rose to
$22.3 billion from $19.3 billion in the prior month. While the
U.S. exported 2.5 percent more to China in May, imports from the
Asian nation surged 12 percent.  
 China, the world’s biggest exporter, on July 10 reported
that its overseas sales jumped 44 percent in June from a year
earlier and the  trade surplus  more than doubled to $20 billion,
the highest in eight months.  
 China Exports  
 The surge in Chinese exports in June and the doubling of
the trade surplus may prompt U.S. lawmakers to intensify
pressure on China to step up the pace of yuan appreciation even
as the outlook for overseas demand cools.  
 China on June 19 indicated it was ending the yuan’s peg to
the dollar and has since allowed it to appreciate 0.8 percent.
Still, the U.S. Treasury Department said July 8 the Chinese
currency “remains undervalued.”  
 The outlook for  exports  has dimmed after the dollar climbed
3 percent since mid-April against a trade-weighted basket of
currencies of major trading partners amid concerns that efforts
to reduce government debt in Europe will hamper the economic
recovery.  
 The U.S. deficit with the European Union widened 7.5
percent in May as imports outpaced a gain in exports, today’s
report showed.  
 In addition to making American goods more expensive to
European buyers, the dollar’s appreciation will also weigh on
sales in places where U.S. companies compete with European
firms.  
 The balance  adjusted for inflation , which is the figure
used to calculate gross domestic product, increased to $46
billion in May. The gap was larger than the average $42.3
billion a month in the first quarter, putting trade on track to
subtract from growth from April through June.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shipping containers are stacked at the Port of Wilmington, North Carolina. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Freeman, a fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former U.S. trade official, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about U.S. trade relations with China.
     The U.S. trade deficit with China increased in May to the highest level since October. The data may prompt U.S. lawmakers to intensify pressure on China to step up the pace of yuan appreciation. Freeman speaks from Beijing. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- The trade deficit in the U.S. unexpectedly widened 4.8 percent in May to $42.3 billion, the highest level since November 2008, as a gain in imports outpaced growth in exports. Bloomberg's Mike McKee reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Bradford, a partner at Affiliated Research Group LLC, talks about aluminum prices and the outlook for Alcoa Inc.
     Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, said yesterday second-quarter earnings from continuing operations were 13 cents a share, exceeding analysts' estimates. Bradford talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
