-- Texas Rangers Judge Sets Aug. 4 Auction for Sale of Bankrupt Baseball Team
-- Thomas Korosec
-- 2010-07-13T22:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/rangers-judge-says-he-intends-to-order-auction-for-team-held-in-nine-days.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers are scheduled to
hold an auction for the baseball team on Aug. 4 after a judge
rejected a plea for more time from the chief restructuring
officer he appointed to oversee the team’s bankruptcy.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  today sided with the
team’s owner, who has pushed for a quicker auction than
restructuring chief William Snyder.  
 “We’re going to get this process on the road,” Lynn said
during a hearing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Fort Worth, Texas.  
 Earlier today, the team filed court papers asking Lynn to
approve their proposal to hold an auction on July 22, at which a
group headed by  Nolan Ryan  and  Chuck Greenberg  would be the lead
bidder. Lynn initially said he planned to hold an auction on
that date, but changed his mind to give competing bidders more
time.  
 After filing for bankruptcy in May, the Rangers sought
court permission to sell the club to a group led by Greenberg,
an attorney, and Nolan Ryan, a Hall of Fame pitcher and the
team’s president, in a transaction valued at $575 million.  
 Snyder was appointed to oversee two companies that own the
Rangers. Those companies are units of HSG Sports Group LLC, the
holding company of Texas businessman  Tom Hicks .  
 Under the auction rules Lynn approved, competing bidders
have until Aug. 3 to pass a background check and win approval
from Major League Baseball to try to buy the club. Any competing
bids are due on that date.  
 Reorganization Plan  
 Should the team receive no other offers, the auction would
be canceled and the Ryan-Greenberg sale would go before Lynn for
his approval. Lynn will consider approving the company’s
reorganization plan the same day as the auction.  
 Snyder’s attorney,  Louis Strubeck , said Aug. 3 doesn’t give
other bidders enough time to prepare.  
 Snyder is “convinced no one will show up to bid,”
Strubeck told Lynn during the hearing.  
 The Ryan-Greenberg group is still the leading bidder. Two
other competing groups have participated in court-ordered
mediation related to the auction.  
 One of the bidders includes Dallas businessman Jeff Beck,
baseball league attorney Sander L. Esserman said in court.
Another is Houston businessman  Jim Crane , who unsuccessfully bid
for the team before its bankruptcy, Esserman said.  
 Both men have been approved by the league’s owners, but not
any partners they may have brought in, Esserman said.  
 Under the rules, the auction will begin at 9 a.m. in Lynn’s
courtroom with an opening offer valued at more than $500
million. That offer includes about $306 million in cash. The
next bid must be at least $15 million more in order to cover a
breakup fee payable to the Ryan-Greenberg group. Every bid after
that must be $2 million higher.  
 “We’re happy to have a process to move forward,” Rangers’
attorney  Martin Sosland  said.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .
 Thomas Korosec  in Dallas
at   tkorosec@sbcglobal.net ;  
          
          


  


        