-- Rangers, National Envelope, Spheris, U.S. Concrete, Crucible: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-13T13:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/rangers-national-envelope-spheris-u-s-concrete-crucible-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             The  Texas Rangers  professional
baseball club was sued yesterday by the group that signed a
contract before bankruptcy in late May to buy the team in a
transaction valued at $575 million.  
 The group, including team president Nolan Ryan and sports
lawyer Chuck Greenberg, wants the bankruptcy judge in Fort Worth
to declare that the Rangers breached the May contract. They
contend that the chief restructuring officer for the partnership
that owns the team “has improperly caused the debtor to breach
the asset purchase agreement and abandon the bidding procedures,
threatening a lengthy and damaging bankruptcy.”  
 “I give them lots of credit for brass but I don’t think
they’re going to prevail, nor should they,” said  Peter Kaufman ,
president of  Gordian Group LLC , a turnaround management firm.  
 While the papers by the erstwhile buyers say the team
breached the contract, they blame the actions on William K.
Snyder who was appointed by the bankruptcy judge to be the
independent chief restructuring officer for the partnership that
owns the team.  
 Snyder was appointed after some of the lenders, owed $525
million, filed an involuntary bankruptcy petition against the
partnership owner. Snyder was given responsibility for deciding
whether the partnership would vote for or against the team’s
Chapter 11 reorganization plan. The bankruptcy judge had decided
that the owners were entitled to vote on the plan, although the
team originally contended they weren’t.  
 Snyder early last week supported an auction process where
other offers could be made for the team. At the end of the week,
Snyder withdrew his support for the auction motion, saying new
procedures were needed.  
 The Ryan-Greenberg group in its papers says they will ask
the bankruptcy judge for a temporary injunction forcing the team
to go ahead with the original contract from May. Motions of this
type are typically heard within a few days after they’re filed.  
 The buyers’ complaint argues that the team breached the
contract by “failing to use commercially reasonable efforts to
take all actions necessary or appropriate to consummate the
transactions” called for in the agreement. They also contend
that Snyder exceeded his “limited authority to vote on the
plan” on behalf of the partnership owner. They believe the team
violated the contract by soliciting offers and negotiating with
other prospective buyers.  
 The papers filed along with the complaint don’t cite any
case-law authority where a pre-bankruptcy contract with a
bankrupt company can be enforced before the contract has been
approved by the bankruptcy judge.  
 Secured lenders owed $525 million have opposed the contract
with the Ryan-Greenberg group. They believed there would be a
higher offer in an auction. They also contend some of the value
from the sale was being directed to the team’s ultimate owner,
Thomas Hicks, rather than to them as creditors of the team and
the partnership owner. The Ryan group’s offer would have given
the lenders a recovery of $256 million, according to the team’s
disclosure statement.  
 The Rangers moved from Washington to Texas in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill Rochelle,
is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The partnership that
owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 New Filing  
 Riviera Files Prepack With Stock and Debt for Lenders  
 Riviera Holdings Corp. , the owner of casinos in Las Vegas
and Black Hawk, Colorado, filed a Chapter 11 petition yesterday
in Las Vegas together with a reorganization plan where secured
lenders will receive new debt and stock.  
 The plan was negotiated with holders of more than two-
thirds of secured debt totaling over $275 million, including a
$225 million term loan, unpaid interest, and amounts owing on a
swap agreement.  
 Starwood Capital Group LLC announced in March that it was
the leader of a group that bought control of the secured debt.  
 The proposed disclosure statement accompanying Riviera’s
plan doesn’t make a prediction about the percentage recovery the
lenders can expect. General unsecured creditors are to be paid
in full so long as claims in the class as a whole don’t exceed
$3 million.  
 Rivera owns Riviera Black Hawk Casino in Colorado and the
2,075-room Riviera Hotel & Casino on the north end of the Las
Vegas Strip. The company described in a court filing how revenue
fell “dramatically” due to the recession, leaving a $24.9
million net loss in 2009 and a $4.5 million net loss in the
first quarter of 2010. Riviera defaulted on the secured debt in
February 2009.  
 The plan calls for secured lenders to receive a new $50
million term loan plus 80 percent of the new stock. Lenders who
provide $20 million in a so-called new money loan will receive 8
percent of the new stock plus warrants for another 10 percent.  
 Creditors who provide a $10 million working capital loan
are to receive 7 percent of the new stock. The last 5 percent of
the new stock goes to the lenders in return for providing a
backstop insuring availability of the $30 million in loans.  
 Existing shareholders are to receive nothing.  
 The case is In re Riviera Holdings Corp., 10-22910, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 Updates  
 General Growth Files Plan for October Emergence  
 Mall owner  General Growth Properties Inc.  filed a Chapter
11 plan and explanatory disclosure statement early this morning
to complete the reorganization of the four top-tier companies.
Like the property-owning subsidiaries that already confirmed
Chapter plans paying their creditors in full on $15 billion in
debt, the top-level companies will pay creditors fully while
preserving some of the stock for existing shareholders.  
 A hearing to approve the disclosure statement is scheduled
for Aug. 19.  
 The plan is financed by a commitment from a group led by
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc.  to provide up to $8.55 billion
in debt and equity financing. Teacher Retirement System of Texas
is committed to buy $500 million of new stock at $10.25 a share.  
 Agreements with the financing parties allows General Growth
to access the capital markets if financing can be obtained at
more favorable prices. The company said it intends to file a
registration statement and make an offering to the public at or
shortly after the emergence from bankruptcy reorganization.  
 General Growth had been promising to file the plan by July
9. It expects to emerge from reorganization in October and
remain the second-largest mall owner in the U.S., with 180
properties in 43 states.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Creditors’ Panel Doubts Trade Can Block Visteon Plan  
 The creditors’ committee for auto parts maker  Visteon Corp. 
was rebuffed by the bankruptcy judge yesterday when it attempted
to make an accelerated motion to investigate claims that a group
of trade suppliers opposed to the reorganization plan holds
enough votes to block the unsecured creditor class from having
the requisite “yes” vote.  
 The committee said in papers filed in bankruptcy court on
July 9 that the trade suppliers’ claim to holding a so-called
blocking position is “highly suspect.” The official creditors’
group believes that the members of the ad hoc committee have
only $17 million in claims, far short of the required 33 percent
in amount of claims necessary to deliver a negative vote.  
 The committee alleged in its papers that the claimed
blocking position is “beyond lobbying and puffery and rises to
the level of unfair chicanery and improper solicitation.”  
 The official creditors’ committee says there are currently
$300 million in unsecured claims entitled to vote. The committee
wanted the bankruptcy judge to give them rapid authorization to
take sworn testimony from the ad hoc group or demand production
of documents verifying how many unsecured creditors pledged to
vote against the plan.  
 The bankruptcy judge yesterday turned down the official
committee’s requested for an accelerated hearing on the motion
to examine the ad hoc group.  
 The ad hoc group previously said they had “no” votes by
holders of 60 percent of $167 million owing to trade suppliers.  
 Visteon has a 10-day confirmation hearing scheduled to
begin Sept. 28. Shareholders and some creditors are opposing the
plan. For details on Visteon’s plan, click here for the June 15
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For a summary of the positions by
various parties before the judge approved the disclosure
statement, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co.  Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Neff Corp. Reorganization Plan Goes to Creditors for Voting  
 The bankruptcy judge said at a hearing yesterday that she
will approve the disclosure statement for  Neff Corp.  and allow
creditors to vote on the reorganization plan negotiated before
the Chapter 11 filing in May.  
 In the process, the judge turned aside objections from
unsecured creditors. The judge is still to decide if she will
allow the creditors’ committee to investigate the leveraged
buyout in 2007.  
 The plan would give most of the new equity to first-lien
lenders owed $90 million on a term loan. For details on the
company’s finances and the plan, click here for the May 17
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For Bloomberg coverage of
yesterday’s hearing, click here.  
 Wayzata Investment Partners LLC and  Apollo Capital
Management  together have more than 67 percent of the first-lien
debt. The plan is financed in part by a fully backstopped $119
million equity rights offering. To determine if there is a
better offer for the financing, there will be an auction on Aug.
5. Bids are due initially July 26.  
 Miami-based Neff, with 63 branches in 14 states, listed
assets of $299 million and debt totaling $609 million.  
 The case is In re Neff Corp., 10-12610, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 National Envelope Has $134.5 Million Contract with Gores  
 National Envelope Corp., the largest closely held envelope
manufacturing company in the U.S., negotiated with eight
potential buyers and ended up signing a contract providing for a
sale of the business for $134.5 million to Gores Group LLC.  
 NEC will ask the bankruptcy court to approve auction and
sale procedures testing whether there is an offer to beat Gores.
If the bankruptcy judge goes along, other bids would be due Aug.
16, followed by an auction on Aug. 20 and an Aug. 23 hearing for
approval of the sale.  
 If Gores is outbid, it would receive a breakup fee of $2.65
million and up to $2 million in expense reimbursement, if the
judge agrees. NEC wants the bankruptcy judge to hold a hearing
not later than July 22 to approve sale procedures.  
 In addition to the purchase price, Gores will pay the cost
of curing defaults in contracts and will assume accrued
liabilities to workers and on employee benefit programs.  
 Cenveo Corp., which calls itself a “major player in the
envelope business,” previously filed papers in bankruptcy court
saying it had been “systematically excluded” from the sale
process.  
 NEC filed under Chapter 11 on June 10 along with a loan
agreement where the agent,  General Electric Capital Corp. ,
required having a sale agreement by July 2 and approval of sale
procedures by July 16.  
 NEC, based in Uniondale, New York, has 14 manufacturing
plants in 11 states, plus three warehouses. Net sales in 2009
were $676 million, resulting in a $44.2 million net loss. The
petition says assets and debt are both less than $500 million.
Liabilities include $74.3 million on a secured term loan, $70.6
million on a secured revolving credit, and $89 million owing on
unsecured debts to trade suppliers.  
 The case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Spheris Says Unsecured Creditors May See 23 Percent  
 Spheris Inc., a transcriber of medical dictation for
doctors and hospitals, fine-tuned the disclosure statement in
advance of today’s hearing for approval of the description of
the liquidating Chapter 11 plan.  
 Spheris filled in blanks in the prior version of the
disclosure statement which now says that unsecured creditors and
holders of senior subordinated notes can expect a recovery of
almost 23 percent. Should Spheris fail in its effort at
eliminating a $21.3 million disputed claim asserted by MedQuist
Inc., the return to creditors will be lower, according to the
disclosure statement.  
 Now formally named SP Wind Down Inc., Spheris sold the
business for $98.83 million cash and a note that it sold for
$13.77 million. At Jan. 31, secured lenders were owed $75.6
million. Unsecured claims consist largely of $125 million owing
on subordinated notes.  
 Franklin, Tennessee-based Spheris listed assets of $61
million against debt totaling $225 million, including $75.6
million on a senior secured credit and $125 million on
subordinated notes. For nine months ended in September, revenue
was $120 million.  
 The case is In re SP Wind Down Inc., 10-10352, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 U.S. Concrete Releases Too Broad, U.S. Trustee Says  
 U.S. Concrete Inc. , one of the 10 largest producers of
ready-mixed concrete in the U.S., would improperly prevent
creditors from suing third-parties, the U.S. Trustee said in
papers filed on July 9 in objection to approval of the Chapter
11 plan at the confirmation hearing to begin July 23.  
 The U.S. Trustee believes that bankruptcy law doesn’t
compel a creditor to give a release to someone not in bankruptcy
unless the creditor affirmatively consents to the release.  
 The confirmation hearing on the prepackaged reorganization
plan will continue on July 28 and 29 if necessary. The plan
reduces debt by $285 million through conversion of 8.325 percent
subordinated notes into the new equity. Shareholders are
opposed. They believe they are entitled to more than warrants
for 15 percent of the stock. For details on the plan, click here
for the April 30 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Chapter 11 petition listed assets of $389 million and
debt of $399 million. Liabilities include $40 million on a pre-
bankruptcy secured credit facility where JPMorgan Chase Bank NA
serves as agent. There is another $17.9 million on undrawn
letters of credit. U.S. Concrete’s balance sheet on Dec. 31
listed assets of $392.4 million and liabilities totaling $402.5
million. It has 125 fixed and 11 portable plants serving markets
in California, New Jersey, Texas, and Michigan.  
 The case is In re U.S. Concrete Inc., 10-11407, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Crucible Reduces NYSDEC Claim by 94%, to $1.2 Million  
 Crucible Materials Corp. , a steelmaker for the auto and
aerospace industries, reached a settlement that will reduce the
claims of the New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation by some 94 percent.  
 The New York environmental regulators filed claims for $21
million. Crucible negotiated a settlement where the state will
have approved unsecured claims for $1.18 million. The settlement
will come to bankruptcy court for approval on July 26.  
 The confirmation hearing for approval of the Chapter 11
plan is currently scheduled for Aug. 9. The disclosure statement
explaining the plan was approved in April.  
 From four asset sales, Crucible generated $14.4 million
after secured lenders were fully paid on $64.5 million in claims
outstanding at the outset of the Chapter case. When the
disclosure statement was filed, Crucible had $25.2 million cash
on hand, including excess sale proceeds.  
 While the disclosure statement doesn’t say how much
unsecured creditors might recover, it reveals that unsecured
claims against Crucible Materials could be as much as $400
million while unsecured claims against Crucible Development
Corp. might total $300 million.  
 Crucible sold most of the assets to three buyers in
September for $52 million and sold the remainder in January for
$13.2 million.  
 Crucible filed under Chapter 11 in May 2009, listing assets
of $163 million against $130 million in debt. Affiliate Crucible
Development’s schedules showed assets at $17 million against
debt totaling $70 million. Syracuse, New York-based Crucible is
owned by its 1,000 employees. Crucible went into bankruptcy
court with two plants and 12 regional service centers.  
 The case is In re Crucible Materials Corp., 09-11582, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Barzel Still Doesn’t Know Whether Chapter 11 Plan Is Feasible  
 Barzel Industries Inc. , a steel processor and manufacturer,
for a third time is seeking an expansion of the exclusive right
to propose a Chapter 11 plan.  
 If granted by the bankruptcy court at an Aug. 20 hearing,
the new deadline for filing a plan would be Oct. 11.  
 As it did in the prior motion for longer exclusivity, the
company again said it’s evaluating whether “a liquidating plan
is feasible.”  
 Barzel sold most of the assets in November to Norwood,
Massachusetts-based Chriscott USA Inc. for $75 million. The
company later settled with secured lenders who received a
release of claims in return for giving up $800,000 from sale
proceeds.  
 Barzel had 15 facilities. Its petition listed assets of
$366 million against debt totaling $385 million, including $315
million on senior secured notes. There was another $18.4 million
owing on an asset-backed loan with a first lien on accounts
receivable.  
 The case is In Barzel Industries Inc., 09-13204, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Watch List  
 American Safety Razor 2nd Lien May See 10%, S&P Says  
 American Safety Razor Co. , the leading maker of private-
label wet-shaving blades, will generate a recovery on the $175
million second-lien term loan of not more than 30 percent
following payment default, Standard & Poor’s said in a report
yesterday.  
 S&P said first-lien debt holders should see 90 percent to
100 percent.  
 S&P said ASR is “likely” to have a so-called distressed
exchange. S&P lowered the corporate, first-lien, and revolving
credit ratings to CC. The second-lien debt is now C, the lowest
aside from D for default.  
 ASR issued a statement at the end of June saying it had a
financing proposal from a major financial institution and
holders of second-lien debt. The terms weren’t disclosed. Should
discussions with the second-lien creditors not work out, the
company said there is a backup proposal from first-lien lenders.  
 Cedar Knolls, New Jersey-based ASR was acquired for $625
million in July 2006 by London-based Lion Capital LLP.  
 Although ASR has the largest market share for private-label
blades, it has only 8 percent of the market when branded goods
are included, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The
leader, with 66 percent of the market, is  Procter & Gamble Co. ’s
Gillette products.  
 N.Y. Racing Association May Need 2nd Reorg, DiNapoli Says  
 New York Racing Association Inc. may need a second trip
through Chapter 11, if New York Controller Thomas DiNapoli is
correct when he said the operator of the three thoroughbred
racetracks in New York State will become insolvent next year
absent revenue from slot machines.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 NYRA confirmed a Chapter 11 plan in April 2008 and emerged
from reorganization later in the year following the negotiation
and drafting of a definitive settlement with the state.  
 The settlement allowed the Association to continue
operating the racetracks another 25 years in return for
admitting that the state is the owner of the tracks. The plan
was designed to pay all creditors in full with $105 million
coming from the state under the settlement.  
 NYRA’s Chapter 11 petition in November 2006 listed assets
of $153 million and debt totaling $310 million.  
 The case was In re The New York Racing Association Inc.,
No. 06-12618, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Gems TV Authorized to Sell Non-Inventory Assets  
 Gems TV (USA) Ltd. , a television retailer of gemstone
jewelry products, was authorized yesterday to sell most of the
assets other than inventory for $2.96 million to Zalemark
Holding Co. The assets excluded inventory and the Gems TV
trademark. Other trademarks and customer lists were among the
assets sold.  
 Reno, Nevada-based Gems TV shut down the business before
filing under Chapter 11 on April 5. The petition said assets are
less than $50 million while debt is expected to exceed $100
million.  
 The case is In re Gems TV (USA) Ltd., 10-11158, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Leslie-Circor, Chemtura, Oriental, IStar: Audio  
 The prepackaged asbestos filing by Leslie Controls Inc., a
subsidiary of  Circor International Inc. ; a $7 million
substantial contribution payment by  Chemtura Corp. ; and the
financial difficulties of Oriental Trading Co. and  IStar
Financial Inc.  are topics discussed in the latest bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        