-- Transgene in Talks to License Experimental Antibody Showing Cancer Promise
-- Albertina Torsoli
-- 2010-07-13T13:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/transgene-in-talks-to-license-experimental-antibody-showing-cancer-promise.html

          
          
             Transgene SA , a French biotechnology
company, is in talks with potential partners to license an
experimental monoclonal antibody that may help fight breast
cancer, Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Archinard  said.  
 The company aims to reach an accord before the end of 2011,
when the medicine known as  TG3003  is scheduled to be tested on
humans, Archinard said in an interview at Transgene’s
headquarters near Strasbourg.  
 Transgene wants a partner that will let it “remain
involved in the project,” he said. “We are looking for,
possibly, a co-development agreement but we are flexible on the
structure of the accord.” Talks are preliminary, he said.  
 Antibodies are substances the immune system produces to
help fight infections. Monoclonal antibodies, which have broken
new ground in  cancer treatment , are made in the lab to mimic
natural antibodies, stimulating a patient’s immune system to
attack disease-causing cells.  
 The products are drawing interest from drugmakers hunting
for new medicines. Paris-based Sanofi-Aventis SA last month
agreed to pay vaccine maker Vivalis SA an initial 3 million
euros ($3.79 million) for technology to discover and develop
monoclonal antibodies designed to fight infections.  
 Transgene , which is unprofitable and hopes to have its
first product on the market in 2015, wants to expand in the
field to diversify from the development of therapeutic vaccines,
its main business, Archinard said. Therapeutic vaccines help the
body fight a disease once it occurs, instead of immunizing it in
advance to prevent disease from taking hold.  
 ‘Continue Learning’  
 Transgene doesn’t plan to buy technology that would allow
it to produce monoclonal antibodies on its own, according to
Archinard. It wants to seek partnerships for these products
before they are tested on humans, he said.  
 The company in May raised about 152 million euros in a
stock sale, a transaction that gives it “five years of
visibility on its cash spending,” Archinard said. Transgene
“doesn’t have a vital need” for cash right now and is not
under pressure to reach an agreement immediately on TG3003,
Archinard said.  
 “Cash is important, but it’s not all,” he said. “What we
are looking for, in the accords we sign, is to participate in
the risk, in the costs as well, but to continue learning.” The
goal is to become a full-fledged drugmaker, he said.  
 Shares of Transgene, which is  backed  by the billionaire
Merieux family, have dropped 37 percent since March 10, when the
company announced the sale to  Novartis AG  of an option on rights
to its experimental TG4010 lung cancer vaccine in a deal that
may fetch as much as $891 million. That compares with a 12
percent drop for the 21-member Euronext Paris CAC Health Care
Index in the same period.  
 Buying Technology  
 Investors expected more commitment from Novartis,
said  Arnaud Guerin , an analyst at Portzamparc Societe de Bourse
in Nantes who has a “buy” recommendation on Transgene shares.  
 “We don’t want to do what the others do,” Archinard said
during the interview. “Companies that don’t have a strategic
shareholder are forced to sell their assets very soon, too
soon.”  
 Transgene may buy technology, patents and products to
expand its therapeutic vaccine and oncolytic virus businesses,
Archinard said. Oncolytic viruses, Transgene’s third area of
development, are engineered to infect and destroy cancer cells.  
 “A certain number of talks are under way” for possible
acquisitions, Archinard said, without elaborating further.  
 The company had a  net loss  of 27.3 million euros last year
and will probably lose about the same this year, Archinard said.
The company is burning through “a bit less” than the 33
million euros it said it would need for this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        