-- RBS Chief Hester Says Consumers, Governments Share Blame for Global Crisis
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-07-13T13:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/rbs-chief-hester-says-consumers-governments-share-blame-for-global-crisis.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said that blame for the
global financial crisis was shared by consumers, investors and
governments as well as banks.  
 Banks mirror the economies they serve and so changing the
way they operate would not be enough to prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis.  
 “Everywhere it suited consumers to be able to consume
more, to see housing values increase, to enjoy higher public
spending based on buoyant tax revenues,” Hester told a
conference organized by the  British Bankers’ Association . “It
suited countries to be able to run big trade deficits and it
suited investors to see rising asset values. No one, it seems,
wanted to take the punchbowl away. Reforming the banks is
necessary but not enough.”  
 Governments are considering how to reform the financial
system after the worst financial crisis in at least 70 years
caused  RBS  and other financial institutions to lose and write
off $1.8 trillion. In the future, safer banks will need to go
“hand in hand” with a lower supply of more expensive credit,
Hester said.  
 Hester also said that banks need to attack the “myth”
that they are failing to lend. RBS, recipient of the world’s
biggest banking bailout, made 40 billion pounds of new loans
available to businesses last year.  
 Even so, RBS failed to meet lending pledges agreed with the
government last year in return for taxpayer-funded rescues in
2008 and 2009. U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said last
month that lending agreements by banks must be honored or
Britain’s economic recovery will be set back.  
 ‘Powerful Myths’  
 “A number of powerful myths have developed around the way
banks do business,” Hester said. “One of these is the
impression that banks have little interest in supporting small
businesses.”  
 As in past recessions, credit flow “is most influenced by
lack of demand,” he said. “Businesses, unconfident of demand
for their own goods and services, and recognizing that debt was
perhaps too high in recent years, are often seeking to reduce
financial risk,” he said.  
 One third of British firms which applied for credit in the
first six months of the year were rejected, according to a
report from the  Institute of Directors  today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        