-- Treasury 10-Year Note Tumbles for Fifth Day, Longest Decline Since August
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-07-13T20:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/treasuries-extend-losses-after-u-s-auctions-21-billion-of-10-year-notes.html

          
          
             Treasury  10-year notes  fell for a
fifth day, the longest decline in 11 months, as the U.S. sold
$21 billion of the securities and global stocks rallied, damping
demand for the safest assets.  
 The offering drew a 3.119 percent yield, compared with a
forecast of 3.109 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of
the Federal Reserve’s 18 primary dealers. The U.S. will sell $13
billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  
 “The auction is consistent with the idea that rates should
be backing up a bit from here, especially out the curve,” said
 Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit
Suisse Group AG, which as a primary dealer is obligated to bid
in Treasury sales. “The long end got a little carried away in
the flight-to-quality trade and equities are doing better, which
is putting further pressure on Treasuries.”  
 The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note rose 7 basis points
to 3.13 percent, the highest level since June 25, at 4:35 p.m.
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The last time
the yield increased for five days was the period ended Aug. 7.
 Thirty-year  bond yields increased 6 basis points to 4.11
percent, also the highest since June 25. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 Today’s auction was the second of three note and bond sales
this week totaling $69 billion. The yield was the lowest since a
10-year note offering in April 2009. The bid-to-cover ratio,
which compares total bids with the amount of securities offered,
was 3.09, versus an average of 3.03 for the previous 10 sales.  
 Foreign Central Banks  
 Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 41.7 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 40.7 percent for the past 10 sales. Direct
bidders, non-primary-dealer investors who place their bids
directly with the Treasury, bought 9.8 percent, compared with a
12.4 percent average for the past 10 offerings.  
 The Treasury sold $35 billion in three-year debt yesterday
at 1.055 percent, the lowest yield on record at an auction of
the security.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index extended its longest
winning streak in three months, advancing for a sixth day and
gaining 1.5 percent.  
 “People are taking on more risk,” said  Tom Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. “There’s less fear and that cuts demand, but there is
still solid demand for Treasuries.”  
 Budget Gap Narrows  
 The U.S. budget deficit narrowed in June compared with the
same month last year as the economic recovery brought in more
tax revenue. The excess of spending over receipts fell to $68.4
billion from $94.3 billion in June 2009, Treasury data showed.
For the fiscal year to date, the deficit was $1 trillion,
compared with $1.42 trillion in the prior year to date.  
 “We’re holding our bias to see 10-year yields test the
3.18 to 3.21 percent zone this month without a great deal of
struggle,”  David Ader , head of government bond strategy in
Stamford, Connecticut, at CRT Capital Group LLC, wrote in a note
to clients. “There is a possibility of a move toward the large
volume bulge from June between 3.26 percent and 3.30 percent.”  
 The 10-year yield will climb to 3.36 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies’ projections, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  
 Fed Minutes  
 The Federal Open Market Committee will release minutes
tomorrow of its rate meeting last month. The central bank cited
slowing inflation in its June 23 policy statement while
reaffirming it foresaw a “moderate” pace of growth. It held
the benchmark interest rate at a record low range of zero to
0.25 percent.  
 “The market will pay a lot of attention to the Fed minutes
to see if there is any mention of the possibility of more
quantitative easing,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at primary dealer BNP Paribas SA,
referring to stimulus programs. “Inflation is still low, so
rates hikes are still pushed into the future.”  
 A gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices, the
 difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, was 1.89 percentage points
today, compared with this year’s high of 2.49 percentage points
in January. The consumer price index slid 0.1 percent in June
after also falling in May and April, economists in a Bloomberg
survey forecast the government will report on July 16.  
 Futures traders are betting the outperformance of longer-
term Treasuries relative to those with shorter maturities will
persist as the economy expands with few signs of inflation.  
 ‘Curve-Flattening’  
 The number of contracts hedge funds and other large
speculators hold betting on a decline in two-year notes
outnumbers those counting on gain for the first time in over a
year, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data as
of July 6. The so-called net short position for 10-year notes
has decreased by more than half since April.  
 The data “shows a strong move toward curve-flattening in
the Treasury futures market,”  John Brady , senior vice president
with the interest rates product group at MF Global Ltd. in
Chicago, wrote with a group of analysts in a July 12 note.  
 The difference in yield between 2- and 10-year notes
narrowed to 2.27 percentage points on July 1, the least since
October expectations for inflation fell. It reached a record
2.94 percentage points on Feb. 18. The yield curve widened 4
basis points today to 2.46 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        