-- Republican Corbett Leads Onorato in Poll on Pennsylvania Governor's Race
-- Peter S. Green
-- 2010-07-13T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/republican-corbett-leads-onorato-in-poll-on-pennsylvania-governor-s-race.html

          
          
             Republican  Tom Corbett  is leading
Democrat  Dan Onorato  by 44-37 percent in the race for governor
of Pennsylvania, according to a poll released today by the
 Quinnipiac University .  
 Voters by 44-32 percent say Corbett, the state’s attorney
general, is better able to fix the economy than Onorato, the
county executive of Allegheny County, which includes Pittsburgh.
Corbett also led 45-31 percent as the candidate voters said
would be better at reforming state government.  
 Corbett and Onorato are vying to replace Democratic
Governor  Ed Rendell  in a swing state where the governorship has
changed parties every eight years since 1955, and where
President  Barack Obama  and Democrats in Congress are trying in
November to hold onto the seat of departing U.S. Senator  Arlen Specter . Rendell is barred from seeking a third term.  
 “If Pennsylvania goes Republican, it’s bad news for Obama
and bad news for the Democrats,” said  Doug Muzzio , a professor
of politics at Baruch College in New York. “If a Republican
gets the governorship, they control the political apparatus and
electoral system.”  
 The Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute surveyed 1,367 Pennsylvania voters from July 6 to 11.
The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.7 percentage
points.  
 Gubernatorial Races  
 Pennsylvania is one of 37 states with gubernatorial
elections in November. Democrats now hold the office in 19 of
those states, and Republicans have the other 18. At least five
of the Democratic states are rated as leaning toward or likely
to elect Republican governors, with one Republican state leaning
toward a Democratic candidate, according to the nonpartisan Cook
 Political Report  in Washington.  
 The Pennsylvania race is rated as a toss-up. The
 unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent in May from 4.5 percent in
December 2007 and 50 percent of voters disapprove of Rendell’s
job performance, versus 42 percent who approve, the poll showed.
By 55-32 percent, voters say they don’t want the next governor
to continue Rendell’s policies.  
 “The sour taste that Governor Ed Rendell has left in
voters’ mouths is probably not helpful to Onorato,” said  Peter Brown , Quinnipiac’s assistant director.  
 Most Pennsylvania voters still know very little about the
candidates, said Robert Speel, an associate professor of
political science at Penn State Erie,  Behrend College , in Erie.  
 ‘Change the Dynamic’  
 “What Onorato has to do is somehow change the dynamic of
that race by coming up with a reason for voters to not vote for
Corbett, and he hasn’t done that yet,” Speel said.  
 Corbett is viewed favorably by 44 percent of voters and
unfavorably by 11 percent, with 44 percent saying they don’t
know enough to form an opinion, according to the Quinnipiac
poll. Onorato is viewed favorably by 31 percent and unfavorably
by 16 percent, with 52 percent of voters who don’t yet have an
opinion.  
 A poll by Quinnipiac in May gave Corbett a 43-37 percent
lead over Onorato.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        