-- Reserve Bank May Raise Interest Rates in July, Singh's Top Advisers Signal
-- Tushar Dhara
-- 2010-07-13T11:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/reserve-bank-may-raise-interest-rates-in-july-singh-s-top-advisers-signal.html

          
          
             The Reserve Bank of India may raise
interest rates for a second time this month to slow inflation,
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s top economic advisers signaled.  
 “If inflation persists at double digit levels for several
months together, some action by the Reserve Bank is required,”
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s
Economic Advisory Council, said in New Delhi today. Montek Singh
Ahluwalia, deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, said the
“RBI should make whatever adjustments it feels necessary” as
inflation above 10 percent is “not acceptable.”  
 India’s benchmark wholesale-price  inflation rate  probably
accelerated to 10.8 percent in June from 10.16 percent in May, a
Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists showed, before the data
is released tomorrow at noon. Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , who
raised rates by a quarter-point on July 2, is scheduled to
announce the next monetary policy decision on July 27.  
 Subbarao has increased the central bank’s benchmark reverse
repurchase and repurchase rates three times since mid-March by a
quarter-point each. The reverse repurchase rate is 4 percent and
repurchase rate is 5.5 percent at the moment.  
 The central bank expects the inflation rate to jump by
about a percentage point after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government raised fuel prices last month.  
 Yields Rise  
 The yield on the 10-year government bond rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.62 percent as of 4:15 p.m.
in Mumbai today, according to the central bank’s trading system.  
 Yields recovered today after dropping yesterday from their
highest level in two weeks following a government report that
showed factory output climbed a less-than-expected 11.5 percent
in May.  
 India’s  industrial production  growth remains strong,
Rangarajan told reporters today on the sidelines of a conference
on food distribution in New Delhi. The economy may expand 8.5
percent in the financial year through March, Ahluwalia told
reporters at the same venue.  
 “Industrial production is a very volatile series and
should be seen alongside a larger group of indicators which seem
to hold up well so far,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists
 Tushar Poddar  and Pranjul Bhandari wrote in a report to clients.
Goldman expects the central bank to boost policy rates by
another quarter-point this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        