-- Rupee Holds Losses as Fall in Infosys Profit Erodes India Export Optimism
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-13T11:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/rupee-weakens-as-decline-in-infosys-earnings-erodes-india-export-optimism.html

          
          
             India’s rupee held this week’s
losses after  Infosys Technologies Ltd. , the nation’s second-
biggest software exporter, reported a drop in quarterly earnings.  
 The currency declined by as much as 0.4 percent in intraday
trading on concern India’s export earnings will shrink as
Europe’s debt crisis hampers the global economic recovery.
Infosys said net income fell 2.6 percent from a year earlier to
14.9 billion rupees ($318.5 million) in the last three months.  
 “Infosys earnings have disappointed financial markets and
raised concerns about the impact of the global slowdown on
trade,” said  Roy Paul , deputy general manager at Federal Bank
Ltd. in Mumbai. “The rupee is lower following the weaker
opening in stocks.”  
 The rupee was at 46.7825 per dollar as of the 5 p.m. close
in Mumbai, compared with 46.7775 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has lost 0.3 percent this week. The
rupee is Asia’s worst-performing currency this month with a 0.7
percent decline.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the Indian currency will trade
at 47.36 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations of 47.34 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  
 Any slowdown in export growth may cause the nation’s
current account  deficit  to widen from a record. The measure of
goods and services payments posted a $13 billion shortfall in
the quarter ended March 31, according to central bank data.  
 The South Asian nation’s overseas sales grew at an average
pace of 34 percent during the first five months of 2010,
compared with a decline of 26 percent a year earlier, government
data show.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        