-- Russian Spies Might Sell Tips to Capitalists: Susan Antilla
-- Susan Antilla
-- 2010-07-13T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/russian-spies-might-sell-tips-to-capitalists-susan-antilla.html

          
          
             For all its ambitious efforts, the
Russian Foreign Intelligence Service in the end wound up with a
couple of hot tips about the gold market and an outed agent
whose supposed predilection for kinky sex was smeared across
tabloid headlines.  
 Things have changed in spyland since the days when Boris
Badenov and Natasha Fatale carried water for Fearless Leader on
“ Rocky and Bullwinkle Show ” cartoons. Those 10 agents who
copped pleas and returned home to Moscow in last week’s U.S.-
Russian spy swap need to get the message to the bosses that
their espionage operation is aching for an upgrade.  
 If you’re a Russian mole-meister looking to get some bang
for your bucks next time you set up shop in the U.S. -- and hey,
we know you’re reading us -- consider exploiting some uniquely
American opportunities:  
 -- Read  Politico  and the  Huffington Post . Seriously, you
guys obviously worked hard to set up secret agents in hotspots
like Yonkers, New York, getting them Americanized so they could
ferret out sources in U.S. policy making circles. But around
here, we just give out government gossip for free.  
 No Encryption Needed  
 I actually felt a little bad to read in the federal
complaint that you were all worked up that your financial
planner/spy Cynthia Murphy had put time into flushing out
information from a “prominent New York-based financier” who,
as it turns out, generously spreads his opinions on blogs that
don’t even require encryption. The complaint didn’t identify
venture capitalist and Bill and  Hillary Clinton  pal  Alan Patricof  as Murphy’s client at New York accounting and tax
service firm Morea Financial. But, true to his not-very-
undercover persona, Patricof  speculated  on the record to the
Washington Post that the complaint probably was referring to
him.  
 -- Stake out some sources at the U.S. ratings companies.
These are people who could really benefit from some of your
finely honed skills, not to mention that they could use a few
new friends. Companies such as Standard & Poor’s, shamed by the
release of internal e-mails that portrayed them as a bit too
hungry for business -- a deal could “be structured by cows”
and still get an S&P rating, one said -- could use your guidance
on securing more private communications among co-workers.  
 Moscow on the Hudson  
 I particularly liked that Jason Bourne-style setup with
“radiograms” that your folks were using to zap data back and
forth between Moscow and the various spies in the U.S. without
the Internet’s annoying security flaws. We have talented Wall
Street analysts whose careers might be saved if only they could
chit-chat in writing without fear of some ambitious prosecutor
getting his hands on a transcript of their incriminating words.  
 -- Make some calls to our investment banks. It’s been a
tough couple of years for the long-suffering people who
underwrite perfectly well-meant offerings like the auction-rate
securities about which you have read so many unfair assessments.
These bankers and their lawyers do their best to compile
documents that really do explain all the risks, if only
investors could understand the things.  
 Now, though, in this financial overhaul project we’ve
gotten all exercised about, there is talk about making
underwriters explain risks in language that an investor could
actually understand. Surely you can help. Our federal agents
caught that cool conversation where your man in Yonkers was
telling his wife that he’d be slipping her a document to take to
South America and that there would be blank pieces of paper on
which he would write in “invisible.”  
 Boon to Capitalists  
 We in the U.S. almost always leave a few pages blank at the
end of our prospectuses anyway, and I can’t help but think that
it would be a boon to capitalism, and to your contact-making on
Wall Street, if you could help our guys keep those risk sections
invisible long enough to get the deals done.  
 -- Offer your assistance to some of our regulators. This,
after all, is how our Master Ponzi Guy  Bernard Madoff  turned
himself into a Teflon man, and it could work for you, too.  
 You Russians put so much energy into hiding from the
authorities, but in America, you can hide in plain sight. Over
the years, when our regulators were putting together committees
to discuss which way to go on securities industry policy, Madoff
or members of his family often had their hands up first to
volunteer. Madoff even sat on advisory committees for the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 There must be a spot for some experts to help the stock
cops on matters of  Russian markets , and I’d suggest you make
yourselves available. Please don’t be offended if, while working
at the SEC, you should pass a computer screen or two and see the
photos of your very own, scantily clad  Anna Chapman  pop up while
staffers are porn-surfing. It has been very stressful for the
people charged with keeping our markets safe since our financial
crisis began, and they have had to utilize every possible
opportunity to release all that pressure.  
 ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        