-- Russia Aims to Prevent Slaughter of Cattle Herds as Drought Intensifies
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-07-13T08:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/russia-aims-to-prevent-slaughter-of-cattle-herds-as-drought-intensifies.html

          
          
             Russia’s government aims to prevent
cattle breeders from slaughtering livestock as a worsening
drought cuts into feed supplies by damaging plants and threatens
to curb sowing.  
 Some breeders are “pessimistic” about the outlook for
their herds, Pavel Ipatov, governor of the Saratov region, said
yesterday in a government meeting, according to a transcript on
the state  website . Tatarstan can provide only half of the 3
million metric tons of feed grain it was slated to deliver this
year, regional Governor Rustam Minnikhanov said.  
 “Our main task is to keep the livestock and sown areas,”
First Deputy Prime Minister  Viktor Zubkov  said in the meeting.
The government should provide financial aid to farmers whose
crops were wiped out by the drought and extend loans to other
affected producers to prevent planted areas from shrinking next
year, he said.  
 Sixteen regions have declared emergencies because of the
drought, which the government has called the worst in a decade.
The Agriculture Ministry said yesterday it may cut its forecast
for the national grain crop. More than half of planted areas in
11 drought-stricken regions were damaged, according to the
 national weather service .  
 Still, no “mass cattle-slaughter” has started yet, Ipatov
said as he urged support measures. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
ordered proposals to be drawn up for subsidized sales of
stockpiled grain to livestock farmers. Feed grain makes up about
3.5 million tons of Russia’s 9.5 million-ton inventory, he said.  
 Lower Yields  
 Yields in the drought-hit areas will fall at least 30
percent from last year, according to the weather service.
Tatarstan has asked the government for 1 million tons of
stockpiled feed grain to bridge a gap as production in the
region plunges by more than three-quarters. The ministry has
predicted a national grain harvest of 85 million tons.  
 Farmers may reduce the area sown with winter grains next
season, research center SovEcon  said  yesterday. Winter-crop
planting along the Volga River, which starts in August, will be
affected by the drought because soil moisture levels remain
extremely low, it said.  
 The drought is the worst since records began 130 years ago,
according to the Grain Union, representing Russia’s largest
producers and traders.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        