-- Rwanda Arrests Second Umurabyo Journalist; Charges Include `Divisionism'
-- Brian Latham
-- 2010-07-13T11:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/rwanda-arrests-second-umurabyo-journalist-charges-include-divisionism-.html

          
          
             A second Rwandan journalist working
for the Umurabyo newspaper has been arrested under laws aimed at
reducing tensions between the Central African country’s Tutsi
and Hutu tribes.  
 Saidati Mukakibibi, a reporter, was charged with
“divisionism and for likening President  Paul Kagame  to Hitler,”
police spokesman Eric Kayiranga said today in a phone interview
from the capital, Kigali. She worked for the newspaper without
being registered as a journalist, the spokesman said.  
 Under Rwandan law, it is an offense to denigrate the
president, deny the 1994 genocide of the minority Tutsis and
moderate Hutus by ethnic-Hutu militias, or to create
“divisionism” between the tribes. Rwanda also requires
journalists to be registered with the Media High Commission,
which is controlled by Kagame’s Rwanda Patriotic Front party.  
 Umurabyo published a picture of Kagame superimposed on a
Nazi swastika, Kayiranga said. Umurabyo editor Agnes Uwimana was
arrested July 9 and may face 30 years in prison if found guilty
of genocide denial, the state-owned Rwanda News Agency has said.
The government describes Umurabyo as an opposition newspaper.  
 Opposition figures in Rwanda have said a number of recent
arrests in Kigali, and the defection of a senior general to
South Africa, are connected to presidential and parliamentary
elections scheduled for next month. Kagame has denied the
accusations, and Kayiranga said the arrests of the two Umurabyo
journalists aren’t “in any way” connected to the elections.  
 Jean-Leonard Rugambage, a journalist for the banned
Umuvugizi newspaper, was killed by an unidentified gunman June
25. Umuvugizi, a tabloid published in the local Kinyarwanda
language, was banned over allegations it printed lies in April.  
 As many as 800,000 people, more than a 10th of Rwanda’s
population, died in a 100-day slaughter of minority Tutsis and
moderate Hutus by ethnic-Hutu militias in 1994. The massacre
began after the assassination of President  Juvenal Habyarimana ,
whose plane was shot down as it prepared to land in Kigali on
April 6 of that year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        