-- Sapporo Holding Talks to Acquire U.S. Beer Brand to Counter Domestic Slump
-- Shunichi Ozasa
-- 2010-07-14T06:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/sapporo-in-discussions-to-buy-u-s-beer-brand-as-japanese-demand-slumps.html

          
          
             Sapporo Holdings Ltd. , part owned by
U.S. hedge fund Steel Partners, is in talks with at least two
companies to buy a beer brand in the U.S. to boost overseas
sales amid falling domestic demand.  
 “We want a brand with recognition,”  Yoshiyuki Mochida ,
managing director for  Sapporo ’s international operations, said
yesterday. “We want another brand in North America” besides
Sapporo and Canada’s  Sleeman Breweries Ltd. , he said, declining
to name the “two or three companies” the brewer is in
negotiations with or how much it may be willing to pay.  
 The brewer , 18 percent owned by  Warren Lichtenstein ’s  Steel
Partners , has set aside 65 billion yen ($731 million) to fund
its growth strategy, including buying rivals, in the two years
ending December 2011. Japanese drinks makers are making
acquisitions and forming partnerships to spur profits as a
 shrinking population  saps demand at home.  
 “ Sapporo  should focus more to expand overseas, as it can’t
expect much return in its home market,” said  Koichi Ogawa , who
helps oversee $28 billion at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo.
“The U.S. market has room to grow.”  
 Sapporo , maker of Yebisu beer, gained the most in four
months, rising 3.1 percent to 396 yen at the 3 p.m. close on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has declined 22 percent this
year,  compared  with a 4.1 percent drop in the benchmark Topix
index.  
 U.S. Sales  
 Japan’s fourth-largest brewer began approaching the
companies last year, Mochida said at Sapporo’s headquarters in
Tokyo. Sapporo may make spending on its international operations
a priority, he said.  
 The brewer ranked 17th with a 0.1 percent share in the U.S.
beer market last year, compared 50.5 percent for  Budweiser  maker
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV  and 17.6 percent for  SABMiller Plc ,
according to market researcher Euromonitor International.
Sapporo sells about 3 million cases a year in the U.S., Mochida
said.  
 Sapporo’s biggest U.S. market is California, spokesman
 Tatsuya Komatsu  said. “The company wants to have a brewery
somewhere closer to where demand is,” as it produces beer at
the Sleeman’s plant outside Toronto, he said.  
 Sales in the U.S. for  Sapporo , which raised 12 billion yen
in its first bond sale in three years, rose about 20 percent in
the first six months of this year.  
 “Beer demand is recovering” after the financial crisis
sapped demand at Japanese restaurants last year, Mochida said.  
 Premium Beer  
 “The acquisition of a brand would be good for  Sapporo , as
it increases its focus on the premium beer segment in North
America,” said  Kenzo Sato , an analyst at Toward the Infinite
World Inc., who has a “neutral plus”  rating  on the stock.
“North America and Southeast Asia are the only areas where
 Sapporo  can expand, as the company doesn’t have enough strength
to expand in China.”  
 Sapporo  is focusing on expansion in North America and
Southeast Asia, where returns on investment will be greater than
in China, Chief Executive Officer  Takao Murakami  said in January.  
 The beermaker , which initially planned to raise about 10
billion yen in its debt sale, priced the five-year, 0.96 percent
bonds to yield 30 basis points more than the yen swap rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sapporo’s bigger rivals are also expanding outside Japan.
 Kirin Holdings Co. , the country’s largest brewer, spent about $7
billion on overseas purchases in the past three years, including
taking Australia’s  Lion Nathan Ltd.  private.  
 Asahi Breweries Ltd. , the Japanese No. 2, bought a 19.9
percent stake in China’s  Tsingtao Brewery Co.  last year.  
 Sapporo wants to raise output in North America as Sleeman’s
brewery is running at almost full capacity, Mochida said.  
 Mochida ruled out the possibility of acquiring “top
brands” such as  AB InBev ’s Budweiser and  SABMiller ’s Miller.  
 Japan’s beer shipments in the first six months of this year
fell 4.5 percent to the lowest since brewers began tracking data
in 1992, the companies said July 12. Sapporo’s market share rose
0.2 percentage point to 12.3 percent in the period as its
shipments dropped 3.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
 Shunichi Ozasa  in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cans of Sapporo Breweries Ltd. beer are displayed at the company's headquarters in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
