-- Scholastic Sued by Author's Estate for Similarities to Harry Potter Books
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-13T21:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/scholastic-sued-by-author-s-estate-for-similarities-to-harry-potter-books.html

          
          
             Scholastic Inc.  was sued by the
estate of British author  Adrian Jacobs  over a claim that the
company’s best-selling “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire”
is “substantially similar” to his 1987 book.  
 The trustee for Jacobs’s estate filed a copyright
infringement lawsuit today in federal court in New York, calling
for Scholastic to recall the “Goblet” books and pay the estate
all profit from it.  
 J.K. Rowling , the author of the Harry Potter series, and
Jacobs were represented by the same literary agent, Christopher
Little, who had copies of Jacobs’s book “The Adventures of
Willy the Wizard” 13 years ago, before “Goblet” was
published, the estate said.  
 “The central theme of each work -- a yearlong wizard
contest -- unfolds as similar characters enact parallel plot
points,” according to the complaint.  
 Jacobs’s book was published in the U.K. by Bachman & Turner
in 1987, according to the complaint, and hasn’t come out in the
U.S. The writer died in 1997.  
 “We have not been served yet, and we wouldn’t comment on
pending litigation,”  Kyle Good , a spokeswoman for New York-
based Scholastic, said in an interview.  
 There are 143 million copies of the seven Harry Potter
novels in print in the U.S., Scholastic said. The books have
sold 400 million copies worldwide.  
 English Litigation  
 Jacobs’s estate sued  Bloomsbury Publishing Plc , the British
publisher of “Goblet,” in 2009 for copyright infringement and
Rowling in 2010. Applications for summary judgment filed by
Bloomsbury and Rowling are pending before the High Court,
according to today’s complaint.  
 Scholastic rose 92 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $25.12 at 4:30
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has fallen
16 percent this year.  
 The case is Allen v. Scholastic Inc., 10-5335, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        