-- SEB Swings into Profit in Second Quarter as Baltic Loan Losses Decrease
-- Niklas Magnusson
-- 2010-07-13T09:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/seb-returned-to-profit-in-second-quarter-after-loan-losses-in-baltics-fell.html

          
          
             SEB AB , the second-largest bank in
the Baltic countries, returned to profit in the second quarter
as loan losses in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania decreased.  
 The bank reported net income of 1.99 billion kronor ($265
million) in the three months through June, compared with a net
loss of 193 million kronor in the same period a year earlier,
the Stockholm-based lender said in a statement today. Loan
losses fell 83 percent to 619 million kronor in the quarter from
a year earlier.  
 SEB and  Swedbank AB  suffered soaring loan losses in
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania last year after the three former
Soviet states experienced the deepest recessions in the European
Union after a credit-fuelled property boom turned to bust. SEB
posted its first quarterly net loss in at least a decade in the
second quarter last year because of Baltic loan losses and after
the bank wrote off goodwill in those nations and Russia.  
 “SEB is likely to finish the year with materially lower
credit provisions than previously communicated,” Chief
Executive Officer  Annika Falkengren  said in the statement.
“With non-performing loan formation substantially lower, SEB
has turned the page in the Baltic countries.”  
 The bank’s share rose 3.6 percent to 48.14 kronor in
Stockholm trade to reach its highest level since May 3.  
 SEB is the second of the Nordic region’s larger banks to
report earnings for the second quarter, following a report by
DnB NOR ASA, Norway’s largest lender, earlier this month. The
Norwegian bank said profit in the three months through June
almost tripled to 3.3 billion kroner after loan losses in the
Nordic and Baltic regions fell 62 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        