-- Senate Judiciary Panel to Vote July 20 on Kagan's Supreme Court Nomination
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-07-13T15:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/senate-judiciary-panel-to-vote-july-20-on-kagan-s-supreme-court-nomination.html

          
          
             The Senate Judiciary Committee will
vote July 20 on  Elena Kagan ’s nomination to the U.S. Supreme
Court, in time for her to be confirmed by early August about two
months before the beginning of the next court term.  
 “I would hope to complete it and vote” next week, Senator
 Patrick Leahy  of Vermont, the panel’s Democratic chairman, said
today in Washington. “I think everybody’s made up their mind”
on how to vote.  
 Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, the panel’s top
Republican, requested a week’s delay in the vote. He said today
he has a number of concerns about placing Kagan on the court,
including her lack of judicial experience and “less than
candid” responses to lawmakers’ questions on issues like
abortion and gun rights.  
 “There are concerns about the nomination in a host of
areas,” Sessions said.  
 Kagan, 50, was nominated by President  Barack Obama  on May
10 to replace Justice  John Paul Stevens , who retired from the
nine-member court. She is the U.S. solicitor general, the
government’s top lawyer before the Supreme Court. Kagan formerly
was dean of  Harvard Law School  and worked for four years in
President  Bill Clinton ’s White House as a lawyer and policy
adviser.  
 The  Senate Judiciary Committee , with 12 Democrats and seven
Republicans, met today to consider Kagan’s confirmation,
although the vote had been expected to be delayed.  
 Confirmation Vote  
 Democratic leaders plan to schedule a confirmation vote in
the full Senate before lawmakers’ month-long August recess. The
court will begin its new term Oct. 4.  
 Democrats control 58 of the Senate’s 100 seats, practically
ensuring Kagan’s confirmation. A handful of top Republicans,
including Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky,
have announced their opposition.  
 One Republican on the committee, Senator  Lindsey Graham  of
South Carolina, hinted he may vote in her favor.  
 “I think she did very well at the hearings,” Graham told
reporters late yesterday, saying people should “stay tuned.”
Graham is the only Republican on the committee who voted last
year in favor of Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , Obama’s first high
court nominee.  
 Leahy said Kagan was forthright in responses to questions
at the hearings and demonstrated an even-handed approach that
will serve her well. Her elevation would give the court three
women at once for the first time in U.S. history, he noted.  
 ‘Dignity and Honor’  
 “I will cast my vote in support of Solicitor General
Kagan’s nomination,” Leahy said. “I believe she will ably fill
the seat occupied for decades by Justice Stevens with dignity
and honor.”  
 Opponents of the Kagan nomination today called on her to
disqualify herself from considering a challenge by states to the
recently enacted health-care overhaul.  
 In a letter to lawmakers, Gary Marx and  Carrie Severino  of
the  Judicial Crisis Network  said it was “exceedingly likely”
that Kagan took part in Justice Department discussions about the
litigation. The Wall Street Journal editorial page also called
on Kagan to say she will step aside.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        