-- Sentance Says Low U.K. Rate May Be Hurting Pound, Fueling Inflation Gauge
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-07-13T12:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/sentance-says-low-u-k-rate-may-be-hurting-pound-fueling-inflation-gauge.html

          
          
             Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said the record low benchmark interest rate may be
contributing to the pound’s weakness and keeping inflation above
the bank’s 2 percent target.  
 “One obvious reason for this higher level of U.K.
inflation is the weakness of the pound,” he said in a speech in
Reading, England. “We need to recognize that the weakness of
the pound -- and its upward impact on inflation -- may also have
been affected by U.K. monetary policy and perceptions about its
future stance.”  
 Sentance reiterated today he favors a “gradual” removal
of stimulus rather than any “sudden lurch” that could
undermine confidence. Last month he made the first push in
almost two years to raise the interest rate, against a majority
of officials who wanted to keep emergency stimulus to aid the
 economy  during the deepest spending cuts in half a century.  
 “This process of gradual healing and recovery is likely to
continue in the absence of big negative shocks which could
derail growth,” he said. “These worries about possible uneven-
ness in the pace of global growth should not be confused with
signs of a ‘double-dip’ recession, which in my view is not on
the cards.”  
 The pound has dropped by about a quarter on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007, stoking consumer prices
along with higher energy costs.  Inflation  was at 3.2 percent in
June, exceeding the 3.1 percent median forecast of 27 economists
and staying above the government’s 3 percent limit.  
 ‘Gradual’ Approach  
 The economy needs “a gradual withdrawal of some of the
stimulus we provided to the economy in more difficult circumstances
last year -- not so much as to undermine the recovery, but to keep
it on a low inflation path,” he said. “I favour a gradual rise in
bank rate which would be aimed to avoid destabilizing confidence
through a sudden lurch in policy.”  
 Sentance said that the aftermath of the recession may be
having less of an effect on the economy than the Monetary Policy
Committee had thought last year.  
 “The evidence on wages and prices is also consistent with the
view that spare capacity is not exerting as much downward pressure
on inflation as the MPC expected last summer,” he said. “If the
recovery continues and headline inflation remains relatively high,
there may be a further upward drift in pay growth in the private
sector, offsetting some of the downward pressure on wage growth
from the public sector.”  
 Sentance also said the pound’s weakness was starting to
benefit manufacturers.  
 “Recent data from manufacturing industry and from business
surveys shows that this combination of global recovery and a
competitive exchange rate is beginning to be reflected in strong
export performance,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        