-- Slovakia's New Government Opposes Contributing to Aid Package for Greece
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-13T10:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/slovakia-s-new-government-opposes-contributing-to-aid-package-for-greece.html

          
          
             Slovak Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova 
said she doesn’t support the country’s contribution to the
European Union aid package for Greece.  
 “We really do not agree,” Radicova, named Slovakia’s
first female premier last week, said in Brussels late yesterday
after meeting EU President  Herman Van Rompuy . The three-year
package for Greece includes 80 billion euros ($101 billion) in
pooled loans from euro-area governments and 30 billion euros in
aid from the International Monetary Fund.  
 Radicova also has not signed off on the larger European
Financial Stability Facility, which would sell debt backed by
440 billion euros in national guarantees and use the proceeds to
lend to euro-area nations in need. Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, met Radicova today in Brussels to press for a
signature on the EFSF.  
 “We have to have Slovakia signing the framework,” Juncker
told reporters after the encounter. “This is about the whole
euro area to have this stability facility becoming operational,
but this is a decision by the Slovak government.”  
 Guarantees for EFSF debt instruments enter into force as
soon as nations representing 90 percent of the shareholding have
completed domestic parliamentary procedures. The facility is
“almost fully operational,” EFSF Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Regling  said yesterday in Brussels.  
 Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
the EU’s executive arm, said today: “The commission is
confident that Slovakia will sign.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Brussels at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        