-- Small-Business Confidence in U.S. Drops to Three-Month Low as Sales Weaken
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-13T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/small-business-confidence-in-u-s-drops-to-three-month-low-as-sales-weaken.html

          
          
             Confidence among U.S. small
businesses fell in June to the lowest level in three months as
projections for profits, sales and economic conditions weakened,
a private survey found.  
 The National Federation of Independent Business’s optimism
 index  decreased to 89 from May’s 92.2 reading that was the
highest since September 2008, the Washington-based group said
today. Seven of the index’s 10 components dropped, led by a
decline in the economic outlook six months from now.  
 Smaller firms need to increase hiring and business spending
to ensure the economic recovery that began a year ago is
sustained. The report shows employment stalled last month while
executives planned to trim investment and inventories as they
waited for demand to strengthen.  
 “Headwinds for the economy are still strong, making
forward progress difficult to make and to hold,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in a statement.
“The small business sector is not on a positive trajectory and
with this half of the private sector missing in action, the poor
growth performance is no surprise.”  
 The index remains below levels associated with past
economic rebounds. The gauge of expectations for better  business
conditions  six months from now fell to minus 6 percent, a 14-
point drop that accounted for the biggest share of the monthly
decline in the overall index, today’s report showed.  
 A measure of  earnings expectations  fell 4 points to minus
32 percent in June. The net percent of owners projecting higher
sales, adjusting for inflation, declined 10 points to minus 5
percent.  
 The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
giving a positive response.  
 Employment Plans  
 Employment remains weak. A net 1 percent of respondents
plan to  hire  over the next three months, unchanged from May and
a positive reading for the second time in 20 months. Nine
percent of firms said they currently had job openings that were
hard to fill, also unchanged from a month earlier.  
 Plans for capital investment over the next few months fell
one point to a net 19 percent. A net minus 3 percent of firms
plan to add to inventories, down 5 points from May, while a net
minus one percent reported stockpiles as too low, down 1 point.  
 “What businesses need are customers, giving them a reason
to hire and make capital expenditures and borrow to support
those activities,” Dunkelberg said in the statement. “But
consumers are as uncertain about the future as the business
owners waiting to serve them.”  
 Credit Conditions  
 A net negative 13 percent of business owners expected
credit conditions to ease, one point worse than the prior month.
At the same time, a gauge of whether firms think this is a good
time to  expand  rose 1 point to a net 6 percent, the survey said.  
 The weak economy continued to help contain inflation, the
survey showed. June was the 19th consecutive month that showed
more small business owners cutting average selling prices than
raising them, and widespread price-cutting led to declining
sales.  
 The NFIB report was based on 805 survey responses through
June 30. Small businesses represent more than 99 percent of all
U.S. employers and have created 64 percent of all new jobs in
the past 15 years, according to the U.S. Small Business
Administration. A small business is defined as an independent
enterprise employing up to 250 people.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        