-- South Korean Won Paces Asia Currency Declines on China's Growth Concerns
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-13T05:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/south-korean-won-paces-asia-currency-declines-on-china-s-growth-concerns.html

          
          
             Asian currencies  declined, led by
the biggest drop in South Korea’s won in two weeks, on concern
government data from China in a couple of days will show the
world’s fastest-growing major economy is slowing.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index  fell for a second
day as regional stocks weakened, paced by a 1.8 percent slide in
China’s  Shanghai Composite Index . The Chinese government said it
will “strictly” enforce policies to cool its property market,
two days before it issues economic growth numbers for the second
quarter, which will probably show the expansion eased from the
prior three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “The closer you are to China and the more integrated your
economies, the more affected your equity market will be by any
sell-off in Chinese stocks,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia
economist in Singapore for ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch
financial services company. “And that’s the main thing that is
moving Asian currencies, concern of a hard landing in China.”  
 South Korea’s won lost 0.6 percent to 1,209.20 per dollar
as of 2:22 p.m. in Seoul, its biggest decline since June 29,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. India’s rupee dropped
0.2 percent to 46.88 and China’s yuan traded at 6.7753 from
6.7711 yesterday. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index  lost
0.1 percent.  
 Asian nations need to be prepared for potential shocks,
including a surge in capital inflows, which “creates
instability,” International Monetary Fund Managing Director
Dominique Strauss-Kahn said yesterday.  
 China GDP  
 Regional currencies will remain weak due to concern any
cooling in China will derail the world recovery, Condon said.  
 China’s money supply grew in June at the weakest pace since
December 2008 and lending growth slowed for a third month,
reflecting government curbs on credit to some industries, the
central bank said on July 11. Imports increased 34.1 percent
last month from a year earlier, easing from the 48.3 percent
pace in May, the government reported on July 10.  
 Gross domestic product probably  increased  10.5 percent in
the second quarter compared with 11.9 percent in the prior
three-month period, according to the median estimate of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the report on July 15.  
 “The sharp slowdown in loan growth and the deceleration in
June imports are worrying,” Condon said. “The Korean won is
the most affected by global risk appetite and any concerns of a
slowdown.”  
 Taiwan Dollar Gains  
 Taiwan’s dollar avoided regional losses and rose by the
most in three weeks, on speculation exporters are converting
overseas income after the central bank’s suspected intervention
late yesterday resulted in a more favorable exchange rate.  
 The currency traded near a two-week high after a government
report last week showed shipments climbed for an eighth straight
month. Policy makers have weakened the currency in the final
minute of trading for more than two months to curb appreciation
that may hurt exports, according to traders familiar with the
monetary authority’s operations, who declined to be identified.  
 Policy makers intervene by arranging purchases or sales of
foreign exchange to try and influence exchange rates.  
 The Taiwan strengthened 0.4 percent to NT$32.123 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It touched
NT$32.001 on July 9, the highest level since June 28.  
 “Maybe some exporters are selling,” said  Albert Lee , a
fixed-income securities trader at Cathay United Bank in Taipei.
“Our central bank will still come in to adjust” the Taiwan
dollar, he said.  
 Rupee Weakens  
 India’s rupee weakened for a second day after  Infosys
Technologies Ltd. , the nation’s second-biggest software exporter,
reported a drop in quarterly earnings.  
 The currency declined in tandem with local stocks, on
concern India’s export earnings will shrink as Europe’s debt
crisis hampers the global economic recovery.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  lost as much as
0.3 percent after Infosys said net income fell 2.6 percent from
a year earlier to 14.9 billion rupees ($318 million) in the last
three months.  
 “Infosys earnings have disappointed financial markets and
raised concerns about the impact of the global slowdown on
trade,” said  Roy Paul , deputy general manager at Federal Bank
Ltd. in Mumbai. “The rupee is lower following the weaker
opening in stocks.”  
 Elsewhere, the Philippine peso dropped 0.1 percent to
46.315 per dollar. Malaysia’s ringgit, Indonesia’s rupiah and
the Thai baht were all little changed at 3.2050, 9,053 and 32.37,
respectively. Singapore’s dollar traded at S$1.3827 compared
with S$1.3835 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        