-- Spanish Inflation Accelerated in June as Economy Emerged From Recession
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-07-13T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/spanish-inflation-accelerated-in-june-as-economy-emerged-from-recession.html

          
          
             Spain’s underlying  inflation rate 
rose in June ahead of an increase in value-added tax.  
 Core consumer prices , which exclude energy and fresh food,
rose 0.4 percent from a year earlier, compared with an increase
of 0.2 percent in May, the National Statistics Institute said
today. The headline rate, based on European Union calculations,
was 1.5 percent, in line with an initial estimate published on
June 29.  
 While Spain’s economy emerged from a  recession  in the first
quarter, a 20 percent  unemployment rate  and austerity measures
including public-sector pay cuts are threatening to undermine
the recovery. As part of the government’s attempts to cut the
third-largest deficit in the euro region, it raised value-added
tax on July 1 to 18 percent from 16 percent.  
 Spanish inflation had generally been above the EU average
in the last decade. Its core inflation, which turned negative in
April for the first time on record, compares with a euro-region
average of 0.8 percent in May. The European rate probably rose
to 0.9 percent in June, according to a  Bloomberg News survey .  
 Spaniards expect prices to  fall , according to the European
Commission’s  economic sentiment index , and some retailers are
absorbing the increase in the main value-added tax rate rather
than passing it on to consumers.  Inditex SA , the owner of the
Zara fashion chain, said March 17 it wouldn’t raise prices to
reflect the increase, and the government estimates about half of
the new tax will be passed on.  
 As households pay down debt acquired during a 10-year
housing boom, Spain’s economy will contract 0.4 percent this
year, while the euro area and the U.S. expand, according to the
International Monetary Fund. The government cut its growth
forecast for next year to 1.3 percent from 1.8 percent because
of the impact of austerity measures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        