-- States Show First Revenue Growth Since 2008, Rockefeller Institute Reports
-- Esme E. Deprez
-- 2010-07-13T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/states-show-first-revenue-growth-since-2008-rockefeller-institute-reports.html

          
          
             California and New York helped push
U.S. states’ tax revenue to the first quarterly gain since 2008,
the  Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government  said.  
 Overall tax receipts increased 2.5 percent to $164.5
billion during the January-to-March period, compared with the
same three months in 2009, the Albany, New York-based institute
said in a report today. It was the first year-over-year jump
since the third quarter of 2008. Thirty-three states recorded a
decline in collections, down from 40 states in the fourth
quarter of 2009.  
 “Recent data show an unmistakable improvement in the
economy and a slight firming in state tax-revenue collections,”
wrote the co-authors of the report,  Lucy Dadayan , a senior
policy analyst, and senior fellow  Donald Boyd .  
 Still, the growth in overall revenue is modest and “not an
indication of broad state fiscal recovery,” the report said.
States’ financial conditions remain “quite fragile” after
record declines in 2009, Dadayan and Boyd wrote.  
 Personal-income and sales-tax increases in  California , the
most-populous state, and  New York , the third-biggest, were the
primary drivers of the gain and lifted net revenue by about $5.8
billion. Excluding those states, collections fell 1.5 percent.  
 Local tax collections declined 1.1 percent, hurt by a 1.7
percent drop in local property taxes, the first decrease since
the start of the recession, and a 0.5 percent slump in local
sales taxes. Local individual income taxes grew 5.1 percent, the
first jump after five consecutive quarterly losses. Overall,
personal-income-tax revenue increased by 2.5 percent and sales-
tax revenue by 0.4 percent.  
 Still Lagging  
 State revenue trails pre-recession levels and fell 9.3
percent compared with the same period two years earlier.
Preliminary data for April and May from 42 states signal the
second quarter will be weaker than the first, with revenue
rising by 0.9 percent, according to the institute.  
 “Even if overall economic conditions continue to improve
throughout 2010, fiscal recovery for the states historically
lags behind a national economic turnaround and can be expected
to do so in the aftermath of the recent recession,” Dadayan and
Boyd wrote. “Analyses of some of the numbers in terms of
longer-term perspective indicate that states will face a long
and bumpy road to fiscal recovery.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        