-- Steinbrenner as Much a Yankee as Ruth, Mantle, Bud Selig Says
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-13T23:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/steinbrenner-as-much-a-yankee-as-ruth-mantle-selig-says-remembrances.html

          
          
             George Steinbrenner  will be
remembered for being as much a part of the New York Yankees as
Hall of Fame players  Babe Ruth  and  Mickey Mantle , Major League
Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  said.  
 Steinbrenner, who owned the Yankees while they won seven of
their 27 World Series championships, died today of a heart
attack at the age of 80.  
 “George was a giant of the game and his devotion to
baseball was surpassed only by his devotion to his family and
his beloved New York Yankees,” Selig said in a  statement . “He
was and always will be as much of a New York Yankee as Babe
Ruth,  Lou Gehrig ,  Joe DiMaggio , Mickey Mantle,  Yogi Berra ,
 Whitey Ford  and all of the other Yankee legends.”  
 The Yankees said they’ll wear patches on their uniforms for
the rest of the season to recognize the passing of Steinbrenner
and Yankee Stadium announcer  Bob Sheppard , who died two days ago
at the age of 99.  
 Steinbrenner’s commemorative patch will be on the left
breast of the uniform, while Sheppard’s will be on the left
sleeve.  
 Following are comments and reaction on Steinbrenner’s
death:  
 Steve Tisch , chairman of National Football League’s New York
Giants:  
 “George Steinbrenner was a dynamic personality in sports
and in business. He was the ultimate competitor in both worlds.
All of us in the business of sports want to win; that is the
objective. George personified that ambition.”  
 Woody Johnson , chairman and chief executive of NFL’s New York
Jets:  
 “I will remember him as a winner whose passion and
enthusiasm became part of the fabric of New York City. He was an
inspiration and represented the essence of leadership.”  
 Michael Bloomberg , mayor of New York:  
 “This is a sad day not only for Yankee fans, but for our
entire city, as few people have had a bigger impact on New York
over the past four decades than George Steinbrenner. George had
a deep love for New York, and his steely determination to
succeed -- combined with his deep respect and appreciation for
talent and hard work -- made him a quintessential New Yorker.
George invested his heart and soul into the Yankees, and his
competitive fire helped usher in new eras of Yankee greatness,
reclaiming the team’s long tradition of excellence.”  
 Derek Jeter , Yankees’ shortstop (1995-current)  
 “I’ve known him since I was 18 years old. It’s tough
because he’s more than just an owner, he’s a friend. He’ll be
deeply missed. He was a father figure to everyone who was in our
organization, past or present, because he really took care of
his players -- whether it was the player on the team now or
someone who played for him for a week 30 years ago.”  
 Yogi Berra , Yankees Hall of Fame catcher:  
 “George was The Boss, make no mistake. He built the
Yankees into champions and that’s something nobody can ever
deny. He was a very generous, caring, passionate man. George and
I had our differences, but who didn’t? We became great friends
over the last decade and I will miss him very much.”  
 Joe Torre , Yankees manager (1996-2007):  
 “I will always remember George Steinbrenner as a passionate
man, a tough boss, a true visionary, a great humanitarian, and a
dear friend. I will be forever grateful that he trusted me with
his Yankees for 12 years. It’s only fitting that he went out as
a world champ.”  
 Don Mattingly , Yankees first baseman (1982-95):  
 “I remember a man driven to succeed. He was the owner,
‘The Boss’ and number one fan of the Yankees. Our relationship
was built on mutual respect. I will never forget and always be
grateful for how he treated me and my family both during my
playing days and after I retired.”  
 Fred Wilpon ,  Saul Katz  and  Jeff Wilpon , New York Mets owners:  
 “The passing of George Steinbrenner marks the end of an
era in New York City baseball history. George was a larger than
life figure and a force in the industry. The rise and success of
his teams on the field and in the business marketplace under his
leadership are a testament to his skill, drive, and
determination.”  
 Darryl Strawberry , Yankees player (1995-99):  
 “He was like a father I never had. He encouraged me when I
got knocked down and was still there to pick me up. I have
nothing but great respect for him. I will always be grateful of
the opportunities he gave me to be part of the Yankee
organization.”  
 David Paterson , governor of New York:  
 “Opposing players and fans may have bristled at his
outspoken leadership over the years, but it was only because
they wished they had a Steinbrenner of their own.”  
 Jerry Jones , owner of NFL’s Dallas Cowboys:  
 “First and foremost this man was a winner. From a person
with my perspective, he was an inspiration in the area of doing
everything possible -- within the rules -- to win.”  
 Michael Weiner , executive director of MLB Players Association:  
 “George Steinbrenner’s passion for the game of baseball
helped revive one of the game’s most storied franchises, and in
the process ushered in the modern era of baseball business
operations. Mr. Steinbrenner understood and embraced the power
of the players, and he put this knowledge to good use in
establishing the Yankees as one of the sports world’s most
iconic brands.”  
 Larry Probst , chairman of U.S. Olympic Committee:  
 “His impact on sports supersedes baseball and the New York
Yankees. His work on behalf of the U.S. Olympic Committee and in
particular U.S. Olympic athletes continues to affect the way the
USOC conducts business today. The Steinbrenner report in 1989
revolutionized the USOC’s sport-performance philosophy, and a
generation of Olympians have benefited as a result.”  
 Archie Manning , National Football Foundation chairman:  
 “His service and commitment to our organization played a
significant role in our ability to touch the lives of countless
young student-athletes. From his playing days at Williams
College to his coaching days at Purdue and Northwestern, it was
clear that George Steinbrenner was a product of the gridiron.”  
 Glazer family, owner of NFL’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers:  
 “George was one of the most consequential and colorful
executives in sports history. He helped restore his proud
franchise to its unique place in sports and society. However,
his greatest contributions weren’t those that graced the sports
page. He was a caring, gentle giant in our community.”  
 Aaron Boone , Yankees player (2003):  
 “He was going to do everything possible to put the best
team out on the field and he was going to do everything he could
to put you in a position to win. As a player to go into that
kind of situation, that kind of scenario, that’s all you could
ask from an owner.”  
 Mikhail Prokhorov , owner of NBA’s New Jersey Nets:  
 “He was more than a legend in the world of baseball; he
was a man with true global impact. Mr. Steinbrenner was also a
co-owner of the Nets during their most successful period in the
NBA. For new franchise owners like myself, he was a model of how
to build a dynasty team and what can be achieved if you have
enough heart and vision. He was an absolute original.”  
 Bill Clinton , former president, and wife  Hillary Rodham Clinton ,
U.S. secretary of state:  
 “George was a fierce competitor who was the perfect fit
for the city that never sleeps -- colorful, dynamic and always
reaching for the stars. His Yankees brought home seven World
Series championships and provided inspiration and entertainment
to people in New York and around the world. After the terrorist
attacks of 9/11, when New York needed it most, George and the
Yankees helped lift our battered spirits. He was born on the
Fourth of July and loved his country even more than his team.”  
 Jerry Seinfeld , comedian:  
 “Who else could be a memorable character on a television
show without actually appearing on the show? You felt George
even though he wasn’t even there. That’s how huge a force of
personality he was.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Yankees owner George Steinbrenner during a ticker-tape parade in New York after the Yankees won the 2000 World Series Series. Photographer: Doug Kanter/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
