-- Steinbrenner Ownership Legacy Continues With Yankees After Death of Boss
-- Aaron Kuriloff
-- 2010-07-13T17:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/steinbrenner-ownership-legacy-continues-with-yankees-after-death-of-boss.html

          
          
             George Steinbrenner  cemented his
family’s control over the New York Yankees two years ago, ceding
power to his sons to ensure the “unified strength” of one of
the most successful franchises in sports.  
 Steinbrenner, who helped to usher in Major League Baseball
free agency and multimillion-dollar contracts during his 37-year
tenure as Yankees’ owner, died today at the age of 80 from a
heart attack.  
 Steinbrenner’s death probably won’t change the direction of
a franchise that’s won a record 27  World Series titles . The
team’s succession plan was another example of Steinbrenner’s
business savvy, said  Michael Cramer , the former president of
baseball’s Texas Rangers who is director of the sports and media
program at the University of Texas.  
 “It appears that the passing of George will have no impact
on the team,” Cramer said in a telephone interview. “It sounds
a little cold, but the key was good succession planning here.
Are there going to be some things going on, a little infighting?
Maybe. But they’ve done a good job and we’ll see how it plays
out.”  
 Hal Steinbrenner , 40, formally took over as controlling
partner of the Yankees in November 2008, and brother Hank, 53,
was put in charge of baseball operations.  
 The brothers have run the team’s daily operations since
their sister Jennifer announced in March 2007 that she was
divorcing  Steve Swindal , whom George had deemed his successor.  
 No Succession Issues  
 Yankees President  Randy Levine  said the team won’t be sold
and there are no succession issues.  
 Steinbrenner’s family will inherit his estate tax free,
thanks to Steinbrenner’s residency in the state of Florida and
an effort by former President  George W. Bush  to repeal what he
called the federal “death tax,” a tax attorney said.  
 “It is the ultimate home run,” said  Ronald Aucutt , a
partner at law firm McGuireWoods in McLean, Virginia.  
 The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of
2001  allowed the federal estate tax to expire on Jan. 1, 2010,
before resuming again on Jan. 1, 2011.  
 When the tax returns next year, most estates worth more
than $1 million will be subject to a minimum 41 percent  tax ,
Aucutt said.  
 Florida isn’t among more than 20 states that charge an
additional estate tax. Steinbrenner lived in Tampa, site of the
team’s spring-training facility.  
 Steinbrenner’s heirs may face complicated capital gains
taxes if they sell assets they inherit.  
 ‘The Boss’  
 Steinbrenner, nicknamed “The Boss,” had run the team
since buying it in 1973 from CBS Corp. for $10 million.  
 The Yankees became a worldwide brand under his ownership
and won seven World Series titles. The most recent championship
came last year after he turned over control of the team, which
has an  estimated value  of $1.6 billion, the highest among Major
League Baseball’s 30 clubs, according to Forbes magazine.  
 The Yankees went 13 years with no playoff appearances
before winning four titles in a five-year span from 1996 through
2000, a run fueled by Steinbrenner’s spending to acquire talent.  
 “He could have taken the money out and did other things
with it, but he brought players to New York and spent money in
free agency,” Hall of Fame second baseman  Joe Morgan , who’s a
major-league analyst for ESPN, said on the cable network. “A
lot of people may not like that, but that’s what you do to make
your company better.”  
 Steinbrenner’s Passion  
 William Sutton, a professor in the DeVos Sport Business
Management Graduate Program at the University of Central
Florida, said the question for the Yankees is whether
Steinbrenner’s sons have the same passion to win as their
father.  
 “He was a fan as well,” said Sutton, who consulted with
the Yankees for the opening of their new stadium in 2009. “He
loved the Yankees, and he loved baseball. Those things make a
big difference.”  
 The Yankees last season ended an eight-year championship
drought after spending $424 million to acquire players such as
 CC Sabathia ,  Mark Teixeira  and  A.J. Burnett . George Steinbrenner
praised the team’s accomplishment in a statement immediately
after the championship, adding: “The quest for No. 28 begins.”  
 The Yankees this season have baseball’s highest payroll for
the 11th straight year and a league-leading 56-32 record at the
All-Star break.  Harvey Schiller , the one-time president of
YankeesNets, a former umbrella company of the franchise, said
that while “The Boss” is gone, the Steinbrenner legacy of
success will probably continue under Hal and Hank.  
 “For all practical purposes, they’ve been managing the team
for the last couple of years,” Schiller said in a telephone
interview. “When you blink, you’re going to see the same Yankee
team on the field and my guess is they’re going to work even
harder to bring a championship this year.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       George Steinbrenner’s Family Confirms His Death at Age 80  
                       
                         
                           Paul Hawthorne/Getty Images 
                         
                         New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner attends the 11th Annual Living Landmarks Gala at The Plaza Hotel in New York City. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner attends the 11th Annual Living Landmarks Gala at The Plaza Hotel in New York City. Photographer: Paul Hawthorne/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) --  Rick Horrow, founder of Horrow Sports Ventures Inc. and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, discusses the legacy of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Horrow speaks from St. Andrews, Scotland. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Eric Shanks, president of Fox Sports, talks with Bloomberg's Michele Steele about the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and the network's plans to honor him during tonight's broadcast of the 81st Major League Baseball All-Star Game.
     They speak from Angels Stadium in Anaheim, California. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Marty Appel, former publicist for the New York Yankees, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about George Steinbrenner's business strategies as principal owner of the Yankees.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida. He was 80. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Ray Negron, director of community relations at Spalding Sports Worldwide Inc. and former special adviser to George Steinbrenner, explains the impact the late Yankees owner had on his life and the South Bronx. 
     Negron speaks with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Sports reporter Jim Gray discusses the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. 
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Gray speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist Scott Soshnick reports on the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Soshnick speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
