-- Steinbrenner Won It All With a Bag of Quarters: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-07-13T14:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/steinbrenner-won-it-all-with-bag-of-quarters-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             Most sportswriters have a distinct,
sometimes word-for-word recollection of their first encounter
with  George M. Steinbrenner III , who was attached to the most
appropriate nickname in sports: The Boss.  
 My recollection, though, is a bit fuzzy. The haze isn’t a
byproduct of jitters, but age. I was, after all, a 7-year-old
kid wondering why his father was getting uppity with the guy in
the turtleneck shirt who always showed up on TV during New York
Yankees games.  
 Steinbrenner, who died this morning at the age of 80, got
plenty of air time back then. His reactions to home runs and
errors were more entertaining than the game itself. The Boss,
you see, was quick with praise and even quicker with
condemnation.  
 Remember, Steinbrenner’s hero was General  George Patton ,
who once wrote that sloppiness can’t be tolerated.  
 As for our meeting, it occurred at  LaGuardia Airport  in New
York, where my family was hoping to depart for a Florida
getaway. Only the weather wasn’t cooperating. It was snowing,
steadily, but there was still hope. The forecasters were
predicting more snow. Lots of it.  
 My father, no shrinking violet, became agitated, to say the
least, when it became apparent that Steinbrenner was making
noise about needing to leave and his flight being bumped to the
top of the departure list.  
 Dad had a few choice words for Mr. Steinbrenner, who fired
a few back, some of the four-letter variety. Then the airport
closed. We, and he, were stuck.  
 A Handshake  
 Thankfully, back then there were coin-operated TV monitors
in the terminal. A quarter bought you, oh, I don’t know, 10
minutes. It was the perfect solution for four stir-crazy kids.
Until mom and dad ran out of quarters, that is. The shops were
closing. No more change. No more TV.  
 And then Steinbrenner introduced himself, shook my hand,
and set a bag of quarters on the monitor. Don’t remember what he
said. Don’t remember what I said. But, and this I’m sure of, a
lot of TV was watched that day.  
 It was on November 20, 2008, that the Yankees issued a
statement, saying that The Boss was no longer the boss. He had,
officially, ceded control of the most dominant  brand  in sports,
the franchise he re-built, to his youngest son, Hal.  
 “Needless to say, my dad is a tough act to follow,” Hal
said that day.  
 Truth is, he’s an impossible act to follow. The man became
an icon, growing in stature along with the franchise he
resurrected.  
 Hating to Lose  
 Oh, and speaking of following, there was always a line of
cameras and microphones trailing Steinbrenner, whose bluster
time and again made its way to the back pages of New York
tabloids.  
 He was bold and brash. The Boss fancied bombast, all right.
Like the time he called  Hideki Irabu  a “fat pussy toad” after
the pitcher failed to cover first base -- in a spring training
game.  
 That was Steinbrenner, who more than anything hated to
lose. Postseason, preseason, tiddlywinks. Didn’t matter.  
 Every fan of every team would be lucky to have an owner
like Steinbrenner, who committed whatever resources were needed
to build a winner. That isn’t true everywhere. Some take their
revenue-sharing money, stash it deep in their pockets and then
profess a profound regret for not being able to field a winner.  
 Steinbrenner spared no expense. He spared no one’s
 feelings , either.  
 Homage in Jokes  
 He hired and fired and rehired managers. He fired public-
relations folks -- one for having the temerity to leave the
Bronx on Christmas. He became the subject of caricature, hosting
“Saturday Night Live” and capturing the imagination of
comedians like  Larry David  and  Jerry Seinfeld , who paid homage
through jokes.  
 Steinbrenner made mistakes, getting himself suspended from
baseball twice. He alienated former players. Most importantly,
he more times than not reached out and made amends.  
 There are countless acts of kindness that we’ll never know
about. He paid college tuitions, never issuing a press release.
Steinbrenner faded from public view later in life, leaving his
sons to run the team.  
 At the 2008 All-Star game, the last at the old Yankee
Stadium, you could see the tears that had escaped Steinbrenner’s
trademark aviator shades. He was moved by the outpouring of
affection from the stands, where fans chanted their thanks to
the man responsible for making the Yankees a winner.  
 Last Breath  
 Steinbrenner used to say that winning was the most
important thing in his life, after breathing. Now that he’s
taken his last breath, it’s time to consider The Boss’s legacy.  
 CC Sabathia, a Yankee since late 2008, said it best. Why
the Yankees, he was asked. Sabathia didn’t hesitate, stating
matter-of-factly that he didn’t want to be the No. 1 pitcher for
a team that didn’t have, or wouldn’t commit, the resources
needed to compete for a championship.  
 “Here,” Sabathia said, “we’re going to get what we
need.”  
 Steinbrenner made sure of that. For not only the millions
of baseball fans in New York, but a 7-year-old kid stuck at the
airport, too.  
 Thanks, Boss.  
 ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist Scott Soshnick reports on the death of New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner.
     Steinbrenner died today in Tampa, Florida, after suffering a heart attack. He was 80. Soshnick speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
