-- Stimulus `Relapse' Beckons for China as Expansion Moderates in Second Half
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-14T02:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/stimulus-relapse-beckons-for-china-as-expansion-moderates-in-second-half.html

          
          
             China’s slowing expansion may
encourage officials to shift policy toward sustaining the
rebound in the economy forecast to account for one-third of
global growth this year.  
 A government report tomorrow will show  gross domestic
product  rose 10.5 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 28 economists, down from an 11.9 percent pace in
January to March. Industrial production and urban fixed-asset
investment are also estimated to have slowed.  
 Falling property prices and risks to European and U.S.
export demand may reduce China’s growth, the fastest among the
Group of 20 nations, and restrain economies across Asia. Premier
 Wen Jiabao  may by year-end move to bolster domestic spending by
loosening quotas limiting bank lending, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  
 “After being one of the first major economies to recover
from the financial crisis, China may now lead the way in easing
tightening measures and putting policy on hold,” said  Ken Peng ,
a Beijing-based economist at Citigroup Inc.  
 Stocks in China and across Asia have retreated the past two
months on concern that China’s tightening measures -- including
guidance to banks to curb lending and toughening mortgage-
lending rules -- will hamper the world’s fastest-growing major
economy. The  Shanghai Composite Index  slid 23 percent last
quarter, and was little changed at 9:08 a.m. local time.  
 Taming Liquidity  
 China’s central bank last week claimed success in reining
in liquidity in the aftermath of a record 9.59 trillion yuan
($1.4 trillion) of lending last year, saying  credit growth  was
“reasonable’ in the first half. June data showed money supply
increasing at a slower pace.  
 Tomorrow’s release may show  consumer prices  rose an annual
3.3 percent in June, the most in 20 months, the Bloomberg survey
median indicates. A Chinese newspaper, the  21st Century Business
Herald , cited market rumors that the number may be 2.9 percent.  
 The jump is influenced by a low base for comparison because
prices fell last year.  Producer prices  gained an estimated 6.8
percent, less than the 7.1 percent in May.  
 Industrial Production  
 Inflation pressures may abate in coming months as the
moderation in growth takes hold. Other figures due tomorrow will
show  industrial output  growth slowed to 15.1 percent in June,
the weakest pace since September after excluding distortions
from Lunar New Year holidays, the survey of economists showed.
 Baosteel Group Corp.,  China’s second-biggest steelmaker, said
July 5 that demand from automakers is declining as the market
weakens.  
 China may ‘‘relapse into policy stimulus” toward the end
of the year as GDP growth cools to about 8 percent, according to
 Mark Williams , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London
and a former adviser on China to the U.K. Treasury.  
 In comparison, the strongest full-year growth expected for
any of the Group of Seven industrialized nations this year is a
3.3 percent expansion in the United States, International
Monetary Fund projections show.  
 China could raise this year’s 7.5 trillion yuan lending
quota by year end, according to Nomura and Morgan Stanley, while
Credit Agricole CIB said July 12 that “modest” extra fiscal
stimulus is possible. Wen’s government in late 2008 adopted an
unprecedented 4 trillion yuan, two-year fiscal package to
safeguard the economy from the global crisis.  
 Global Impact  
 Jorg Decressin , head of the IMF’s world economic studies
division, said in Hong Kong July 8 that China’s expansion will
moderate in the second half, with the slowdown continuing into
2011. That could have a global impact;  the Organization of
Economic Cooperation and Development  in March said China may
contribute a third of 2010 world growth.  
 Officials began using guidance to banks and higher reserve
requirements at lenders to mop up liquidity in the banking
system earlier this year, a monetary tightening echoed across
the region. China has yet to raise interest rates, the main
policy tool used by its central bank counterparts.  
 An acceleration in Singapore’s growth buttressed the case
for authorities there to allow more gains in the currency, their
main monetary-policy tool. Government figures today showed GDP
jumped at a 26 percent annualized pace in the second quarter
from the previous three months after a record 46 percent gain in
January to March.  
 India, Taiwan  
 India announced its third interest-rate increase this year
on July 2, while Taiwan and South Korea have each moved once.
Thailand’s central bank today meets to consider higher rates.
China may also not yet be finished in steps to rein in real-
estate speculation, and Bank of America-Merrill Lynch yesterday
warned “many analysts are underestimating China’s determination
in curbing property prices.”  
 The measures taken so far are paying off. In the first six
months of 2010, China’s new loans fell about 37 percent to 4.63
trillion yuan ($683 billion) from the same period in 2009.
Property prices snapped 15 months of gains in June, sliding 0.1
percent from the previous month.  
 Export  gains may have prevented a deeper slowdown in GDP in
the second quarter, a support that may wane as European policy
makers implement budget cuts and America’s unemployment rate
hovers above 9 percent. A stronger exchange rate could also
reduce the bump from trade, after Wen’s government scrapped the
yuan’s peg to the dollar.  
 Data last week showed the world’s biggest exporting nation
enjoyed a surge in June  shipments  to a record $137 billion and
the trade surplus doubled from a year earlier.  
 Even with export growth remaining “acceptable in the
third-quarter, a fixed-asset investment-led economic slowdown
will nevertheless occur and will dominate the growth outlook,”
said  Ma Jun , a Hong Kong-based economist at Deutsche Bank AG.  
 Tomorrow’s figures may show  urban fixed-asset investment 
climbed 25.2 percent in the first half of this year, compared
with 33.6 percent in the same period in 2009.  
 -- Li Yanping ,  Sophie Leung ,  Jay Wang . Editors:  Chris Anstey ,
 Paul Panckhurst ,  Cherian Thomas .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Customers shop for clothing at a store in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports on China’s economic growth figures due out tomorrow.
     A government report will show gross domestic product rose 10.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists, down from an 11.9 percent pace in January to March. Industrial production and urban fixed-asset investment are also estimated to have slowed. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- William Hess, managing director at China Analytics in Beijing, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the Chinese economy.
     China’s slowing expansion may encourage officials to shift policy toward sustaining the rebound in the economy forecast to account for one-third of global growth this year. A government report tomorrow will show gross domestic product rose 10.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists, down from an 11.9 percent pace in January to March. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Schwartz, chief economist for Asia at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for China's economy and property market.
     China’s slowing expansion may encourage officials to shift policy toward sustaining the rebound in the economy forecast to account for one-third of global growth this year. Falling property prices and risks to European and U.S. export demand may reduce China’s growth, the fastest among the Group of 20 nations, and restrain economies across Asia. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
