-- Stock Market Makers in U.S. Need Tougher Rules After May 6, Brokerages Say
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-07-13T15:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/stock-market-makers-need-tougher-rules-say-brokers-getco-knight-virtu.html

          
          
             Getco LLC,  Knight Capital Group Inc. 
and Virtu Financial LLC told regulators to stiffen rules
governing traders who place orders on stock venues for other
investors to execute against, mandating that market makers quote
at the best price available at least 5 percent of the time.  
 The brokerages also said such firms should be required to
post orders for a specified number of shares at staggered prices
to improve liquidity, and face limits on how wide spreads can be
between their requests to buy and sell. The letter to the
Securities and Exchange Commission added details to proposals
made by Virtu partner  Chris Concannon  in New York last month.  
 A  report  published by the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission in response to the May 6 market plunge that erased
$862 billion in value in 20 minutes found that liquidity dried
up on equity platforms when it was needed most, exacerbating the
 selloff . The SEC and exchanges deployed measures over the last
two months to improve investor confidence such as curbs that
halt trading when stocks swing more than 10 percent.  
 “Particularly in light of May 6, rules for market makers
need to be modernized to provide clarity around the important
role such firms play,” John McCarthy, general counsel at Getco,
said in an e-mailed comment. The firms told the SEC in the July
9 letter that “meaningful reform” of market-makers’
obligations may make equity trading more resilient, especially
in times of “high volatility and price dislocation.”  
 Fragmented Markets  
 The SEC under Chairman  Mary Schapiro  is trying to protect
investors in an increasingly fragmented U.S. stock market while
maintaining liquidity on venues dominated by firms that profit
from computerized trading. Chicago-based Getco, the high-
frequency trading firm founded a decade ago, purchased rights in
February to handle floor trading in 350 New York Stock Exchange
 securities  as a so-called designated market maker.  
 Getco and other automated traders also provide liquidity on
electronic systems run by companies such as Kansas City-based
Bats Global Markets and Direct Edge Holdings LLC in Jersey City,
New Jersey, through computer-driven strategies that produce
hundreds of buy and sell orders every second. High-frequency
traders make up more than 60 percent of U.S. stock volume,
according to research firm Tabb Group LLC in New York.  
 Best Price  
 The letter from Getco, Knight and Virtu said market makers
should be required to match the best available price 5 percent
of the time, echoing statements by Concannon on June 25. Nasdaq
officials are discussing such a proposal with the SEC, according
to  Eric Noll , the company’s executive vice president for
transaction services.  
 The brokerages also said firms should be required to
broaden liquidity in the market by increasing the number of
quotes they provide, posting bids and offers for 200, 500 or
1,000 shares at different levels away from the best price based
on how much a stock is trading for and the average daily volume.  
 A maximum spread between bid and ask levels of liquidity
providers would eliminate stub quotes, or orders to transact
shares that may be as low as pennies. The use of stub quotes,
which are posted to meet regulatory obligations and are never
meant to be hit, led to stocks such as  Accenture Plc  trading for
1 cent on May 6.  
 Steady Profits  
 Exchanges historically relied on securities professionals
to provide prices for investors to trade against, a business
that produced steady profits based on the spread, or difference
between bids to buy and offers to sell. All trading on the
Nasdaq Stock Market went through market makers in the 1990s,
while NYSE specialists could see orders sent to the exchange.  
 Quoting obligations were reduced as the profitability of
market making shrank, primarily due to the narrowing of spreads
by the SEC’s mandate that stocks be listed in increments as
small as 1 cent. The May 6 plunge was “possibly exacerbated by
the withdrawal of liquidity by electronic market makers,” the
SEC and CFTC said in their May 18 report.  
 Market makers profit by trading a lot and earning the
spread in addition to receiving rebates exchanges provide to
firms posting quotes. Those who meet certain requirements also
receive an exemption from the obligation to locate shares for
stocks they want to sell short and better terms for when they
must deliver shares in bearish trades. In a short sale, borrowed
shares are sold with the aim of profiting by later buying back
the stock back at a lower price.  
 Regulatory Audits  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  told the SEC on June 25 that
market makers should be subject to “regulatory audits and other
oversight” and that firms using step-up or flash orders, which
display trading information to some users prior to an execution,
or that engage a high volume of trading should be required to
register as market makers.  
 Goldman Sachs said exchanges should also explore “auto-
quote programs” to ensure that market makers automatically
submit orders according to specific requirements to bridge
“temporary disparities in liquidity.” Such measures to add
liquidity at set price levels in times of stress could prevent
firms from curtailing their activity as happened on May 6,
Goldman said.  
 Stiffer Rules  
 The SEC in January  asked the public  whether firms that pay
to co-locate their computers near the matching engines of
exchanges to reduce the time it takes to send and receive data
should be subject to quoting obligations. Critics have argued
that co-location gives some firms speed advantages over those
whose computers aren’t near the servers of exchanges.  
 In April, RGM Advisors LLC, Allston Trading LLC, Hudson
River Trading LLC and Quantlab Financial LLC  urged the SEC  to
avoid considering quoting obligations for co-located firms. Such
a move would impair liquidity and create a “two-tiered market
that would reduce fair competition,” they said. Exchanges,
which earn money and increase trading by offering co-location
services, also don’t support restrictions.  
 While the letter from Getco and the other firms didn’t say
how market makers should be compensated for complying with
stiffer rules, it said their obligations and benefits should be
“balanced.” It added that “appropriate economic and market
structure benefits” should be considered in connection with any
new rules.  
 Getco is one of the largest U.S. trading firms. As a
supplemental liquidity provider in 1,000 stocks on NYSE, it
provides orders at the best bid or offer more than 40 percent of
the day, the firm  told  the SEC in April. The company is also a
market maker that has more stringent obligations on NYSE.  
 While no market-maker rules could have prevented the events
of May 6, Getco, Knight and Virtu told the SEC that new mandates
could greatly lessen the risk of “another destabilizing event”
of that magnitude occurring.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        