-- Stroer to Price Its Initial Public Offering Close to Mid-Point of Range
-- Alex Webb
-- 2010-07-13T15:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/stroer-may-raise-354-million-ipo-after-price-narrowed-orders-now-filled.html

          
          
             Stroer Out-of-Home Media AG  will
price shares in its initial public offering close to the mid-
point of the original range, the terms of the offering show.  
 The price for the shares, which will be listed in Frankfurt
on July 15, was narrowed to between 20 euros and 20.50 euros
apiece from the original range of 17 euros to 24 euros, the
terms showed. The price range was earlier narrowed to between 19
euros and 21 euros. Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
managing the offer, and the books for investor orders closed at
3 p.m. in London today.  
 Stroer received enough orders for all the stock on sale
including the overallotment option earlier today, according to
two people familiar with the matter, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The listing
will value the company at between 865 million euros ($1.1
billion) and 879 million euros, according to one of the people.  
 Stroer has said that it will use the proceeds from the IPO,
which may total 275 million euros excluding the over-allotment
option, to repay debt, fund acquisitions in Turkey and Poland
and to buy new digital billboards. Stroer is Germany’s biggest
outdoor advertiser, according to the company’s  website .  
 Udo Mueller , chairman of the management board, and Dirk
Stroer, whose father Heinz Stroer co-founded the company along
with Mueller in a Berlin garage in 1990, currently own 42.5
percent of the company each. The remaining 15 percent is held by
Saberasu Japan Investments II B. V., a Baarn, Netherlands-based
entity controlled by Cerberus Capital Investments, according to
the IPO prospectus. Saberasu will be selling its entire stake in
the company, while Mueller and Dirk Stroer will both buy more
shares.  
 Stroer is one of 58 European companies to have filed an IPO
with regulators in the past three months, the highest number
since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. European IPOs have
increased by an average of 3.5 percent this year, in comparison
with a slide of 7.6 percent for new listings in the U.S.,
according to the data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb21@bloomberg.net 
 Adam Haigh  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        