-- Sudan's Army Says It Drove JEM Rebels Out of New Base in Darfur Region
-- Maram Mazen
-- 2010-07-13T10:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/sudan-s-army-says-it-drove-jem-rebels-out-of-new-base-in-darfur-region.html

          
          
             Sudan’s army drove fighters from the
 Justice and Equality Movement  from a base in the western region
of Darfur yesterday, army spokesman Al Sawarmi Khaled said. The
rebel movement denied the claims.  
 Security forces attacked the Adoula area between North and
South Darfur states after JEM started to use it as a new base,
Khaled said by phone from Khartoum, the capital. The army had
captured JEM’s previous stronghold, Jebel Moon, on May 14.  
 “The armed forces conducted an operation to end the
presence of the Justice and Equality Movement in the area,”
Khaled said. “The armed forces will continue chasing them away
wherever they are.”  
 Peace talks between the two sides collapsed after Sudan’s
President  Umar Al-Bashir  and his party won presidential and
national elections in April. The conflict in Darfur has claimed
about 300,000 lives, mainly due to illness and starvation, and
forced more than 2 million people to flee their homes, according
to United Nations estimates.  
 El Tahir El Feki, chairman of JEM’s legislative council,
denied any clashes had taken place yesterday, saying that the
rebel movement had already left the area after firefights with
the army between June 3 and June 18.  
 “This is propaganda to lift the army’s spirit after we
defeated them in more than one location,” he said today by
phone from London.  
 Khaled said there were no details on casualties from the
fighting, which lasted about one hour in the Awateel area. JEM
rebels moved to the north toward the Libyan-Sudanese border
after the clashes, he said.  
 Violence in Darfur escalated in 2003 when mostly African
rebels took up arms against the government in Khartoum, accusing
it of marginalizing the region. The government has put the
violence-related death toll at 10,000.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        