-- U.K. Has EU States' Support to Host Bank Authority in London, Osborne Says
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-07-13T17:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/u-k-s-osborne-says-he-has-support-to-host-eu-bank-supervisor-in-london.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said Britain has support from other European
Union nations to base a proposed European banking supervisor in
London, rather than Frankfurt.  
 The “key U.K. requirements” for the European Banking
Authority include situating it in London “rather than moving it
to Frankfurt,” Osborne told journalists in Brussels today. “I
don’t feel isolated, we have support from other member states.”  
 The European Banking Authority would replace the  Committee
of European Banking Supervisors , or CEBS, which coordinates
national agencies and is based in London. It’s scheduled to be
operating by the start of next year, along with planned European
authorities for the securities and insurance industries.  
 The  European Parliament ,  European Commission  and national
governments are debating what powers the planned European
banking regulator should have over national watchdogs that
oversee cross-border banks and on where it should be based. The
parliament wants the agency based in Germany.  
 “We’re very clear that we don’t want to see an EU
supervisory authority get into the day-to-day supervision of
firms,” Osborne said.  
 Finance ministers from the 27-nation EU discussed the
supervisory package, proposed by the  European Commission  in
2009, at their meeting.  
 “The goal is to have European financial supervision in
place on Jan. 1,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said in Brussels today. Osborne has gone “to great lengths to
get an agreement.”  
 Talks Tomorrow  
 Talks with European Parliament lawmakers will resume
tomorrow, said Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  at a
press conference after today’s meeting. Belgium holds the
rotating European Union presidency.  
 “I think we are not far away from an agreement,”  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services commissioner,
said in an interview yesterday.  
 The parliament last week postponed votes on the creation of
the European authorities to allow more time for an agreement to
be reached.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        