-- U.K. Budget Raises Chance of Double-Dip Recession, Forecaster Dicks Says
-- Thomas Penny
-- 2010-07-13T15:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/u-k-budget-raises-chance-of-double-dip-recession-forecaster-dicks-says.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
planned budget cuts increases the chance the economy will slip
back into recession, said  Geoffrey Dicks , who heads economic
forecasting at Britain’s new fiscal watchdog.  
 Responding to questions during a parliamentary hearing in
London today, Dicks said measures proposed in the June 22 budget
led his office to shave 0.5 percentage points from its growth
forecast in the “near term.” His Office for Budget
Responsibility predicts an expansion of 1.2 percent in 2010.  
 “There are some budget measures which will have reduced
demand,” Dicks told the Treasury Committee, which scrutinizes
economic policy. “The near-term outlook for GDP is not as good
as it was before the budget. I still don’t think that will mean
a double dip, but logically the chances of that happening have
increased.”  
 The U.K.  economy grew  0.3 percent in the first quarter. The
Bank of England kept its bond-purchase plan in place and left
its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low last week to aid the
recovery as the government implements the biggest budget squeeze
since World War II and growth in the euro region slows.  
 Last month’s budget outlined proposals to cut spending and
raise taxes by as much as 40 billion pounds ($60 billion) a
year. Together with plans set out by Labour Party predecessors,
the measures will suck 113 billion pounds out of the economy by
2015. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is due to spell
out budgets for individual departments in the fall.  
 ‘Slips Back’  
 “It’s always possible under any scenario to have a couple
of quarters where output slips back, but it’s not a part of our
central forecast, it’s not something we are looking for,” said
Dicks, former chief U.K. economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  
 Challenged over Dicks’s comments, Chief Secretary to the
Treasury  Danny Alexander  told lawmakers that the budget will
lead to rising growth and employment and falling unemployment.  
 European finance ministers meeting in Brussels today
welcomed last month’s U.K. budget and the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said the
U.K. must make sure it now implements its consolidation plan.  
 The OBR’s interim chairman,  Alan Budd , said the economy is
operating below its long-term potential and that he expects the
Bank of England to support growth, provided inflation remains in
check.  
 ‘Below Trend’  
 “The economy is some way below trend,” he told lawmakers.
“We don’t completely agree with the Monetary Policy Committee
about how low below trend we are.”  
 The OBR was established by Osborne after the May 6 election
to enhance the credibility of the government’s economic and
fiscal forecasts. Budd has struggled to convince lawmakers that
his office operates without the interference of ministers.  
 Budd denied that he came under pressure from ministers to
publish a lower estimate for public-sector job losses than
leaked Treasury documents suggested, saying “there was no
conspiracy or pressure on us to change the numbers and no
pressure on us to bring forward publication.”  
 The decision to release the figures a day earlier than
planned “was completely ours,” Budd said. “We thought it
correct to release the numbers.”  
 The OBR predicts Britain will lose 490,000 public-sector
jobs by April 2015, 160,000 of them as a result of the June
budget, according to  new data  released by the office today.  
 The projections contrast with OBR estimates published on
June 30 that Cameron used to claim that the budget would lead to
fewer public-sector job losses over the next three years than
Labour had planned. The OBR now predicts public-sector
employment would have been higher under Labour.  
 Departmental spending cuts alone would lead to the loss of
260,000 government jobs by 2015 while payroll-cost restrictions
spare 100,000, the OBR said. More than 600,000 jobs will go by
2016, it said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        