-- U.K. Inflation Slows to 3.2%, Declining Less Than Forecast by Economists
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-07-13T08:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/u-k-inflation-slowed-less-than-economists-forecast-in-june.html

          
          
             U.K.  inflation  slowed less than
economists forecast in June as higher costs of goods from fuel
to food kept the rate of price increases above the government’s
3 percent limit.  
 Consumer prices rose 3.2 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 3.4 percent in May, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. Economists predicted 3.1
percent, according to the median of 27 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey.  
 The persistence of inflation may bolster the case of Bank
of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance , who made the first push
to raise the interest rate in almost two years in June.
Officials this month kept up emergency stimulus and held the
benchmark at a record low to aid the recovery during the deepest
public spending cuts in half a century.  
 “The key issue at the moment is the potential buildup of
inflation expectations and that’s clearly what Andrew Sentance
is mindful of,”  Mark Miller , an economist at Lloyds TSB
Corporate Markets, said in a telephone interview. “Our central
view remains that slack in the economy will bear down on price
pressures and that the Bank of England will keep interest rates
on hold until the early part of next year.”  
 The pound rose more than 0.2 percent against the dollar
after the report, and traded at $1.5042 as of 9:43 a.m. in
London. The benchmark two-year government bond was up 2 basis
points today at 0.743 percent.  
 On the month, consumer prices rose 0.1 percent, compared
with the median prediction for no change, according to 23
economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Transport, Restaurants  
 The gain in the inflation rate was led by transport because
of higher fuel and lubricant costs, and restaurants and hotels,
the statistics office said. All categories of prices increased
apart from clothing and footwear, which was discounted during
seasonal sales.  
 Domino’s Pizza U.K. & Ireland Plc, Britain’s biggest pizza
delivery company, said July 12 it was “mindful of underlying
food price inflationary pressures and the effect this could have
on our franchisees if these increases were passed on.”  
 Core inflation, which excludes the cost of food, tobacco,
alcohol and energy prices, accelerated to 3.1 percent from 2.9
percent in May, the statistics office said. The result matched
the highest since records began in 1997.  
 Consumers’ expectations for price increases rose to 3
percent last month, the highest since September 2008, Citigroup
Inc. said June 30, citing a YouGov Plc poll.  
 Rate Argument  
 Sentance argued last month that the benchmark interest rate
should be raised a quarter point from 0.5 percent to counter
signs faster inflation has created “upward pressure” on price
expectations. Sentance will deliver a speech later today in
Reading, England.  
 Minutes of this month’s decision, showing how Sentance and
his colleagues voted in July on the rate and their decision to
keep the bond purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($300
billion), will be published July 21.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said July 11 his
plan to cut 85 billion pounds from expenditures is necessary to
tackle a deficit that poses the “clearest threat” to the
U.K.’s economic recovery.  
 Gross domestic product  growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the
first quarter from 0.4 percent in the final three months of
2009. The International Monetary Fund last week cut its forecast
for U.K. growth to 1.2 percent this year and 2.1 percent in 2011
from an April projection for 1.3 percent and 2.5 percent.  
 Retail price inflation, a measure of living costs used in
wage negotiations, slowed to 5 percent in June from 5.1 percent
the previous month, the statistics office said. Excluding
mortgage-interest payments it was 5 percent, down from 5.1
percent. Economists had predicted 4.9 percent for measures,
according to Bloomberg News surveys.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of England policy maker Andrew Sentance who made the first push to raise the interest rate in almost two years in June. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
