-- U.K. Bust Needs Big Spender: Victoria Chick and Ann Pettifor
-- Ann Pettifor
-- 2010-07-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/u-k-bust-needs-big-spender-commentary-by-victoria-chick-and-ann-pettifor.html

          
          
             Until recently, there was almost
complete agreement on the need for a period of synchronized
austerity across Europe. This consensus, at a time of private-
sector weakness and banking fragility, is very worrying.  
 But  Alan Budd ’s resignation as chairman of the British
government’s newly established Office of Budget Responsibility,
coupled with a growing number of dissenting voices, suggests a
fault line in this consensus. Nevertheless even most of those
who dissent do so not because they support fiscal stimulus but
only because they fear that a “consolidation” is premature.  
 Today’s dominant doctrine, espoused by  George Osborne , the
new chancellor of the Exchequer, is even more severe than the
“Treasury view” of the 1920s and ‘30s, which merely stood in
the way of increases in expenditure.  
 Keynes’s approach to widespread economic failure and his
critical role in triggering recovery after 1934 have been
entirely disregarded. In the Great Depression of the 1930s, he
confronted the Treasury view that increases in public
expenditure would divert resources from private business.  
 He developed a theory showing that, in an economy with
spare productive capacity and  unemployment  of labor, government
expenditure would create employment. Keynes advocated increasing
investment expenditure rather than encouraging consumption.
Expenditure by the newly employed would then create private-
sector economic activity by a multiple of the original
expenditure. This was “the multiplier.”  
 Recovered Costs  
 Certainly some of the new income would go overseas, but in
a depression very little goes into increased prices. Government
costs would be recovered through new flows of income. There
would be new tax revenue and savings on benefit expenditure.  
 It may seem obvious that if you want to  cut debt , you cut
expenditure, but Keynes showed that the government finances were
very different from a household budget. For him, macroeconomic
outcomes were often the reverse of outcomes based on
microeconomic reasoning.  
 Keynes was instrumental in the development of national
accounts, which give us the opportunity to test his conclusions.
Combining the official estimates with British economist  Charles
Feinstein ’s invaluable historical estimates permits an analysis
of the impacts of fiscal policy over the past century.  
 Two Periods  
 Up to 1947, episodes are defined according to whether
government expenditure (final consumption and investment) is
expanding or contracting. After 1947, expenditure increased
every year. But in 1976, U.K. Prime Minister  James Callaghan 
turned to the International Monetary Fund for help, and
expenditure growth slowed to almost zero. So, the years since
World War II are split into two periods: before 1976 and after.  
 This leads to eight episodes over which changes in the
public debt (as a percentage of gross domestic product) can be
compared with those in public expenditure. The results stand
wholly opposed to the conventional wisdom.  
 For example, after World War I (1918-23, including the
years of the so-called  Geddes Axe ) public expenditure was cut to
480 million pounds from 1.85 billion, but the public debt rose
to 180 percent of GDP from 114 percent.  
 During the early years of the Great Depression (1931-1933),
expenditure fell to 510 million pounds from 580 million and
government debt increased to 183 percent of GDP from 173
percent. Conversely, from 1934, the government began to expand
expenditure and the public debt fell.  
 From 1947 to 1975, when government spent freely on the
 National Health Service , public housing and education, the
public debt fell each year. The first increase in debt coincides
with the 1976 fiscal consolidation.  
 Remarkable Results  
 Comparing for each episode the average annual change in the
public debt as a  share of GDP  and the average annual growth in
government expenditure in cash terms, we have results that are
perhaps even more remarkable than Keynes might have imagined.
There is a very strong relationship between changes in
government expenditure and the public debt.  
 But, outside the two world wars, the relationship goes in
the opposite direction to that predicted by most commentators:
Increases in public expenditure are associated with reductions
in public debt. Very roughly, so long as there is unemployment,
for every percentage rise in government expenditure, the public
debt falls by half a percent, and vice-versa. This is very
compelling evidence in favor of Keynes’s insights.  
 Osborne’s economic policies will, if sustained for any
length of time, not only increase U.K. unemployment and social
dislocation, but they will also increase the public debt. Sooner
or later, governments, financial markets and international
authorities will be forced to recognize the validity of Keynes’s
analysis, just as they were forced to do in the 1930s.  
 The present course will cause unnecessary harm to the U.K.
economy. The only rational response is to change direction
immediately.  
 ( Victoria Chick  is emeritus professor of economics at
University College London.  Ann Pettifor  is a fellow of the
London-based New Economics Foundation and a director of Advocacy
International Ltd. The opinions expressed are their own.)  
 To contact the writers of this column:
Victoria Chick at  v.chick@ucl.ac.uk 
Ann Pettifor at  georgia@advocacyinternational.co.uk   
          
          


  


        