-- U.K. House Prices May Decline as Cuts Sap Confidence
-- Peter Woodifield
-- 2010-07-14T09:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/u-k-house-prices-may-decline-as-government-cutbacks-undermine-confidence.html

          
          
             U.K. house prices probably will fall
the rest of the year as government spending cuts hurt consumer
confidence and homeowners try to repay  debt , according to
economists and property brokers.  
 “Things aren’t looking too great for the next few
months,” said  Fionnuala Earley , senior economist at  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc , which predicts that house prices will
fall 1 percent for the whole year. “We’re seeing increases in
supply, consumer confidence weakening, and we are going to see
real squeezes on disposable spending.”  
 The government’s plan to reduce the U.K. deficit by
slashing public-sector jobs and raising taxes may wipe out gains
in property values from the first half of the year, said  Lucian Cook , research director at  Savills Plc  in London. A shortage of
mortgage financing will also curtail demand for homes, he said.  
 U.K. house values  rose 3 percent  in the first half,
according to Nationwide Building Society, the U.K.’s largest
customer-owned lender. Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s  Halifax 
mortgage unit, Britain’s biggest provider of home loans,
estimates that they fell 1.6 percent.  
 “Prices have outstripped expectations,” said  Philip Shaw ,
chief economist at Investec Securities in London. “There
doesn’t appear to be much momentum in starting this half of the
year.”  
 Values  slumped 23 percent from the peak of the boom in
September 2007 to the trough in April of last year after losses
on U.S. subprime mortgages led global credit markets to seize
up, according to Halifax. They are currently at the level they
were five years ago.  
 Costlier Loans  
 Now mortgages are more expensive and harder to obtain for
borrowers who can’t afford a down payment of at least 25
percent.  
 When the market was at its peak, banks were providing loans
as large as five times a borrower’s salary. That helped lift the
average house price to a record 6.2 times earnings, compared
with the long-term average of 3.7 times, according to  Capital
Economics Ltd.  That ratio has since fallen to 5.2.  
 At the height of the U.K.’s previous housing boom that
ended in 1989, the ratio was only 4.7. Values slumped 13 percent
during the next four years. They didn’t return to pre-crash
levels until January 1998, almost nine years later, even before
adjusting for inflation.  
 “Prices are still overpriced relative to incomes,” said
Paul Diggle, a housing economist at London-based Capital
Economics. “We think they will decline 5 percent this year as a
whole and our forecast is for falls in the next couple of
years.”  
 Limited Repossessions  
 Foreclosure rates have risen more slowly than projections
by the Council of Mortgage Lenders, as the Bank of England kept
its benchmark interest rate at a  record low  of 0.5 percent since
March 2009. That has allowed homeowners to keep paying off their
mortgages and helped limit repossessions.  
 Britons have been paying down debt on concern about job
losses and government spending cuts. Consumer debt fell in May
for a third straight month to its lowest level in six months,
according to the Bank of England. Unsecured borrowing is at its
lowest level since September 2007.  
 Claimants for jobless benefits  in the U.K. have almost
doubled since March 2008 to 1.46 million in June. They may climb
to 1.66 million by the end of 2010, according to the average of
38  forecasts  compiled by the U.K. Treasury last month. That is
260,000 fewer than the forecasters predicted in November.  
 Even so, Shaw said last month that the housing-market
recovery in the first half may falter because mortgage approvals
remain at 45 percent of their long-term average.  
 Transactions Slow  
 There were 25 percent fewer house sales in the first five
months of 2010 than in the previous five, according to Savills,
the U.K.’s largest publicly traded real estate broker.  
 “Undoubtedly, prices will fall in the second half,” said
Savills’s Cook. “There is more stock coming to the market than
people looking to buy.”  
 At best, Savills expects prices to end the year unchanged
from 2009.  
 The number of real-estate brokers and surveyors saying that
new buyer inquiries fell exceeded those reporting gains by 5
percentage points in June, the Royal Institution of Chartered
Surveyors reported yesterday. A measure of future price
expectations decreased to minus 4 in June, the weakest result
since May 2009.  
 For Sale  
 The government’s decision in May to scrap the requirement
for sellers to provide Home Information Packs resulted in a 22
percent surge in properties being put up for sale in June,
Rightmove Plc, the operator of Britain’s biggest property
website, said last month.  
 The number of unsold houses and apartments is at the
highest level in 21 months, which may force down prices, and
increased capital-gains taxes may also deter buyers, according
to  Rightmove .  
 There is a 70 percent chance that U.K. house prices,
adjusted for inflation, will be below their peak 2007 levels in
2015 and a 50 percent chance they will still lag in 2020,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said yesterday.  
 Overall projections for Britain’s housing market mask
significant regional differences. In the first quarter, gains in
London and southeast England outpaced other parts of the U.K.,
according to Halifax. Values in the capital climbed 6.4 percent
from the previous quarter to an average of 273,647 pounds
($415,000). That exceeded the  nationwide increase  of 0.6 percent
to 168,105 pounds.  
 In the West Midlands, prices rose 0.8 percent to an average
of 155,716 pounds. In the northwest of England, they fell 1.6
percent to 126,303 pounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A for sale sign stands outside a residential property in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
