-- U.S. Stocks Jump on Strength of Alcoa Earnings
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-07-13T20:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-alcoa-earnings-report-chevron-gains.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks surged, extending the 
longest rally for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in three
months,  as improving outlooks from companies such as Alcoa Inc. 
and Novellus Systems Inc. bolstered confidence in the economy.  
 Alcoa Inc., the biggest U.S. aluminum producer and the
first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report
second-quarter results, gained 1.2 percent as sales and profit
exceeded analysts’ estimates and the company forecast stronger
global demand. Novellus rose 5.8 percent. ADC Telecommunications
Inc. jumped 41 percent after agreeing to be bought. All 10
industry groups in the S&P 500 advanced, led by financial firms.  
 The  S&P 500  climbed 1.5 percent to 1,095.34 as of 4 p.m. in
New York as all but 25 of its companies rose. The index closed 
higher for a sixth straight day for the first time since April. 
The  Dow  rallied 146.75 points, or 1.4 percent, to 10,363.02. 
Both gauges closed at the highest levels since June 21.  
 “You basically had companies report not just good
quarters, but good guidance,” said  Eric Green , director of
research at Penn Capital Management in Philadelphia, which
oversees $5 billion. “Not much caution about the future, which
is what everybody had feared the last several weeks.”  
 All four S&P 500 companies that reported results from the
market’s close yesterday through the start of trading this
morning topped the average analyst estimate for per-share profit
in Bloomberg surveys. Novellus Systems Inc. advanced, while CSX
Corp. and Fastenal Co. retreated, both for the first time in
five days.  
 Novellus, Intel  
 Novellus gained 5.8 percent to $28.26. The maker of
semiconductor equipment said it expects 2012 revenue to exceed
$1.8 billion. Two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated $1.51
billion, on average.  
 After the market closed,  Intel Corp. , the world’s largest
computer-chip maker, beat analyst estimates for second-quarter
sales and profit, reporting record sales. It forecast third-
quarter revenue above the average estimate. Intel is among 23
companies in the index to announce results this week. The shares
gained 5.2 percent to $22.10 in after-hours trading.  
  Profits  for S&P 500 companies are projected to have
increased 34 percent in the second quarter and by the same
amount in 2010, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.   
 “Everyone’s already looking for a very good second quarter
in terms of earnings season,” said  Kevin Bannon , chief
investment officer at Highmount Capital LLC in New York, which
manages $1.8 billion. “To help push the market forward is going
to be a function of what managements say about the outlook.”  
 Greek Borrowing  
 U.S. stock futures rallied before the start of trading as
Greece sold 1.63 billion euros ($2.1 billion) of 26-week
Treasury bills at a rate below the 5 percent charged by the
European Union for its bailout package, easing concern the
nation faces punitive costs to borrow.  
 U.S. stocks rose yesterday, adding to gains from the
 biggest weekly rally  in a year for the S&P 500, as analyst
upgrades of technology companies boosted optimism before the
start of the earnings season. The main benchmark for U.S. stocks
has rebounded more than 7 percent from a 10-month low on July 2.
It’s still down about 1.8 percent on the year, and 10 percent
since closing at a 19-month high on April 23.  
 Stock markets around the world have declined since mid-
April amid concern about the sustainability of the global
economic recovery as European governments attempt to cut budget
deficits, China takes steps to avoid asset bubbles and growth in
U.S. service and manufacturing industries slows.  
 Fed’s Tools  
 Two Federal Reserve officials said yesterday that the
central bank has no plans to deploy additional tools for
stimulating the economy and that the recovery is intact.  
 The U.S.  trade deficit  unexpectedly widened 4.8 percent to
$42.3 billion in May, the highest level since November 2008, as
a gain in imports outpaced growth in exports, Commerce
Department figures showed. The deficit was projected to narrow
to $39 billion, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  
  Alcoa , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, gained 1.2
percent to $11. The company said after trading hours yesterday
that rising sales of aluminum for packaging and commercial
transportation helped it report per-share  earnings  of 13 cents,
exceeding the 11-cent average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Global aluminum consumption will gain 12 percent
this year, compared with the company’s previous forecast of 10
percent, Alcoa said.  
 Materials Companies  
 Materials companies in the S&P 500 rose 2.2 percent as a
group, and the financial, consumer discretionary, industrial,
technology and energy groups also rose at least 1.2 percent.  
 Chevron Corp.  led gains in energy companies, rising 1.9
percent to $73.23. The second-largest U.S. energy producer
forecast higher earnings in the second quarter compared with the
previous three months. Separately, Chevron applied for a permit
to explore for natural gas in shale deposits in northeastern
Bulgaria near the Romanian border.  
 ADC Telecommunications jumped 41 percent to $12.52. Tyco
Electronics Ltd., the world’s biggest maker of electronic
connectors, will pay $12.75 a share for the maker of broadband
equipment, 44 percent more than ADC’s closing price yesterday.  
 Yesterday, Aon Corp., the world’s largest insurance broker,
agreed to buy Hewitt Associates Inc., a pay and benefits
consulting firm. Takeover news “is reminding people that stocks
could be very cheap here,” Highmount’s Bannon said.  
 AIG, Invesco  
 American International Group Inc. rose 6.8 percent to
$37.99, the most in the S&P 500. The insurer’s board will likely
decide to sell its AIA unit in an initial public offering at a
meeting scheduled this week, Reuters reported, citing people who
are directly involved in the matter.  
 Invesco Ltd. climbed 6.5 percent to $19.43. The manager of
mutual funds and PowerShares exchange-traded funds reported
assets under management of $557.7 billion as of June 30, topping
William Blair & Co.’s estimate of $540.4 billion.  
 Apple Inc. , the maker of iPhone mobile phones and the
company with the second-biggest weighting in the index, fell 2.1
percent to $251.80 for the third-biggest drop in the S&P 500.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Apple’s iPhone 4 is getting
“prolonged negative” public relations after failing to win
Consumer Reports’ recommendation. Mike Gikas, senior electronics
editor for Consumer Reports, said yesterday tests confirmed the
handset has a hardware flaw that causes signal quality to
degrade.  
 CSX, the third-largest U.S. railroad by 2009 revenue,
declined 1.4 percent to $51.72. Fastenal, a distributor of
industrial and construction supplies, fell 4.1 percent to
$50.44.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New Yor. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Belski, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about his investment strategy in U.S. stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Scott Black, president of Delphi Management Inc., discusses the U.S. stock market. (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard & Poor’s, discusses the outlook for corporate earnings and dividends.
     Silverblatt speaks with Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
