-- U.S. Election-Year Pressures Might Sink Carbon Cap Legislation, Kerry Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-07-13T17:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/u-s-election-year-pressures-might-sink-carbon-cap-legislation-kerry-says.html

          
          
             U.S. lawmakers might be too focused
on elections in November to approve legislation this year that
charges power plants and other industrial companies a price for
releasing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, said Senator  John Kerry , a leading advocate of the pollution-cutting plan.  
 The U.S. Senate, which is expected to take up an energy
bill within weeks, has “very little time” left this year to
debate legislation, Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, told
reporters in Washington yesterday.  
 Lawmakers face “a lot of pressures, including election
pressures, and we’re just going to have to kind of be
realistic” about which energy proposals can win enough votes to
become law this year, he said.  
 Kerry has led an effort to revamp cap-and-trade legislation
that stalled in the Senate after narrowly passing the U.S. House
last year. Under cap-and-trade, power plants, refineries and
factories buy and sell a declining number of government-issued
pollution allowances to cut back carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases scientists have linked to climate change.  
 Kerry said he hasn’t given up hope of adding carbon caps to
the energy legislation that Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, plans to bring up before lawmakers leave
Washington in early August for a month to campaign in their home
states before November’s elections.  
 Reid has said the bill will respond to the  BP Plc  oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico and boost “clean-energy” alternatives to
fossil fuels like coal and oil. Kerry has led a group of
Democrats in arguing that alternative energy will benefit most
from a revamped version of the House cap-and-trade bill.  
 No Limits Plan  
 Other Democrats, including North Dakota’s  Byron Dorgan , are
supporting a plan without carbon dioxide limits that would
require utilities to buy more electricity from renewable sources
like wind turbines and toughen energy-efficiency standards.  
 Dorgan told reporters yesterday that the carbon market
created by cap-and-trade legislation is the wrong way for the
U.S. government to bring down greenhouse gases.  
 “I don’t support cap-and-trade,” Dorgan said.  
 With the “very limited time left” to debate legislation
this year, lawmakers should instead try to pass a bill that
includes the renewable-electricity and energy-efficiency
mandates, both of which will help reduce U.S. greenhouse gas
emissions, Dorgan said.  
 President  Barack Obama  supported the House cap-and-trade
bill and in a June 2 speech said the Senate should also pass
legislation that puts “a price on carbon pollution.” Obama
later said in a June 15 speech from the Oval Office that he’s
also open to “other ideas” that would make the U.S. economy
less dependent on fossil fuels.  
 Energy Tax  
 Many Republicans have said House and Senate cap-and-trade
proposals would amount to a national energy tax. Some Democrats
have also criticized the climate-change measures as having the
potential to drive up energy costs and cost jobs as the U.S.
economy emerges from the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  
 Kerry, who has already offered to scale back the cap-and-
trade proposal in a bid to win more support from Democratic and
Republican senators, has said consumers would be shielded from
higher energy costs under his plan. He’s also said government
limits on carbon dioxide will create jobs by spurring investment
in new energy technologies that cut pollution.  
 Kerry ‘Very Optimistic’  
 Kerry said yesterday he’ll keep pressing for carbon caps to
be included in this year’s energy legislation and “we’ll see
where we come out.” Still, Kerry said he’s also willing to
support other clean-energy proposals.  
 “I’m very optimistic that we can pass something here that
deals with energy and gets us started in the right direction,
and if that’s the best we can do, that’s the best we can do,”
he said.  
 The renewable-electricity and energy-efficiency mandates
supported by Dorgan and other Democrats are part of a bill that
cleared the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee last
year. The committee’s chairman, New Mexico Democrat  Jeff Bingaman , has also examined scaling back a U.S. cap-and-trade
program to cover power plants at first.  
 Bingaman Plan  
 Bingaman has proposed cutting power-plant emissions 17
percent from their 2005 level by 2020, according to a discussion
draft of his proposal, compared to the 17 percent cut from most
sectors of the economy under previous House and Senate climate-
change bills.  
 Under his plan, factories could voluntarily join the cap-
and-trade program, which would start in 2012. The minimum price
for pollution allowances, each representing one metric ton of
carbon dioxide, would start at $10 each with a maximum of $25.  
 Bingaman has said he doubts there are enough votes for a
scaled-back cap-and-trade proposal to pass the Senate this year.  
 The discussion draft was written in April,  Bill Wicker ,
Bingaman’s spokesman, said in an e-mail. While it has been
updated since then, the energy committee chairman “still has no
immediate plans to introduce a sector-specific bill” that caps
carbon dioxide emissions, Wicker said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         
             Chart:  Cap-and-Trade Explained
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
