-- U.S. Asks Courts to Dismiss Lawsuit Over Deep-Water Drilling Moratorium
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-13T14:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/u-s-asks-courts-to-dismiss-oil-industry-challenge-to-deep-water-drill-ban.html

          
          
             Two New Orleans courts were asked by
Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  to dismiss an industry
lawsuit challenging a U.S. deep-water drilling moratorium after
the government issued a new temporary ban.  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans on June
22 threw out the six-month ban imposed by federal regulators on
oil and gas drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet, finding it
was too broad. A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans on July 8 refused
regulators’ request to put Feldman’s order on hold while the
government appeals.  
 Yesterday, Salazar issued a revised ban that may allow new
wells if the industry shows it has raised safety standards. The
new policy replaces the earlier ban and renders the challenge to
it moot, U.S. Justice Department lawyers said yesterday in
filings with both courts in New Orleans.  
 The first drilling suspension “has been revoked and
superseded by a new directive” based on additional information,
separate analysis and a separate administrative record, lawyers
for the U.S. said in the district court filing. The lawsuit
should be withdrawn “because the decision challenged by the
plaintiffs’ complaint no longer exists,” the U.S. said.  
 Deadline  
 The New Orleans appeals court gave a July 26 deadline for
opponents of the moratorium to respond to the government’s
request to dismiss their lawsuit, according to the court’s Web
site.  
 President  Barack Obama  initially imposed a six-month
suspension on deep-water drilling in reaction to the  BP Plc  oil
spill, the worst in U.S. history, caused by the sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana coast in April.
Obama said the moratorium is needed to give a presidential
commission time to study offshore operations safety.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and more than a dozen other
offshore service and supply companies sued U.S. regulators,
including Salazar, last month, seeking to block the moratorium.  
 “We’ve just received the decision memorandum of the
government,”  Carl Rosenblum , Hornbeck’s lawyer, said in a phone
interview. “We’re still evaluating it, but we have substantial
concerns about whether it is consistent with Judge Feldman’s
order.”  
 Governor Joins Suit  
 The offshore companies were joined in the lawsuit by
Louisiana’s Governor  Bobby Jindal  and Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell , who said the drilling suspension is turning an
“environmental disaster into an economic catastrophe.”  
 Government lawyers told Feldman the ban was based on
findings in a U.S. report on the Deepwater Horizon. Feldman said
the six-month ban was too broad a response to its investigation.  
 In rejecting the government’s first drilling moratorium,
Feldman said it failed to set a firm end date, failed to consult
with state governments or business interests affected by the
ban, and shut down all floating rigs when individual rigs might
have been able to continue working with heightened regulatory
oversight.  
 Lawyers for the U.S. said yesterday that Salazar’s new
rules “addressed the concerns” raised by Feldman. The new
rules establish a cut-off date, include increased analysis of
the reasons for the standards, and would allow individual rigs
to go back to work when they meet new unspecified safety and
environmental requirements.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        