-- UBS Hires McLoughlin From National Public to Head Municipal-Bond Research
-- Esme E. Deprez
-- 2010-07-13T19:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/ubs-hires-mcloughlin-from-national-public-to-head-municipal-bond-research.html

          
          
             UBS Financial Services Inc. said it
hired  Thomas G. McLoughlin , former chief executive officer of
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., as head of municipal
bond research for its Wealth Management Americas unit.  
 McLoughlin will lead a team of municipal analysts at the
firm, a unit of Zurich-based  UBS AG  with about $680 billion in
assets under management. Based in New York, he will also join
UBS’s Wealth Management Research Management Committee, said UBS
spokesman  Kris Kagel . The appointment takes effect July 26.  
 McLoughlin led National Public, the municipal-bond
insurance unit of MBIA Inc., since its formation in February
2009, according to a National Public statement.  William C. Fallon , president and chief operating officer at Armonk, New
York-based MBIA, owner of the largest bond insurer, will become
interim CEO at National Public, the statement said.  
 “Given the ongoing challenges that municipalities are
dealing with across the United States, the need for research on
this important investment sector has never been greater,” wrote
 John Brown , head of Wealth Management Solutions at UBS, and
Wealth Management Research head  Mike Ryan  in an internal memo to
employees announcing the decision today.  
 McLoughlin joined MBIA in 1994 and formerly headed global
public finance, global transportation and infrastructure as well
as the company’s western region, according to National Public.
Prior to MBIA he was vice president at money manager Legg Mason
Inc. and before that a municipal securities analyst in public
finance at Moody’s Investors Service, Kagel said.  
 He is a former chairman of the California Society of
Municipal Analysts and a member of the  National Federation of
Municipal Analysts , Kagel said.  
 Brad Gewehr  held the post McLoughlin will take over before
leaving in May, according to Kagel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        