-- Hugh Hefner, Playboy Sued Over Bid to Take Publishing Company Private
-- Dawn McCarty
-- 2010-07-13T18:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/hugh-hefner-playboy-sued-over-bid-to-take-publishing-company-private.html

          
          
             Playboy Enterprises Inc.  and founder
 Hugh Hefner  were sued by shareholders over a proposal to take
the media company private.  
 Directors of Playboy, based in Chicago, have a duty to get
the best price for shareholders, investor Charles Germershausen
contends in a complaint filed today in Delaware Chancery Court
in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “The Going Private Plan is the product of a flawed process
designed to sell PEI to Hefner and Rizvi Traverse on terms
detrimental” to stockholders of Playboy,  Carmella P. Keener ,
the lawyer representing shareholders, said in the complaint.  
 Hefner owns 69.5 percent of Playboy’s Class A voting stock
and 27.7 percent of the Class B non-voting stock. Hefner seeks
to offer $5.50 for each Class A and Class B share, court papers
show.  
 Playboy said yesterday that Hefner, who controls its voting
shares, wants to take the company private, and offered to
purchase the shares he doesn’t already own in Playboy, which
includes the namesake men’s magazine, merchandise, and
television and video content.  
 Hefner, 84, isn’t interested in a merger or a sale to a
third party out of concern for the company’s brand and Playboy
magazine’s editorial direction, Playboy said in a statement.  
 ‘Best Interest’  
 “I believe my proposal, which was delivered to the Playboy
board on July 8, 2010, is in the best interest of the company
and its minority shareholders and I look forward to continuing
discussions with the board,” Hefner said in a statement.  
 Playboy Class B shares fell 19 cents, or 3.4 percent, to
$5.36 at 2:55 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
after jumping 41 percent yesterday. The Class A shares fell 29
cents to $5.25 after climbing 36 percent yesterday.  
 “Despite PEI’s share price being down recently, the
company is poised to reap tremendous benefits by reason of the
recent change in strategic direction,” Keener said in court
papers.  
 In a conference call last month, Playboy Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Flanders  said that Playboy’s new strategy is to
change from being an “inefficient operator of small segments of
media” to becoming more of a brand management company.  
 Playboy is seeking partners to increase revenue from
licensed goods and expand branded clubs and casinos. The moves
are part of a restructuring plan that Flanders has said will
result in a profit in 2011.  
 Martha Lindeman , a Playboy spokeswoman, refused to comment
on behalf of the company.  
 The case is Germershausen v. Hefner, 5632, Court of
Chancery, State of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        