-- UN Expert Recommends Italy `Abolish or Revise' Bill on Publishing Wiretaps
-- Flavia Krause-Jackson
-- 2010-07-13T14:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/un-expert-recommends-italy-abolish-or-revise-bill-on-publishing-wiretaps.html

          
          
             A United Nations human-rights expert
called on Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government
to “abolish or revise” a bill that would limit news coverage
of criminal probes that involve police wiretaps.  
 “If adopted in its current form, it may undermine the
enjoyment of the right to freedom of expression in Italy,” said
Frank La Rue, UN Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Opinion and
Expression, in an e-mailed statement. La Rue was appointed in
August 2008 by the UN to make recommendations on ways to promote
freedom of speech.  
 Berlusconi argues that pervasive leaks of wiretaps in
Italy, one of the most bugged countries in Europe, leads to
people being tried in the press rather than in court. Police,
prosecutors, publishers and opposition parties say the law goes
too far, hindering investigations and the media’s freedom to
report on issues of public interest.  
 The law would make it harder for prosecutors to get
wiretaps approved and limit them to 75 days from as much as 18
months currently. Journalists would risk jail time and
publishers could be fined as much as 465,000 euros ($588,000)
for reporting the content of wiretaps.  
 The draft legislation, dubbed the “gag law” by its
critics, was passed in the Senate earlier this month and debate
begins in the Chamber of Deputies on July 29. Berlusconi had
hoped to turn the bill into law before parliament breaks up in
August for the summer recess.  
 Most Italian media went on strike on July 9, in what
journalists’ union FNSI dubbed a  “day of silence,”  to protest
the bill. Virtually no national newspapers published that day
with the exception of il Giornale, owned by Paolo Berlusconi,
the premier’s brother.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        