-- Hungarian Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerated in June on Food, Energy Costs
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-07-13T08:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/hungarian-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerated-in-june-on-food-energy-costs.html

          
          
             Hungarian  inflation  unexpectedly
accelerated in June for the first time since March as food and
energy prices rose.  
 The rate rose to 5.3 percent from 5.1 percent in May, the
statistics  office  in Budapest said today. The median estimate of
14 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 5.1 percent. Prices rose
0.2 percent from May.  
 “The inflation rate increase was definitely due to the
price increase of seasonal food prices and household energy,”
statistician Borbala Minary told reporters.  
 The  central bank  in May raised its inflation estimates as
rising energy costs put pressure on prices. The price increases
may prevent policy makers from returning to rate cuts for a
third consecutive month in July.  
 Core inflation, which strips out volatile energy and food
prices, was an annual 3.5 percent in June. The central bank
expects the overall inflation rate to average 4.9 percent this
year and 3 percent in 2011.  
 Inflation “remains benign with respect to monetary policy
as upside risks occur exclusively from exogenous factors and
therefore should not pose a concern for the” central bank,  Diana Gesheva , a Sofia-based economist at 4Cast Ltd., wrote in a note
to clients.  
 The forint traded at 278.66 per euro at 9:54 a.m. in
Budapest from 278.23 late yesterday. The currency has lost 5.5
percent in the past three months, the worst performance among
the more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 June Votes  
 Monetary policy makers held the  benchmark interest rate  at
a record-low 5.25 percent in June. The central bank refrained
from easing monetary policy to stem the sale of the country’s
currency and bonds due to Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  
 Monetary Council members voted six to one to keep the two-
week deposit rate unchanged for a second month on June 21,
according to minutes from the meeting released last week. Rate
setter  Tamas Banfi  voted for a reduction to 5 percent.  
 The central bank halted 10 months of rate cuts in May after
the forint weakened on concern Europe’s debt crisis may spread
and after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s new government signaled
it may pursue laxer fiscal policy. The cabinet has since
reversed course and pledged to meet the country’s creditor-
approved budget-deficit target.  
 Central bankers in Budapest will next meet to discuss
interest rates on July 19. All eight economists in a Bloomberg
survey expect rates to remain unchanged.  
 Food prices rose an annual 1.1 percent in June after
dropping 1.3 percent in May. Household energy prices rose 9.7
percent, compared with 8.3 percent in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        