-- Turks in Tel Aviv Show Business Binds Israel to Muslim Ally in Gaza Crisis
-- Ben Holland
-- 2010-07-14T12:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/turks-in-tel-aviv-show-business-binds-israel-to-muslim-ally-in-gaza-crisis.html

          
          
             Five miles from the center of Tel
Aviv, more than a dozen Turks wearing red shirts emblazoned with
their national flag work to complete a 30-story residential
tower.  
 Manager  Nissim Gayus  says it’s “business as usual,” six
weeks after Israeli troops killed nine Turkish activists on an
aid convoy bound for the Gaza Strip. While the raid has strained
a political alliance of more than half a century, commercial
ties between the countries survive, according to Gayus, who
works at Ankara-based  Yilmazlar Construction Group.   
 “The private sector just hasn’t been influenced at all,”
Gayus said at Yilmazlar’s Ramat Gan office outside Tel Aviv.
“We’re not feeling any damage in our projects.”  
 Turkey is Israel’s biggest commercial partner nation in the
region, with sales worth $2.5 billion last year, as well as a
strategic ally. Israeli Trade Minister  Binyamin Ben-Eliezer  and
Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  met in Brussels on June
30 to discuss future relations, signaling a shared interest in
repairing damage caused by the commando raid on the flotilla.  
 The focus on keeping trade doors open, including Turkey’s
purchase of military aircraft, highlights the resilience of a
partnership that extends from defense technology to
construction. The cooperation contrasts with a freeze at the
diplomatic level. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
government has recalled Turkey’s ambassador from Israel, and
threatened to sever ties unless demands for an apology and
financial compensation are met.  
 No Apology  
 Israel says the Turkish aid ship ignored repeated warnings
not to breach the naval blockade on Gaza, and that Israeli
commandos were attacked by activists when they boarded on May
31. Israel doesn’t have “any intention to apologize,” Foreign
Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said last week.  
 Turkey says the raid outside Israel’s territorial waters
violated international law, and activists aboard the ship said
the Israeli soldiers instigated the violence.  
 Turkey was among the first majority-Muslim nations to
recognize Israel after its creation in 1948. The countries are
the U.S.’s main allies in the Middle East and they share
military technology.  
 Even though Turkey canceled military exercises involving
Israel after the killings, it is pushing ahead with an
acquisition of 10 Heron unmanned surveillance planes made by
Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd. in Tel Aviv and  Elbit Systems
Ltd.  A Turkish delegation visited in mid-June to examine the
last four drones and they’ll be brought to Turkey for final
tests this month, according to Turkish and Israeli officials.  
 Herons Over Iraq  
 Turkey has taken delivery of six Herons, and started using
them last month in northern Iraq to locate militants from the
Kurdistan Workers’ Party, the separatist group, army chief  Ilker Basbug  told reporters on June 21.  
 Shares of Haifa-based  Elbit  fell 5.2 percent in the two
days after the flotilla raid to 189.20 shekels. The stock closed
yesterday at 198.30 shekels in Tel Aviv trading.  
 Metals, petrochemicals and textiles are also key components
of trade. Iron and steel were Turkey’s main  exports to Israel  in
2009, making up about one-seventh of the $1.5 billion total.  
 Oil Refineries Ltd. , based in Haifa, said in a June 2
filing that it expects Turkey sales to be 7 percent to 9 percent
of this year’s total revenue, which analysts  estimate  at 8
billion shekels( $2.1 billion). That’s a similar share to 2009.  
 ‘Business as Usual’  
 Menashe Carmon , chairman of the Tel Aviv-based  Israel-
Turkey Business Council  and owner of Overseas Export-Import
Ltd., which buys yarns and fibers from Turkey, said his
operations have been stable in the past six weeks.  
 “When it comes to imports and exports, joint ventures, and
mutual investments between Turkish and Israeli businesses, it’s
business as usual,” he said.  
 What has changed is that security advisers are deterring
Israelis from traveling to Turkey, Carmon said. After thousands
of Turks took to the streets chanting anti-Israeli slogans to
protest the aid ship killings, Israel’s Foreign Ministry issued
a  travel warning  classifying Turkey as a “very high and
concrete threat” for Israeli travelers.  
 Carmon said he has received complaints from metal importers
who can’t send staff to Turkey to carry out compliance tests,
and from Israeli exporters who can’t send technicians to install
or service machines.  
 Israeli companies, especially in the agricultural and water
technology industry, that have provided equipment to Turkish
local governments may find they lose out on contracts, said
Doron Abrahami, Israel’s trade attaché in Istanbul, in an
interview yesterday. He said at least one Turkish municipality
has told its Israeli supplier that future bids won’t be welcome,
without giving further details.  
 Meeting Canceled  
 A planned meeting of top executives from the biggest
Turkish and Israeli companies was canceled last month after the
flotilla raid, Istanbul-based  Referans  newspaper reported citing
Zeynep Silahtaroglu Baykal, a director of the Turkish business
group Tusiad.  
 Travel companies say Israelis are no longer taking the one-
hour flight from Tel Aviv to Antalya, the popular Turkish resort
on the Mediterranean.  
 “No one is coming from Israel” and all charter flights
since May 31 have been canceled, said Arkin Senol, deputy head
of Antalya-based Kalanit Tours. “We were planning for at least
50,000 passengers for June, July and August, and so far,
nothing.”  
 The loss for local tourism companies will be about $80
million, Senol said.  
 ‘Very Harmful’  
 “The Israelis felt very close to  Turkey ,” said Oktay
Eryener, whose Polente Tour has brought Israelis to Turkey for
20 years and now can’t find customers. “Many had been coming
here for years, they have ties, know people.” Eryener said he
has had to fire all but two of his dozen Hebrew-speaking Turks.  
 Israeli tour companies also are suffering. The slump in
travel to Turkey has been “very harmful” for Tel Aviv-based
travel agent  Aviation Links Ltd. , Vice-President  Avi Raz  said by
telephone. The company’s  shares  have slumped 28 percent since
the raid, while the benchmark TA-100 Index rose 1.1 percent.  
 Turkish billionaire  Ahmet Nazif Zorlu , whose energy company
has contracts to build four gas-fired power plants in Israel,
said in an interview with Bloomberg HT television last week that
the venture is still on course, though its fate may ultimately
hinge on politics.  
 “We’ll continue, in line with the Turkish government’s
decisions about Israel,” Zorlu said of the $1-billion plan.  
 Shares of  Zorlu Enerji Elektrik Uretim AS  have fallen 3.6
percent since May 31, compared with the 5.5 percent advance of
the  ISE-100 index  of the biggest Turkish companies.  
 Not Tough Enough  
 There are political as well as economic ramifications for
Erdogan, who must run for re-election next year in a country
where almost two-thirds of the public say his response to the
Gaza deaths wasn’t tough enough, according to a June 3 survey of
1,000 people by Ankara-based Metropoll.  
 Anti-Israel rhetoric has won Erdogan votes in the past,
said  Adil Gur , head of Istanbul-based pollster A&G Arastirmalar.
When the premier stormed out of a Davos meeting with Israeli
President  Shimon Peres  in January last year, telling him: “You
know very well how to kill,” it boosted his support in local
elections two months later, Gur said in a phone interview.  
 For Israel-Turkey projects such as those of builder
Yilmazlar, the key to sustaining business lies in easing the
tensions between the two governments.  
 “As long as Turkey doesn’t escalate the political tension
with Israel, then we don’t expect there to be any changes to the
current status,” said Gayus, the company’s general consultant
and representative in Israel.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Holland  in Istanbul at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government has recalled Turkey’s ambassador from Israel, and threatened to sever ties unless demands for an apology and financial compensation are met. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
