-- Vivus Shares Increase on `Benign' FDA Staff Review of Diet Pill's Safety
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2010-07-13T20:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/vivus-s-diet-pill-qnexa-faces-fda-scrutiny-on-psychiatric-side-effects.html

          
          
             Vivus Inc.  rose in Nasdaq trading
after a U.S. regulatory review of its weight-loss pill Qnexa
wasn’t as onerous as some investors anticipated. Makers of
competing treatments also gained.  
 The Mountain View, California-based company climbed $1.79,
or 17 percent, to $12.44 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading, the biggest jump  since  Sept. 9.  
 Vivus’s Qnexa, a combination of the appetite suppressant
phentermine and the anticonvulsant topirimate, may cause birth
defects and a “low” level of psychiatric side effects,
according to a Food and Drug Administration staff  review 
released today. The report suggests safety concerns won’t stall
approval for Qnexa, the first prescription diet drug in more
than a decade, said Leerink Swann analyst & Co.  Steve Yoo .  
 “The tone of the FDA seems fairly benign,” Yoo said today
in a phone interview. “Parsing the language, they’re not
hammering away at the company.”  
 An FDA advisory panel will  meet  July 15 to discuss whether
Qnexa should be approved. A review for Arena Pharmaceuticals
Inc.’s lorcaserin is scheduled for Sept. 16, followed by
Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.’s Contrave on Dec. 7. While the
agency usually follows the panel recommendations, it isn’t
required to do so.  
 Arena added 41 cents, or 11 percent, to $4.20 in Nasdaq
trading, and Orexigen increased 84 cents, or 20 percent, to $5.
Both companies are based in San Diego.  
 Diabetes, Cancer, Heart Disease  
 One third of American adults are  obese , raising their risk
of diabetes, heart disease, and cancer, according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. With the new
treatment options, the global diet-pill market may reach $10.5
billion by 2018, according to Datamonitor Plc in London.  
 People on Qnexa lost as much as 8.9 percent more weight
than those taking a placebo in two studies, the FDA reviewers
said. Medical weight management products should help people lose
at least 5 percent more weight than a placebo after one year,
according to agency  recommendations  released in 2007.  
 The FDA review focuses mainly on the drug’s safety, notably
the potential for birth defects, psychiatric and cognitive side
effects, excess acid production called metabolic acidosis, and
cardiovascular risks.  
 High doses of topirimate are known to cause birth defects
in animals. While the FDA found it “reassuring” that no
problems were seen in 13 babies born to women taking Qnexa in
studies, data are “much too limited” to rule out a risk, said
 Eric Colman , deputy director of the agency’s Division of
Metabolism and Endocrinology Products. The FDA proposed a
contraindication for use in pregnancy and a warning to women of
childbearing age.  
 High Doses  
 Study participants taking high doses of Qnexa had three
times as much anxiety and depression as people taking a placebo
and were more likely to have problems with memory, attention,
and language, according to the FDA review.  
 Qnexa also seems to affect heart rate, though “the
clinical significance of the increases in heart rate is
unknown,” Colman said. The agency announced that Vivus has
proposed a large study to examine cardiovascular outcomes if the
drug is approved for marketing.  
 The advisory panel may be reluctant to recommend approval
with the safety risks unless they can specify that Qnexa should
be used only in a certain population or in lower doses, said
 Thomas Wei , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York.  
 ‘Debated Issues’  
 “We are concerned that the totality of the debated issues
will leave the panel uncomfortable with the prospect of such
widespread patient exposure in the obesity indication,” Wei
said in a note to clients today.  
 Qnexa “probably is the most effective” of the three new
products, according to  George Blackburn , associate director of
Harvard Medical School’s Nutrition Division. He consulted for
Arena in the past year and hasn’t worked with Vivus or Orexigen.  
 “There’s no doubt from efficaciousness, that has the best
data submitted to the FDA,” he said in a June 24 phone
interview. “I think the risks are going to be the big hurdle.”  
 Sales of prescription weight-loss drugs fell 11 percent
last year to $153.7 million, according to the research firm IMS
Health Inc. in Norwalk, Connecticut. Of the almost 7.5 million
prescriptions dispensed, four of every five were for generic
phentermine, still sold as a short-term appetite suppressant.  
 Fen-Phen Recall  
 Phentermine, one ingredient in Qnexa, is a component from
the recalled diet pill fen-phen, linked to potentially fatal
heart valve complications. The other product in Qnexa is a
generic version of  Johnson & Johnson’s  Topamax, which can
trigger an irregular heartbeat, kidney stones and psychiatric
problems such as depression, anxiety and hallucinations.  
 While the FDA never approved the combination of
fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine with phentermine, fen-phen, was
a popular combination often prescribed by doctors. Companies
can’t market these so-called off-label uses.  
 If Qnexa is approved, annual sales may reach $620.9 million
by 2015, according to  Christopher S. James , a senior equity
analyst at McNicoll Lewis & Vlak LLC in New York. Vivus is also
looking for a partner to market its diet pill, as Arena did this
month for lorcaserin with Eisai Co., of Tokyo. “If approved,
Qnexa’s unparalleled efficacy and tolerability profile will lead
to rapid adoption upon its launch in late 2010-early 2011 and
become the leading obesity drug for the foreseeable years,”
James said in a June 25 note to clients.  
 Roche, Abbott, Sanofi  
 Roche Holding AG, of Basel, Switzerland, added warnings to
its Xenical drug in May after cases of serious liver injury.
Meridia, from Abbott Park, Illinois-based Abbott Laboratories,
added  warnings  in January recommending against use in people
with a history of cardiovascular disease because of an increase
in heart attacks and strokes. Sanofi-Aventis SA, of Paris, was
rejected by FDA in 2007 for its weight-loss drug rimonabant
because of suicide and depression.  
 The FDA is scheduled to make a decision on Qnexa by Oct 28,
six days after the deadline for Arena’s lorcaserin. Orexigen
said it expects a decision on Contrave by Jan. 31.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        