-- Wall Street Fix Seen Ineffectual by Four of Five in U.S.
-- Rich Miller
-- 2010-07-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/wall-street-fix-from-congress-seen-ineffectual-by-four-out-of-five-in-u-s-.html

          
          
             Americans harbor doubts that a
financial-regulation bill about to be passed by Congress will do
what President  Barack Obama  says it will: help avoid another
crisis and make their finances safer.  
 Almost four out of five Americans surveyed in a Bloomberg
National Poll this month say they have just a little or no
confidence that the measure being championed by congressional
Democrats will prevent or significantly soften a future crisis.
More than three-quarters say they don’t have much or any
confidence the proposal will make their savings and financial
assets more secure.  
 A plurality -- 47 percent -- says the bill will do more to
protect the financial industry than consumers; 38 percent say
consumers would benefit more.  
 “Banks and the government are making out, not the ordinary
person,” says Lenore Critzer, a 70-year-old retiree and poll
participant who lives in Nelson, Ohio, about 40 miles from
Cleveland. “We’re going to have another crisis and worse.”  
 While skeptical about the bill’s benefits, Americans don’t
want a return to the days before the financial markets suffered
their biggest turmoil since the Great Depression: A plurality of
respondents says they have become more supportive in recent
months of tougher regulations. By a three-to-one margin,
Americans have grown more favorable to stronger regulation
rather than less. Even Republicans have become more inclined to
stricter oversight.  
 ‘A Farce’  
 “What happened was a farce,” says Victor Bruno, a 58-
year-old surgeon in Westfield, New Jersey. “These guys were
just gambling with our money. Something needs to be done.”  
 Americans are about evenly divided on the question of
government regulation in general. Thirty-five percent of those
polled see the need for more oversight, while a third prefer
less; 30 percent say the current situation is adequate. In some
other national polls before the crisis, a plurality favored less
government regulation.  
 A plurality of respondents age 55 and older -- 39 percent -
- still favors a smaller government role. Younger Americans
don’t agree, with only a quarter of those under 35 in favor of
less regulation.  
 Skepticism about the financial bill, which may be approved
this week, cuts across political party lines. Seven in 10
Democrats have little or no confidence the proposals will avert
or significantly lessen the impact of another financial
catastrophe; 68 percent doubt it will make their savings more
secure.  
 Revamping Oversight  
 The proposed legislation reshapes oversight of Wall Street,
creating a consumer bureau at the Federal Reserve, a council of
regulators to monitor firms for risk to the financial system,
and a mechanism for liquidating large institutions whose
collapse would threaten the economy.  
 Obama praised the overhaul as “the most comprehensive
reform of Wall Street” since the Depression, telling reporters
at the White House yesterday that the measure “will prevent a
financial crisis like this from happening again, by protecting
consumers against the unfair practices of credit card companies
and mortgage lenders.”  
 Americans say the restructuring won’t make much difference
in the way Wall Street does business. Almost half of those
polled say banks will make few if any changes in the way they
act in response to the overhaul; another 22 percent expect only
minor changes.  
 “They’re just going to find a way around the new rules,”
says Pamela Evans, 24, who lives in Everett, Washington, and has
two jobs, at a building company and a check-cashing firm.  
 Democrats More Optimistic  
 Democrats have greater optimism that consumers will benefit
more than the financial industry from the proposals, with 51
percent saying that will be the result. Just 28 percent of
Republicans and 35 percent of independents agree.  
 Most Americans reject any new government rescues of
financial institutions, such as arranged for New York-based
 Citigroup Inc.  and insurer  American International Group Inc. ,
according to the poll.  
 They also oppose letting the market work and having the
private sector deal with the consequences of any collapse.  
 Half the respondents think the federal government should
force a company to work its way out of any problems, including
bankruptcy, through the courts.  
 Down on Bailouts  
 Almost 60 percent of respondents say the $700 billion plan
that Congress passed in late 2008 to help the banks -- the
Troubled Asset Relief Program -- was an unnecessary bailout.  
 The Bloomberg National Poll was conducted July 9-12 for
Bloomberg News by  Selzer & Co.  of Des Moines, Iowa. Based on
interviews with 1,004 U.S. adults, the poll has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  
 “The mood of the American public is highly skeptical
toward government and its ability to do right by the average
person,” says  J. Ann Selzer , president of the polling firm.
“That explains some of the apparent contradiction in seeing a
need for more regulation yet having little confidence that what
is currently on the table will do much for consumers. They just
feel they’ve been played and they don’t want to be fooled
again.”  
 To see the methodology and exact wording of the poll
questions, click on the attachment tab at the top of the story.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       United States President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         President Barack Obama speaks during a meeting in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama speaks during a meeting in Washington. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Americans harbor doubts that a financial-regulation bill about to be passed by Congress will do what President Barack Obama says it will: help avoid another crisis and make their finances safer. Bloomberg's Monica Bertran reports on the results of a Bloomberg National Poll conducted July 9-12. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Rodgin Cohen, senior chairman of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, discusses proposed legislation to overhaul the U.S. financial regulatory system.
     Cohen talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Charles Grassley, a Republican from Iowa, talks about the outlook for congressional action on legislation rewriting Wall Street rules.
     The U.S. Senate plans to approve the financial-regulation bill on July 15 as Democrats secured the 60 votes needed for passage. (This report is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  Poll
         
     
 



 
     
         Attachment:  Poll results and methodology 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
