-- Western China Landslides Triggered by Heavy Rains Kill at Least 16 People
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-13T06:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/western-china-landslides-triggered-by-heavy-rains-kill-at-least-16-people.html

          
          
             Landslides caused by heavy rains in
western China killed at least 16 people today and left more than
60 missing as more downpours were forecast for the region.  
 Three people were killed in landslides that struck Xiaohe
township in Yunnan province today at 4 a.m. local time, with
another 60 people missing, the  Ministry of Civil Affairs  said in
a statement on its website. A landslide in Garze, a Tibetan
region of Sichuan province, killed seven and left one person
missing, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. Another
landslide in the city of Luzhou in Sichuan killed 6, Xinhua
reported separately.  
 More rainfall is forecast today for all three locations,
with thunderstorms expected in Xiaohe and Garze, the China
Meteorological Administration said. Flooding, earthquakes and
other natural disasters killed more than 3,500 people during the
first half of the year and caused about 211 billion yuan ($31
billion) of damage, according to the civil affairs ministry.  
 The landslides in Xiaohe also injured 38 people, with two
in serious condition, Xinhua reported. Xiaohe township, home to
about 40,000 people, is about 257 kilometers from  Yunnan’s 
capital city of Kunming, the China News Service reported.  
 Thunderstorms are forecast for the region around Xiaohe
today with more heavy rains expected tomorrow evening and on
July 15, the weather administration said. Garze in Sichuan is
forecast to have thunderstorms from today through July 15,
according to the agency. Sporadic rain is forecast today for
Luzhou, which may get heavy downfalls on July 15, the weather
administration said.  
 Rains in southern China that started July 8 caused flooding
in the provinces of Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi and Zhejiang that have
killed 43 people, the Ministry of Water Resources said yesterday
on its website.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories about natural disasters in China:
 TNI CHINA NAT BN <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA <GO>  
          
          


  


        