-- Wheat Prices Rise on Improved Demand Prospects in U.S. for Livestock Feed
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-13T19:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/wheat-prices-rise-on-improved-demand-prospects-in-u-s-for-livestock-feed.html

          
          
             Wheat rose for the first time in
three sessions on speculation that more of the grain will be
used as a substitute for higher-priced corn in livestock feed.  
 Corn prices may rally faster than wheat in coming weeks,
said  Rich Feltes , the director of commodity research for MF
Global Holdings Ltd. in Chicago. Corn yields may be limited by
temperatures expected to reach 96 degrees Fahrenheit (36
Celsius) next week in Iowa and Illinois, the largest producers
of corn. Wheat’s gains may be limited by winter-crop yields that
are better than expected in parts of Kansas.  
 “There’s uncertainty regarding the U.S. corn crop,” said
 Rich Feltes , the director of commodity research for MF Global
Holdings Ltd. in Chicago. “The long-term weather is
questionable with hot weather the next couple weeks and a more
scattered precipitation pattern. You have to view wheat in terms
of a backstop to corn as a feed ingredient.”  
 Wheat futures for September delivery advanced 13.5 cents,
or 2.5 percent, to $5.4925 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The price has gained 14 percent in July, partly as hot
weather hurt crops in Russia and France.  
 Corn futures are up 5.4 percent this month.  
 Wheat also may have gained on speculation that hot weather
will further lower yields in parts of Russia. Dry weather will
persist through July 17, the country’s weather center said
today. Temperatures are expected to rise to 38 degrees Celsius
(100 Fahrenheit), the Federal Hydrometeorological Service said
on its  website  today.  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        