-- Euro Declines Versus Yen for Third Day as Moody's Lowers Portugal's Rating
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-13T07:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/yen-reverses-losses-as-slump-in-chinese-stocks-revives-demand-for-safety.html

          
          
             The dollar and the  yen  rose as China
said it will clamp down on speculative property investment,
stoking demand for the currencies as a haven.  
 The dollar advanced against the majority of its most-traded
peers and  China’s  benchmark stock index sank by the most in
almost two weeks after the government said it will “strictly”
enforce housing policies to prevent speculative investment. The
euro fell for a third day against the dollar before a report
from the ZEW Center for European Economic Research that is
forecast to show German investor confidence declined in July.  
 “The comments out of China have weighed on equities and
damped risk appetite, and that’s helping the dollar and the
yen,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG in London. “If the ZEW survey shows an acceleration in
the deterioration of sentiment, that will add to the negative
risk bias we are seeing.”  
 The dollar strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.2556 per euro as
of 7:48 a.m. in London. The U.S. currency was little changed at
88.69 yen. The euro dropped 0.2 percent to 111.37 yen.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, lost 1.8 percent and the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of regional shares slid 0.5 percent.  
 The ZEW index of investor and analyst  expectations  in
Germany declined to 25.3 in July from 28.7 a month earlier, a
Bloomberg News survey showed ahead of today’s data.  
 The Australian dollar fell from the strongest level since
June on concern China’s attempts to tighten policy will curb
demand for commodities.  
 Commodities Fall  
 BHP Billiton , the world’s largest mining company, sank as
much as 2.5 percent, while  Rio Tinto Group , the third-biggest,
lost as much as 3.5 percent.  Li Yizhong , head of the Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology, said China will push for
mergers and acquisitions within the steel industry and curb any
rapid increase in steel production.  
 The ministry will further regulate iron ore imports, Li
said in a speech posted on the ministry’s website today.  
 Australia’s currency dropped 0.7 percent to 87.02 U.S.
after touching 87.93 cents yesterday, the most since June 22.  
 “Markets seem to be looking for an adjustment in Chinese
growth and we’re seeing a bit of profit-taking in the Aussie
leading into those announcements,” said  Jim Vrondas , a manager
at the online foreign-exchange dealer OzForex Ltd. in Sydney.
“The Aussie is running out of momentum and if we get a clear
break below 86.80 cents, I think we can see more downside
throughout this week.”  
 ‘Vulnerabilities’  
 The euro also fell amid concern tests to demonstrate the
resilience of the region’s banking system will fail to reassure
investors.  
 European officials called on banks to try to raise money
themselves before seeking state support if stress tests by
regulators reveal “vulnerabilities.”  
 “It is firstly up to the banks themselves,” Dutch Finance
Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in Brussels yesterday after a
meeting with euro-area counterparts. “They will get a certain
period to refinance themselves in the market, but the countries
will immediately announce that there is a certain backstop.”  
 Banks that fail stress tests will “in the worst case”
need government aid to strengthen their balance sheets, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today.  
 “The goal is to make it clear that European banks are
stable and wherever there are problems, there have to be
consequences,” Schaeuble said in an interview on
Deutschlandradio. The stress tests “won’t create disturbances,
but rather clarity,” he said.  
 Stress Tests  
 European Union regulators are examining the strength of 91
banks to determine whether they can survive potential losses on
sovereign-bond holdings. EU finance ministers will gather in
Brussels today to discuss the procedure of stress tests and the
disclosure of its findings.  
 “There are concerns that stress tests will prove to be
insufficient to dispel underlying concerns about the depth of
the sovereign problem in the region,” said  Shuzo Kakuta , a
senior foreign-exchange adviser at Tokyo Tomin Bank Ltd. “The
euro will remain under pressure.”  
 Spain, Portugal and Ireland face a 20 percent risk of
having to restructure their public debt, while the likelihood is
40 percent for Greece and 10 percent for Italy, said  Robert Mundell , a Columbia University professor who won the Nobel Prize
in 1999 for research that helped lay the foundation for Europe’s
single currency. He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Siena, Italy, on July 11.  
 Alcoa  
 The yen earlier fell against all of its major counterparts
after  Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported
second-quarter profit that topped analysts’ projections.  
 “There is emerging optimism that the ongoing quarterly
reporting will underscore continued profit growth at U.S.
companies,” said  Hiroshi Higa , senior strategist in Tokyo at
MoneySquare Japan Inc., an online currency trading company.
“Such a view will ease risk aversion and put some downward
pressure on the yen, which has recently been bought as a safe
haven.”  
 Alcoa said its earnings from continuing operations were 13
cents a share, exceeding the 11-cent average estimate of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock fell 0.6 percent to
$10.87 at the close. In extended trading, it rallied more than 3
percent.  
 Profits for S&P 500 companies are projected to have
increased 34 percent in the April-June period and by the same
amount in 2010, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. A total of 23 companies in the S&P 500, including
 Google Inc.  and Citigroup Inc., will report earnings this week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Derek Halpenny, European head of foreign exchange at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, talks about the outlook for the euro.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Netherlands Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager talks with Bloomberg's Francine Lacqua about the financing of European banks.
     European Union regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks in an attempt to reassure investors about the institutions’ resilience to potential losses as the debt crisis pummels the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal. They spoke in Brussels yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Ray Attrill, global research director at Forecast Ltd. in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the stress tests on European banks and his forecast for the euro. 
     European Union regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks in an attempt to reassure investors about their resilience to potential losses as the debt crisis pummels the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
