-- Typhoon Conson Strengthens Off Philippines as People Stranded at Seaports
-- Joel Guinto
-- 2010-07-13T09:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/typhoon-conson-strengthens-off-philippines-as-people-stranded-at-seaports.html

          
          
             Typhoon Conson strengthened over the
Pacific Ocean east of the Philippines as President  Benigno Aquino  ordered government agencies to be “very prepared” for
the storm’s impact.  
 Conson was 79 kilometers (50 miles) north of Virac on the
island province of Catanduanes at 8 a.m. Manila time, the U.S.
Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center said today on its  website . The
storm’s maximum sustained winds were at 130 kilometers per hour
(81 mph) and the system was moving west at 31 kph, it said.  
 Conson’s winds are  forecast  to maintain strength as it
approaches the Philippines’ most populous island of Luzon
overnight. The nation’s weather agency  issued  a warning for
large waves, flash floods and landslides, forecasting even
stronger winds for Catanduanes and outer islands, and as much as
100 kph for parts of Luzon.  
 Relief goods have been sent to areas where they may be
needed, Social Welfare & Development Secretary  Corazon Soliman 
told reporters in Manila. No evacuations have been ordered yet,
she said. Three typhoons left about 1,000 people dead in the
Philippines last year, according to the United Nations. The
storms destroyed at least 40,000 houses, mostly in Luzon.  
 More than 400 people were stranded in seaports in Batangas
and Bicol after the Philippine Coast Guard banned sea travel,
ABS-CBN News reported on its website. Classes were suspended for
elementary students in the capital, a separate report said.  
 Conson is the name of a picturesque mountain region in
Vietnam, according to the website of the Hong Kong Observatory,
which lists  names  assigned to cyclones in the Pacific.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net 
 Joel Guinto  in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        