-- Typhoon Kills 18 in Philippines; Manila Without Power, Flights Canceled
-- Joel Guinto
-- 2010-07-14T11:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/typhoon-conson-strengthens-from-tropical-storm-in-pacific-near-philippines.html

          
          
             Typhoon Conson, which smashed into
the Philippines, killed at least 18 people, left Manila and
nearby provinces without electricity and disrupted flights,
ferries and trains, stranding thousands of travelers.  
 President  Benigno Aquino  ordered a review of the nation’s
weather forecasting system after Conson, expected to make
landfall yesterday in northern Luzon, instead swept over
populous Manila on the central part of the island. Besides the
dead, 57 are missing and more than 4,100 are stranded at ports,
the official National  Disaster Coordinating Council  said.  
 Conson, which weakened to a tropical storm, was centered
about 180 kilometers (118 miles) from Iba on the west coast of
Luzon at 4 p.m. local time today, the disaster council  said  on
its website. Sustained winds were 85 kilometers per hour with
the storm moving northwest at 19 kph, the council said.  
 The storm is expected to weaken further and approach the
south China coast near the island of Hainan and to the west of
Hong Kong by July 17, according to the  U.S. Navy Joint Typhoon
Warning Center.   
 High-voltage transmission lines were cut during the storm,
leaving Luzon without electricity since midnight. Power may not
be fully restored in the capital for as many as three days,
National Grid Corp. of the Philippines said.  
 Among those killed were 11 fishermen, the disaster council
said. The council also said a liquid-petroleum gas carrier sank
in the vicinity of Mariveles, with one casualty and eight
survivors.  
 Aquino said the warning system for the country’s fishing
boats must be reviewed.  
 Suspending Operations  
 The capital’s three commuter electric train lines, which
carry more than 1.2 million passengers a day, suspended
operations following the power outage,  Manila Bulletin  reported.  
 Twenty flights out of Manila were canceled, Philippine
Daily Inquirer reported on its website.  
 Thousands were stranded in seaports in Manila and provinces
including Batangas, while knee-deep floodwaters were reported in
some areas in the capital, the disaster council said. Classes
were suspended in the capital and in the provinces of Laguna,
Batangas, Quezon and Cavite.  
 Last year, three typhoons left about 1,000 people dead and
40,000 homes destroyed, mostly in Luzon.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net 
 Joel  Guinto in Manila at 
jguinto @bloomberg.net  
          
          


  


        