-- Zijin Closes Copper Smelter at Zijinshan That Polluted River, Shares Fall
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-13T07:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-13/zijin-mining-shuts-copper-smelter-at-zijinshan-after-leakage-shares-slump.html

          
          
             Zijin Mining Group Co.,  China’s
largest gold producer, fell the most in more than 18 months in
Hong Kong trading after it was forced to shut a copper smelter
that leaked acidic water and killed fish.  
 The plant, which produces 12,800 metric tons of copper a
year at Zijinshan mine, will only be reopened after checks by
local environmental authorities, spokesman  Zhao Jugang  said
today in an interview. About 1.89 million kilograms of fish in
the Mianhuatan reservoir in Fujian province were found dead or
poisoned, Xinhua News Agency said yesterday.  
 The leakage comes as China, the world’s largest metal
consumer, is seeking to impose higher environmental standards
and the government may make an example of Zijin, Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch said. Zijin in May said it took corrective
measures on plants and mines after a clampdown.  
 “Today’s tumble further reflects investor concerns about
Zijin’s attitude toward social responsibility issues such as the
environment,”  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Ltd., said today.  
 The shares dropped as much as 11.7 percent, the biggest
decline since December 2008, to HK$4.93. The stock traded 11.5
percent lower to HK$4.94 at 3:33 p.m. local time. In Shanghai,
the stock closed 3.7 percent lower at 5.76 yuan.  
 “We expect the plant suspension to last two months,”  Heng Kun , an analyst at Essence Securities Co., said by phone from
Shanghai. Earnings may decline 1.8 percent based on that
assumption, he said. Copper production at the mine accounts for
15 percent of Zijin’s total annual output, Guotai Junan
Securities Co. said yesterday.  
 Heavy Rainfall  
 Waste water containing acidic copper seeped into the Ting
River in Fujian province on July 3, the company said in a filing
to the Hong Kong exchange yesterday. Heavy rainfall led to the
leakage, according to initial investigations, Zijin said.  
 The company has carried out emergency measures to address
the leakage, it said. The effect on drinking water is
“limited” and the water supply normalized a few days after the
incident, Zhao said from Shanhang city.  
 The incident “could put Zijin in the cross-hairs as it
would give the government an opportunity to highlight a more
serious stance towards environmental issues,” Merrill Lynch’s
 Timothy Bush  and  Liying Du  wrote in a July 12 note.  
 The government has issued new environmental standards for
commodity producers including steelmakers and lead plants in the
past year, threatening closures if they weren’t met. Thousands
of children were poisoned by lead, zinc and manganese plants in
Yunnan, Henan, Shaanxi and Hunan provinces last year.  
 Water Contamination  
 Zijin will likely have to pay a penalty, and compensation
for local fisheries may reach about 5 million yuan ($738,000),
Zhao said. The government had asked the company to pay villagers
3 yuan for each kilogram of dead fish, he said. Zhao said the
number of fishes affected were still been counted.  
 “We estimate for each month of production disruption,
Zijin’s FY10 copper output would be affected by 1.7 percent and
earnings to be affected by 0.9 percent,”  Trina Chen , an analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note today.  
 The Shanhang county government mobilized soldiers, civil
servants and villagers to help net the dead fish, Xinhua said
yesterday. Calls to the Shanhang county government
communications office were not answered.  
 Environmental authorities ordered the  closure  of the Five
Dragon Gold Mine in Dandong city, Liaoning province, owned by
 Zhongjin Gold Corp.  in July 2008, after tailings polluted the
drinking water of 210,000 people in a nearby city, Xinhua News
Agency  said  then.  
 In 2005, the nation’s environmental protection chief
resigned after an explosion at a PetroChina Co. plant spilled
toxic chemicals into the Songhua River, poisoning the drinking
water of 3 million people.  
 -- Xiao Yu , with assistance by  Helen Yuan  and  Chua Kongho .
Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Matthew Oakley .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        