-- Aeroflot to Operate Hungarian Carrier After Bank Deal
-- Balazs Penz
-- 2009-01-24T13:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-01-24/aeroflot-to-operate-hungarian-carrier-after-bank-deal-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Aeroflot will assume operation
of Malev Zrt. after Vnesheconombank,  Russia ’s state-owned
development lender, buys a minority stake in the unprofitable
Hungarian air carrier.  
 “The situation around Malev finally will be settled,”
Hungary’s Deputy Prime Minister  Viktor Zubkov  said in Budapest
today after meeting Finance Minister Janos Veres. He didn’t say
how much the lender, known as VEB, will pay for Malev or what
other owners may be involved.  
 Malev, controlled by Russian investor Boris Abramovich,
last year received 30 million euros ($39 million) in financing
from VEB. A member of the Oneworld alliance led by AMR Corp.’s
 American Airlines  and British Airways Plc, it cut jobs and
leased out aircraft in 2008 to counter rising costs from soaring
oil prices.  
 The Hungarian airline will remained majority-owned by
“European Union subjects,” to comply with the 27-nation bloc’s
rules and keep its status as a national carrier, Veres said.  
 Malev last year estimated an operating loss of 7.4 billion
forint ($33 million) and needed fresh capital to cover the
losses, Chief Executive Officer Peter Leonov was cited as saying
by the MTI newswire on Dec. 1. The company used the VEB loan to
finance expenses and upgrade its fleet.  
 Abramovich agreed to pay 200 million forint in 2007 through
his AirBridge Zrt. to buy Malev, pledging to invest 50 million
euros more to upgrade the company. It also agreed to pay back 13
billion forint of the company’s debt.  
 The sale to Abramovich was the Hungarian government’s
seventh attempt to unload the unprofitable carrier since
communism collapsed in 1990.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Balazs Penz in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at 
 ckirkham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        