-- Norilsk Says LionOre Breakup Fee `Unreasonably' High
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-05-16T15:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-16/norilsk-says-lionore-breakup-fee-unreasonably-high-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) , bidding for
LionOre Mining International Ltd., said a rival offer from
Xstrata Plc included an ``unreasonably'' high breakup fee.  
 Norilsk is ``surprised and disappointed'' by the fee of
more than C$300 million ($273 million), equal to about 4.9
percent of the value of Xstrata's bid, Chief Executive Officer
Denis Morozov said today in a statement. The fee ``does not
encourage a level playing field'' for all bidders, he said. An
Xstrata spokesman declined to comment.  
 Moscow-based Norilsk, the world's biggest producer of
nickel, already has approval from Canadian antitrust regulators
for the LionOre bid and expects the same from the South African,
Swiss and Norwegian watchdogs before June 18, the date Norilsk's
original offer expires, the company said.  
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) , aiming to become the nickel industry's third-
biggest player and leapfrog the globe's biggest diversified
miner, BHP Billiton Ltd, increased its offer for LionOre
yesterday by 35 percent to C$6.2 billion, beating Norilsk's bid.  
 Xstrata, based in Zug, Switzerland raised its bid to C$25 a
share, up from C$18.50. The offer is 16 percent higher than the
C$21.50 Norilsk proposed on May 3.  
 Norilsk said it's examining Xstrata's offer and will
evaluate its alternatives, expecting to ``announce shortly its
next steps.'' The company can increase its bid before May 25.  
 Falconbridge, Inco Comparison  
 Xstrata's new proposal values LionOre cheaper than the
Swiss company paid for  Canada 's Falconbridge last year and less
than  Brazil 's Cia. Vale do Rio Doce paid for Inco Ltd., Moscow-
based  Alfa Bank  said in a note to investors.  
 Assuming Norilsk increases its offer by 20 percent, Alfa
said the price would be 6.5 times the projected enterprise value
of LionOre divided by its earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, a measure of the company's
efficiency. Xstrata paid a multiple of 7.1 times and Vale seven.  
 Shares of LionOre, which has mines in  Australia ,  South
Africa  and Botswana, rose 1.34 percent to a record CN$27.25
($24.72) today in Toronto.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        