-- Theolia Says It's `Comfortable' With Debt-Financing
-- Tara Patel
-- 2008-09-12T15:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-09-12/theolia-says-it-s-comfortable-with-debt-financing-update1-.html

          
          
             Theolia SA (TEO) , the French wind-power
company part-owned by  General Electric Co. (GE) , said it had 160
million euros ($227 million) in cash at the end of June and is
``comfortable'' with current debt-financing levels.  
 The company's servicing of borrowings ``is at a level we
are comfortable with,'' Eddie McDonnell, head of  investor
relations , said in a telephone interview today. Higher  interest
rates  have been offset by longer-term loans, he said.  
 McDonnell declined to comment on today's slide in Theolia's
share price to a three-year low in Paris trading. The stock
slumped 1.26 euros, or 12 percent, to 9.35 euros, the lowest
since June 2005.  
 The wind energy operator reported a loss in the first half
as costs rose and earlier this month cut its target for full-year operating profit.  
 McDonnell said no decision has been made on how the company
will raise cash to pay for its new strategy of keeping wind
installations and taking advantage of higher demand for
renewable energy.  
 ``There are a number of options on the table,'' McDonnell
said. These may include raising cash in the market, selling
assets, refinancing a project in  Morocco , or selling shares in
the company's emerging market unit or finding a partner for it.  
 The new strategy ``is the right one because it will lead to
greater visibility of the revenue stream,'' he said, adding that
the plan was backed by all of the company's top management.  
 ``These are professionals with years of experience,'' he
said. ``They are convinced this is the right path.''  
 Separately, he said headhunters have been contacted to
search for new chief executive officer. Theolia co-founder Jean-Marie Santander will relinquish his CEO role, which he has held
since 2004, and remain as chairman, the company said Sept. 3.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Guy Collins at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        