-- More volatility seen with hurricane, payrolls
-- By  Deepa Seetharaman
-- Sun Aug 31, 2008 12:22pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/31/columns-column-stocks-outlook-dc-idUSN2941486720080831

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Wall Street is set for another 
volatile week after the Labor Day holiday, as investors track 
Hurricane Gustav, the price of oil, key economic data and 
continued fallout from the credit crisis. 

  Gustav is expected to hit the U.S. Gulf Coast early this 
week and many of the major oil companies have already shut down 
some of their production and refining operations.  Any new threat to oil production could boost the price of 
crude and in turn cause stock investors to sell shares on fears 
that inflation pressure will rise.  Investors will also contend with a barrage of economic data 
next week, notably the August payrolls report due out on Friday 
and two reports on U.S. factory activity from the Institute for 
Supply Management.  But the hurricane will be the main focus at the beginning 
of the week. Officials said the storm would build to a 
dangerous Category 4 hurricane when it hits the coast of 
Louisiana west of New Orleans, where Hurricane Katrina raged 
three years ago.  In the past week, oil prices have surged and retreated on 
concerns about the storm's path, strength and the readiness of 
U.S. emergency officials to handle any disruptions.  Crude oil hit $120 on Thursday before settling at $115 on 
Friday, bolstered by a stronger dollar.  Gustav "will probably be moving the market one way or the 
other," said John Praveen, chief investment strategist at 
Prudential International Investments Advisers LLC in Newark, 
New Jersey. "If it fizzles then it will be a big relief on oil 
prices."  Also driving the market next week are several government 
economic reports.  This data comes after the U.S. government said gross 
domestic product grew at a robust 3.3 percent clip between 
April and June, above initial estimates of 1.9 percent.  But analysts said the strong showing was largely the result 
of increased exports.  "If you look at GDP, you're led to believe the economy is 
solid," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer of Johnson 
Illington Advisor in Albany, New York. "But if you look at the 
variables -- employment, industrial production and personal 
income -- the economy does not look solid but weak."  On Friday, all three major indexes fell more than 1 percent 
and all 30 stocks in the Dow industrials finished in the red.  Economic data added to the market's jitters after a 
government report showed U.S. personal income fell unexpectedly 
in July while spending slowed as the effects of a government 
stimulus package wore off.  An inflation measure hit a 17-year high.  The Dow Jones industrial average  .DJI  closed down 171.63 
points, or 1.47 percent, at 11,543.55 in Friday's trading. The 
Standard & Poor's 500 Index  .SPX  was down 17.85 points, or 
1.37 percent, at 1,282.83. The Nasdaq Composite Index  .IXIC  
was down 44.12 points, or 1.83 percent, at 2,367.52.  For the month, though, the Dow added 1.5 percent, while the 
S&P rose 1.3 percent and the Nasdaq gained 1.8 percent.  The August jobs report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
is also expected to be weak, with an overall decline in 
non-farm payrolls of 85,000 and no change in the unemployment 
rate of 5.7 percent for August.  In July, U.S. non-farm payrolls fell for a seventh straight 
month.  Another month of hefty job losses would reinforce those who 
argue that the economy remains in poor shape, Johnson said.  Market watchers are also awaiting data on U.S. auto and 
same-store retail sales for clues about consumer spending in 
the upcoming holiday season, along with the Federal Reserve's 
Beige Book.  "The markets are extremely volatile and moving according to 
macroeconomic news quite a bit," said Prudential International 
Investments' Praveen. "All of this data has the potential to be 
moving markets."  Investors will also be tracking new developments among 
financial companies, particularly beleaguered mortgage giants 
Fannie Mae FNM.N and Freddie Mac FRE.N, and Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc LEH.N, which is shopping its asset management 
division arm.  Lehman, the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, is looking 
for buyers for some $40 billion of commercial mortgages and 
property on its balance sheet.  Although developments in the race for the White House will 
not take center stage, analysts said that Wall Street will be 
watching the Republican National Convention next week for 
long-term market implications.  Investors will particularly hone in on Sen. John McCain's 
tax and energy policy, especially following his selection of 
Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin as his running mate.  "The markets are not going to be happy with an Obama 
presidency...and McCain is not particularly loved by Wall 
Street either," said George Schwartz, president at Schwartz 
Investment Counsel in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.  But with Palin, "conservatives are going to come out 
roaring in favor," Schwartz said. "It's going to be a positive 
influence on economic activity."  Schwartz added that the pairing could affect oil prices, 
especially if Palin and McCain say they strongly support 
off-shore drilling.  "That premise of additional supplies is going to further 
take the speculators out of the market and cause them to put 
downward pressure," he said.  (Additional reporting by Herb Lash and Steve C. Johnson; 
Editing by Leslie Adler and Derek Caney)