-- China's Baosteel revives New York listing plan
-- By George Chen and Alfred Cang
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 6:31am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/businesspro-baosteel-nyse-ipo-dc-idUSSHA30915920070110

 

 SHANGHAI  (Reuters) - Baosteel Group, China's biggest steel 
maker, is preparing to list core steel assets in New York, 
sources familiar with the situation told Reuters on Wednesday. 

  Top management has decided to pursue a listing there and 
Baosteel has launched an international search for accountants 
and lawyers to help it meet U.S. listing standards, the sources 
said.  Global investment banks have started pitching Baosteel to 
underwrite the offer, banking sources said.  "Top management of Baosteel made the basic decision in 
November to launch an IPO in New York," said a source close to 
the company who is familiar with the preparations.  No time frame for a New York initial public offering has 
been set. Because of the large amount of accounting work and 
other documentation needed, the actual listing of Baosteel 
shares in New York may not occur by the end of this year, 
bankers said.  The amount of money to be raised in the offer has not been 
fixed, but it could be well over a $1 billion. Baoshan Iron and 
Steel Co. ( 600019.SS ), the group's Shanghai-listed arm which 
controls almost all its steel assets, had a market 
capitalization of $21.6 billion on Wednesday.  The group has considered an overseas listing at various 
times over more than half a decade, but each time suspended 
those plans because of stock market or industry conditions.  Analysts believe now would be an ideal time to pursue a New 
York listing because of surging foreign demand for Chinese 
assets and the Chinese steel industry's recovery in the past 
year.  "Overseas listing has always been our goal. Our company is 
still looking for good opportunities to go public overseas, so 
as to become an international corporation," group president Xu 
Lejiang told Reuters in an interview last September.  Some investment bankers seeking business with Baosteel said 
it might simultaneously list in Hong Kong as well as New York, 
as other Chinese firms have done, but this could not be 
confirmed.  A Baosteel spokesman, contacted by telephone, declined to 
comment beyond repeating earlier statements that the company 
was always seeking an appropriate time to list abroad.
  SHANGHAI SHARES SOAR  Baosteel's Shanghai-listed shares soared 110 percent to an 
all-time high last year, boosted by a big rally in the overall 
Chinese stock market as well as by a profit recovery among 
Chinese steel makers.  The listed company's third-quarter net profit jumped 42 
percent from a year earlier to 4.71 billion yuan ($604 
million), beating market expectations.  Baosteel has been showing signs of wanting to play a more 
active role in the global steel industry, and this could be 
helped by an international stock market listing.  Chairwoman Xie Qihua said in a statement at the start of 
this year that in addition to helping restructure the domestic 
steel industry, where the government is promoting mergers, 
Baosteel aimed to expand cooperation with foreign steel makers.  Xie told Japanese business daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun in 
December that Baosteel might ask Nippon Steel Corp. ( 5401.T ) 
and South Korea's POSCO ( 005490.KS ) to take stakes in it if 
Baosteel listed overseas.  Fitch Ratings said in a report on Wednesday that Baosteel's 
active participation in recent international negotiations on 
the price of iron ore showed China's growing influence over the 
global steel industry.

