-- Walgreen selling hand gel as cigarette substitute
-- By  Martinne Geller
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 4:46pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/businesspro-cigarette-gel-dc-idUSTON07833620070110

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A new hand gel is starting to appear 
on drug-store shelves promising more than just an end to germs 
or dry skin -- this one claims to satisfy users' tobacco 
cravings for up to four hours. 

  Walgreen Co., the largest U.S. drugstore chain by sales, is 
now stocking its more than 5,500 stores with packets of 
Nicogel, a quick-evaporating gel made with tobacco extracts. 
The roll-out should be finished within a couple weeks, said 
company spokeswoman Carol Hively in an e-mail, adding that it 
costs $5.99 for box of 10 doses.  Nicogel, made by a unit of privately held Blue Whale 
Worldwide Inc., can be used when smoking is inconvenient, such 
as at work, on an airplane, in a theater or, these days, in 
almost any other public place.  Blue Whale, which also sells a smokeless tobacco substitute 
made from tea leaves, is hoping to cash in on the increasing 
number of smoking bans and the ill-effects of second-hand 
smoke, Chief Executive Bill Whalen said in an interview this 
week.  "The potential for this product is enormous," said Whalen, 
a horticultural geneticist with a business degree from the 
University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. "The most 
important thing is smoking bans. (Also, more) people don't want 
to smell like smoke."  Nicogel, which is already sold in 40 other countries 
including the United Kingdom, France and Germany, could 
generate $200 million in U.S. sales this year, Whalen said, 
predicting that sales will reach $1 billion by the end of 2008.  Smoking bans, which have cleared some air in places such as 
New York, Washington D.C., Louisiana, and Philadelphia, are 
helping to make cigarette alternatives, like smokeless tobacco, 
the fastest-growing segment of the industry, according to 
Charles Norton, portfolio manager of the Vice Fund, which has 
$75 million under management.  The U.S. moist smokeless tobacco category, which is 
dominated by Skoal and Copenhagen maker UST Inc., is one-tenth 
the size of the cigarette market, but is seeing unit volumes 
grow 8 percent to 9 percent a year, Norton said. By contrast, 
U.S. annual consumption of cigarettes is falling 1 percent to 2 
percent.  Cigarette makers such as Altria Group Inc. unit Philip 
Morris USA have been able to offset declining volumes by 
raising prices, Norton said.
  MARKETING KEY TO SUCCESS  But Nicogel's success will hinge on marketing, Norton said.  "Even (for) the established smokeless tobacco companies ... 
it's all marketing and promotion spending and how aggressive 
they can be. For a small private company, I question how much 
marketing muscle they could put behind it," Norton said.  Nicogel plans to spend "upward of $15 million" this year on 
marketing campaigns in national newspapers and magazines, as 
well as through nightclubs and hospital chains, which Whalen 
said are interested in Nicogel for their patients, doctors and 
nurses.  The clear gel, which Whalen said will soon turn up in other 
large chains, has all the components of tobacco but lacks many 
carcinogens, which are formed as cigarettes burn.  Patrick Reynolds, spokesman for the Foundation for a 
Smokefree America, said many anti-smoking advocates will likely 
oppose the use of Nicogel, claiming that it enables smokers to 
avoid stopping.  "My feeling is different. I am OK with these products, 
which help a smoker get through nicotine cravings," said 
Reynolds, whose grandfather, R.J. Reynolds, founded the tobacco 
company that became Camel and Kool maker Reynolds American Inc.  "Our feeling is that if you can ease a smoker's way ... if 
you can give them a little comfort or relief temporarily, we 
don't see anything wrong with that," Reynolds said.