-- NYSE, others buy 20 pct stake in India's NSE bourse
-- By Shailendra Bhatnagar and  Jonathan Keehner
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 12:08pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/businesspro-nse-nyse-goldman-dc-idUSBOM13676220070110

 

 NEW DELHI/NEW YORK  (Reuters) - NYSE Group Inc. NYX.N said 
on Wednesday it acquired a 5 percent stake in National Stock 
Exchange (NSE), India's biggest stock exchange, as it shifts 
its overseas expansion toward Asia. 

  The move comes just weeks after the Big Board's annual 
meeting, when shareholders approved an historic $14 billion 
merger with Paris-based Euronext ENXT.PA and heard of 
opportunities for Asian expansion.  "It was important to get in the first strategic foothold 
with the partner of choice, which in this case was the NSE," 
said NYSE Chief Financial Officer Nelson Chai on a conference 
call. "They are by far the leading marketplace here in India."  NYSE Group, which operates the top U.S. stock exchange, and 
three others each purchased a 5 percent NSE stake -- the 
maximum permitted under Indian guidelines -- for a cumulative 
20 percent position in the Mumbai-based exchange, valued at 
$460 million.  Investing with the Big Board was private equity firm 
General Atlantic, SoftBank Asian Infrastructure Fund and 
investment bank Goldman Sachs & Co. ( GS.N ), where NYSE Group 
Chief Executive John Thain was previously President and 
Co-Chief Operating Officer.  "This alliance marks a significant milestone for NSE in 
developing a place for itself in the emerging global scenario," 
NSE Chief Executive Ravi Narain told a news conference, adding 
that with more Indian firms looking to list overseas, it was 
natural that foreign exchanges were interested in an Indian 
presence.  The New York Stock Exchange lists 10 firms from India.
  STRATEGIC INVESTMENT  Asked about potential benefits of linking with the Indian 
exchange, the Big Board's Chai said the 5 percent stake was 
taken for strategic reasons, adding the NYSE was not assuming a 
controlling position nor saving on operating costs because of 
the investment.  "In markets like India as well as probably China you need 
to make bets and have a longer time horizon," Chai said.  NYSE shares were down $0.90, or 0.9 percent at $103.68 in 
morning trading, compared with a 0.6 percent decline in the KBW 
Capital Markets index .KSX.  "Although the principal Asian exchanges and markets aren't 
ready for an NYSE combination, management is positioning NYSE 
for an Asian partner," wrote JP Morgan analyst Kenneth 
Worthington in a note. "Asia is a priority for NYSE."  NSE's 50-share S&P CNX index  .NSEI  is the benchmark for 
derivatives trade in India, and last month hit a record high. 
The exchange began operations in 1994 with trading on the 
wholesale debt market, followed by a capital market segment for 
equities and a futures and options segment.  Local newspapers had recently reported that NSE rival 
Bombay Stock Exchange was in talks about a proposed sale with 
several exchanges, including the Big Board and Nasdaq Stock 
Market Inc. ( NDAQ.O ), but Chai said the NYSE was not 
participating in that process.  Merrill Lynch & Co. was financial adviser to NYSE and the 
purchase is expected to close in the first quarter of this 
year, subject to regulatory approvals in India.  NYSE said it would pay $115 million in cash for its stake 
to a consortium of sellers including ICICI Bank Ltd. ( ICBK.BO ), 
IFCI Ltd. ( IFCI.BO ), IL&FS, Punjab National Bank ( PNBK.BO ) and 
General Insurance Corp. of India.  (Additional reporting by  Robert MacMillan  in New York)