-- Microsoft starts "watershed" year with Vista buzz
-- By  Daisuke Wakabayashi
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 11:41am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/businesspro-electronics-show-microsoft-d-idUSN1048628820070110

 

 LAS VEGAS  (Reuters) - Fortunes can change quickly in Las 
Vegas. Just ask Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT.O ) 

  A year ago, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates' keynote speech 
to the Consumer Electronics Show centered around Windows Vista 
and Xbox 360. At the time, the Windows upgrade was struggling 
with bugs and had no launch date in sight; and the Xbox 360 
game console was suffering from major production shortages.  Needless to say, the audience reaction was lukewarm.  This year, the CES crowd cheered during a demonstration of 
a new feature for Windows Vista that allows screen savers or 
computer wallpaper to run moving video. The new PCs running 
Windows Vista generated buzz and Microsoft declared itself the 
early leader in the console wars.  "This year is a little bit of a watershed year for us in 
that people can tangibly see what we are doing," Robbie Bach, 
president of Microsoft's entertainment and device division, 
said in an interview on Tuesday at CES.  "What you saw were real products, real strategy and a real 
explanation for what we were doing," said Bach, who joined 
Gates on stage during this year's speech.  After five years, over 50 million lines of software code, 
2.5 million testers and more than its fair share of stumbles, 
Windows Vista will finally launch on January 30.  The long-awaited upgrade to Windows -- the operating system 
that runs over 90 percent of computers -- is the linchpin in a 
wave of new products aimed at accelerating growth at the $44 
billion software giant.  Microsoft says Vista's 3-D graphics make it an ideal 
platform for video games and the company plans to introduce 
games that can be played online by PC and Xbox 360 users at the 
same time. Opening up Xbox's online game community to PC gamers 
could create a huge audience for advertisers and content 
providers.  Vista was designed to manage better and display digital 
media -- photos, songs and videos -- than predecessor Windows 
XP. If consumers use the PC more as an entertainment hub, it 
could drive demand for a home server that stores, backs ups and 
distributes media between more than one PC in the home.
  MORE ROOM FOR GAIN?  The buzz from CES and positive feedback to Vista are 
welcome news to Microsoft investors who have pushed the shares 
up 32 percent since the end of May. Microsoft shares closed at 
$29.96 on Tuesday, near their 12-month high of $30.26.  Jason Maynard, an analyst at Credit Suisse, sees more room 
for gains after what he saw and heard at CES.  "We are incrementally more positive about the potential for 
the stock to continue moving higher," Maynard wrote in a note 
on Tuesday, reiterating a $35 price target for Microsoft.  "Visually, the (Vista user interface) looks great, and 
there were a number of new, innovative PCs being held 
specifically for the launch of Vista," wrote Maynard, who added 
that Microsoft could benefit from consumers opting for more 
expensive versions of Vista in the new PCs.  Microsoft trades at 21 times analysts' estimated earnings 
versus a multiple of 34 for Apple Inc. ( AAPL.O ) and 47 for 
Google Inc. ( GOOG.O ) However, the stock's valuation is higher 
than software peer Oracle Corp.'s ORCL.O 18 times.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft is not completely out 
of the woods. Its online services group faces an uphill climb 
in closing the gap in Web advertising on search leader Google.  Microsoft's Zune portable music player faces an aggressive 
and dominant market leader in Apple, which set off an 8 percent 
rise in its stock price on Tuesday by unveiling a mobile phone 
coupled with its iPod.  Bach said Microsoft did not expect to win over the market 
in a few months and saw Zune as long-term business.  "This is not a two-month thing. It is not a fiscal 2006 
holiday thing. It's a three-, four-, five-year thing," said 
Bach, who oversees the video game, mobile phone and Zune music 
player businesses. "The first step is absolutely the hardest."