-- Gannett, McClatchy, Tribune plan Web ad network
-- By  Robert MacMillan
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 6:54am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/businesspro-gannett-mcclatchy-tribune-dc-idUSN1022712620070110

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. newspaper publishers Gannett Co. 
Inc. ( GCI.N ), McClatchy Co. ( MNI.N ) and Tribune Co. TRB.N 
plan to sell advertising jointly on their Web sites in a bid to 
capture more online revenue as circulation slips. 

  The companies plan to offer advertisers one-stop shopping 
for display ads on Internet sites, a spokeswoman for Gannett 
said on Wednesday.  The companies are likely to contribute 10 percent of their 
online advertising space to the network, The Wall Street 
Journal reported on Wednesday, citing people familiar with the 
situation.  They hope to make an announcement early this year, but the 
deal could still fall apart, the Journal said, citing the same 
sources.  McClatchy and Tribune officials were not immediately 
available for comment. Gannett's spokeswoman declined to 
provide further comment on the details in the Journal story.  Gannett Chief Executive Craig Dubow outlined the plan at a 
media conference in December, but did not provide details.  "The goal is to create the largest network of newspaper- 
developed local sites for any advertiser to reach local 
consumers," Dubow said at the conference, according to a 
transcript on Gannett's Web site.  "However, unlike past efforts in the industry in print or 
online, we need a network focused on customer needs, so 
business rules will include guaranteed inventory availability, 
standard pricing, and simple billing."  The goal is to attract big advertisers like automakers and 
phone companies that want to reach an online audience without 
negotiating ad deals with individual companies or newspapers, 
the Journal said.  The plan comes as large U.S. newspaper publishers bulk up 
on online dollars as circulation at most papers slips and 
advertisers move away from print and onto the Internet.  Print editions still account for most of the U.S. newspaper 
company publishing revenue, with online accounting for 5 to 10 
percent on average. That amount is rising quickly, however.  The share prices of several publishers have also 
underperformed the wider market as print growth slows.  Tribune is in the midst of a corporate review that could 
lead to the company's breakup.  McClatchy sold its largest paper, the Star Tribune in 
Minneapolis, Minn., to a private-equity firm for about half the 
price it bought the paper in 1998.  Gannett, meanwhile, is retooling newsrooms at its nearly 90 
local daily papers to focus more on the 24-hour delivery of 
news on the Internet.  The companies' newspapers include some of the largest in 
the United States, including USA Today, the Los Angeles Times 
and the Miami Herald.