-- Vodafone says pushing ahead with Hutchison Essar bid
-- By Shailendra Bhatnagar and  Surojit Gupta
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 6:00am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/businesspro-hutchison-essar-dc-idUSSP16422220070110

 

 NEW DELHI  (Reuters) - Vodafone Group Plc solidified plans 
to become a bigger player in India's mobile market, saying on 
Wednesday it would submit a formal bid to buy the country's 
fourth-largest carrier, Hutchison Essar. 

  Chief Executive Arun Sarin said after meeting Trade 
Minister Kamal Nath that a formal offer to boost Vodafone's 
business in the world's fastest-growing major mobile phone 
market was, however, not likely this month.  "It is some weeks away," he told reporters in New Delhi, 
adding it would be later than the end of January. He was due to 
meet Telecom Minister Dayanidhi Maran later.  Brokers have valued the takeover target at up to $20 
billion and Vodafone, if it were to win control, would have 
nearly 16 percent share in the rapidly growing market of at 
least 147 million mobile users.  The UK mobile giant is one of several bidders, including 
Reliance Communications Ltd., India's second largest mobile 
operator, who are seeking control of unlisted Hutchison Essar. 
The smaller GSM carrier is 67 percent owned by Hong Kong's 
Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd. and 33 percent 
owned by India's Essar group.  Nath told reporters that any takeover bid should be in the 
interest of all stakeholders.  "These kind of takeovers should involve best commercial 
practices and be in the interest of all stakeholders involved," 
he said.  Other bidders include India's Hinduja group and Essar 
itself.
  HIGH PRICE TAG  Speculation that Hutchison Essar was ripe for a takeover 
intensified after plans for an initial public offering fell 
apart in November over disputes between the joint venture 
partners.  "It looks excessively overvalued," a senior telecoms 
industry executive, who declined to be identified but was not 
involved in the bidding, told Reuters.  The Hinduja group would put in a bid this month in 
partnership with financial institutions or private equity 
funds, the Business Standard paper said, quoting Chairman Ashok 
Hinduja.  Separately, the Financial Times reported that interest 
among private equity firms to be involved in a bid for 
Hutchison Essar was waning after the price tag shot up.  It cited people familiar with the situation as saying 
buy-out firms had indicated they would not take part in any bid 
that valued the mobile carrier above $15 billion.  Last month, Reliance Communications said some of the 
world's top 10 private equity funds were aligned with it for a 
bid. Its board on Wednesday approved the raising of up to $1 
billion in long-term overseas funds.  Vodafone already owns nearly 10 percent of Bharti Airtel 
Ltd. , India's leading mobile carrier, whose chief said the UK 
firm was serious about buying Hutchison Essar.  "They have got to be serious," Bharti Chairman Sunil Mittal 
told reporters after meeting Sarin earlier in New Delhi.  Mittal said there was no question of Vodafone selling its 
stake in Bharti at the moment, and there was no need for 
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. -- which owns 30.8 percent in 
Bharti Airtel -- to be involved in discussions with Vodafone.  "The question does not arise," Mittal said.  Shares in Bharti Airtel closed down 1.7 percent at 613.10 
rupees and Reliance Communication shares fell 3.7 percent in a 
Mumbai market that fell 1.5 percent. At 1023 GMT, Vodafone 
shares were down 1.8 percent in a London market down 0.7 
percent.  India added a record 47 million new GSM users in 2006, more 
than double the 21 million added the year before.  In December alone there were nearly 5 million new GSM users 
but despite the pace of growth, less than 14 percent of the one 
billion-plus population own a mobile phone.  (Additional reporting by  Rina Chandran  in MUMBAI)