-- Alcoa execs see strong 2007 aluminum demand
-- By  Carole Vaporean
-- Tue Jan 9, 2007 10:21pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/businesspro-alcoa-aluminum-price-dc-idUSN0920504820070110

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Alcoa Inc. ( AA.N ) expects higher 
alumina prices along with increased materials costs in the 
first quarter, but overall demand for aluminum, especially by 
the aerospace segment should stay strong in 2007, executives at 
the world's biggest aluminum producer said on Tuesday. 

  "We anticipate higher alumina pricing based on the current 
market and the approximate 60-day lag," Alcoa's chief financial 
officer Chuck McLane told analysts on a conference call.  But he added: "We expect continued strong demand in 
aerospace with productivity gains offsetting cost inflation 
within most of the underlying businesses."  Later in the call, Alain Belda, Alcoa chief executive 
officer, said he anticipates continued strong global aluminum 
demand growth in 2007. He repeated Alcoa's forecast for China's 
consumption to increase by 14 percent.  "That is probably conservative as it exceeded 17 percent in 
2006," he said.  "We believe China will be balanced (in supply and demand) 
going forward and will not be a significant exporter of primary 
aluminum," he said.  Belda added that a solid 3 percent annual demand growth was 
expected outside of China, with gains of over 6 percent seen in 
the U.S. and more than 3 percent in Europe.  Moreover, the world will lose some U.S. and European 
production as deregulated energy markets have increased power 
rates to levels that are forcing some smelters to close.  "It will be challenging for new smelting construction in 
the West to keep pace with this demand growth. Therefore we 
believe the aluminum market will be balanced to potentially 
short over the coming years," said the chief executive.  Following release of the aluminum-maker's unexpectedly 
strong earnings results for both the fourth quarter and 2006, 
the executives said to expect increased alumina prices despite 
anticipated surpluses, because of likely refinery shut downs.  "For alumina, our supply/demand outlook does show a surplus 
for 2007, ranging from 1.5 to 3 million tonnes, depending on 
the ability of the Chinese to ramp up their new refinery 
capacity," said Belda.  Spot alumina prices fell sharply over the last year to 
current levels around $250 to $275 a ton. Belda said at least a 
third of the world's refineries lose money at those levels.  "These usually are the plants that are in the spot market 
(for alumina). My guess is that some of these old, high-cost 
plants will have to shut down," the CEO said.  He noted further that there should not be an alumina 
inventory overhang, because there is no place to store it.  Among primary aluminum sectors, both executives said to 
expect cuts in North American auto production, as well as 
seasonal declines in commercial building and construction in 
the first quarter of 2007.  Non-residential construction growth was seen slowing in 
North America and Asia, but still showing healthy growth of 6 
percent and 12 percent, respectively.  Alcoa sees European construction rates of 3 to 4 percent.  Anticipation of tighter engine regulations in 2007 sparked 
a rash of prebuying of heavy trucks in 2006 that should result 
in a steep 40 to 50 percent decline in 2007.  In addition, Belda said Alcoa sees the trailer market flat 
to slightly off in 2007.  McLane said gains in market share in wheels, fasteners and 
some heavy trucks should offset some of the sharp drop.  Aerospace will be near historic highs for several years, 
with Airbus and Boeing ( BA.N ) expected to deliver a record 900 
units in 2007.  "And we are well postitioned to take advantage of this 
continued strong market," said Belda.  In the flat-rolled products segment, McLane said costs 
associated with the fourth quarter shutdown of Alcoa's Swansea 
can sheet facility should continue through the first quarter.