-- Pioneer N.American plasma TV revs to miss target
-- By  Kiyoshi Takenaka
-- Tue Jan 9, 2007 10:35pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/businesspro-electronics-show-pioneer-dc-idUSN0920568820070110

 

 LAS VEGAS  (Reuters) - Japan's Pioneer Corp. said on Tuesday 
its North American plasma TV revenues in the six months to 
March would likely miss an internal target by as much as 20 
percent due to sharp falls in price. 

  Quitting its own plasma panel production and starting to 
buy key components for plasma TVs from outside manufacturers is 
an option for the electronics maker, Tom Haga, head of 
Pioneer's North American operations, told Reuters in an 
interview at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.  "Sales are growing in unit terms, but price declines are 
brutal," Haga said.  "Plasma TV revenues are likely to fall short of what we 
have originally anticipated by 15 to 20 percent."  Following Haga's comments, shares in Pioneer were down 2.4 
percent at 1,675 yen in Tokyo, underperforming the Nikkei 
average , which fell 1.69 percent.  The North American market accounts for one-third of 
Pioneer's plasma business.  Demand for flat screen TVs is expected to grow rapidly in 
the coming years as people trade in bulky cathode-ray tube 
models for sleek big-screen sets. But the flat TV market has 
seen steep price erosion as global electronics giants try to 
outsell each other.  Smaller players such as Pioneer are especially hard-pressed 
since it is difficult for them to cut costs in a speedy manner 
through economies of scale.  "We are cutting down production costs on assumption of 20 
to 25 percent falls in price a year. But a decline of 45 
percent or so is a little too much for us to catch up," Haga 
said.  Pioneer was the world's sixth-largest plasma TV maker in 
July-September behind larger rivals such as Panasonic maker 
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd. and Samsung Electronics 
Co. Ltd., according to DisplaySearch.
  NEW PLANT?  The Tokyo-based company has plasma panel output capacity of 
970,000 units a year, which is dwarfed by 5.5 million at 
Matsushita, the world's largest plasma TV maker.  Pioneer has said it will decide on a plasma panel capacity 
expansion after observing the sales trend in the year-end 
shopping season.  But Haga said on Tuesday no decision has been made as the 
company is gathering further information on flat-TV trends at 
the Consumer Electronics Show, the industry's largest U.S. 
trade show.  He added that the company may turn to panel supplies from 
peer manufacturers instead of building a new plant and saddling 
itself with a heavy depreciation burden.  "So far, no one has been able to supply the kind of panels 
we want. But (procurement) can be a possibility if someone is 
able to provide the panels whose picture quality meets our 
standards when embedded in TVs," he said.  Pioneer positions its plasma TVs as premium products for 
high-end users.  Turning around the struggling plasma TV operations is 
important for Pioneer as healthy profits at the car electronics 
division are being partly offset by losses at the home 
electronics division.  Pioneer is the world's largest maker of car electronics 
ahead of rivals such as Victor Co. of Japan Ltd. (JVC) and 
Kenwood Corp.