-- Gap makes executive changes at Gap, Old Navy
-- By  Alexandria Sage
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 3:24pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/businesspro-gap-management-dc-idUSN1029069620070110

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Apparel retailer Gap Inc. ( GPS.N ) 
on Wednesday announced management changes in its merchandising 
and design divisions, seen as the first steps in a broader 
revamp of its stores to combat sliding sales and rejuvenate the 
classic American brand. 

  Gap announced the departure of Denise Johnston, the 
president of Gap Adult who joined the company in April, and Ivy 
Ross, executive vice president of product design for the Old 
Navy chain. Searches for their replacements are being 
conducted, the company said.  The company also named Karyn Hillman, formerly of the 
company's Banana Republic chain, as senior vice president of 
merchandising for Gap Adult.  Gap, the world's largest apparel retailer, has been known 
for its casual, basic American looks for over 30 years, but it 
has been struggling to find an audience for Gap and Old Navy, 
its two main chains, in recent years as their merchandise has 
failed to inspire shoppers.  Last week, Gap said its executive team and board would 
review brand strategies at the two divisions, and many analysts 
have been predicting change -- either a management switch at 
the division level or the ouster of Chief Executive Paul 
Pressler.  Jefferies analyst Timothy Allen said that management 
changes were not unexpected and that similar turnover may be 
seen in the next few weeks within the merchandising or product 
design divisions.  "You would think that if they're really going to focus on 
the divisions, it's the division head (that would leave)," 
Allen said. "Apparently Pressler still has faith in them. He's 
not giving up on them."  Gap also has hired investment bank Goldman Sachs, according 
to Reuters sources on Monday, a move interpreted on Wall Street 
as a sign that a leveraged buyout by private equity groups 
might ensue. Shares of Gap surged 7 percent that day on that 
news.  Except for two months since 2005, Gap has reported monthly 
declines in sales at stores open at least a year -- a key 
measure of financial performance. Pressler, who was hired in 
late 2002 following 3 years of mostly falling sales at 
established stores, oversaw a year of same-store sales 
increases in 2003, but they again turned lower for six months 
of 2004.  At Gap, analysts say the main problem is too-bland apparel, 
or, on the opposite side of the coin, fashions too focused on 
youth trends that don't appeal to shoppers in their 30s and 
over.  Old Navy stores, which sell cheaper apparel for the entire 
family, are in need of a makeover and its market share has 
eroded amid fierce competition for basics from retailers from 
Target Corp. ( TGT.N ) to Kohl's Corp. ( KSS.N ).  Allen noted that turnover at Gap has been high within 
merchandising, reflecting tension between that division and 
senior management.  "These people have great merchandising backgrounds with 
great companies. They're just not able to have an impact," 
Allen said.  Hillman will report to Cynthia Harriss, the Gap brand's 
North American president, and Old Navy's design team will 
report to Old Navy President Dawn Robertson until replacements 
are found for Johnston and Ross.  Shares of Gap edged down 0.8 percent at mid-afternoon to 
$20.03 on the New York Stock Exchange.