-- UPDATE 2-Express urges Caremark holders to reject CVS deal
-- 
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 4:12pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/expressscripts-caremark-idUSN1029019020070110

 

  (Adds analyst comments) 

 NEW YORK  Jan 10 (Reuters) - Express Scripts Inc. ( ESRX.O )
on Wednesday formally urged shareholders of rival pharmacy
benefits manager Caremark Rx Inc. CMX.N to vote against a
competing takeover bid from drugstore chain CVS Corp. ( CVS.N ).  Express Scripts set out its objections to the CVS bid in a
proxy statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The all-stock CVS bid, worth about $22 billion, is
subject to approval by Caremark shareholders.  Express Scripts announced its $26 billion bid for Caremark
in December, threatening Caremark's planned sale to CVS.  In the proxy statement, Express said its offer provides for
a "significant" premium, including a cash component that the
CVS bid lacks.  "A vote 'against' the proposed CVS merger preserves your
opportunity to receive the significant premium for your shares
contemplated by our proposal, which provides significantly
greater financial value than the proposed CVS merger," Express
Scripts said in the proxy statement.  Nashville, Tennessee-based Caremark this week rejected the
unsolicited bid from Express Scripts. It said it favored the
CVS offer because it carried few integration risks and offered
significant opportunities for savings and efficiency benefits.  Caremark said the Express proposal faced significant
antitrust risks and potential delays, carried the risk of a
hefty debt load for the combined company, and lacked strategic
rationale.  Express Scripts said it would nominate four directors to
the Caremark board -- a move dismissed by CVS as a publicity
stunt -- and also made antitrust regulatory filings to acquire
stock in Caremark.  "It's all about the spread between the value of the CVS and
Express Scripts bids for Caremark and who can win over Caremark
shareholders," Goldman Sachs analysts said in a research
report.  Given the antitrust scrutiny an Express Scripts deal could
face, as well as CVS's dividend hike, "the spread has narrowed
considerably in the past two weeks ... putting CVS in a much
better position to modestly sweeten its offer and produce a
superior bid," Goldman Sachs said.  Caremark Chief Executive Mac Crawford, speaking on
Wednesday at a JP Morgan Healthcare Conference in San
Francisco, criticized Express Scripts' offer, saying it was a
"defensive reaction."  Crawford, whose comments were broadcast over the Internet,
also questioned Express Scripts' claims that it could reach
$500 million in synergies from the combination.  In its proxy statement, Express said representatives from
it and Caremark have had preliminary discussions over the past
five years regarding a possible business combination or other
strategic alternatives. But those talks did not lead to
negotiations of any definitive agreements, it said.
 (Additional reporting by  Jessica Hall  in Philadelphia)










