-- WRAPUP 3-US November trade gap narrowest since July 2005
-- 
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 6:10pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/10/usa-economy-idUSN1024987120070110

 

  (Adds Democratic comments, market reaction) 

  By  Doug Palmer WASHINGTON  Jan 10 (Reuters) - The U.S. trade deficit in
November was the smallest in 16 months, as a weak dollar and
solid foreign economic growth helped U.S. exports set a record,
a Commerce Department report showed on Wednesday.  The better-than-expected data was evidence of a stronger
U.S. economy in the fourth quarter of 2006, and some analysts
said it was a sign the huge trade deficit could be headed lower
in 2007 after setting another annual record last year.  Morgan Stanley economists raised their estimate of
fourth-quarter U.S. economic growth to an annual rate of 2.8
percent, from 2.5 percent previously, while a Bank of America
analyst said the U.S. economy advanced at a 3.0 percent annual
pace in the last three months of 2006.  The dollar gained broadly on the news the U.S. trade gap
had narrowed for the third month in a row, which investors
believed made it even less likely the Federal Reserve would cut
interest rates early in 2007.  The huge trade gap has been a long-term drag on the dollar
versus other currencies.  U.S. government bond prices slipped on the shrinkage in the
trade deficit and a separate report showing mortgage
applications surged last week, suggesting the shaky U.S.
housing market could be stabilizing.  A separate survey of top forecasters released on Wednesday
pegged U.S. economic growth at a 2.3 percent and 2.5 percent
rate, respectively, in the first and second quarters of this
year.  The trade deficit narrowed 1 percent in November to $58.2
billion, the smallest since July 2005, surprising many Wall
Street analysts who had expected a wider trade gap.  "It is looking better, but it is still humongous," said
Kurt Karl, head of economic research and consulting at Swiss Re
in New York. "The movement in the dollar has helped, and the
weakness in the U.S. economy has helped, and the strength in
foreign markets has helped."  The trade gap through the end of November totaled $701.6
billion, keeping it on track for a new record in 2006.  CHINA GAP  The closely watched deficit with China totaled $213.5
billion through November, shattering the 2005 annual record of
$201.6 billion and keeping it on pace to finish 2006 in the
range of $230 billion to $240 billion.  Meanwhile, China's official news agency reported the
country's trade surplus jumped 74 percent in 2006 to a record
$177.5 billion as its exports continued to surge.  Democrats seized on the mammoth trade gap as evidence for
tougher U.S. action to force China revalue its currency, which
many lawmakers believe is undervalued against the dollar by as
much as 40 percent.  "Unless the administration takes action to end China's
unfair currency manipulation, we will continue to see the
problem get worse," said Sen. Charles Schumer, a New York
Democrat, the new chairman of Congress' Joint Economic
Committee.  Rep. Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat expected to head an
key House of Representatives trade subcommittee, called for
stronger congressional oversight of Bush administration trade
policies to ensure "our businesses, workers and farmers have
more opportunities in the global marketplace."  Imports from China slipped 5.2 percent in November to $27.8
billion, but still totaled $236.6 billion for the first 11
months of the year. The monthly trade gap with China narrowed
nearly 6 percent to $22.9 billion.  U.S. exports of goods and services grew nearly 1 percent in
November to a record $124.8 billion. Goods and services exports
also set records in their individual categories, as did capital
goods and consumer goods.  U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez said the strong
export performance was evidence that Bush administration trade
policies were working. He urged Congress to renew trade
promotion authority, which expires in June, so the White House
can continue to negotiate market-opening trade deals. That is
expected to be a tough battle.  OIL BILL FALLS  Lower oil prices, after a sharp run-up earlier in the year,
also helped trim the trade gap.  The average price for imported oil fell for the third
consecutive month in November to $52.25 -- the lowest level
since January 2006 -- as mild U.S. temperatures helped trim
demand. Total petroleum imports at $21.5 billion in November
were the lowest since July 2005, the Commerce Department said.  Oil prices fell on Wednesday to their lowest levels in
nearly 19 months on a steep rise in U.S. heating oil stocks and
signs Russia may resume pumping crude to Europe after a dispute
with its neighbor Belarus.  U.S. imports of consumer products ahead of the Christmas
holiday hit a record, while overall imports increased slightly
during November to $183 billion.  A second Commerce Department report showed inventories at
U.S. wholesalers climbed a much-stronger-than-expected 1.3
percent in November as stocks rose in most industries,
including a 0.6 percent gain in the auto sector.
 (Additional reporting by Julie Haviv in New York)



