-- China union says U.S. fast food chains broke wage law
-- By  John Ruwitch
-- Wed Apr 4, 2007 5:00am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/04/businesspro-china-fastfood-dc-idUSHKG23155420070404

 

 GUANGZHOU, China  (Reuters) - U.S. fast food chains, 
including McDonald's and KFC, broke minimum wage laws in the 
southern Chinese city of Guangzhou, the state-backed labor 
union said on Wednesday, urging tougher enforcement of 
employment laws. 

  Guangzhou set the minimum wage for part-time workers at 7.5 
yuan ($0.97) an hour at the start of this year, but outlets of 
McDonald's ( MCD.N ), and KFC and Pizza Hut, which are part of 
Yum Brands Inc ( YUM.N ), paid workers less than that, said Li 
Shouzhen of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions.  "This conduct violates the relevant rules of our nation's 
labor law," said Li, head of the union's Social Security Work 
Department, according to a report in the official People's 
Daily.  A Yum spokeswoman said the company had followed Chinese 
laws. It was awaiting the results of an investigation into the 
companies' wage practice by the Guangdong province labor 
bureau.  McDonald's head of government relations in China said they 
were working with officials to investigate the salary issues, 
but the firm had not been in touch with the union. It has said 
it follows relevant laws and regulations.  The People's Daily article did not say what evidence Li 
based his comments on, but the All-China Federation of Trade 
Unions -- China's only union -- is not independent and 
functions much like an arm of the government or Communist 
Party.  Workers at McDonald's and KFC in Guangzhou confirmed 
reports by a local newspaper last week that many workers were 
receiving less than the minimum wage, particularly university 
students working part time without contracts.  One 22-year-old college student, who spoke to Reuters on 
condition that his name not be used, said he had worked at 
McDonald's for six months and earns 5.3 yuan ($0.69) an hour.  Another woman who said she had recently graduated from 
college but had worked at KFC for the past couple of years said 
she still made less than 7.5 yuan. She also declined to be 
named.  The workers said they were not alone. Between 75 and 90 
percent of colleagues at their restaurants, each with 40-50 
workers, also made below the legal minimum, they estimated.  The story, originally confined to Guangdong province, where 
there are 231 McDonald's restaurants and 330 KFCs and Pizza 
Huts, according to the companies, snowballed earlier this week 
when reports accused the companies of underpaying workers in 
several other cities around the country, including Beijing and 
Shanghai.  Within days, authorities had launched an investigation, 
which some political observers said reflected a new willingness 
to challenge business practices of multinational corporations.  Fu Minrong, a Shanghai lawyer and former journalist who 
follows such issues, said that until recently employees' rights 
might have been overlooked in the interest of foreign 
investment.  "In the past, we perhaps gave too much consideration to the 
investment interests of multinationals in China, so there were 
very few open reports about them," he said.  The spate of reports now "reflects the amount of openness 
there is in terms of media freedom in China," he added.  They also highlight a focus from Beijing on equality and 
the alleviation of potentially destabilizing factors, said Liu 
Cheng, a member of the Faculty of Law and Politics and Shanghai 
Teacher's University.  "Livelihood problems in China are at a point now where they 
must be resolved," he said. "These reports fit into such a 
policy environment."  (Additional reporting by Jerker Hellstrom in Shanghai)