-- Big Three get March U.S. sales beating, Toyota cheers
-- By  Poornima Gupta
-- Tue Apr 3, 2007 10:36pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/04/businesspro-autos-sales-dc-idUSN0340532820070404

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - General Motors Co. ( GM.N ) and Ford 
Motor Co. ( F.N ) posted lower March U.S. sales on Tuesday, 
dragged down by weak truck demand and expected cuts to car 
rental companies, while Asian rivals led by Toyota Motor Corp. 
continued to make inroads in the market. 

  General Motors sales fell 7.7 percent and Ford's were off 
by 12.4 percent, as its critical F-Series pickup truck sales 
dropped 15 percent.  Chrysler Group, the troubled U.S. unit of DaimlerChrysler 
AG DCXGn.DE DCX.N, also reported a fall of 8 percent in 
March, when adjusted for the number of sales days in comparable 
periods.  Toyota ( 7203.T ), which is expected to overtake GM as the 
world's largest automaker as soon as this year, posted a 
7.7-percent increase in March on the strength of its sedans, 
including the Prius hybrid car, and crossovers or car-based 
sports utility vehicles.  "It's similar to what we've been seeing over the last 
several months, with high fuel prices and competition from the 
Asian companies," said Thomas Leritz, portfolio manager with 
Clayton, Missouri-based Argent Capital Management, which owns 
GM bonds and preferred shares.  Leritz said that, on the bright side, GM is sticking to its 
strategy to cut discounted sales to daily rental companies. GM 
shares closed up 2.1 percent at $31.47 on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  "Looking at March sales and for the first quarter, we are 
seeing increasing consumer preference toward smaller, more fuel 
efficient vehicles, which will mean that we probably are going 
to see increased incentive spending for large SUVs going into 
the summer," said Jesse Toprak, an analyst with Edmunds.com.  GM's fleet sales -- which typically go to car rental 
companies and government agencies -- fell 11.8 percent.  Retail sales also fell 6.2 percent, driven by big declines 
in pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, prompting the 
automaker to cut its second-quarter North American production 
forecast by 15,000 units to 1.16 million vehicles.  Nissan Motor Co. Ltd.'s ( 7201.T ) sales rose 3.9 percent, 
driven by a big increase in its luxury Infiniti division, while 
Honda Motor Co. Ltd. ( 7267.T ) sales were up 7.3 percent.  South Korean competitor Hyundai Motor Co. Ltd ( 005380.KS ) 
sales were slightly higher during the month, also on an 
adjusted basis.
  ACROSS THE SECTOR  The industry-wide tally for March was 2.9 percent lower 
than a year earlier, at 1.54 million, equivalent to a 
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 16.32 million vehicles.  Over the first three months of the year, Ford's U.S. market 
share stood at 15.4 percent, behind GM's 22.9 percent and 
Toyota's 15.6 percent. DaimlerChrysler came in fourth at 13.8 
percent and Honda placed fifth, at 9.1 percent.  In the pickup truck market -- the last niche dominated by 
U.S. automakers -- GM, Ford and Chrysler all saw sales fall.  Sales of Chevrolet Silverado dropped 12 percent, while GMC 
Sierra purchases were down 18 percent. Chrysler's Dodge Ram 
pickup sales slipped 5 percent.  Toyota, however, posted an 8 percent increase in sales of 
its new Tundra pickup trucks.  Chrysler's results came a day ahead of parent 
DaimlerChrysler's annual shareholders' meeting, when executives 
are expected to be pressed to reveal where things stand with 
its U.S. group. It said in mid-February that it was examining 
all its options for Chrysler, including a possible sale.  All three U.S. automakers are restructuring North American 
operations and have been hit by the slowdown in the U.S. 
housing market, which is hurting sales of pickup trucks often 
purchased by contractors.  Another area of concern for automakers is the implosion in 
the subprime lending market, which analysts say has caused 
banks to rethink lending practices -- not just for mortgages 
but for car loans as well.  GM's chief sales analyst Paul Ballew told analysts and 
reporters that the automaker is closely watching the downturn 
in the housing market and rising energy prices.  "The headwinds from higher energy prices and from the 
correction in housing markets at least in some parts of the 
country are legitimate risks to (auto sales) forecasts," he 
said, but he added that overall economic expansion should be 
"healthy enough to weather the shocks."  (Additional reporting by  David Bailey ,  Jui Chakravorty  and 
 Ben Klayman )