-- UPDATE 3-Mexican government backs creation of Wal-Mart bank
-- 
-- Wed Nov 15, 2006 11:46pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/16/financial-mexico-banks-idUSN1520170920061116

 

  (Adds government quote) 

 MEXICO CITY  Nov 15 (Reuters) - Mexico's government said on
Wednesday it supported a request by dominant retailer Wal-Mart
de Mexico to open a consumer bank and expects to give formal
authorization within two weeks.  The application by Wal-Mart de Mexico, controlled by
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ), was one of five the the finance
ministry said it planned to approve.  The finance ministry also said it expected to approve
applications for Banco Facil, Banco Comercial Del Noreste,
Prudential Bank and Bancoppel, to be run by retailer Coppel.  Banks run by retailers have become attractive to investors
in Mexico since Elektra ( ELEKTRA.MX ), which sells stereos,
washing machines and cellphones, launched Banco Azteca in 2002.  Normally no more than a booth at the back of Elektra
outlets, Banco Azteca turns healthy and growing profits by
lending money to working class consumers who would not qualify
for credit at traditional big banks.  "The entry of new participants (in the sector) is one way
to create a more competitive financial system that offers more
opportunities, in terms of quality and price, to financial
services customers," the ministry said in a statement.  Wal-Mart de Mexico's bank will likely concentrate on
in-store credit and, to a lesser extent, personal loans, say
analysts, who had expected the government to approve the
applications before the end of the year.  Following a business model used by Wal-Mart around the
world, the company's Mexican operation has used aggressive
expansion and cut-rate pricing to become by far the country's
largest retailer.  In the United States, Wal-Mart is one of several companies
seeking permission to operate a consumer-oriented bank known as
an industrial loan corporation.  The company has said it wants to process credit card
transactions, but opponents and some politicians worry the
already-powerful retail powerhouse has bigger banking
ambitions.  Walmex's stock dipped 1.35 percent to 38.83 pesos prior the
finance ministry's announcement.


