-- H&M, Zara Fast Fashion Pressures Luxury Labels to Speed Up
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-09-30T22:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/h-m-zara-set-pace-as-fast-fashion-mentality-spreads-to-luxury-companies.html
Fast-fashion retailers often get
inspiration from the catwalks of Paris and Milan. Now, luxury
companies like  Cavalli Group  say they must take their lead from
cheaper and speedier rivals.  Hennes & Mauritz AB  and  Inditex SA , the owner of Zara
stores, update their clothing and accessory designs continuously
and can get them from studio to store in as little as two weeks.
The speed of change increases pressure to offer new products
more often, Cavalli Chief Executive Officer  Gianluca Brozzetti 
said in an interview.  As demand for 3,750-euro ($5,102) silk dresses and 2,395-
euro zebra design bags returns after the recession, luxury
companies need to innovate to attract and retain customers,
Brozzetti said.  “Loyal clients that are coming to the store frequently
will get bored of not finding something new,” he said.  Cavalli and companies including  Chanel SA  and  PPR SA -owned
Yves Saint Laurent already offer pre-collections of apparel and
accessories and limited-edition lines, in addition to the
traditional spring-summer and autumn-winter ranges that are the
focus of fashion weeks in New York, London, Milan and Paris.  “The concept of the two seasons is more and more
obsolete,”  Peter Farren , an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co.,
said in a telephone interview. “That’s what especially Zara has
brought to the scene and accustomed the customer to. Luxury
companies are responding to that.”  Twice a Week  Inditex, the world’s largest clothing retailer, delivers
new models to its stores twice a week, according to its website.
H&M, which sells $29.95 blazers, can design, manufacture and
distribute new products in three weeks, spokeswoman Jenni
Tapper-Hoel said.  To be sure, fast-fashion retailers don’t always get it
right. While H&M’s August sales rose 14 percent, the quickest
pace in more than two years, third-quarter profit missed
analysts’ estimates after the Stockholm-based company’s efforts
to increase sales weighed on margins. H&M didn’t specify where
it spent more improving the “customer offering.” The shares
fell the most in two years on Sept. 29.  Luxury companies need to improve their logistics to react
more quickly to changes in consumption patterns, Farren said.
 Burberry Group Plc  is now able to replenish stock monthly and in
April introduced a limited-edition range of apparel and
accessories, which went from design to store in three months.  ‘Season-less’  The maker of $3,595 double-breasted silk lace trench coats
has also allowed customers to order items online during fashion-
show webcasts since September 2009 to enable early delivery and
installed iPad tablet computers in its stores during London
Fashion Week.  “It’s got to be a dynamic business,” Burberry CEO  Angela Ahrendts  said in an interview. “So keep being dynamic is going
to be part of our longer term success.”  Because sales of luxury goods are rising fastest in markets
like Asia and Latin America, “there has to be a large part of
the line that’s season-less,” she added.  Emerging market consumers may account for 60 percent of
global luxury goods sales in 2020, up from 40 percent in 2009,
according to  Luca Solca , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.
Excluding tourist flows, luxury expenditure in emerging markets
may rise to 40 percent of the total from 23 percent in the same
period, Solca estimates.  Saint Tropez  The goal for every luxury company, wherever their clients
are, “is to keep people coming back into stores with new
products,” analyst Farren said. “That’s what consumers want.”  Cavalli will introduce in November the Saint Tropez denim
collection for spring ahead of the main seasonal range,
Brozzetti said.  The Florence, Italy-based company won’t be able to present
new collections every month because it’s costly, Brozzetti said.
“But the premium luxury brands are developing packages that can
be delivered in step to the shops so that almost every four
weeks you have something new to show the clients,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 