-- T-Mobile Says 4G Can Wait, Clearwire WiMax Is ‘Niche’
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-09-30T20:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/t-mobile-usa-says-4g-can-wait-calling-clearwire-s-wimax-network-niche-.html
Deutsche Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile USA
said it doesn’t need to rush into getting a fourth-generation
mobile network, and it prefers technology known as long-term
evolution, or LTE, over  Clearwire Corp. ’s WiMax.  “We’ll look towards LTE at the right point in time for
us,”  Neville Ray , T-Mobile USA’s chief network officer, said in
an interview. “That ecosystem is going to be much richer than
the competing one from WiMax, which is really a niche play.”  Fourth-generation networks promise average download speeds
of about 10 megabits per second, compared with 1.7 megabits per
second for 3G. Sprint Nextel Corp., a majority shareholder of
Clearwire, uses WiMax and will compete with LTE from  Verizon
Wireless , the largest U.S. mobile carrier, this year and  AT&T
Inc.  in 2011.  T-Mobile has been building out its high-speed packet
access, or HSPA+, 3G network in the U.S., which delivers mobile
speeds that rival 4G, Ray said today.  “We’re not waiting for the technology choice, we have the
right technology to deliver that experience today,” he said.  Ray declined to say whether the mobile-phone company has
had discussions with Clearwire about using available capacity on
WiMax, or worldwide interoperability for microwave access,
network. Clearwire, based in Kirkland, Washington, said last
week it had held talks with T-Mobile, without providing details.  Clearwire has conducted trials of LTE and WiMax “continues
to serve us well,” said a spokesman,  Mike DiGioia , in an e-mail
statement.  Ray declined to say when T-Mobile may begin offering 4G in
the U.S. He said he wouldn’t rule out an agreement with
Clearwire to use WiMax.  Clearwire added 16 cents, or 2 percent, to $8.09 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have
added 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  