-- `Panda' Bond Sellers Authorized to Send Money Home by China Government
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-30T10:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/-panda-bond-sellers-authorized-to-send-money-home-by-china-government.html
China will allow international
organizations such as the World Bank and Asian Development Bank
to send proceeds from yuan bond sales home to encourage bond
market development, the  People’s Bank of China said .  In revised rules over so-called Panda bonds, the People’s
Bank and three other government regulators said the rule change
was made to encourage the opening up of the nation’s bond market,
the central bank said in a statement on its website today.  These borrowers can convert proceeds into another currency
and send this money overseas with the approval of the  State
Administration of Foreign Exchange , the statement said. The
bonds should also be rated AA or above by two credit ratings
firms, one of which should be registered in China to rate yuan-
denominated bonds, it said.  Overseas firms are restricted from selling yuan-denominated
notes in China, five years after the Asian Development Bank and
International Finance Corp. sold the first Panda bonds. In May,
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (China) Ltd. was the first foreign
bank to sell bonds in China, when it issued 1 billion yuan ($149
million) of notes.  “This looks like the latest in a series of small scale
policy experiments tending towards the gradual liberalization of
the capital account,”  William Hess , managing director at
Beijing-based China Analytics Ltd., said. “It creates the
possibility for an outbound release valve for China’s mountain
of excess foreign exchange reserves,” he said.  The notice was issued by the People’s Bank of China, the
Ministry of Finance, the National Development and Reform
Commission, the country’s economic planning agency that
regulates the corporate “enterprise” bond market, and the
China Securities Regulatory Commission.  Panda bonds are yuan-denominated notes issued by foreign
institutions in China.  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance from  Judy Chen  and  Jun Luo  in
Shanghai. Editors:  Hugh Chow ,  Tom Kohn   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  