-- `Potentially Habitable' Planet Discovered Orbiting Nearby Star
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-09-30T18:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/-potentially-habitable-planet-discovered-orbiting-nearby-star-gliese-581.html
An Earth-sized planet has been
discovered orbiting a nearby star at a distance that scientists
say might allow it to have water and support life.  The planet was one of two discovered by a team led by
astronomers at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and the
 Carnegie Institution  of Washington. They circle  Gliese 581 , a
dwarf star 20 light years from Earth that forms part of the
constellation Libra.  The planet’s distance from Gliese 581 places it in the
middle of the star’s “habitable zone,”  Steven Vogt , a
professor of astronomy and astrophysics at UC Santa Cruz, said
in a  statement . The planet probably has a rocky surface and
enough gravity to hold an atmosphere, he said.  “Our findings offer a very compelling case for a
potentially habitable planet,” Vogt said. “We had planets on
both sides of the habitable zone -- one too hot and one too cold
-- and now we have one in the middle that’s just right.”  One side of the possibly livable planet, dubbed Gliese
581g, always faces the star and is in perpetual daylight while
the other side faces away and is always dark, Vogt said.
Temperatures probably range from blazing hot on the daylight
side to subfreezing cold on the dark side.  The findings of Vogt and his colleagues were published
today in the  Astrophysical Journal . The team was funded by the
National Science Foundation, which announced the finding.  The two newly discovered planets brings to six the number
of planets known to orbit Gliese 581, according to the
foundation. The findings are based on 11 years of observations
from the W.M. Keck Observatory in Hawaii.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 