-- `Sellout' for Delhi Games Opening Ceremony as Ticket Prices Exceed $1,000
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-09-30T10:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/-sellout-for-delhi-s-games-opening-ceremony-as-ticket-prices-top-1-000.html
The opening ceremony of the
Commonwealth Games in New Delhi will showcase 5,000 years of
Indian culture and organizers expect the event to be a sellout,
including seats that cost as much as $1,000.  Tickets priced at 1,000 rupees ($22) and 5,000 rupees are
sold out and those for 25,000 rupees will all be taken by today,
 Suresh Kalmadi , chairman of the games’ organizing committee,
said today. “Tomorrow there won’t be any left,” he said. The
most expensive tickets cost 50,000 rupees.  The buildup to the event has been marred by reports of
filthy rooms at the games village, an outbreak of dengue fever,
the collapse of a footbridge and security fears after the
shooting of two Taiwan nationals near a mosque.  The Oct. 3 kickoff will include dance from across the
country, while the centerpiece of the event will involve a huge
helium balloon which will float above the  Jawaharlal Nehru
Stadium  and 60,000 spectators, according to the games’ website.  Seven thousand athletes from 71 countries and territories
are participating in the multi-sport event being conducted under
heavy security amid warnings it may be targeted by terrorists.
Delhi Police spokesman  Rajan Bhagat  said 80,000 police and more
than 15,000 members of the paramilitary security force will
guard venues and travel routes crisscrossing the city of 14
million people over 12 days.  ‘Economic Power’  The games, which Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government
had intended as a show of growing economic power to match
Beijing’s Olympics, will be guarded by commando strike teams at
strategic locations, bomb disposal squads and four rings of
security around the athletes’ village.  Mike Fennell, chief of the  Commonwealth Games Federation 
said last week that the safety and security of athletes and
officials is of “great concern.” Chinese authorities deployed
110,000 soldiers, police and volunteers to defend the 2008
Olympics in the country’s capital.  The games village has been transformed into a fortress with
over 1,000 security personnel and armed commandos on guard.
Loudspeaker announcements at markets and metro stations are
urging people to remain vigilant.  This month’s mosque shooting was claimed in an e-mail by
the Indian Mujahideen militant group that also said it was
responsible for 2008 bombings in Indian cities including Delhi
that killed at least 150 people. Home Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  said Sept. 24 the attack was “opportunistic” and
may not have been carried out by terrorists.  Many athletes have cited security concerns while pulling
out of the games including Australia’s Dani Samuels, the discus
world champion, and English triple-jumper  Phillips Idowu .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  