-- ABB to Pay U.S. $58 Million to Resolve Mexico, Iraq Corrupt Payment Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-30T00:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/abb-to-pay-u-s-58-million-to-resolve-mexico-iraq-corrupt-payment-claims.html
ABB Ltd. , the world’s biggest
electricity-networks builder, agreed to pay about $58.3 million
to resolve claims by U.S. prosecutors and regulators that its
units made corrupt payments to win business in Mexico and Iraq.  The U.S. Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange
Commission accused Zurich-based ABB and three subsidiaries of
conspiracy and violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
which bars companies from paying foreign officials to gain a
business advantage. In separate settlements, the company agreed
to pay criminal penalties of $19 million and SEC civil penalties
of more than $39.3 million.  ABB and its co-conspirators made “concealed, corrupt
payments” from 1997 to 2005 to officials at Comision Federal de
Electricidad, an utility owned by Mexico, relating an electric
network upgrade contract, prosecutors said in a court filing.  Another unit, ABB Ltd.-Jordan, paid more than $300,000 in
kickbacks to the government of Iraq starting in 2000 for
$5.9 million in purchase orders from regional companies of the
Iraqi Electricity Commission as part of the United Nations oil-
for-food program, prosecutors said in a separate filing.  “The primary purpose of the conspiracy was to obtain and
retain lucrative business with the Iraqi government through the
payment of kickbacks to the Iraqi government, which were
concealed from the U.N. and portrayed as legitimate charges,”
prosecutors claimed.  Laurence A. Urgenson , a lawyer representing Zurich-based
ABB, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Thomas Schmidt , a spokesman at the company’s Zurich headquarters
couldn’t be reached after hours for comment. The company’s U.S.
media relations office didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed
request for comment.  ABB Inc. pleaded guilty today to violating the FCPA before
U.S. District Judge  Lynn N. Hughes  in Houston and admitted to
the allegation it paid kickbacks in Iraq, the Justice Department
said in a statement. The company also admitted that a Sugarland,
Texas-based unit paid about $1.9 million in bribes to the
Mexican utility company, gaining contracts worth more than $81
million. ABB Ltd. entered into a three-year deferred prosecution
agreement, according to the statement.  “ABB Ltd. and ABB Inc. voluntarily disclosed the
misconduct to the Department of Justice and have cooperated
fully with the investigation,” according to the department’s
statement.  The SEC also accused the company’s subsidiaries of bribing
Mexican officials and of paying kickbacks in Iraq to win
contracts with the oil-for-food program. ABB agreed to pay the
fines and disgorgement to the SEC without admitting or denying
the allegations, the agency said.  The UN set up the oil-for-food program in 1996, five years
after coalition forces ousted Iraqi troops from Kuwait, enabling
 Saddam Hussein ’s government sell oil to raise cash for
humanitarian needs. The SEC has brought cases against more than
12 companies involved in the program, recovering in excess of
$150 million, the agency said earlier this year.  The cases are U.S. v. ABB Inc., 10-664, and U.S. v. ABB
Ltd.-Jordan, 10-cr-665, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 