-- Accor Declines After Weak Demand Prompts It to Scrap Lucien Barriere IPO
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-09-30T07:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/accor-falls-most-in-three-months-after-hotelier-drops-lucien-barriere-ipo.html
Accor SA , Europe’s largest hotel
group, fell the most in almost three months in Paris trading
after scrapping the sale of its 49 percent stake in casino
operator Groupe Lucien Barriere SA.  Accor  dropped  as much as 1.02 euros, or 3.8 percent to
25.55 euros, the steepest intraday decline since July 2, and
traded at 25.99 euros as of 9:30 a.m.  The planned share sale, which would have valued Lucien
Barriere at as much as 700 million euros ($951 million) and
didn’t receive the expected interest from investors, the Evry,
France-based company said in a statement late yesterday. Accor
said it still plans to divest “this non-strategic holding” in
the future.  “A cancelled IPO indicates a temporary impossibility to
sell an asset and therefore should trigger a reconsolidation,”
 Matthias Desmarais , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris,
said in a note. “The failed IPO probably caps the valuation
that a potential third-party would be ready to pay.”  Accor said in August that it would speed up disposals of
hotels and other assets to reduce  debt  by as much as 650 million
euros this year. The hotelier sold its Compagnie des Wagon-Lits
onboard rail-catering operations in July after the spinoff of
its Edenred voucher-services division.  Lucien Barriere, which operates 37 casinos and 14 luxury
hotels, had net income of 1.9 million euros on sales of 1.06
billion euros in the year through October, 2009. The casino
operator is the biggest in France and Switzerland and is
controlled by the Desseigne family.  The decision to drop the IPO won’t affect the group’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
forecast of 370 million euros to 390 million euros this year,
Exane BNP’s Desmarais said.  BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole, Lazard-Natixis and Societe
Generale were managing the IPO. Rothschild & Cie Banque was
advising Accor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  