-- Mahindra to Start Selling Two Motorcycle Models to Challenge Hero Honda
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-09-30T12:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/mahindra-to-start-selling-two-motorcycle-models-to-challenge-hero-honda.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.  will
start selling two motorcycle models in India in a bid to
challenge Hero Honda Motors Ltd. in the world’s second-biggest
two-wheeler market.  The motorcycles will be sold under the brand names Stallio
and Mojo, according to  Anoop Mathur , head of the two-wheeler
division of India’s biggest maker of sport-utility vehicles and
tractors. Stallio will cost 44,699 rupees ($994) and Mojo
175,000 rupees, he said in Mumbai today.  Mahindra’s two-wheeler business aims to break even next
fiscal year and to become as large as its tractor and sport-
 utility  vehicle businesses within seven years, Mathur said in
July. The Mumbai-based automaker began making scooters after
purchasing the assets of Kinetic Motor Co. in 2008 to boost
sales in a country where two-wheelers outsell cars about 5-to-1.  “With the opening up of the economy, customers are
becoming discerning and demanding,” Mathur said.  Hero Honda, part-owned by  Honda Motor Co.,  and  Bajaj Auto
Ltd.  control about two-thirds of India’s motorcycle market.
Nationwide, two-wheelers outsold passenger cars 2.7 million to
554,566 in the April-to-June quarter, according to data from
the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.  Mahindra’s  shares , which have advanced 28 percent this
year, dropped 1 percent to 691.50 rupees in Mumbai today.  Mahindra’s motorcycles have been designed by Engines
Engineering, an Italian design company it acquired in 2008,
according to Mathur.  The company will sell its motorcycles in Africa, Southeast
Asia and Latin America starting 2012, Mathur said. Mahindra,
which has hired Bollywood actor  Aamir Khan  to endorse the
Stallio, will initially import the engine for the motorcycle
from China, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  