-- Ahold Names Boer Chief as Rishton Takes Helm at Rolls-Royce
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-09-30T11:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/ahold-names-boer-chief-as-rishton-takes-helm-at-rolls-royce-as-rose-leaves.html
Royal Ahold NV , the Dutch owner of
Stop & Shop supermarkets in the U.S., appointed  Dick Boer  to
succeed Chief Executive Officer  John Rishton , who is leaving to
become head of Rolls-Royce Group Plc.  Currently Ahold’s chief operating officer for Europe, Boer
will take the job in March, Amsterdam-based Ahold said today.
Rishton, who has been a non-executive officer of the U.K.
aircraft-engine maker since 2007, will succeed  Sir John Rose ,
London-based Rolls-Royce said separately.  Boer, 53, will take the post part-way through a 350 million
euro ($477 million) cost-saving program as Ahold cuts prices to
combat slowing consumer spending. He’ll be the first  Ahold  CEO
with prior food-retail experience since 1989. Rishton, who was
chief financial officer at British Airways Plc before joining
the retailer, lowered costs and refurbished U.S. supermarkets.  “Boer will look for  acquisitions  much more aggressively,
both in Europe and the U.S.” said  Ton van Ooijen , an  analyst  at
Kepler Capital Markets. “Rishton had other priorities.”  Ahold fell 1.9 percent to 9.86 euros at 12:54 p.m. in
Amsterdam trading. The stock has gained 6.5 percent this  year.   “He was the obvious choice and the unanimous choice of the
supervisory board to succeed me,” Rishton told reporters on a
conference call. “It’s absolutely terrific to have an internal
successor. It’s further evidence of the strength of the company.
It’s also great to have a food-retailer back in the top of Ahold
and it’s wonderful to have a Dutchman back in charge.”  ‘Empire-Building’  Boer, a Dutch national, joined Ahold in 1998 as head of the
company’s operations in the Czech Republic. He became CEO of its
Albert Heijn grocery stores, the biggest chain in the
Netherlands, in 2000, three years before Ahold said it had
overstated revenue and profit.  “Rishton has been quite busy getting the U.S. back on
track and working the balance sheet,” said Van Ooijen, who has
a “buy” rating on Ahold. “That has been successful. Boer, who
is a real supermarket man, now has the chance to start empire-
building.”  Boer declined to comment on whether he would pursue
acquisitions more aggressively.  Rishton took over as CEO from  Anders Moberg  in 2007,
stepping up from the role of chief financial officer. Ahead of
bigger rivals Supervalu Inc. and Kroger Co., Rishton refurbished
the U.S. grocery stores, cut prices and introduced cheaper
private label products to lure shoppers, copying a strategy that
Boer had applied in the Netherlands three years earlier.  ‘A Blow’  Boer will be succeeded in his current job by  Sander van der Laan , who runs Albert Heijn.  Carl Schlicker , currently head of
Ahold’s U.S. retail operations, has been appointed chief
operating officer of the U.S., in succession to  Larry Benjamin ,
who will retire in early 2011.  “The exit of John Rishton and Larry Benjamin deals a blow
to Ahold’s prospects given their key roles in the group’s
turnaround,”  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London, wrote in a note. “The likelihood
of more value-enhancing events near-term, such as mergers and
acquisitions and cash return, is also reduced.”  Rishton in March raised the dividend by 28 percent and
announced a 500 million-euro share repurchase plan, digging into
a 2.7 billion-euro cash pile.  “We’re very comfortable with the strength of the business,
the strength of the balance sheet and the repositioning work
that we’ve done,” said Rishton. “We’ve done a lot of stuff,
but the journey continues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  