-- Thai Central Bank May Buy Yuan Bonds in Boost for Currency's Global Role
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-09-30T10:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/thai-central-bank-may-buy-yuan-bonds-in-boost-for-currency-s-global-role.html
Bank of Thailand Assistant Governor
 Suchada Kirakul  said the bank plans to buy yuan-denominated
bonds, a boost to China’s efforts to increase use of the
currency in global trade and finance.  The central bank’s board has approved the use of  reserves 
to buy yuan bonds, though the plan requires approval from China,
Suchada said. Chinese regulators last month allowed central
banks to buy yuan bonds in the country’s interbank market. The
country approved use of the yuan to settle cross-border trade
with Southeast Asian nations in June 2009, part of a drive to
reduce reliance on the U.S. dollar.  “We see the importance of the yuan, that it has the
potential to become an international currency, but it will take
time,” Suchada told reporters in Bangkok today.  Overseas demand for the Chinese currency has grown since
the country ended its two-year dollar peg on June 19, giving
scope for appreciation in the currency of a nation that
surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest economy last
quarter. The currency has strengthened 2 percent against the
dollar since then, and reached 6.6810 today, the highest level
since the central bank unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993.  “Given the growing importance of China in the world’s
economic and political scenes, it’s natural to diversify the
reserves to the yuan,” said  Minoru Shioiri , chief manager of
foreign-exchange trading at Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s largest financial
group. “It may also show many countries see the risk of
concentrating their reserve assets into the U.S. dollar.”  Malaysia Buys Yuan Bonds  Malaysia’s central bank has bought bonds denominated in the
Chinese currency for its reserves, the Financial Times reported
this month, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the
transaction. Bank Negara Malaysia declined to comment, saying it
doesn’t discuss the composition of its reserves, the Financial
Times said.  China is Thailand’s biggest overseas market, accounting for
almost 11 percent of total shipments in the first eight months
of this year, according to government data. The country’s
exports to China climbed about 41 percent in the eight months
through August from the same period a year earlier.  Thailand held $149.3 billion of reserves as of Aug. 31, the
eighth most in Asia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
China had the most with $2.45 trillion.  Under China’s new regulations, each overseas bank needs a
special account at a local lender for debt transaction clearing.
Overseas banks must first apply for investment quotas on the
interbank market, the central bank said. Foreign central banks
should disclose funding sources and investing plans in their
applications, according to the People’s Bank of China.  There were a total 14.3 trillion yuan ($2.1 trillion) of
bonds on the interbank market as of June, including debt issued
by the central government, banks and companies, the central bank
said July 30. That amount accounted for 97 percent of total debt
outstanding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  