-- AIG Announces Plan to Repay U.S. Rescue With Stock
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-09-30T15:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/aig-to-convert-preferred-shares-into-common-to-repay-u-s-rescue.html
American International Group Inc. 
agreed to wind down its $182.3 billion bailout by converting the
Treasury Department stake into common shares for sale, a step
toward independence for the insurer whose  near collapse  two
years ago threatened the global economy. The company gained 3.4
percent in New York trading.  Treasury will swap its preferred stake of $49.1 billion for
1.66 billion shares of common stock and then sell the holdings
in the open market, AIG said today in a statement. The Treasury
investment will break even if shares are sold at about $29 each.
The sales will happen in phases over 18 months to two years,
said a person with direct knowledge of the plan who declined to
be identified because the schedule isn’t public.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, turned over a
majority stake to the government in exchange for a rescue that
swelled to $182.3 billion. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the bailout, a day after the September 2008
failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., made him “more
angry” than any other episode in the financial crisis.  “The government got lucky because the markets recovered
and it looks like the bailout will work,” said  Phillip Phan ,
professor at the Johns Hopkins Carey Business School in
Baltimore. “Economists will be debating for a long time about
whether the rescue was a good thing. My concern is the next time
a company starts to look iffy, it becomes a very convenient
argument to jump in and say, ‘We’ll do another AIG.’”  Shares Surge  The insurer rose $1.28 to $38.73 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 11:07 a.m. AIG gained about 25 percent  this
year  through yesterday. It slipped 4.5 percent last year and
plunged 97 percent in 2008.  AIG will retire its Federal Reserve credit line, using
proceeds of asset sales, and issue stock to Treasury by the
first quarter of next year, the New York-based insurer said in
the statement. The debt on the Fed line is about $20 billion.  The company’s common shareholders, who hold about 20
percent of the company, will have their stake diluted to about
7.9 percent, AIG said. Those investors will receive as many as
75 million warrants with a strike price of $45.  “This agreement vastly simplifies current government
support of AIG, sets forth a clear path for AIG to repay the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in full, and sets in motion the
steps for the U.S. Treasury to exit its ownership of AIG,”
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said in the statement.
“With this plan under way, we can concentrate our full
attention on managing our businesses.”  AIA, Alico  The insurer will transfer interests in special purpose
vehicles holding stakes in AIG divisions to the Treasury from
the Fed. AIG will tap as much as $22 billion from a Treasury
facility for the transactions, which involve non-U.S. divisions
American Life Insurance Co. and AIA Group Ltd.  AIG will repay the sum with proceeds from asset sales.
MetLife Inc. said its purchase of Alico for about $15.5 billion
will be completed on Nov. 1, and AIG plans to hold a public
offering for AIA this year.  AIG was deemed by the Treasury a “systemically significant
failing institution” and was the only company to receive
bailout funds through a facility created for such firms. AIG had
reported the  biggest quarterly loss  in U.S. corporate history in
2008 and posted almost $100 billion in net losses that year,
fueled by bets on subprime-mortgage securities. The business was
akin to a hedge fund “attached to a large and stable insurance
company,” Bernanke said last year.  Benmosche, Miller  Under Benmosche , 66, who last year became the insurer’s
fourth head since 2008, AIG is focusing on property-casualty
coverage and U.S. life insurance and retirement products. The
company, which shrank the derivatives unit, benefited from a
rebound in corporate debt holdings and investments in private-
equity and hedge funds.  The insurer’s managers “strongly believe, given how
powerfully AIG and its businesses have rebounded” that AIG will
repay the U.S. at a profit, Chairman  Steve Miller  and Benmosche
said today in a joint letter to employees.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the plan
“dramatically accelerates” the timeline for AIG’s repayment.  “While there is a lot of work ahead to execute the terms
of this agreement, today we are much closer to seeing a clear
path out,” Geithner said in a statement today.  Treasury invested about $47.5 billion in AIG buying
preferred stock, and the insurer owed $1.6 billion in interest.
Based on the $47.5 billion investment, the conversion would give
Treasury shares at $28.70 each. AIG was allowed to skip interest
payments starting last year as part of its fourth rescue.  Fairholme’s Berkowitz  Fairholme Capital Management, the investment firm run by
 Bruce Berkowitz  that bet on AIG’s recovery, said in a statement
that it “strongly” supports the restructuring plan. Fairholme
said it invested more than $1.8 billion in AIG stock and debt,
and owns about 24 percent of AIG’s privately held common shares.  AIG has announced more than 30 asset sales, divesting a
U.S. auto insurer, more than 50 aircraft from its plane-leasing
unit and Israeli and Canadian mortgage guarantors. In August,
Benmosche agreed to sell a majority stake in its consumer lender
to Fortress Investment Group LLC, getting rid of a unit that had
accumulated more than $17 billion in  debt .  AIG is the only insurer left to repay its Troubled Asset
Relief Program rescue funds. Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. and  Lincoln National Corp.  repaid their bailouts, and
Treasury raised more than $900 million selling warrants in the
companies.  Skipped Dividends  Bailout recipients including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of
America Corp. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  repaid TARP funds,
plus interest payments on preferred shares. AIG had two
directors assigned to its board by Treasury after missing
dividends on the preferred shares for four straight quarters.  Treasury Chief Restructuring Officer  Jim Millstein  has said
he expects sufficient demand from private investors if the
company’s core insurance operations earn about $8 billion a
year. Such businesses posted more than $4 billion in profit in
the first half of this year.  Geithner said Sept. 22 that the U.S. would “largely get
the taxpayers’ money back” from TARP. Projections for losses on
the $700 billion program are shrinking, Geithner said, citing a
Congressional Budget Office estimate that TARP would cost $66
billion, compared with $105 billion in an earlier Treasury
report.  ‘Backdoor Bailout’  The AIG rescue has been criticized by lawmakers as a
“backdoor bailout” of financial firms including Goldman Sachs
and Societe Generale SA because the banks were fully reimbursed
on contracts tied to $62.1 billion in securities that had
plunged in value.  Neil Barofsky , the special inspector general
monitoring TARP, is investigating whether the New York Fed
improperly limited the release of information about payments to
AIG counterparties.  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 by the Fed after
trading partners demanded payments on derivative contracts.
After three revisions, the firm’s lifeline included the $60
billion Fed  credit facility , a Treasury investment of as much as
$69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked
assets owned or backed by AIG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  