-- AIG Board Approves Plan to Wind Down U.S. Majority Stake
-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-09-30T09:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/aig-board-said-to-approve-plan-for-u-s-government-to-start-reducing-stake.html
American International Group Inc. ’s
board approved a plan for the U.S. Treasury Department to
convert preferred shares into common stock so the government can
begin to wind down its majority stake in the bailed-out insurer,
a person familiar with the matter said.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, expects to maintain
its credit ratings under the plan, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the vote was private.  Mark Herr , a
spokesman for New York-based AIG, declined to comment.  AIG was “nearing the conclusion” of talks with regulators
about the proposal, Chairman  Steve Miller  said yesterday at a
conference in New York. Treasury may begin converting its $49
billion preferred stake into common stock for sales next year,
three people with knowledge of the discussions said this week.  “We’re working on a transaction where hopefully you’ll
have much greater clarity and a clearly outlined path to
ultimately getting us off the government dole,” Miller said
during the conference, his first public comments since being
named chairman of AIG in July. He said there was a “strong
possibility of significant profit for taxpayers.”  The U.S. is seeking to dispose of its majority stake in AIG
gained two years ago when it rescued the company with a bailout
that swelled to $182.3 billion. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in January that AIG, which insured 100,000
companies, municipalities and retirement plans and was
counterparty to the biggest financial firms, was saved to
prevent an “utter collapse” of the economy.  Selling Japan Units  AIG today said it agreed to sell two Japanese subsidiaries
to  Prudential Financial Inc.  for $4.8 billion to help pay back
government funds. The divestment of AIG Star Life Insurance Co.
and AIG Edison Life Insurance Co. “represents another step in
AIG’s program to repay U.S. taxpayers and a key milestone in
achieving a complete exit of government support over time,” AIG
said in a statement.  Treasury’s plan to sell its holdings hinges on investor
demand, which could be undermined if AIG shares decline in
anticipation of stock entering the market, two people with
knowledge of the plan said earlier this month. AIG said last
month in a filing that a restructuring could “result in
significant dilution to AIG’s current shareholders.”  The insurer gained about 25 percent in New York Stock
Exchange trading  this year  through yesterday, ending the day at
$37.45. It slipped 4.5 percent last year and plunged 97 percent
in 2008.  Fairholme Stake  Fairholme Capital Management, holder of the biggest AIG
stake after the government, was notified of the plan to convert
the U.S. preferred shares, the person familiar with the matter
said. Fairholme owned more than 32 million shares as of June 30
for a 4.7 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Bruce Berkowitz , who runs Fairholme, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, who
last year became the insurer’s fourth head since 2008, AIG
boosted profit from property-casualty and life insurance
operations and shrank the derivatives unit. The company
benefited from a rebound in corporate debt holdings and
investments in private-equity and hedge funds.  Divesting two non-U.S. divisions, AIA Group Ltd. and
American Life Insurance Co., would largely repay a Federal
Reserve credit line, allowing AIG to turn to its Treasury
Department debts, Benmosche has said. AIG owes about $20 billion
on the  credit line .  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 by the Fed after
trading partners demanded payments on derivative contracts.
After three revisions, the firm’s lifeline includes the $60
billion  credit line , a Treasury investment of as much as $69.8
billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked assets
owned or backed by AIG.  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment late yesterday.  Jack Gutt  of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  