-- AIG to Sell Japan Insurance Units to Prudential Financial for $4.8 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2010-09-30T08:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/aig-in-agreement-to-sell-star-and-edison-life-for-4-8-billion.html
American International Group Inc. ,
the bailed-out U.S. insurer, agreed to sell two Japanese
subsidiaries to  Prudential Financial Inc.  for $4.8 billion.  AIG Star Life Insurance Co. and AIG Edison Life Insurance
Co. will be sold with $4.2 billion paid in cash and $600 million
in debt, AIG said in a statement today distributed through
Business Wire.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, is
disposing of assets as rival insurers rebuild capital lost
during the 2008 financial crisis. In March, he agreed to sell
AIG’s American Life Insurance Co. to  MetLife Inc.  for $15.5
billion. Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential, the second-biggest
U.S. insurer, is adding to a Japanese business that produced
more than $6 billion in revenue last year.  “Pru has been a very large Japanese life insurer,” said
 Randy Binner , an analyst with FBR Capital Markets, who has an
“outperform” rating on Prudential shares. “They think they
know that market very well and they’re comfortable there. They
see an opportunity to build.”  Prudential’s  John Strangfeld  is making his second deal in
Japan since  taking over  as chief executive officer in 2008. The
company, which entered the world’s second-largest life insurance
market in 1987, bought bankrupt carrier Yamato Life Insurance Co.
last year after winning an auction for the Tokyo-based firm.  ‘Know Very Well’  “It’s a market we know very well,” Strangfeld said of
Japan in a June interview. “We have confidence in our
management there.”  Prudential and MetLife, the No. 1 U.S. life insurer, are
expanding abroad as bailed-out rivals including AIG and  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc.  retreat. Strangfeld, 56, and
MetLife CEO  Robert Henrikson  shunned government capital last
year and raised funds by selling stock and bonds.  “The latest sale is evidence of how AIG is steadily but
surely carrying on with its restructuring plan,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , a chief fund manager in Tokyo who helps oversee $6
billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co.  “The question would be how Prudential will be able to
utilize the acquired units in a country where growth is limited
and the outlook for the Japanese insurance market still remains
questionable; that will determine whether it was expensive or
not,” Fujiwara said.  Japan accounted for about 17 percent of the world’s life
insurance sales last year, according to a  study  by Swiss
Reinsurance Co. Premium volume was $399 billion in 2009, down
0.8 percent when adjusted for inflation, Swiss Re said. In the
U.S., the world’s biggest market, premiums dropped 15 percent to
$492 billion, according to the Zurich-based reinsurer.  AIG, once the world’s biggest insurer, is divesting
businesses to repay a $182.3 billion U.S. rescue.  The sale of the Japan units “represents another step in
AIG’s program to repay U.S. taxpayers and a key milestone in
achieving a complete exit of government support over time,” AIG
said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  