-- Thailand's Stock Market Rally Is Set to Stall on Baht's Strength, SCB Says
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-09-30T10:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/thailand-s-stock-market-rally-is-set-to-stall-on-baht-s-strength-scb-says.html
Thailand’s  stock market  rally, the
biggest among Asia’s top 15 markets this quarter, is set to
stall amid concern that a stronger currency will hurt exports
and economic growth, according to  SCB Securities Co.   Exports have been the biggest driver for growth and foreign
investment this year, said  Sukit Udomsirikul , an investment
strategist at SCB Securities, a unit of Thailand’s third-biggest
lender. The baht’s rally increases the likelihood of government
measures to halt the rally and curb investment inflows, he said.  The currency gained 6.7 percent against the dollar this
quarter, the second-best performance in Asia, to the strongest
level in 13 years as accelerating growth and rising interest
rates boost purchases of equities and bonds.  General Motors Co. ,
 Ford Motor Co.  and  Banpu Pcl  are among companies that have
blamed the currency for hurting overseas sales.  “The baht’s strength is the biggest risk to the economy as
growth in exports is expected to slow down significantly in
2011,” Sukit said in a phone interview today. “Excessive gains
in the currency may force the introduction of foreign exchange
measures that would reverse the flow of overseas funds.”  The baht completed its best quarter since March 2008. The
currency rose 0.4 percent to 30.35 per dollar as of 5:03 p.m. in
Bangkok, the strongest level since July 1997.  Fund Inflows  Governor  Tarisa Watanagase  has so far resisted calls to
introduce controls on fund inflows, saying on Sept. 21 that
existing measures to curb volatility are sufficient. Policy
makers including Commerce Minister Porntiva Nakasai have urged
more aggressive action amid concern the baht’s strength will
crimp  exports  that account for about two-thirds of the economy.  Thailand last imposed limits on fund inflows in December
2006 to slow baht gains and protect exporters, a measure that
led foreign investors to flee the country’s financial markets.
The move also spurred the benchmark stock index’s biggest slide
in 16 years.  “Investors will be more cautious in 2011 as a slowdown in
exports will affect the economy and corporate earnings growth,”
said Sukit. The  SET Index  may move in a range between its “fair
value” of 960 and the best case of 1,120 in 2011, he said.  The gauge’s 22 percent jump this quarter is the most among
Asia’s 15 biggest markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 0.6 percent to close at 975.30, the highest
since November 1996.  Baht’s Impact  A survey conducted last month by the  Federation of Thai
Industries  showed more than 80 percent of companies have been
affected by the baht’s appreciation, most acutely in the
agricultural industry. Thailand’s rice exporters, the world’s
biggest shippers of the grain, are already hurting. Rice exports
fell 19 percent last month because of price competition and the
stronger baht, the commerce ministry said on Sept. 20.  Southeast Asia’s second-largest  economy  expanded 9.1
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, more than the
8 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 11
economists, as surging exports countered the effect of political
turmoil.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  imposed a state of
emergency in 24 of 76 provinces after a crackdown in May to
control anti-government protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Linus Chua  at   lchua@bloomberg.net  