-- Air France-KLM, Martinair Unit Sued by Customers for Europe Cargo Cartel
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-09-30T16:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/air-france-klm-martinair-sued-for-european-role-global-air-cargo-cartel.html
Air France-KLM Group and its Dutch
Martinair unit were sued in a lawsuit seeking as much as 500
million euros ($680 million) over claims the carriers fixed
prices on air-shipping services.  Royal Philips Electronics NV and Ericsson AB are among
freight customers joining a case to seek the damages in the
Dutch courts for paying too much to freight goods in Europe from
2000 to 2006, according to  Claims Funding International Plc , a
Dublin-based company organizing the case.  The lawsuit, filed in the Netherlands, would hold Air
France-KLM and Martinair “jointly and severally liable” for
harm that members of a global cartel caused customers in Europe,
said Martijn van Maanen, a partner at  BarentsKrans , the Hague-
based law firm representing CFI.  Air France in July paid $87 million to hundreds of freight
shippers to settle class-action lawsuits in the U.S. It also
paid a $350 million criminal fine and pleaded guilty to U.S.
antitrust charges in 2008. It didn’t reach a settlement with
end-customers in Europe.  CFI, which fights cartel-damages cases on behalf of
clients, said it takes a share of any compensation awarded by
courts.  “U.S. practice is coming over here and infecting us,”
said Matthew Hall, a Brussels-based partner at McGuireWoods LLP.
“The law firms that do it have moved in, the procedures are
becoming a bit more streamlined and it’s becoming part of the
instant reaction that these claims should be filed.”  European Union regulators are still investigating dozens of
carriers for alleged price-fixing, nearly three years after they
sent formal complaints to 26 airlines.  Cedric Leurquin , a spokesman for Air France in Paris,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Joon Knapen , a spokesman for Amsterdam-based Philips, and
 Fredrik Hallstan , a spokesman for Ericsson in Stockholm, said
the companies had joined the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 