-- Taiwan Allows TSMC to Upgrade Technology in China
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2010-09-30T03:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/taiwan-allows-tsmc-to-upgrade-to-0-13-micron-technolgy-in-china.html
Taiwan approved a plan by  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  to use more-advanced technology
in China, paving the way for the world’s largest custom maker of
chips to be closer to its mainland customers.  TSMC’s application to use 0.13 micron technology at its
China plant was approved by the Investment Commission of
Taiwan’s economics ministry,  Emile Chang , deputy executive
secretary of the commission, said by phone today.  Taiwan Semiconductor, which makes chips for  Qualcomm Inc. 
and Texas Instruments Inc., in June raised its long-term
industry growth forecast citing stronger demand from China.
Taiwan’s government restricts local companies’ investments into
China, fearing technology and jobs will move to its biggest
trading partner and largest political rival.  “We look forward to the expanded opportunities in China,”
said  Michael Kramer , a public-relations spokesman for Hsinchu,
Taiwan-based TSMC. Chinese companies accounted for 3 percent of
TSMC’s sales in the second quarter, according to a July 29
company  presentation .  Morris Chang , TSMC’s 79-year-old founder, in June forecast
the global chip industry will grow 6 percent to 7 percent
annually over the next five years, from an earlier estimate of 5
percent. Increased demand for electronics from Chinese consumers
will boost the chip industry, he said.  TSMC currently operates a factory in Shanghai using older
8-inch wafers and 0.18 micron technology which was deployed in
Taiwan more than eight years ago. Technology at 0.18 micron and
less advanced levels accounted for 28 percent of TSMC’s second-
quarter sales, according to the July 29 presentation.  TSMC invested a total of NT$12.2 billion ($390 million) in
China by the end of last year and the unit had a loss of NT$3.2
billion in 2009, according to the chipmaker’s   annual report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
 Adela Lin  in Taipei at   alin95@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 