-- Taiwan Raises Key Rate, Seeks to Prevent Property Speculation
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2010-09-30T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/taiwan-raises-benchmark-interest-rate-to-1-5-after-jump-in-home-prices.html
Taiwan increased its benchmark
interest rate for the second time this year and said it will try
to prevent real-estate speculation after a jump in home prices
fueled concern the economic recovery may stoke a property bubble.  Central bank Governor  Perng Fai-nan  and his board raised
the rate by 0.125 percentage point to 1.5 percent. Eleven of 14
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  predicted yesterday’s
decision. The rest forecast no change following a similar
advance in June from a record-low 1.25 percent.  Taiwan’s economy  expanded  at the fastest pace in more than
30 years in the first half, cutting unemployment and boosting
wages. The export-led growth added to the case for the central
bank to tackle housing market gains rather than join
counterparts from Malaysia to Australia in pausing rate advances
to gauge risks from slower global growth.  “This shows the central bank’s confidence in the economic
fundamentals,” said  Cheng Cheng-mount , chief economist at
Citibank Taiwan Ltd. “The interest-rate increase marks the
bank’s commitment to preventing a real-estate bubble,” he said.  The benchmark  Taiex  stock index closed little changed at
8,237.78 in Taipei before the announcement. The Taiwan dollar
climbed 0.2 percent to NT$31.33 against its U.S. counterpart,
according to Taipei Forex Inc.  “The central bank needs to normalize rates,” Perng said
after yesterday’s decision. He also urged “proper rules” for
loans using vacant land as collateral, saying he will use
“moral suasion” to try and prevent credit being extended to
speculators.  Mortgage Restrictions  The central bank introduced mortgage restrictions in June
when it raised the discount rate on 10-day loans to banks for
the first time since 2008. The measures included a 70 percent
cap on loans for second homes in the Taipei metropolitan area,
echoing moves by authorities in China, Hong Kong and Singapore
to damp real estate prices.  Perng wrote to the chairmen of the island’s financial
institutions in July to ask them to help prevent housing
speculation, after complaints from citizens that homes were
becoming unaffordable.  Housing prices in the capital rose 7.5 percent in the first
half after a 20 percent increase last year, according to Sinyi
Realty Co., Taiwan’s biggest property broker.  “The central bank would need to increase by 25 basis
points at the next central bank meeting to control rising asset
prices,” said  Ma Tieying , an economist for DBS Bank in
Singapore. “It’s already falling behind the curve in this
aspect.”  Economic Growth  The island’s economy expanded by 13.1 percent in the first
half, following its deepest recession on record in 2009. The
recovery has failed to ignite overall  inflation , with consumer
prices declining for the first time in eight months in August.  “The real interest rate is positive now, but will be
negative in the coming months,” Perng said.  Industrial production  growth accelerated to 23.4 percent in
August, while exports advanced for a 10th consecutive month and
the jobless rate fell to a 20-month low of 5.11 percent.  Reviving demand for computers and semiconductors in markets
including China this year has boosted earnings at companies such
as Hsinchu-based  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the
world’s largest custom manufacturer of chips.  Still, overseas demand may ebb if risks such as elevated
 U.S. unemployment  and European austerity cool the global economy.
Taiwan’s statistics bureau forecasts economic growth will slow
to 1.37 percent in the fourth quarter compared with a year
earlier.  ‘Hot Money’  The higher interest rate may also stoke a recent
appreciation in the Taiwan dollar, hurting export
competitiveness. The local dollar has risen about 2.5 percent
since the end of August, completing its biggest monthly gain
since March 2009.  “Hot money is the common factor that moves currencies of
emerging markets” and the central bank will monitor foreign-
investor flows into deposit accounts, Perng said yesterday. “An
overshooting foreign-exchange rate would cause big trouble in
the real economy.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said last month policy makers may need to extend or bolster
stimulus programs as the world economic recovery is proving
slower than projected.  Asian governments should sustain the region’s expansion by
refraining from tightening fiscal and monetary policies “to
quickly,” the Asian Development Bank said this week.  The central bank can be “patient with tightening” as
inflation is “well-enough under control,” said  David Cohen , an
economist at Action Economics in Singapore. “There’s still room
to go higher, but maybe it’ll be a close call next quarter.”  The Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) sets the
benchmark interest rate every three months. The next policy
meeting is due in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .
 Jay Wang  in Singapore at 
 jwang298@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  