-- Takefuji Bankruptcy Triggered Credit-Default Swaps, ISDA Committee Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-09-30T18:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/takefuji-bankruptcy-triggered-credit-default-swaps-isda-committee-says.html
Takefuji Corp. ’s bankruptcy
triggered contracts that protect against the company’s default,
according to the committee of banks and investors that governs
credit-default swaps in Japan.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association ’s
determinations committee said today the Sept. 28 filing by the
consumer lender is a so-called credit event. The panel of the
the New York-based group will hold an auction to settle the
contracts.  A net $786.8 million of protection on the Tokyo-based
company’s debt was outstanding as of Sept. 24, according to the
Depository Trust Clearing Corp., which runs a central repository
for the credit-swaps market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its debt obligations less
the value of the defaulted debt.  Takefuji, founded in 1966, became Japan’s biggest casualty
of a four-year crackdown on coercive lending to individuals when
it filed for bankruptcy this week, listing 433.6 billion yen
($5.2 billion) of liabilities. Japan’s consumer lenders are
battling to survive after tighter borrowing laws and claims for
overcharged interest saddled them with 4.4 trillion yen in
costs.  The auction will take place “by mid-November, unless there
is something unexpected,”  according to  Akira Nomura , a credit
analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Takefuji bond investors may recover less than 10 percent of
the face value of their holdings, Nomura Securities Co. chief
credit analyst  Toshihiro Uomoto  wrote in a note to clients on
Sept. 27. The lender has 91.1 billion yen of bonds outstanding,
including $645 million of 9.2 percent notes due in April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In December, consumer lender  Aiful Corp.  won approval from
creditors for a debt restructuring plan to avoid bankruptcy,
triggering Japan’s first auction to settle credit-default swaps.
Traders set a value of 33.875 percent of face value for
contracts linked to the Tokyo-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  