-- All We Are Saying Is Give Dick Fuld a Chance: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-09-30T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/all-we-are-saying-is-give-dick-fuld-a-chance-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Enough of this going-halfway stuff.
It’s time  Barack Obama  found someone capable of doing something
bold to the U.S. economy. And I’ve got a list of candidates who
could do it.  The president has a golden opportunity.  Larry Summers  is
leaving soon as director of the National Economic Council, and
Obama’s aides are leaking names of possible replacements. Among
the luminaries being floated in the press by “people familiar
with Obama’s thinking” are Citigroup Chairman  Richard Parsons 
and former Xerox Chief Executive Officer  Anne Mulcahy .  There’s much we can learn about the kind of person the
president is looking for by studying these two contenders’
credentials. In addition to CEO chops, it seems Obama is seeking
someone who also has served on the board of directors of at
least one company that either had a massive accounting scandal,
blew up so spectacularly that it threatened to take down the
global financial system, or both.  Parsons, the former chief at Time Warner, and Mulcahy
should have a leg up on the rest of the competition by this
standard. That’s because each of them has sat on the boards of
multiple such companies.  Long before the government placed  Fannie Mae  into
conservatorship, Parsons and Mulcahy both served as directors at
the mortgage-finance company when it was breaking all sorts of
accounting rules. For years both were directors at Citigroup,
while the bank’s executives drove it to the brink of failure
before its bailout.  There’s more, too. Both  Xerox  and  Time Warner  settled
accounting-fraud allegations by the Securities and Exchange
Commission over conduct that occurred while Mulcahy and Parsons
held lesser executive posts at those respective companies.  Yet if this is the kind of experience Obama is looking for,
he can do better. Why settle for someone who merely oversaw
great corporate destructions, when he could recruit a real doer?
Someone like:  1.  Dick Fuld . Now here’s somebody we could rely on to leave
a big mark. Like the size of a  meteor crater . I realize Lehman
Brothers was the largest bankruptcy in history, and Fuld was its
CEO. This is what makes him useful. No matter what he says,
people instinctively will think the opposite must be true. If
Obama wants us to believe the economy is turning around, all he
has to do is get Fuld to say “the best is behind us.”  2.  Jimmy Cayne . True, the former Bear Stearns boss managed
to sell his firm to JPMorgan Chase in a government-brokered deal
for $10 a share. That’s a notch against him, compared with
Fuld’s pristine record. In tough times, though, Cayne could be
counted on to project calm, provided he’s far from the action,
say, at a bridge tournament. He’d make a fine second choice.  3.  Stan O’Neal . The former Merrill Lynch CEO, who got a
$161.5 million severance package, knows the warm feeling of
stimulus and has ice in his veins. He played 20 rounds of golf
on four different courses during the last several weeks of the
third quarter of 2007, while Merrill lost $8.4 billion on
subprime mortgages. His handicap only got better.  4.  Angelo Mozilo . Who better to get us out of the housing
crisis than the man who did more than almost anyone else to get
us in it? Sure, picking the former Countrywide Financial CEO
might seem counter intuitive, given how the SEC is suing him for
 fraud . Yet even if he loses, it’s only a civil case. He’ll still
have the most valuable qualification of all: Never convicted.  5.  Hank Greenberg . This man has an eye for talent. The
former CEO of American International Group, who resigned in 2005
and later paid $15 million to make the SEC go away, hired  Joe Cassano  to run AIG’s financial products division. Cassano is the
guy widely credited with blowing up AIG. Another plus for
Greenberg: At 85 years old, he could give Obama a Nixon-in-China
moment on the budget deficit by proposing to increase the
retirement age for Social Security to 86.  6. “Chainsaw”  Al Dunlap . The former Sunbeam CEO, whose
company imploded in one of the original “massive accounting
 scandals ” of the 1990s, would be perfect for slashing
government spending. Give Dunlap a few minutes, and he’d devise
a plan to break up the union, sell off the sand states, and fire
half the federal workforce.  7. A tie between former CEOs  Rick Wagoner  of General
Motors,  Chuck Prince  of Citigroup,  Martin Sullivan  of AIG,  Kerry Killinger  of Washington Mutual, and  Ken Lewis  of Bank of
America. Throw in  Tony Hayward ’s name for kicks, too. Sure, he’s
British. But heck, Obama wants diversity. Plus there’s always
 Robert Rubin , the former Treasury secretary and Citigroup
chairman, as a fallback. Too obvious, though. Obama already had
Summers. Why reach for his mentor?  What’s important is that the president remembers to think
big. Whomever he selects, surely he can do better than Parsons
or Mulcahy. They wouldn’t know how to cause a major economic
crisis even if they watched others do it first, which they did.
Talk about lame.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  