-- Nagashima Ohno Allies With Allens to Advise Japan Firms on Overseas M&A
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-09-30T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/allens-expands-to-japan-to-tap-asia-market-with-nagashima-pact.html
Allens Arthur Robinson , the fourth-
biggest Australian law firm with 900 lawyers, has entered an
alliance with  Nagashima Ohno & Tsunematsu  to provide advice to
Japanese companies seeking to invest in Australia.  The two firms plan to place lawyers in each other’s
offices, while retaining their structural and financial
independence, Allens’ Japan practice lead partner  Tim Lester 
said in a phone interview yesterday.  “There is significant Japanese inbound investment into
Australia, Indonesia, Vietnam and other Southeast Asian
countries,” Allens’ Chief Executive Partner  Michael Rose  said
in a statement. “We see significant advantages in working
together to offer more to Japanese clients.”  The alliance is a response to the growing
internationalization of legal services in Asia as law firms open
offices or partner with local firms to advise on cross-border
mergers, acquisitions and financial services, Lester said.  The amount of Japanese investment into Australia “has
exploded” with large, well-capitalized Japanese corporations
with strong balance sheets looking to invest abroad, he said.  Japanese firms are investing in energy and resources in
Australia as well as seeking advice on investments in
telecommunications, food and beverage and infrastructure,
 Kenichi Fujinawa , managing partner of Nagashima Ohno, said in a
statement.  “The Japanese economy hasn’t performed terribly well,”
Lester said. “Corporate Japan is strong” though as
manufacturing has shifted to countries with lower wages and
fewer costs.  Allens, based in Sydney, advised the Vietnam government on
the privatization of  Bao Viet Insurance & Finance Group , the
country’s largest insurer, and counseled on Commonwealth Bank of
Australia’s 15 percent stake purchase in Vietnam International
Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, according to Clark. The firm’s
clients include Rio Tinto Ltd. and  Qantas Airways Ltd .  The  law firm  has 14 offices across Asia and Australia,
including in Beijing, Hanoi, Hong Kong and Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net . 