-- FTSE 100 Index Stocks Decline as Compass Shares Drop; Allied Irish Falls
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-09-30T16:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/allied-irish-banks-compass-regal-3i-group-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K.  stocks  declined, as better-
than-estimated data on the U.S. economy failed to assuage
concerns that European countries are struggling to trim their
budget deficits.  Compass Group  Plc, the world’s largest catering company,
lost 1.6 percent as it forecast full-year organic sales growth
that missed JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s estimate. In Dublin, Allied
Irish Banks Plc sank 7.6 percent after saying it will raise 5.4
billion euros ($7.38 billion) of capital and Finance Minister
 Brian Lenihan  said the government will take majority control of
the lender.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  lost 20.65, or 0.4 percent, to
5,548.62 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, trimming this month’s
rally to 6.2 percent. The  FTSE All-Share Index  dropped 0.4
percent and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  gained 0.6 today.  “Concern remains over the medium-term prospects for the
Irish economy and its high debt,”  Joshua Raymond , a markets
strategist at City Index Ltd. in London, said. “There will be a
big focus on the plan Ireland outlines in November on how it
will get to grips with its debt.”  Fitch Ratings’ credit rating on Ireland “cannot be
regarded as wholly secure” in light of the bank bailout figures
announced today, according to  Chris Pryce , a director at the
agency.  Looking Closely  “Clearly, we are going to be looking very carefully at the
figures that have emerged,” London-based Pryce said in a
telephone interview today. “We have been looking very closely
for some months at the Irish situation.” Fitch currently has an
AA- rating and “stable” outlook on Ireland.  The FTSE 100 has gained 13 percent since the end of June,
the index’s biggest quarterly advance in a year, amid an
increase in takeover activity and as concern eased that the
global economic recovery will falter. Still, lingering concern
that some European countries will fail to repay their debt has
left the gauge 4.7 percent below its April high.  The U.S. economy grew at a revised 1.7 annual rate in the
second quarter, more than the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and up from a 1.6 percent estimate
issued last month, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in Washington. The world’s largest economy expanded 3.7
percent in the first three months of the year and 5 percent at
the end of 2009.  Jobless Claims  American initial jobless claims decreased by 16,000 to
453,000 in the week ended Sept. 25, lower than the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor
Department figures showed. The total number of people receiving
unemployment insurance and those getting extended payments fell.  Allied Irish tumbled 7.6 percent to 51 euro cents. Lenihan
also said that Allied Irish Managing Director  Colm Doherty  will
leave the company by the end of 2010. The nation’s central bank
said Allied Irish and its nationalized rival, Anglo Irish Bank
Corp., may need as much as 14.4 billion euros in extra capital.  Compass Group  lost 3.8 percent to 530.5 pence as it
forecast full-year organic sales growth of 3 percent, missing
JPMorgan Chase.’s estimate of 3.2 percent.  Senior Plc, a British supplier of air ducts for the Boeing
Co. 787 Dreamliner, climbed 7.8 percent to 138.9 pence, as
Jefferies Group Inc. rated the stock “buy” in new coverage.  Shanks Group Plc climbed 1.3 percent to 112.7 pence as it
said that trading for the six months to Sept. 30 was “in line”
with its expectations.  “We remain firmly of the view that the shares warrant a
higher multiple given the strong underlying profit growth in the
business,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analyst  Conor O’Prey  wrote in a report today, keeping his “buy” rating on
the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 