-- Allied Irish Banks Said to Consider Sale of $2.2 Billion Stake in M&T Bank
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-30T09:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/allied-irish-banks-said-to-consider-sale-of-stake-in-m-t-bank.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc , the lender
being taken into government control, may sell its $2.2 billion
stake in U.S. lender  M&T Bank Corp.  to institutional investors
after talks to sell the holding to  Banco Santander SA  broke
down, a person familiar with the talks said.  The bank may offer the 22.4 percent stake in a placing
within weeks, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  Ronan Sheridan , a spokesman for
Dublin-based Allied Irish, declined to comment.  Santander had been in talks to merge Sovereign, its U.S.
division, with Buffalo, New York-based M&T, people briefed on
the situation said on Sept. 21. The Spanish lender would have
acquired Allied Irish’s stake in M&T as part of the transaction,
the people said. Those talks broke down, a person with knowledge
of the matter said on Sept. 27.  The Irish government said today it will take majority
ownership of Allied Irish in its second bailout of the lender.
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said the bank will seek to raise
5.4 billion euros ($7.3 billion) in a November stock sale.
Ireland’s National Pensions Reserve Fund Commission, which is
guaranteeing the sale, may buy as much as 3.7 billion euros of
stock and convert 1.7 billion euros of preference stock.  Ireland’s banks are raising capital after bad debts surged
as a decade-long real estate boom collapsed. The government said
today the cost of rescuing the country’s lenders may jump to as
much as 50 billion euros. The rising cost of the bailouts
prompted Standard & Poor’s to downgrade Ireland’s credit rating
last month and has pushed up the country’s borrowing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  