-- CNN’s Anderson Cooper to Host a U.S. Daytime TV Show
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-09-30T20:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/anderson-cooper-to-host-one-hour-daytime-syndicated-program.html
Anderson Cooper , the anchor of
CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360,” plans to host a one-hour daytime
television show that will be nationally syndicated in fall 2011.  Cooper, 43, will serve as executive producer on the
program, which will be produced by Telepictures Productions and
distributed by Warner Bros. Domestic Television Distribution,
according to an e-mailed statement today.  Cooper, who joined CNN in 2001, will continue to anchor his
10 p.m. program and extended his deal with the 24-hour cable
news network for an undisclosed period of time. The daytime
show, which has no title yet, will cover social issues, trends,
events, pop culture, celebrities and human interest news,
according to the statement. Cooper will hold town-hall meetings
and conduct undercover investigations for the show.  “With this new program I hope to relay important
information and relate to people and the audience in a
completely different way,” Cooper said in the statement.  Cooper, who also contributes to the CBS program “60
Minutes,” joins daytime TV as long-running daytime host  Oprah Winfrey  moves to the upcoming Oprah Winfrey Network next year.  Time Warner Inc., the New York-based  owner  of CNN and
Warner Bros.,  fell  4 cents to $30.65 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 5.2
percent this year.  Cooper, in a separate e-mailed statement from CNN today,
said he remains “as committed as ever” to his program on the
cable channel, where he will be for “years to come.”  Jim Walton , president of CNN Worldwide, said Cooper’s new
show “will be good for Anderson, good for CNN and good for Time
Warner.”  Last week, CNN replaced  Jon Klein  as head of the U.S.
network with HLN’s  Ken Jautz . The outlet is revamping its
management and prime-time lineup after viewers defected to  News
Corp. ’s Fox News and NBC Universal’s MSNBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  