-- Ireland Says Bank Bailout May Hit 50 Billion Euros
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-30T11:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/anglo-irish-allied-irish-may-need-as-much-as-19-6-billion.html
Ireland is preparing to take
majority control of  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and pump extra cash
into Anglo Irish Bank Corp., raising the cost of repairing the
financial system to as much as 50 billion euros ($68 billion).  “The Irish banking system is at rock bottom today,”
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Dublin. He rejected speculation Ireland
will need outside help. “It can only revive from now because
it’s recapitalized and reformed,” he said.  Ireland’s deteriorating finances fueled investor concerns
that it would become the first government after Greece to tap
the 750 billion-euro rescue fund set up by the European Union
and International Monetary fund to stanch the debt crisis. Irish
bonds have plunged this month, sending the yield on 10-year
securities to higher than any other euro nation except Greece.  The cost of bailing out the country’s banks may ultimately
rise to about 50 billion euros, under a “stress case” scenario
for Anglo Irish, according to figures published by the country’s
finance ministry and the central bank in Dublin today. The base
case estimate is about 45 billion euros, the figures show.
Allied Irish may need as much as 3 billion euros.  Among the biggest Irish lenders, only Bank of Ireland Plc
and Irish Life & Permanent Plc will remain outside state control
after the bailouts.  ‘Believable Guidance’  “Investors have been looking for clarity and believable
guidance on how bad things are,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed-market debt strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“This morning should go some way to satisfying such calls.”  Ireland has pumped  22.9 billion  euros into Anglo Irish
since it seized the lender in January 2009 as its bad loans
soared following the collapse of a decade-long real-estate
bubble. The rising cost of the bank bailouts prompted Standard &
Poor’s to downgrade Ireland’s credit rating last month.  The yield spread between Irish and German 10-year bonds
narrowed to 436 basis points from 446 basis points yesterday.
The Spanish-German 10-year yield spread narrowed 7 basis points
to 189 basis points, after the country had its top credit rating
cut one level by Moody’s Investors Service.  EU leaders in May announced a rescue package to prevent a
fiscal crisis in Greece from spreading across the region. Greece
is cutting spending and raising taxes in return for 110 billion
euros in aid that allows the country to avoid tapping the bond
market until 2012.  Losses  Ireland has injected about 33 billion euros into banks and
building societies. Anglo Irish may need up to an additional 6.4
billion euros of capital, rising by another 5 billion euros in
the event of unexpected losses, the government said today. Irish
Nationwide Building Society may need another 2.7 billion euros.  The government will control Allied Irish, Anglo, Irish
Nationwide and customer-owned lender EBS Building Society once
the capital injections are completed. Ireland’s benchmark ISEQ
Overall Index fell 0.4 percent in Dublin trading at 11:21 a.m.
local time, led by a 30 percent fall by Allied Irish.  “The big surprise is the increased capital number for
Allied Irish,” said  Sebastian Orsi , an analyst with Dublin-
based securities firm Merrion Capital. “The government could
end up with over 90 percent of the group, subject to investor
take-up of the planned stock sale to shareholders.”  Deficit  Bank of Ireland, which raised 2.93 billion euros in June,
doesn’t need any extra capital, the central bank said. The
government, which has an 18.7 percent stake in the lender, has
said it will provide Allied Irish with any extra cash it needs
in return for a higher stake.  Once the banks are shored up, the government will seek to
narrow the budget deficit, which at 14 percent of gross domestic
product was the highest in the euro region last year. Lenihan
will lay out his plan to narrow the deficit to 3 percent by the
end of 2014 in November.  Ireland’s deficit will be around 32 percent of gross
domestic product in 2010, in a one-time “spike” on the banking
costs, Lenihan said today.  “The final estimates are shocking, one would think that
this draws a line in the sand on the issue,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“The market will determine though whether it believes Ireland
can cope.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  