-- Apollo Said to Be Raising $400 Million Loan Fund
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-09-30T21:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/apollo-global-said-to-be-raising-400-million-clo-loan-fund-with-jpmorgan.html
Apollo Global Management LLC  is
raising a collateralized loan obligation with a target size of
$400 million, according to a person familiar with the talks.  The investment portfolio, to be called ALM Loan Funding
2010-3 Ltd. will be managed by Apollo Credit Management LLC,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is marketing the CLO, the
person said.  The market for CLOs has opened back up this year after
sales fell 98.7 percent during the credit crisis between 2007
and 2009. These funds buy loans used to back acquisitions and
leveraged buyouts, including the purchase of Burger King
Holdings Inc. by 3G Capital and will help address the $325
billion of loans coming due in the next four years, according to
data from Barclays Capital and Standard & Poor’s LCD unit.  There have been $1.3 billion of U.S. CLOs backed by widely
syndicated loans issued this year through August, compared with
$1.215 billion for all of last year, Morgan Stanley data show.
In 2007 about $91.1 billion of that type of CLO was issued in
the U.S.  Apollo, WCAS Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC, an
investment firm backed by Welsh Carson Anderson & Stowe, and
Doral Money Inc., along with Babson Capital Management LLC as
the collateral adviser, have completed CLOs this year. Apollo’s
initial CLO, ALM Loan Funding 2010-1 Ltd., closed in June 2010,
the person said.  Apollo CLO Structure  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  JPMorgan is selling four pieces of debt, including an
expected $262 million of Class A-1 notes likely to be rated AAA
by S&P and an expected $20.5 million of Class A-2 notes
anticipated to be graded AA by S&P, the person said. The bank is
also selling Class B notes to be rated A and Class C notes with
a BBB ranking, the person said.  A fund managed by an affiliate of Apollo Credit Management
will purchase all of the subordinated notes, the person said.  The AAA rated piece is expected to pay 1.75 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, the person
said. The AA piece is expected to pay 3 percentage points to
3.25 percentage points more than Libor, the person said. Libor
is the rate banks charge to lend to each other.  The CLO is expected to price at the end of October or the
beginning of November and close at the end of that month or in
early December, the person said.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, and  Kelly Nugent , a
spokeswoman for Apollo, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  