-- Arafura in Funding Talks for $964 Million Rare Earths Project
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-10-01T07:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/arafura-in-funding-talks-for-964-million-australian-rare-earths-project.html
Arafura Resources Ltd.  is in talks to
raise funds for its A$1 billion ($964 million) rare earth
project in Australia after China capped exports of the metals
used in hybrid cars and laptops this year and prices soared.  “With the outlook of the market, the robustness of the
project, we have every chance of raising the money,” Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ward  said in an interview in Perth.
“The money will come from a combination of sources from all
over the globe. It will come from debt, equity, maybe some
financial instruments, and maybe some involvement with some
customers and some raw-material suppliers.”  China, which controls more than 90 percent of the global
market of the metallic elements, in July reduced export quotas
for the rest of the year by 72 percent, sending prices up as
much as ninefold. That highlighted a supply shortfall that’s
been developing for years, Ward said.  “End-users are looking to companies like Arafura to get
into production so they can secure a supply chain outside of
China,” said  Andrew Sullivan , a Sydney-based analyst for BBY
Ltd. “While the quantities of rare earths required are quite
small, these materials are important in a lot of the
applications. Supply shortfalls won’t go away when China has a
stranglehold on the market.”  Arafura climbed  4.9 percent to A$1.185 at 4:10 p.m. close
of trading in Sydney, giving the company a market value of A$344
million. The stock has risen 67 percent this year.  Chinese Dominance  China produced 120,000 metric tons of the world’s 124,000-
ton supply of rare earths last year, according to the Government
Accountability Office, the investigative arm of the U.S.
Congress.  “Even if China didn’t regulate its exports, there would
still be a shortage,” Ward said yesterday. “Assuming the
global economy stays in reasonable shape, supply is going to be
very tight. China has been reducing quotas for the past five
years.”  Arafura, in which East China Exploration and Development
Bureau has the  largest stake  with 22.2 percent, is planning to
produce 22,000 tons a year of rare earth oxides from 2013 over
20 years from its Nolans mine in Australia’s Northern Territory,
with a processing complex to be built at Whyalla in South
Australia state.  The company, which is also starting contract sales talks
with potential buyers, has a year to secure funding, Ward said.  Japan accused China of imposing a “de facto” ban on rare
earth exports this week amid a diplomatic spat with China over
Japan’s detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose ship
collided with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels. China’s Ministry
of Commerce spokesman  Chen Rongkai  denied there was a ban.  Japanese Stockpiles  Japan’s Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata  said yesterday his
country may budget measures to secure supplies of the minerals
after China curtailed exports.  “The latest incident between China and Japan is a subset
of a bigger picture,” Ward said. “The fact that China is
electing to keep its products in China is exacerbating the
supply shortfall. It may be a situation where the quotas for the
second half have been used up already.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 