-- Argentine Cattle Ranchers May Bid to Acquire Closed JBS Meatpacking Plant
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-09-30T15:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/argentine-cattle-ranchers-may-bid-to-acquire-closed-jbs-meatpacking-plant.html
A group of Argentine cattle
ranchers may seek to acquire a meatpacking plant closed earlier
this year by  JBS SA , the world’s largest beef processor that is
reducing its presence in the Latin American country.  The  Montiel Farmers Consortium  is working with the
government in Entre Rios province in eastern Argentina on a
possible offer for the slaughterhouse, said Hector Grachinsky,
the group’s president. The plant in San Jose has been valued at
$25 million, he said.  “Buying the San Jose plant would give us local farmers
somewhere to slaughter our cattle,” Grachinsky said today in a
telephone interview from Villaguay, Entre Rios. The provincial
“government is leading the operation and we are working with
them. There’s no way we could pay for the plant by our own.”  Argentina beef production  plummeted  over the past two years
after drought and export restrictions prompted increased
slaughtering of animals in 2009. The national herd dropped 15
percent to 49 million head over the past two years, data
produced by the Buenos Aires-based Argentine Agricultural
Sanitary Agency show.  JBS  may close three of its six plants in Argentina and may
consider selling them, the company based in Sao Paulo said in an
Aug. 29 Brazilian regulatory filing.  “Every time you think things cannot become worse it
becomes worse” in Argentina, Joesley Mendonca Batista, chief
executive officer of JBS, said on an Aug. 16 conference call
with analysts. “We have six factories, four factories are not
operating.”  Calls to the Entre Rios agricultural secretary’s press
office seeking comment were unanswered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  