-- Harvard Method Turns Skin to Stem Cell Alternative With Less Cancer Risk
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-09-30T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/harvard-method-turns-skin-to-stem-cell-alternative-with-less-cancer-risk.html
A novel way to create  stem cells 
from skin reduces the risk of cancer caused by the original
method and may open the way to treatments for genetic diseases.  Harvard Stem Cell Institute  scientists led by  Derrick Rossi 
made synthetic bits of genetic material known as messenger RNA
to sneak four proteins into skin cells and transform them to
stem cells. The mRNA doesn’t stay in the genes of the skin cell,
where it could cause cancer, according to a study published
today in the journal  Cell Stem Cell .  Induced pluripotent  stem, or IPS, cells were developed by
 Shinya Yamanaka  of Kyoto University in Kyoto, Japan, four years
ago. While they are now being used to test new drugs, they can’t
be given to patients as therapies because of the cancer risk.
Researchers have tried to make Yamanaka’s technique safer. The
new method may be the best so far, said  Jeanne Loring , director
of the Center for Regenerative Medicine at the  Scripps Research
Institute  in La Jolla, California.  “The question is: Would I be willing to try this in my
lab?” Loring said. “I’ve said no to everything else but I’d
say yes to this.”  Yamanaka said in an e-mail that the new method offered a
“promising” way to make cells that might be useful for therapy
and that his lab would test the method.  Doug Melton , co-director
of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
predicted that Rossi’s technique will become the standard way of
making the cells, and directed the institute’s central stem-cell
facility to adopt it.  Original Method  Yamanaka’s original method used viruses to carry four genes
into the skin cells to transform them. The key problem is that
the viruses remain permanently in the architecture of the skin
cells and can cause cancers to develop.  “In my view, this is a nearly perfect solution,” Melton
said in a telephone interview on Sept. 17. “There’s no
permanent genetic change in the cells and as an added bonus it
turns out to be more efficient than the original Yamanaka
method.”  The genes Yamanaka sent into the skin cells on a virus led
to the production of  messenger RNA  that made proteins and
transformed the cells. Rossi’s team engineered synthetic mRNA
that formed the proteins and then vanished.  “Using the ‘middle man,’ the mRNA, is a logical solution,
since it doesn’t integrate into the cell’s DNA,” Loring said.  The mRNA degrades quickly, Rossi said, disappearing from
the cell so it can’t stick around and cause problems. Its short
life required his team to insert it into the cells every day for
two to three weeks. Using this method, Rossi and his colleagues
were able to create several dozen batches of new stem cells they
called RNA-derived IPS, or RIPS cells.  More Efficient  The method was 40 to 100 times more efficient than
Yamanaka’s method for turning skin cells into stem cells, Rossi
said.  Researchers previously tried to put proteins directly into
the cells, a process which proved to be too inefficient to be
useful, Loring said.  Rossi’s advance had to address another challenge. Standard
RNA inserted into cells triggers an immune response, he said.  “The cell thinks it’s a viral infection and mounts a
response,” Rossi said. “The cell thinks, ‘Oh my God, before
this virus takes hold, let me kill myself.’”  To overcome that problem, Rossi and his team developed a
way to modify the genetic material and create “stealth mRNA”
that the cell doesn’t notice or respond to.  This method of modifying RNA may open the door for a new
kind of therapy that uses mRNA to boost protein levels in the
cells of patients with genetic diseases such as cystic fibrosis.  Rossi and two other scientists,  Robert Langer  of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge and  Kenneth Chien  of Harvard Medical School in Boston, formed a company
called ModeRNA Therapeutics to develop therapies that can be
delivered using the stealth mRNA.  Flagship Ventures , a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based venture
capital firm, and individual investors provided start-up funding
to ModeRNA, said  Doug Cole , a Flagship general partner, in a
telephone interview yesterday. He declined to disclose the
amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Waters in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 