-- Asian Stocks Slump as Banks Decline on European Concern; Nintendo Plunges
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-09-30T10:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/asian-stocks-fluctuate-as-financial-companies-drop-commodity-shares-gain.html
Asian  stocks  fell, dragging down
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index by the most in three weeks, amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis will slow a global economic
recovery and after Nintendo Co. cut its profit forecast.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s second-
biggest publicly traded bank, lost 3.9 percent. National
Australia Bank Ltd. dropped 2.2 percent after UBS AG cut its
investment rating.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. ,
the world’s No. 1 lender by market value, slumped 3.2 percent in
Hong Kong after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sold a stake.  Nintendo
Co. , the world’s largest maker of portable video-game machines,
tumbled 9.3 percent in Osaka, Japan.  “Financial problems are picking up across the world,”
said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior strategist in Tokyo at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees about $65
billion. “People are backing away from investing in stocks, and
there are no factors to move the market higher.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.8 percent to 126.54 at
7:17 p.m. in Tokyo, its largest drop since Sept. 8. All 10
industry groups retreated. The index is on course for an 8.6
percent increase this month, the  largest monthly advance  since
May 2009. The 12 percent climb in the three months ending today
is the biggest quarterly increase of the past year.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  lost 2 percent, the
biggest drop in the Asia-Pacific region today. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index sank 1.3 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
fell 0.1 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite advanced 1.7
percent.  European Budget Deficits  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index  decreased 1.5 percent, the most
since May, after home-building approvals slumped to a 13-month
low and business confidence fell.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slipped 0.1
percent. The index retreated 0.3 percent yesterday in New York,
trimming its best September rally since 1939. U.S. banks
followed European lenders lower on concern the region’s most-
indebted nations will struggle to finance budget deficits.  Yesterday, more than 100,000 protesters descended on
Brussels before a meeting between labor-union members and
European Commission President  Jose Barroso , organizers said.
Spanish workers disrupted transportation and television
broadcasts in the first general strike in eight years. In Athens,
rail, communications and port workers staged strikes. Police in
Dublin made an arrest after a truck damaged the front gates of
the parliament building.  Spain Downgrade  Financial companies were the  heaviest drag  on the MSCI
index among its 10 industry groups. Stocks extended declines
this afternoon after Moody’s Investors Service cut its credit
rating on Spain and Ireland’s central bank said Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. and Allied Irish Banks Plc may need as much as 14.4
billion euros ($19.6 billion) in extra capital.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s biggest
publicly traded lender, lost 3.7 percent to 389 yen in Tokyo,
and  Sumitomo Mitsui  dropped 3.9 percent to 2,432 yen.  HSBC
Holdings Plc , the largest bank in Europe, decreased 0.9 percent
to HK$79.70 in Hong Kong.  ICBC fell 3.2 percent to HK$5.78 in Hong Kong. Goldman
Sachs raised HK$17.45 billion ($2.25 billion) from selling 3.04
billion existing shares in the Chinese bank at HK$5.74 each,
according to a sale document sent to fund managers.  “People in the market are running away from risk assets
after the Irish announcement,” said  Ayako Sera , who helps
oversee about $310 billion in Tokyo as a strategist at Sumitomo
Trust & Banking Co. “Investors are concerned about financial
risks and credit ratings.”  Australian Lenders  In Sydney, National Australia Bank declined 2.2 percent to
A$25.34 after UBS cut its rating to “neutral” from “buy.”
 Westpac Banking Corp. , Australia’s second-biggest lender by
market value, retreated 2 percent to A$23.24.  Loans provided by Australian banks and finance companies
rose 0.1 percent in August from July, the Reserve Bank of
Australia said in Sydney today. The median estimate of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 0.3 percent gain.  The MSCI gauge has advanced 5.1 percent this year on
speculation growth in corporate profits will weather Europe’s
debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price inflation and
concern about the pace of a U.S. economic rebound.  Stocks  in the
gauge trade at 14.2 times estimated profit on average, near the
highest level in seven weeks.  Nintendo Tumbles  Nintendo plunged 9.3 percent to 20,860 yen, the biggest
drop since January 2009 and the  largest drag  on the MSCI index.
The company slashed its annual profit forecast by 55 percent and
said it won’t release its 3DS handheld game player in time for
the year-end holiday season.  Makers of electronic parts for Nintendo also declined.
 Mitsumi Electric Co.  lost 7.2 percent to 1,280 yen, the biggest
drop in the Nikkei 225. Hosiden Corp. tumbled 12 percent to 756
yen and  Megachips Corp.  retreated 7.2 percent to 1,400 yen.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia’s largest utility, dropped
3.3 percent to 2,036 yen in Tokyo, extending yesterday’s 7.8
percent decline. The company said yesterday after markets closed
that it plans to raise as much as 555 billion yen by selling
shares to the public. The Nikkei newspaper reported a planned
share sale yesterday morning.  A gauge of utilities in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped
1.3 percent, the most of 10 industry groups.  Property stocks rose  in China on speculation government
measures to tame real-estate prices will help to prevent asset
bubbles from hurting the economy.  Chinese Developers Gain  China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, climbed 7.6 percent to 8.40 yuan in Shenzhen.  Poly
Real Estate Group Co. , China’s second-largest developer, climbed
8.9 percent to 12.36 yuan in Shanghai.  China will speed up the introduction of a trial property
tax in some cities and then expand the levy to the whole country
to curb rising real-estate prices, the government said yesterday,
without giving a timetable.  The state also asked commercial banks to stop offering
loans to buyers of third homes and extended a 30 percent down
payment requirement to all first-home buyers, the statement said.  “The current stock prices of property companies already
reflect expectations of very strict crackdown measures,” said
 Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.
“The market will now form a good outlook for the economy.”  In Wellington, Fletcher Building Ltd., New Zealand’s
largest supplier of building products, fell 3.5 percent, and
Michael Hill International Ltd., a jewelry retailer, lost 2.9
percent. They were the two biggest declines on the NZX 50 Index.  The country’s home-building approvals slumped to a 13-month
low in August, Statistics New Zealand said today, citing
seasonally adjusted figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 