-- Stocks, Euro, Metals Decline on Concern Debt Burden Will Hamper Economies
-- B y   W i l l   M c S h e e h y   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-09-30T07:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/asian-stocks-metals-fall-before-bernanke-speech-u-s-data-yuan-weakens.html
Stocks declined, the euro weakened
and industrial metals fell on concern the European debt crisis
will worsen and constrict the global economic recovery.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 0.9 percent to 126.39
as of 4:05 p.m. in Tokyo, with about two shares declining for
each that advanced. The Stoxx Europe 600 retreated 0.3 percent
to 260.17. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures decreased 0.4
percent. Zinc paced declines in London. The euro slid to $1.3579
in London from $1.3627 in New York yesterday, when it reached
$1.3647, the highest level since April 15. It declined to 113.15
yen from 114.06 yen, after earlier gaining to 114.23.  Ireland’s central bank said  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  and
 Allied Irish Banks Plc  may need as much as 14.4 billion euros
($19.6 billion) in extra capital. Moody’s Investors Service
lowered Spain to Aa1 from Aaa with a stable outlook and cited
the nation’s “weak” economic outlook. Spain lost its top grade
at Fitch Ratings in May and at Standard & Poor’s in January 2009.  “People are backing away from investing in stocks and there
are no factors to move the market higher,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $65 billion.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.9 percent as  National
Australia Bank  declined 1.2 percent after UBS AG cut its rating
to “neutral” from “buy.” Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
lost 2 percent as Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., the
nation’s biggest publicly-traded bank, fell 3.7 percent.  Nintendo Warning  Nintendo Co ., the world’s largest maker of video-game
machines, sank 9.6 percent, the biggest drop since January 2009
and the heaviest single drag on the MSCI index. The company
slashed its annual profit forecast by 55 percent and said it
won’t release its 3DS handheld player in time for holiday sales.  Tokyo Electric Power Co.,  Asia’s largest utility, dropped
3.3 percent after yesterday’s 7.8 plunge on a plan to sell stock.  China’s stocks rose, extending their first quarterly gain
this year, on speculation government measures to tame real-
estate prices will end policy tightening earlier and prevent
asset bubbles from hurting the economy. The  Shanghai Composite
Index , which tracks the bigger of China’s stock exchanges,
gained 1.7 percent to 2,655.66.  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led an index
of property stocks to its biggest gain in two months after China
International Capital Corp. and Morgan Stanley said investors
have already “priced in” measures including the introduction
of a trial property tax. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the
nation’s third-largest lender by assets, advanced 3.6 percent.
 Zijin Mining Group Co.  soared 6.4 percent and Zhongjin Gold Corp.
climbed 2.8 percent after bullion prices rose to a record.  Defiant China  The yuan weakened for the first time in 13 days, by 0.1
percent to 6.6933 per dollar, on speculation the government
won’t accelerate appreciation in response to the threat of U.S.
trade sanctions. China’s central bank set the reference rate
weaker for the first time in three days after the House of
Representatives yesterday voted 348-79 for a measure that would
let domestic companies petition for duties on imports from China
to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan.  “The fixing shows the Chinese government’s attitude toward
the vote,” said  Liu Li-gang , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “China wants to show
it won’t yield to any foreign pressure. It will determine the
policy based on its own economic fundamentals.”  China has never undervalued the yuan to get an advantage in
trade,  Yao Jian , a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce,
said in response to the U.S. vote.  Irish Banks  Anglo Irish, nationalized last year, may need up to an
additional 6.4 billion euros of capital from the government in a
so-called base case scenario, the Dublin-based central bank said
in an e-mail statement today. That may rise by another 5 billion
euros in the event of unexpected losses.  Ireland has pumped  22.9 billion  euros to date into Anglo
Irish since it seized the lender in January 2009. The government
has injected a total of about 33 billion euros into Irish banks
and building societies. Allied Irish may need 3 billion euros in
capital, and the government will announce plans to recapitalize
the lender, the statement said.  Zinc for three-month delivery dropped as much as 2.3
percent to $2,174 a metric ton and traded at $2,204.75 a ton.
Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal Exchange
fell as much as 1.4 percent to $7,953 a metric ton and traded at
$8,028.  Fed Testimony  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is scheduled to
Senate hearing today amid speculation the Fed is preparing to
buy more U.S. debt to support the recovery. U.S. central bankers
are debating whether more purchases of government debt would
help speed up a recovery that hasn’t lowered the nation’s
jobless rate. The Fed announced following its Sept. 21 meeting
that it’s prepared to do more to help the economy, spurring
speculation policy makers will add securities to the central
bank’s holdings under a policy known as quantitative easing.  Prepared testimony before Bernanke speaks today shows he
will say the Fed is committed to financial reforms laid out by
the Dodd-Frank law. Bernanke didn’t comment on the outlook for
the economy or monetary policy in the remarks.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. will say
today its business barometer fell to 55.5 this month from 56.7
in August, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey, while the ISM manufacturing gauge dropped
to 54.5 from 56.3, according to another survey before data are
published tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Will McSheehy  in Singapore at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net 
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu in Tokyo at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  