-- Australia Will Probably Need to Resume Rate Increases on Rebound, IMF Says
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-09-30T02:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/australia-will-probably-need-to-resume-rate-increases-on-rebound-imf-says.html
Australia’s central bank will need
to resume raising interest rates if a mining investment boom
continues to stoke the nation’s economy, the International
Monetary Fund said.  “Should the recovery unfold as expected,  monetary policy 
will need to tighten further to contain inflation pressures
generated by the mining boom,” the Washington-based IMF said in
its annual Article IV report published today.  The  economy  is strengthening as demand from China for iron
ore and energy spurs companies such as Chevron Corp. to expand
projects. Investors have increased bets this month that Reserve
Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will resume the most
aggressive round of interest-rate increases by a Group of 20
member as early as next week.  “In determining the magnitude of the additional tightening,
the RBA will need to consider two key factors,” the IMF said.
“First, given the high level of household indebtedness,
domestic demand is likely to be more responsive to interest
rates than it has been in the past.”  Second, with consumer price growth forecast by the RBA to
remain near the top of its target range of 2 percent to 3
percent, policy makers will need “to guard against inflation
expectations becoming anchored at too high a level,” according
to the report.  Local Dollar  Speculation about pending rate increases pushed Australia’s
currency this week to its highest level against the U.S. dollar
in more than two years. The local dollar, which traded at 96.82
U.S. cents as of 12:30 p.m. in Sydney, has gained 9.7 percent in
the past 12 months, making it the best-performer among the 16
most actively traded currencies.  The IMF said while the nation’s flexible exchange rate
helped buffer the Australian economy during the global financial
crisis, “from a medium-term perspective, our assessment is that
the exchange rate is mildly overvalued.”  “This overvaluation is likely to be temporary and may
dissipate with the eventual normalization of interest rates in
the United States and other advanced economies,” according to
today’s report.  RBA officials have also said this month that Australia may
need higher interest rates as the economy accelerates.  ‘Alert’ to Risks  While the bank remains “alert” to risks such as weaker
global growth, “members considered that if the central scenario
came to pass it was likely that higher interest rates would be
required, at some point,” the RBA said in minutes of its
September meeting.  Stevens and his board boosted borrowing costs in six
quarter-percentage-point steps from October to May, taking the
benchmark overnight cash rate target to 4.5 percent.  Traders calculate a 48 percent chance of a quarter-point
boost to the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent at the central
bank’s meeting on Oct. 5, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at
12:23 p.m. Last month, chances of an increase this year stood at
zero.  A report this month showed gross domestic product rose 3.3
percent last quarter from a year earlier, beating the median
estimate of analysts for a 2.8 percent gain and the 3 percent
increase forecast by the central bank on Aug. 6.  Growth Outlook  The IMF predicts GDP will rise in 2010 and 2011 by 3
percent to 3.5 percent, led by mining investment and commodity
exports. Inflation will be 3 percent over the next three years,
the IMF said today.  Australia’s government, led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ,
should use any stronger-than-anticipated revenue generated by
the economic recovery to “help avoid potential overheating of
the mining boom,” the report said.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  expects the nation’s budget deficit,
which was A$54.8 billion ($53 billion) in the 12 months through
June 30, will narrow to A$10.4 billion in 2011-12, before
swinging to a surplus of A$3.5 billion the following year.  The country should also prepare “downside scenarios” if a
plunge in commodity prices cuts income from exports below the
“long-run average,” the IMF said.  The IMF also said Gillard’s plan to introduce a mineral
resource rent tax is a “step in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  