-- Australian Building Approvals Fall Most in 3 Months, Credit Growth Stalls
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r
-- 2010-09-30T03:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/australia-s-building-approvals-fall-as-higher-rates-crimp-dwelling-demand.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
fell in August by the most in three months and credit growth
stalled, giving central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  scope to
delay a resumption in interest-rate increases.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments dropped 4.7 percent from July, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. A separate report by the
central bank showed  credit  provided by lenders rose 0.1 percent,
missing the median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News for a 0.3 percent gain.  The local dollar fell as traders pared bets that Reserve
Bank of Australia policy makers will restart the most aggressive
round of interest rates increases by a Group of 20 member as
early as next week. The bank today also published a report
showing the nation’s financial system remains in strong
condition as its four largest banks reported a 15 percent surge
in earnings after “fully recouping” higher funding costs
caused by the global crisis.  Today’s weak building approvals and credit growth reports
“highlight why I don’t think the RBA should, or necessarily
will, be hiking” next week, said  Adam Carr , a senior economist
at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “Credit growth is just above
recessionary levels.”  Local Dollar  The Australian dollar fell to 96.74 U.S. cents at 12:44 p.m.
in Sydney from 97.04 cents just before the reports were released,
after yesterday reaching its highest level against the dollar in
more than two years and parity with Canada’s currency.  Approvals to build private houses fell 4.3 percent to 8,208
in August from July, today’s report showed. Those for private
sector apartments and renovations advanced 1.4 percent to 4,313.
The 4.7 percent decline in total approvals also missed  analyst ’s
predictions for a 2.3 percent gain.  Today’s reports add to evidence that Governor Stevens’s six
interest-rate increases from October to May, which boosted the
benchmark lending rate by 150 basis points to 4.5 percent, are
cooling demand in the nation’s property market. Those moves
added about A$3,600 ($3,490) a year to repayments on an average
A$300,000 mortgage.  Dwelling prices fell 0.2 percent in August across
Australia’s eight largest cities, extending the decline since
May to 1.2 percent, real estate monitoring company RP-Data said
today.  Fitch Ratings said yesterday it will conduct stress tests
on Australian mortgages as concerns mount that the nation’s
housing market may collapse.  The testing will examine the impact of various levels of
price declines on Fitch’s Australian residential mortgage-backed
securities portfolio, banks and mortgage insurers, the ratings
company said in a statement. The results of the testing will be
completed by the middle of the fourth quarter, it said.  Rate Bets  Traders calculate a 48 percent chance of a quarter-point
boost to the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent at the central
bank’s meeting on Oct. 5, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at
12:39 p.m. Prior to today’s data, the chance of an increase
stood at 56 percent.  Still, the RBA’s report today on Australia’s banking
industry was “reasonably positive in its assessment of the
economy, while highlighting the underlying strength of the
financial system,” said  Su-Lin Ong , senior economist at RBC
Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney.  Shadow System  Australia has a smaller so-called shadow banking system
than the U.S., a key reason that local lenders didn’t “transmit
the same kinds of shocks to the system during the recent
financial crisis as in some other countries,” the RBA said.  Eighty percent of the Australian financial sector by assets
is made up of banks and other lenders that are overseen by the
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. By contrast, such
institutions account for only around half of the financial
sector in the U.S., where more “shadow” firms such as hedge
funds exist, the RBA said.  “Australia’s financial system, while not immune to swings
in sentiment affecting global markets, has come through the
disruptions to date in relatively good shape,” the bank said.  The central bank will need to resume raising interest rates
if a mining investment boom continues to stoke the nation’s
economy, the International Monetary Fund said.  “Should the recovery unfold as expected,  monetary policy 
will need to tighten further to contain inflation pressures
generated by the mining boom,” the Washington-based IMF said in
its annual Article IV report published today.  A report this month showed gross domestic product rose 3.3
percent last quarter from a year earlier, beating the median
estimate of analysts for a 2.8 percent gain and the 3 percent
increase forecast by the central bank on Aug. 6.  The IMF predicts GDP will rise in 2010 and 2011 by 3
percent to 3.5 percent, led by mining investment and commodity
exports. Inflation will be 3 percent over the next three years,
the IMF said today. Central bank policy makers aim to keep
inflation between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Victoria Batchelor  in Sydney at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  