-- Australian Manufacturing Shrank in September for First Time in Nine Months
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-09-30T23:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/australian-manufacturing-shrank-in-september-for-first-time-in-nine-months.html
Australian  manufacturing  contracted
in September for the first time in nine months as the nation’s
surging currency eroded demand for locally produced clothing and
construction materials.  The performance of  manufacturing index  slumped 4.4 points
to 47.3, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released in Canberra
today. A figure below 50 shows the industry is shrinking.  The nation’s manufacturing sector contrasts with the mining
industry, which is expanding to meet rising Chinese demand for
raw materials, pushing the jobs market close to what the
government and central bank consider full employment. The
nation’s currency surged last month to its highest level against
the U.S. dollar in more than two years, driving down the cost of
imported goods and eroding the competitiveness of exporters.  “The strength of the Australian dollar in particular, led
by large rises in minerals prices, is challenging the
competitive position of the sector in both the domestic and
export markets,” said  Heather Ridout , chief executive officer
of the Australian Industry Group.  Manufacturers are also facing the challenges of slower
private sector spending growth alongside increased wage
pressures, today’s report said.  “This combination of factors underlines the vulnerability
of manufacturers to interest rate rises,” Ridout said.  Rate Bets  Investors expect Australia’s central bank to this year
resume the most aggressive round of monetary policy tightening
by a Group of 20 member, which saw the nation’s benchmark
lending rate climb to 4.5 percent in May from a half-century low
of 3 percent a year ago.  Traders calculate a 44 percent chance of a quarter-point
boost to the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent at the central
bank’s meeting on Oct. 5, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at
9:37 a.m. The chance of a move by December is 100 percent.  Speculation about likely rate increases has helped stoke
the Australian dollar, which has gained 10.9 percent in the past
12 months, the best performer among the 16 most actively traded
currencies. The currency traded at 96.41 U.S. cents at 9:36 a.m.
in Sydney from 96.40 cents before the report was released.  The manufacturing survey, which is similar to the U.S. ISM
index, asked more than 200 companies about production, new
orders, deliveries, inventories and employment.  The drop in the gauge was led by further falls among
manufacturers of food and drinks products, fabricated metals, as
well as clothing, footwear and construction materials, today’s
report shows.  A sub-gauge of employment tumbled 6.5 points to 44.8 in
September, and new orders slipped 4.1 points to 46.5, today’s
report showed. An index of production dropped 5.3 points to 46.2.  Today’s report “points to the importance of productivity-
boosting policy measures including in the areas of innovation,
education and training, taxation and workplace relations,”
Ridout said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  