-- Australian Regulator Seeks Law to Pursue Gasoline Retailers on Fuel Price
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-09-30T06:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/australian-regulator-seeks-to-close-legal-loophole-on-gasoline-pricing.html
The Australian government must
close a legal loophole that allows gasoline retailers to share
price information with impunity from competition laws, said the
head of the country’s competition regulator.  Caltex Australia Ltd. ,  BP Plc  and  Exxon Mobil Corp.  can
share information, allowing gasoline prices to rise and fall in
tandem, and yet they can’t be prosecuted because the law
requires them make a commitment to match their prices,  Graeme Samuel  said in an interview today at his office at the
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission in Sydney.  “We’ve said to government, we think there is a loophole in
the law and it needs to be dealt with,” Samuel said. “It has
been dealt with in the EU. It has been dealt with by the courts
in the United States, and we think Australia is lagging in this
area and needs to deal with it.”  The regulator is unable to prosecute the retailers without
proof they entered into a commitment to set prices, Samuel said.
The companies can meet, share information on pricing, and as
long as they don’t formally agree to follow each other on
pricing, they aren’t breaking the law, according to Samuel.  Availability of price information to competitors helps
drive discounting of gasoline prices, benefiting the consumer,
 Sam Collyer , a Caltex spokesman based in Sydney, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We do not believe there is any ‘loophole’ in the law, or
need for new laws,” Collyer said.  Jamie Jardine , a spokesman for BP in Melbourne, declined to
comment on the company’s gasoline pricing policy. Exxon’s media
representatives couldn’t immediately comment.  ‘Strong Competition’  Caltex supports giving the pricing information to consumers
at the same time as retailers, as long as the government pays
for the service and all retailers participate in providing the
data, according to Collyer.  A preliminary draft of a  study  in March by Professors
Nicolas de Roos and Hajime Katayama of Sydney University on
retail gasoline price cycles in Western Australia concluded that
major companies led the price cycle, with independent retailers
following, and participating.  “There is little point in being a maverick, little point
in trying to rebel, because you get punished, because the others
know exactly what you’re doing within seconds, within minutes,”
Samuel said.  Retailers “play a war of attrition” until it becomes
unprofitable to maintain a price level, at which point one of
them increases the price and others follow, according to Collyer.  “There are no anti-competitive elements in this process,”
he said. “On the contrary, the process is driven by strong
competition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net . 