-- Australia Banks Strong as Profits Jump 15%, RBA Says
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-09-30T01:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/australia-s-banks-in-strong-shape-as-earnings-jump-15-reserve-bank-says.html
  Australia ’s financial system
remains in strong condition as the nation’s four largest banks
reported a 15 percent surge in earnings after “fully
recouping” higher funding costs caused by the global crisis,
the central bank said.  “The Australian banking system remains strong having
weathered only a very mild downturn compared with international
experience over the past few years,” the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia said in its half-yearly financial stability review
published today in Sydney. Net interest income has “continued
to underpin the profitability of the major banks,” the RBA
said.  Speculation has intensified in recent weeks that some of
Australia’s biggest lenders may boost borrowing costs in
addition to potential benchmark rate increases by the central
bank in coming months to claw back higher funding costs. Today’s
RBA report said the net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of loans, on the local operations of the nation’s
biggest banks has widened by 35 basis points since 2008.  “Interest receipts, which stem from the core lending
business of the major banks and represent their main source of
revenue, have been sufficient over the past two years to fully
recoup higher funding costs and partially offset the rise in
loan losses,” the central bank said.  Half-year net profit after tax and minority interests at
the four largest Australian banks --  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia ,  Australia &amp; New Zealand Banking Group Ltd .,  Westpac
Banking Corp ., and  National Australia Bank Ltd . -- jumped A$1.3
billion ($1.26 billion) to A$9.9 billion from the comparable
period a year earlier, RBA figures show.  The Australian dollar declined to 96.87 U.S. cents as of
11:33 a.m. in Sydney, from 97.04 cents before the RBA released
its report and the Sydney-based Bureau of Statistics said home-
building approvals fell 4.7 percent in August.  Rate Moves  Policy makers are forecast by investors to this year resume
the most aggressive round of interest rate increases by a Group
of 20 member to prevent a build-up in inflation pressures as
economic growth strengthens.  Traders calculate a 56 percent chance of a quarter-point
boost to the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent at the central
bank’s meeting on Oct. 5, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on interbank futures on the  Sydney Futures Exchange  at
4:09 p.m. yesterday. Last month, chances of an increase this
year stood at zero.  ANZ Bank, Commonwealth Bank, and Westpac in December raised  interest rates  on home loans faster than the central bank
boosted its benchmark rate, drawing criticism from Treasurer  Wayne Swan . Federal politicians, who faced national elections on
Aug. 21, are sensitive to interest rate changes as more than 90
percent of Australian borrowers have variable rate home loans.  Funding Costs  Commonwealth’s net interest margin, narrowed by 0.1
percentage point in the six months ended June 30 from the
previous half-year, because of higher funding costs, the bank
said last month. Such expenses have risen by 1.22 percentage
points since the global financial crisis as the bank paid higher
interest to depositors and raising money from debt markets
became more expensive, the Commonwealth said in a presentation
Aug. 11.  Commonwealth Bank “at some point” may have to pass some
of the higher costs to customers, Ralph Norris, Commonwealth
Bank’s chief executive officer, said last month.  Today’s report also shows that Australia has a smaller so-
called shadow banking system than the U.S., a key reason that
local lenders didn’t “transmit the same kinds of shocks to the
system during the recent financial crisis as in some other
countries.”  Eighty percent of the Australian financial sector by assets
is made up of banks and other lenders that are overseen by the  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority . By contrast, such
institutions account for only around half of the financial
sector in the U.S., where more “shadow” firms such as  hedge
funds  exist, the RBA report said.  “Australia’s financial system, while not immune to swings
in sentiment affecting global markets, has come through the
disruptions to date in relatively good shape,” the bank said.  Local financial firms are also “well placed” to meet
proposed new global capital standards, today’s report said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  