-- ‘Torturous’ Dodd-Frank Rulemaking Can Succeed, Regulators Say
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-09-30T20:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/lawmakers-summon-overwhelmed-regulators-for-dodd-frank-update.html
U.S. financial-industry regulators
said implementing the biggest Wall Street overhaul since the
1930s is both daunting and doable, even as tensions arise over
jurisdiction under the Dodd-Frank Act.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Deputy Treasury
Secretary  Neal S. Wolin  and heads of agencies including the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. told
the Senate Banking Committee today their agencies will work
together to ensure the law becomes an effective safeguard
against a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis.  “It is a process that is sometimes torturous, but it has
worked before and it will work again,”  John Walsh , acting
Comptroller of the Currency, said at the Washington hearing.  Lawmakers called regulators to testify on progress in
implementing the measure signed by President  Barack Obama  on
July 21 as rulemaking delays, battles over substance and the
threat of missed deadlines emerged at the start of the effort.  FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  this week was forced to delay a
vote on her agency’s first major rulemaking. CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , looking at a list of rules his agency must pass for
derivatives markets, said some may not meet deadlines.  “We’re human,” Gensler said during a Sept. 21 speech at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “Certainly something will slip.”  Obama’s signing of the Dodd-Frank Act set off a race among
lobbyists, banks and lawyers to influence how regulators put the
mandate into action. Agencies must write more than 500 rules,
conduct 81 studies and submit 93 reports in coming years.
according to an  analysis  released by the Chamber of Commerce.  Too Much Power  Lawmakers at today’s hearing, including Republicans who
voted against Dodd-Frank, questioned whether regulators had too
much power to design and implement the new regulatory structure.  “In many instances, Dodd-Frank has outsourced this
committee’s responsibilities to unelected bureaucrats,” said
Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the banking panel’s top
Republican.  Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , the
Connecticut Democrat who co-wrote the law, said the job of
turning lawmakers’ words into enforceable rules was properly
placed with the agencies.  “I don’t think anyone wants the Senate writing detailed
prescriptions that require technical expert knowledge,” Dodd
said in his opening statement. “Nor could we afford to tie
regulators’ hands with rigid legislative requirements that can’t
be adapted to changing circumstances.”  The agencies may find it difficult to meld the legislation
into a regulatory structure, something battles over jurisdiction
won’t help, Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said in
an interview yesterday.  ‘Turf Protection’  “There was a lot of turf protection as we were going
through the legislation, and I want to see how they are all
working together to implement this,” Corker said. “When the
rulemaking process gets under way, there are actually further
turf battles, so we all need to keep an eye on that.”  The FDIC vote on interim guidelines for winding down
systemically risky firms was delayed Sept. 27 as regulators
sought more time to review the agency’s proposal. Bair had
circulated the measure to the members of the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, a panel of regulators created by Dodd-Frank,
on Sept. 17.  Council Meeting  The council, which is scheduled to hold its first meeting
tomorrow, will focus on which financial firms may be deemed
“systemic,” risk retention for securitizations and
implementation of the so-called Volcker rule, which bans bank
holding companies from trading for their own accounts, Wolin
told lawmakers.  Members of the council, including the heads of the Fed,
Treasury Department, FDIC, CFTC, OCC and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, will have to work together while respecting
other agencies’ independence to ensure the regulatory overhaul
achieves its goals, Bair said.  “If we all start writing each other’s rules, this council
will become an impediment and not a way to facilitate reform,”
Bair said.  The Fed, the Treasury and the regulators responsible for
implementing the law have spent the past few months preparing a
slew of rulemakings. In July, a day after Obama signed the law,
the CFTC had 20 staff members at SEC headquarters to align their
efforts. Within a week, the CFTC was meeting with the Fed on the
derivatives provisions, trying to coordinate one of the most
complicated undertakings, Gensler said.  ‘Hard Pressed’  Gensler and SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told lawmakers that
new rules that require derivative contracts to be cleared should
be “prospective and not retrospective.” Schapiro said that
regulators would be “hard pressed” to retroactively apply
margin requirements to firms.  The regulators were addressing concerns of many in the
market, including  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., that
contracts agreed to prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act
would either be broken or fall under increased regulatory
burden.  Gensler, addressing the concerns of non-financial companies
that use derivatives to hedge risk that they may need to post
more cash or collateral with each trade, told lawmakers that
they would be considered “out of” the “margin requirement.”  Derivatives are financial instruments based on the value of
another security or benchmark. Some instruments, including
contracts that insured mortgage-backed bonds, have been blamed
for fueling a financial crisis that led to the worst recession
since the Great Depression.  New Offices  The SEC has laid out at least 38 rules the agency plans to
propose or adopt before the end of the year, according to its
 website . It will also establish five new offices, including the
Office of Women and Minority Inclusion and the Office of the
Investor Advocate, send at least two reports to Congress and
award an independent consultant contract.  Gensler’s agency has held at least 165 meetings since July
26, according to the agency’s website. The CFTC created 30 teams
to address its own rulemakings, meeting with lobbyists and
interested parties including JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Blythe Masters , the bank’s head of commodities, and  Peter Fisher , the
head of fixed income for  BlackRock Inc . The Fed, SEC and FDIC
are also using their websites to disclose meetings with groups
that want to shape the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 