-- Lazard’s Parr Says Bank Takeovers to Be Slow for ‘Some Time’
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-09-30T18:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/lazard-s-vice-chairman-parr-says-bank-takeovers-to-be-slow-for-some-time-.html
  Lazard Ltd . Vice Chairman Gary W. Parr said the pace of financial-industry takeovers will be held
back by doubts over the value of bank assets and questions about
new capital requirements from regulators.  “It will continue to be slow for quite some time,” Parr,
53, said today at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in  New York .
Parr’s specialty is mergers between financial institutions.  Banking analysts including Christopher McGratty of KBW Inc.
have predicted a wave of bank deals in coming months after
regulators make clear how much capital and liquidity they will
require firms to hold. The pace of consolidation may quicken
through next year if demand for new borrowing remains weak as
customers repay existing loans, said analyst  David Hendler  of
CreditSights in New York.  “Asset quality is a still an uncertainty on a lot of
balance sheets, notably commercial real estate,” Parr said.  The prospect of new government requirements and losses
during the financial crisis discouraged banks from going after
assets offered for sale by firms including  American
International Group Inc .,  Citigroup Inc . and  Bank of America
Corp ., Parr said Aug. 25 on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack.”  Parr advised on the sale of the North American investment
banking business of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to Barclays
Plc; the sale of Bear Stearns & Co. to JPMorgan Chase & Co.; and
the 1999 purchase by American International Group Inc. of
SunAmerica Inc.  He joined Lazard in 2003 from Morgan Stanley where his
roles included co-head of global mergers and acquisitions. He
was among investment bankers who left the former First Boston
Corp. to form advisory firm Wasserstein Perella & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Henry in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  