-- Beijing Capital, Gemdale Rise as Property Curbs Seen to Suffice
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-30T07:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/beijing-capital-gemdale-rise-as-china-s-property-curbs-seen-as-sufficient.html
Beijing Capital Development Co.  and
 Gemdale Corp.  rose in Shanghai after analysts said government
plans to introduce property taxes and limit mortgages reduced
concerns that stronger measures would be used to rein in prices.  China will speed up the introduction of a trial property
tax in some cities and then expand the levy to the whole country,
the government said on its website last night, without giving a
timetable. It asked commercial banks to stop offering loans to
third-home buyers and extended a 30 percent down payment to all
first-home buyers.  Property prices  in 70 major cities rose 9.3 percent in
August from a year earlier, prompting the government to extend a
crackdown on speculators and multiple home purchases. The state
may implement the property tax soon in cities including Shanghai,
Shenzhen and Chongqing, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “We view the policy uncertainties on the China property
market as partially settled with the announcement,” Citigroup
Inc. analysts  Oscar Choi  and  Marco Sze  said in a report today.
“The impact should be insignificant because the third-unit
mortgage suspension has been applied in many key cities
already.”  Property stocks have already factored in most of the bad
news and investors should add to their positions in bigger
developers including  China Vanke Co.  and Agile Property Holdings
Ltd., according to the Citigroup report.  The 30 percent down payment for first homes previously
applied only to properties larger than 90 square meters (969
square feet).  Shares Rise  An  index  tracking 34 real-estate companies traded in
Shanghai rose 3.9 percent at the 3 p.m. local time close of
trading, trimming this year’s loss to 27 percent, after falling
as much as 1 percent earlier today. Beijing Capital advanced 7.2
percent, while Gemdale added 5.3 percent.  China Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed developer, gained
7.6 percent in Shenzhen. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index 
climbed 1.7 percent.  “We believe the likely negative market response provides
an opportunity to buy the properties and related sectors,”
Morgan Stanley analysts  Jerry Lou  and  Allen Gui  wrote in a
report today. “We continue to overweight property sector and
related cyclical sectors including materials, banks and
insurance.”  China will halve the transaction tax for buyers of non-
luxury homes for use as sole residences starting Oct. 1, the
Finance Ministry said in a  statement  on its website yesterday.
The rate will be 1 percent for units of 90 square meters or
smaller, it said.  ‘Cooling Weapon’  The country will also end an income-tax exemption on
profits from the sale of real estate reinvested within one year,
the ministry said. Banks will be ordered to stop lending to
property developers that violate industry regulations, the
government said.  China has since April raised the down payment and interest
rates on second-home mortgages and restricted the number of new
homes residents can buy in some cities such as Beijing.  “We continue to believe the announcement, but not
necessarily implementation, of more details about property taxes
are the most effective cooling weapon in the near term,” Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts led by  David Ng  said in an
e-mailed report yesterday.  China may announce property taxes as early as the October
National Day holidays,  China Business News  reported Sept. 21,
citing an unidentified person. The break runs Oct. 1 to Oct. 7.  The trial measure, which extends the existing commercial
property tax to homes, is more likely to be implemented at the
start of next year, the Chinese-language newspaper said.  Analysts Divided  Deutsche Bank AG analysts were more cautious. China’s
property stocks may fall 10 percent following the announcement,
 Jun Ma  and  Wenjie Lu  wrote in a report. Transaction volumes may
fall by 20 percent to 40 percent from the current weekly level
in the next few months and should be able to stop the “recent
uptrend” in property prices, they said.  Credit Suisse analysts led by  Jinsong Du  recommended
“reducing exposure” to Chinese property stocks in the near
term, saying a tax would hurt real-estate market sentiment,
according to a note to clients dated yesterday.  Housing transactions in Shenzhen surged 84 percent last
month from July and rose 23 percent in Beijing, according to
data compiled by Soufun.com, the nation’s largest property
website. Prices in Beijing gained 12.3 percent in August from
the previous month and rose almost 7 percent in Shenzhen,
according to Soufun.  The value of August sales rose about 15 percent to 353.3
billion yuan ($52.8 billion) from July and the volume increased,
government data showed. China Vanke had a 149 percent jump in
August sales from a year earlier, and Poly Real Estate Group Co.,
the second-largest Chinese developer, said sales almost doubled.  “The new measures are not dramatic, but they convey a
clear policy message: Beijing is serious about controlling the
property prices,”  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based economist with
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in e-mailed comments. “This should help
damp the expectations” that housing prices will rise quickly,
Qu said.  -- Winnie Zhu ,  Yanping Li , with assistance from  Alfred Cang 
in Shanghai and  Dingmin Zhang  in Beijing. Editors:  Ross Larsen ,  Josh Fellman   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7013 or
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  