-- Belgium's Option Can `Survive Battle' Against China's Huawei With EU Help
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2010-09-30T12:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/belgium-s-option-can-survive-battle-against-china-s-huawei-with-eu-help.html
Option NV , the unprofitable Belgian
maker of modems, predicted a “turning point” for its business
and renewed hope for innovation in the European Union should the
EU make good on threats to slow imports from China.  Option Chief Executive Officer  Jan Callewaert  made the
projections as the EU weighs imposing tariffs on wireless modems
from China to counter alleged subsidies to Huawei Technologies
Co. and  ZTE Corp.  and possible below-cost -- or “dumped” --
sales by those producers in Europe. The bloc is also threatening
to apply quantitative limits, known as safeguards, on imports of
the devices from all non-EU countries led by China.  At stake is Europe’s manufacturing presence in an EU market
worth 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion), according to Option, the
bloc’s only producer of the wireless wide-area networking modems
covered by the three European trade probes. This marks the first
time the EU has opened simultaneous dumping, subsidy and
safeguard investigations in support of a single European
producer, shifting the focus of European trade curbs against
China from traditional goods such as shoes and bicycles to high-
tech telecommunications.  “This will be a turning point,” Callewaert said in an
interview yesterday at Option’s headquarters in Leuven, Belgium.
“We should come to a level playing field. It would re-establish
the company in the market with respect.”  Option exemplifies how Europe is stepping up the threat of
trade curbs against China. To bolster European exporters and
narrow its trade deficit, the 27-nation EU has joined the U.S.
in pressing China to let its currency strengthen as the global
economy recovers from the financial crisis.  Chinese Dumping  The EU imposes anti-dumping duties on dozens of Chinese
goods ranging from textiles and chemicals to ironing boards and
candles. China, the world’s most populous country, faces this
kind of EU trade protection on about 50 products -- more than
any other nation.  The EU opened the dumping and safeguard probes covering
Chinese wireless modems in June and began the government-aid
inquiry in mid-September -- only the second European subsidy
case against China following an April one involving paper.
Initial measures on modems may come within nine months of the
start of the investigations.  “There is evidence of a number of unfair trade practices
happening at the same time,”  John Clancy , a spokesman at the
European Commission, the EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said
in an e-mail yesterday about the Option cases.  Market Share  Huawei and ZTE, both based in Shenzhen, now control 95
percent of the European market for the wireless modems covered
by the trade probes compared with nothing in 2005, according to
Option. Average prices for Option’s devices dropped 30 percent
last year, following a 39 percent slide in 2008.  “We need to survive this battle,” Callewaert said. “The
sooner the commission comes out with measures, the better.”  Option, which hasn’t reported a  profit  since the first
quarter of 2008, has cut its  workforce  to 250 from 679 at the
end of 2008. The company’s market value has fallen 97 percent
from a peak in 2006.  Option had 7.65 million euros of cash and short-term
investments left at the end of June after raising 20.2 million
euros in a stock sale to existing shareholders in December. The
company is selling a unit developing a wireless radio
transceiver for the next generation of embedded modems to avoid
running out of cash, according to Callewaert.  ‘Canary in Coal Mine’  Huawei reported that 2009 sales rose 19 percent to 149.1
billion yuan ($22.3 billion) and  Tim Watkins , the company’s
western Europe vice president, predicts that revenue will climb
to about $30 billion this year. Huawei is the world’s only
supplier of telecom equipment that ranks among the three largest
vendors in fixed, mobile and Internet-based networks.  China’s biggest telecom-equipment maker beat Stockholm-
based  Ericsson AB , the world’s No. 1 provider of wireless phone
networks, in December to win a contract for so-called Long-Term
Evolution wireless technology from Tele2 AB and  Telenor ASA  in
Sweden.  “We are a canary in a coal mine,” Callewaert said.
“Everyone is waking up and they look to this case because it’s
an important one. It’s one of the first cases in the high-tech
arena for Europe.”  Huawei’s dominance in the European modem market is based on
accurate forecasting, innovation, manufacturing flexibility and
economies of scale, Watkins said at a briefing in Brussels on
Sept. 28. He forecast the global market for those modems,
including built-in devices, will triple to 60 million units in
2012 from about 20 million last year.  ‘Reasonable’ Earnings  Employee-owned Huawei has no link to the Chinese government
and the company earns “reasonable” profits on sales of those
devices, Watkins said. Huawei also disputes the validity of
Option’s complaints, saying the Belgian company is no longer a
European producer after farming out manufacturing to China.  Option says it has shifted basic hardware assembly to China
from the EU while keeping development, control, testing and
final processing of the wireless modems at European sites
including Leuven and Cork, Ireland. As a result, Option says it
remains an EU producer of the devices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  