-- Berlusconi Says Italy `Lucky' Investors Didn't Flee Over Political Turmoil
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2010-09-30T11:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/berlusconi-says-italy-lucky-investors-didn-t-flee-over-political-turmoil.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ,
who survived a confidence vote yesterday, said Italy was
“lucky” to avoid a market plunge amid speculation over whether
the government would fall.  “We were lucky that in August there wasn’t a focus on our
political problems and we didn’t attract the attention of
international speculators, which could have led to a desertion
of orders for our public debt, sparking a massive increase” in
borrowing costs, he said in a speech to the Senate today.  Berlusconi, 74, won the confidence vote in parliament’s
lower house with support of  Gianfranco Fini  and his allies.
Fini, who co-founded the Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party,
broke with the premier in July, potentially denying Berlusconi a
parliamentary majority and prompting the confidence vote.  Referring to the possibility of going to elections in the
midst of Europe’s debt crisis, Berlusconi said “that it’s not
in the interest of this country to risk a period of
instability,” that could hurt confidence in Italy’s debt.  “We watch with bated breath the results of every auction
of state bonds,” Berlusconi said.  Record Debt  The yield premium investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
bonds rather than similar-maturity German bonds  narrowed  three
basis points today to 166 at 11:30 a.m. in Rome. It had reached
a euro-era record of 185 basis points in June. Italy still must
finance 34 billion euros ($46.4 billion) in bond redemptions
this year.  Italy’s debt will rise this year to 118.5 percent of gross
domestic product and 119.2 percent next year, according to new
forecasts release by the Finance Ministry yesterday. Servicing
the debt will cost 72 billion euros this year, or about 4.6
percent of GDP. Debt servicing costs will rise to 78.8 billion
euros in 2011 and 80.2 billion euros in 2012, the ministry
forecasts.  The government, which is scheduled to end its term in 2013,
is trying to cut 25 billion euros ($34 billion) from the
county’s deficit in the next two years. Italy has managed to
contain its budget deficit more than the other so-called
peripheral euro-region countries such as Greece and Spain,
though it maintains the highest debt in the euro zone at more
than 115 percent of GDP and close to twice the EU limit.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Donovan at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net  