-- Berlusconi Says He Helped Save Financial System, Aided Nuclear Disarmament
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-09-30T16:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/berlusconi-takes-credit-for-wall-street-bailout-ending-russia-georgia-war.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said he played a key role in persuading U.S. leaders
to bail out Wall Street, in ending Russia’s 2008 war with
Georgia and in convincing President  Barack Obama  to forge an
agreement on reducing nuclear arms.  “When the Republican administration didn’t lift a finger
to save Lehman Brothers, this gentleman went to Washington and
spent an entire day speaking with the American president,” he
said today in remarks to the Senate in Rome. “After that, the
decision came out to make $700 billion available to ensure that
the American banks didn’t collapse because otherwise there would
have been a disaster.”  One day after surviving a confidence vote in Italy’s
Chamber of Deputies, Berlusconi addressed the upper house,
laying out a long list of his administration’s successes and his
personal achievements. Berlusconi, 74, has taken credit in the
past for helping global leaders forge a way out of the financial
crisis, and the premier said on March 15 last year that he
played an “absolutely fundamental role” ending the 2008 Georgia
conflict.  Berlusconi was more specific today, saying he had helped
persuade  Vladimir Putin  in August 2008 to call off plans by the
Russian military to escalate the conflict by attacking Georgia’s
capital, Tbilisi.  “That attack would have destroyed relations between Russia
and the West” in a “divorce that would have been difficult to
overcome,” he said. His and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
diplomacy also saved Georgian President  Mikheil Saakashvili  from
being “hanged from the highest tree” by Russian soldiers, he
said.  Berlusconi said he played a key role in persuading Barack
Obama to forge a nuclear arms-control deal with Russia last
year. He told the Senate that he urged the U.S. president “not
to show up” at a Group of Eight summit in Italy in July 2009
without an agreement in hand.  Obama arrived in L’Aquila after visiting Moscow “holding
up the treaty signed between him” and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  