-- Berlin’s Low Rents, Hip Scene Draw Newcomers to Stoke Economy
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/berlin-s-low-rents-hip-scene-draw-newcomers-to-revive-ravaged-economy.html
Stroll down bohemian Kastanienallee
in the Berlin district known as Prenzlauer Berg, just east of
where the Wall once sliced the city in two, and you’ll hear
lively conversation gusting from the cafes in German, Spanish,
English, and French. More than one in four of the residents here
are foreign-born or the children of immigrants. Tourists and
students add to the mix.  The tenement blocks behind the shady chestnut trees that
give the street its name date from 1900; many buildings have
reconstructed stucco ornament, while others have loft extensions
with glass-wall penthouses and roof gardens. Number 86 is a
refugee from the past, its peeling facade emblazoned with metal
letters that warn: capitalism destroys, kills, standardizes.  Not on Kastanienallee, it doesn’t. Capitalism here is a
low-key web of artist supply shops, stores selling second-hand
clothes and books, design studios, bars and a used record store
offering old LPs for 5 euros apiece ($6.80) in plastic crates on
the uneven sidewalk.  Hinting at the district’s global reach is a brand new
Bentley parked outside the funky, 32-seat Lichtblick movie
theater, where ouzo and olives are served at screenings of a
popular Greek comedy. Thanks to low rents, a vibrant scene and
an easy pace of life, neighborhoods like Prenzlauer Berg have
attracted tens of thousands of newcomers.  Berlin is a great place to be an artist, and there is no
need to starve. It is not so obviously a great place to be a
global business.  Younger Berlin  There are relatively few of those to be found in the city.
A demographic tide has reshaped Berlin in the past two decades:
1.6 million people moving out and about the same number moving
in, leaving the city younger and far more diverse, with 150,000
fewer Germans and 180,000 more non-Germans, according to a
report by the research company  Prognos AG .  One hoped-for citizen never showed up: German corporate
giants such as  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Siemens AG , and  Allianz AG , who
made prewar Berlin their home and left after 1945. Most of the
Siemens factories and offices had been bombed to rubble.
Concerned that Berlin risked falling under Soviet control,
managers relocated the headquarters in 1949 to Munich and
Erlangen. Siemens still employs 12,000 in the capital making
turbines, railroad signals and ship engines.  Cold-War Ruins  Allianz moved to Munich and Stuttgart, while Deutsche Bank
set up its new postwar headquarters in Frankfurt. What little
industry remained in Cold War-era Berlin disintegrated after
1990. East Berlin manufacturers couldn’t survive global
competition. West Berlin industry, kept afloat by western
subsidies, crumbled when the handouts disappeared.  “Everything collapsed at once,” says Jan Eder, executive
director of the Berlin branch of the  German Chambers of
Commerce . “We lost 100,000 jobs. This is our historic legacy.
It has had to be slowly rebuilt, and will take at least another
generation.”  Berlin’s unemployment rate in August was 13.7 percent,
better than the 19 percent rate it suffered in 2005, yet still
the highest of all the German states. With an average annual
wage of 23,467 euros in 2009, Berliners  earn  less than the
national average and about half as much as the people of
Hamburg.  “We’ve been disappointed at least twice,” says Karlheinz
Steinmueller, a physicist and science-fiction author who lives
in Berlin. “Right after the wall came down, there were hopes of
a market-economy big bang. Then there were hopes that the
government’s move from Bonn in 1999 would bring all the big
companies back -- that didn’t happen, either.”  DAX Company Exit  The city’s population today is still 1 million short of its
prewar peak of 4.4 million. Not one company listed on the
 benchmark DAX 30 index  has its head office in Berlin. The last
to go was drugmaker Schering AG, acquired by Leverkusen-based
 Bayer AG  in 2006. “None of them are going to come back,” says
Eder. “And we are not going to persuade Daimler to move its
main production here. The only way we’ll get a DAX company
headquartered in Berlin is by developing one here.”  Berlin has tried to make the most of what it has: media,
culture and the arts, some high tech. Creative industries such
as publishing, film, and software have taken root in spruced-up
warehouses and factory lofts. In 2006, for the first time,
Berlin publishers produced more titles than any other city in
Germany. Between 2002 and 2008, according to a study by
 Investitionsbank Berlin , more companies were founded in Berlin
in biotech, telecom, media, optics and energy than in Hamburg,
Frankfurt, Munich or Cologne.  ‘Poor But Sexy’  The number of design companies has increased 47 percent
since 2000, to 2,400. Berlin’s regional economy expanded by an
average of 1.75 percent a year from 2004 to 2009, faster than
any of Germany’s other 15 states, according to the DIW economic
institute. Along the way, the city’s bohemian reputation --
“poor but sexy,” in Mayor  Klaus Wowereit ’s much-used
catchphrase -- stoked a tourism boom. The number of overnight
stays doubled in 10 years to 18.9 million in 2009. Berlin has
overtaken Rome as the third-most visited tourist destination in
Europe after London and Paris.  For companies like Iconmobile GmbH, a maker of mobile
telecom devices and content, Berlin’s reputation is a major
boon. In part, it was the music scene and nightlife that
attracted company co-founder  Thomas Fellger  to Berlin from Japan
in 1999; it is now what helps him retain the loyalty of his
coveted employees. With such clients as  Audi AG , the British
Broadcasting Corp.,  France Telecom SA , and China Mobile,
Iconmobile employs 90 people in a converted brewery in Berlin’s
Kreuzberg district, and 80 more in Beijing, Los Angeles, Paris,
London and Sydney.  City Appeal  It may not be ready for the DAX, but Iconmobile is a global
company, Berlin-style. The city, says Fellger, is central to his
company’s success. “Berlin is very appealing,” he explains.
“We’d have a problem enticing people to Frankfurt or Dusseldorf
at the same cost.”  Yet there are still too few jobs in Berlin to go around,
and political leaders question whether a great vibe and value-
for-money are enough to fuel sustainable economic growth.
Wowereit has focused the municipal government’s scarce resources
on education, science and culture, including high-profile events
such as the Popkomm music festival,  Artforum Berlin  and the
 Berlin Film Festival .  “There has been an erroneous belief that we can flourish
just with creative industries and services,” Eder says.  Cranking Up Industry  In September, in response to such criticism, Wowereit
launched a  new initiative  called “Ich bin ein Berliner” --
appropriating the famous  John F. Kennedy  line -- to encourage
“future industries.” Projects include developing Tegel
airport, due to close in 2012, into an industrial park.  Eder approves. “We are now correcting the error and have
convinced the mayor we need industry,” he says. Some concrete
things have been decided and we’re happy, it’s a big
improvement.”  Daimler introduced an “e-mobility Berlin” project at the
end of last year, deploying more than 100 electric Smart cars
for public use and charging them at power points installed
around the city by  RWE AG . In March, Daimler announced it will
invest 40 million euros in its 108-year-old Berlin plant to
build electric engines for hybrid cars.  The world’s second-biggest luxury carmaker was also among
the exhibitors at a new business fair, Clean Tech World, at the
former Tempelhof airport in September. Visitors could test
electric motorbikes and cars that run on fuel cells, view the
latest in green buildings and sustainable fashion, and learn how
solar energy is produced from the dyes of hibiscus-blossom tea.  Green and Clean  Clean-tech industries employ 42,000 Berliners; every second
solar panel made in Germany comes from the city or the
surrounding region of Brandenburg. Companies that commit to the
region can obtain subsidies worth up to 50 percent of their
investment.  Inventux Technologies AG , founded in 2007, is one of the
stars touted by the mayor in his new campaign. The maker of
thin-film solar panels has its factory in the new  Clean Tech
Business Park  in Marzahn, on the eastern edge of Berlin, an
industrial site set up with funding from the Berlin regional
government. It expects sales of 70 million euros this year,
compared with 20 million in 2007, said Volko Loewenstein, the
company’s chief executive.  “Berlin has four technical universities -- that is
fantastic,” he said. “There is nowhere else in Germany that
can offer us the same level of research in our field. A critical
mass of companies and scientists dealing with the subject has
built up here.”  Inventux also employs many foreign scientists, including
Austrians, Americans, French and Swedish, Loewenstein said.  “Berlin has a good reputation with young people
internationally as a city that has everything you could want
culturally, but isn’t expensive,” he said. “The lifestyle is
unique. It’s not like Munich or Hamburg -- it’s unconventional
and crazy.”  ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 