-- Best Emerging-Market Bonds Spurred by Record Reserves: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-09-30T21:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/best-emerging-market-bonds-spurred-by-record-reserves-argentina-credit.html
Argentine bonds beat all emerging
market debt this month as rising exports pushed international
reserves to a record and a credit rating increase bolstered
confidence in South America’s second-biggest economy.  Argentine dollar bonds returned 8.5 percent on average this
month, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes.
Venezuelan debt posted the next-best performance, returning 4.4
percent, while Ukrainian bonds lost 0.4 percent.  The combination of the highest emerging-market yields after
Venezuela and Ecuador and the fastest economic growth in almost
two decades is luring investors to Argentine debt. Exports rose
47 percent in August to $6.4 billion after a record 55-million
metric ton soybean harvest, helping push central bank  reserves 
to $51.3 billion on Sept. 23. The central bank forecasts the
economy may grow as much as 9.5 percent this year, the most
since 1992.  “When you look at capacity and willingness to pay, there
is no doubt that investors have to look at Argentina,” said
 Paolo Valle , who co-manages more than $1 billion of emerging-
market assets including Argentine bonds with Federated Investors
in Pittsburg. “There’s higher headline risk and higher
volatility, but you’re getting paid to own it.”  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  tapped $5 billion
of reserves to pay debt this year and is seeking another $7.5
billion for 2011, according to her Sept. 16 budget proposal.  Standard & Poor’s raised the country’s credit rating one
level to “B,” five levels below investment grade, on Sept. 13,
citing the economy’s “strong” performance. The move followed
Argentina’s $12.2 billion restructuring of defaulted bonds in
June, the second since a 2001 financial crisis.  ‘More Flexibility’  Argentina’s debt-to-gross domestic product ratio fell to 48
percent as of June 30 from as high as 166 percent in 2002,
Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  told lawmakers in Buenos
Aires yesterday. As much as 45 percent of the country’s debt is
held by government agencies, with only a third of maturities
coming due in the next three years held by private creditors,
S&P said in its ratings report.  “That gives them much more flexibility to pay,” Valle
said in a telephone interview yesterday. Federated has an
“overweight” position in Argentine debt and didn’t add to its
holdings in September, he said.  Argentina is benefiting from a “hunt for yields,” said
 Jeremy Brewin , who manages $2.3 billion of emerging-markets
assets including Argentine debt. Argentine dollar bonds yielded
677 basis points, or 6.8 percentage points, more than similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries as of 4:21 p.m. New York time, the
highest after Ecuador, at 1036 basis points, and Venezuela, at
1164, among nations tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  Argentina is outperforming because there has been “less
stress than had been anticipated at the beginning of the year,”
Brewin said.  Falling Yields  The yield on Argentina’s 7 percent dollar bonds due in 2015
tumbled 108 basis points this month to 10.12 percent. The yield
on Ukraine’s 6.58 percent dollar bonds due in 2016 rose 22 basis
points to 6.98 percent over the same period, while the yield on
Venezuela’s 2027 notes fell 17 basis points to 13.5 percent.  The  extra yield investors  demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 83 basis points this month to
677 today, according to JPMorgan. Argentina’s yield spread is
about 150 points higher than Ukraine and almost 500 points above
neighboring Brazil.  The peso fell for a ninth-straight month, dropping 0.3
percent in September to 3.9595 per dollar. The currency closed
at 3.9725 per dollar on Sept. 28, its weakest level since its
inception in 1992. Warrants linked to growth in South America’s
second-biggest economy fell 0.01 cent today to 11.85 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tapping Markets  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt fell
12 basis points yesterday to 738. The swaps dropped 210 points
during September, the biggest decline among government debt
worldwide. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to debt
agreements.  “The use of  reserves  to pay debt along with the debt
restructuring has substantially cut the bond yields, leading
private and public actors who weren’t able to tap credit markets
to access them,” Lorenzino said during congressional testimony
yesterday.  Argentina’s bond rally may have peaked as recent gains
prompt investors to look to other emerging economies, said  Igor Arsenin , head of Latin America strategy with Credit Suisse Group
AG in New York.  ‘More Confident’  “Now that everyone is more confident that emerging market
assets will perform well moving forward people will look at some
of the underperformers,” Arsenin said.  The provinces of Buenos Aires and Cordoba have taken
advantage of falling borrowing costs to sell bonds abroad.
Buenos Aires sold $550 million of five-year notes this week to
yield 12 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
budget calls for a total of $1.1 billion in international bond
sales this year. Cordoba sold $400 million of seven-year dollar
bonds last month to yield 12.375 percent.  Grupo Supervielle SA, which owns Argentina’s Banco
Supervielle SA and Banco Regional de Cuyo SA, is preparing the
sale of 200 million pesos in local bonds, the banks’ President
 Juan Carlos Nougues  said in an interview on Sept. 28.
Shareholders of Aeropuertos Argentinas 2000 SA, the country’s
main airport operator, approved plans this month to sell as much
as $300 million in bonds.  Federated’s Valle and Aviva’s Brewin said they expect
Argentine debt to outperform through the end of this year.  “The best performance on most of the emerging market debt
happens as a result of step by step improvements,” Brewin said.
“And that’s basically what’s been happening in Argentina.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  