-- BHP Billiton Says It Expects a Shift to Iron Ore Pricing on Monthly Basis
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-09-30T15:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/bhp-says-shorter-term-iron-ore-pricing-better-reflects-market.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
biggest mining company, said it expects a shift toward monthly
pricing agreements for iron ore which better reflect the market
and the needs of producers and consumers.  “We expect there will be continued progress toward shorter
term monthly pricing,”  Mike Henry , president of marketing at
the Melbourne-based company, said today at a Steel Business
Briefing conference in London. Shorter term pricing “will
ultimately be the truest reflection of underlying supply and
demand fundamentals,” he said. Iron ore is used to make steel.  Vale SA ,  Rio Tinto Plc  and BHP, the three biggest exporters
of iron ore, this year abandoned a 40-year custom of setting
prices annually in favor of quarterly contracts. A further shift
to monthly contracts by BHP contrasts with comments from rivals
at Brazil’s Vale and London-based Rio this week.  “BHP has been at the forefront of these changes,”  Ian Roper , a commodities strategist at CLSA Ltd. in Shanghai, said
in an interview today in London. While steel mills “don’t like
volatility” they can cope when prices for raw materials and
steel “move in unity,” he said.  Mining companies and steelmakers should seek a better
pricing system,  Shan Shanghua , general secretary of the China
Iron and Steel Association, said on Sept. 28. Pricing iron ore
based on indexes doesn’t accurately reflect the Chinese market,
he said. China is the world’s biggest buyer of iron ore.  Defaulting on Contracts  The association is in talks with producers to price
contracts on a monthly basis, China Minmetals Corp., the
nation’s biggest metals trader, said this month. Such a move
would increase the chances of Chinese steelmakers defaulting on
contracts, Minmetals’ Vice President  Feng Guiquan  said Sept. 6.  Quarterly pricing is based on an average spot index price
for three months. Contract prices are set to fall 11 percent to
$129 a metric ton in the quarter starting on Oct. 1 from the
previous three months, said Hu Kai, an analyst at UC361.com,
citing Platts index prices. The  price  rose 0.2 percent to
$141.10 a ton today, according to the Steel Index.  “Pricing against liquid spot indexes will ultimately
mitigate the risk of contract non-performance in times where
spot prices move significantly above or significantly below
contract prices,” BHP’s Henry said today.  ‘System Isn’t Perfect’  Rio Tinto this week said it doesn’t plan to price sales
monthly and Vale’s  Jose Carlos Martins , executive director of
sales, said yesterday the company doesn’t expect “big changes”
to the way ore is priced.  “The system is not perfect, but it’s working,” Vale’s  Martins  said in Dalian. “Customers are fulfilling their
contracts. It seems the price is good because otherwise the
customers would go to spot.”  Rio will give the new quarterly pricing mechanism a
“chance to operate” this fiscal year, Warwick Smith, managing
director of sales and marketing at the company’s iron ore
business, said on Sept. 28. The company will continue talks with
customers in Japan, Korea and China on further evolution in
pricing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  