-- BHP Billiton, Boss, Galaxy Resources, iSOFT: Australian Stocks Preview
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-09-30T22:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/bhp-billiton-boss-galaxy-resources-isoft-australian-stocks-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This preview
includes news announced after markets closed yesterday. All
prices are from yesterday’s close unless otherwise stated.  The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in December
gained 0.2 percent to 4,611 as of 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The  Bank
of New York Australia ADR Index  retreated 0.9 percent. The
 S&P/ASX 200 Index  slipped 1.3 percent to 4,582.90.  Mining shares: A measure of primary metals traded in  London 
dropped 0.4 percent yesterday after the dollar rebounded,
eroding demand for commodities as alternative investments.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  (BHP AU), the world’s largest mining
company, declined 1.2 percent to A$38.91 in Sydney. Its American
depositary receipts fell 0.3 percent in New York trading.  BHP expects a shift toward monthly pricing agreements for
iron ore,  Mike Henry , president of marketing, said in an
interview at a Steel Business Briefing conference in London.  Rio Tinto Group  (RIO AU), the world’s third-biggest miner,
fell 0.6 percent to A$76.77 in Sydney.  Oil companies: Oil for November delivery gained 2.7 percent
to settle at $79.97 a barrel in New York yesterday after U.S.
second-quarter gross domestic product and weekly jobless claims
beat economists’ estimates  Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  (WPL AU), Australia’s second-
biggest oil and gas producer, slipped 1.3 percent to A$43.88.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  (ANZ AU): The
lender has joined ten others as part of the debt group for QR
National ahead of its planned initial share sale, the Australian
Financial Review said in its Street Talk column, without saying
where it got the information. ANZ shares dropped 1.9 percent to
A$23.68.       Boss Energy Ltd.  (BOE AU): The oil and gas explorer halted
trading in its shares pending an announcement relating to a
capital raising and proposed acquisition, it said in a statement.
The stock jumped 50 percent to 4.2 Australian cents.       Galaxy Resources Ltd.  (GXY AU): The company, which is
building a lithium project in Australia and China, requested
suspension of quotation of its shares pending an announcement
relating to its Mt Cattlin project and future financing
arrangements, it said in a statement. Galaxy’s shares surged 11
percent to A$1.44 on Sept. 29 when they last traded.       iSOFT Group Ltd.  (ISF AU): The health information software
developer was downgraded to “sell” from “hold” at Deutsche
Bank AG. Its shares slumped 3.9 percent to 12.5 Australian cents.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 