-- Blackstone's Schwarzman Turns to Brazil in Quest for Fast-Growing Markets
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-30T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/blackstone-s-schwarzman-turns-to-brazil-in-quest-for-fast-growing-markets.html
Blackstone Group LP , the world’s
biggest buyout firm, is investing in Brazil as it seeks higher
returns in emerging markets that are expanding faster than the
U.S. or Europe, said chairman and co-founder  Stephen Schwarzman .  “Latin America is a strong economic area,” Schwarzman
told reporters yesterday in Sao Paulo. “Terrific days for
Brazil are ahead.”  Blackstone yesterday agreed to buy 40 percent of Patria
Investimentos, a Sao Paulo-based private-equity and asset-
management firm. Blackstone, based in New York, will pay $200
million in cash and  stock  for the stake, said a person briefed
on the deal, who asked not to be identified because the price
and other details haven’t been made public. Schwarzman didn’t
give details of the transaction.  Buyout companies are boosting their presence in emerging
markets as dealmaking struggles to recover from the global
financial crisis. Developing nations accounted for 16 percent of
the industry’s investments in the first half of 2010, up from 12
percent in 2005, according to a report from the  Emerging Markets
Private Equity Association .  Buyout firms worldwide have announced $69.7 billion of
acquisitions this year, compared with $446 billion during the
same period in 2007, the height of the leveraged buyout boom.  Schwarzman said he regrets not having invested earlier in
Brazil, which will grow 7.5 percent this year, according to the
median forecast of about 100 economists in a Sept. 24 central
bank survey.  “It would have been much better doing this five years
ago,” Schwarzman said.  Carlyle Group  Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private-equity
company, has also stepped up investments in Brazil. Carlyle,
based in Washington, agreed in July to buy a controlling stake
in Brazilian health-care company Grupo Qualicorp in a
transaction valued at $1.2 billion.  Blackstone will provide Patria additional funds beyond its
initial investment, Schwarzman said.  Patria may make acquisitions of $1 billion or more in
infrastructure, education, health care, agribusiness, financial
services and real estate, said  Otavio Castello Branco , a partner
at Patria. The firm may also seek opportunities elsewhere in
Latin America, Castello Branco told reporters.  Blackstone has dropped more than 60 percent since selling
shares to the public in June 2007. The stock rose 38 cents to
close at $12.37 in New York yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  