-- Blackstone’s James Says Capital Harder to Raise
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-09-30T17:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/blackstone-s-james-says-capital-hard-to-raise-for-dealmaking-opportunities.html
  Tony James , president of  Blackstone
Group LP , said there isn’t enough capital available from
investors to fund all the opportunities he sees in the market.  “In 2005 and 2006, if you put it out well, you could raise
as much as you could invest,” James, 59, said today at the
Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York. “That’s no longer the
case.”  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm, has
raised $13.5 billion for its sixth buyout fund, 40 percent less
than it gathered for its previous pool. In the past year, the
company has sold $1 billion of debt to fund acquisitions and
hire teams to diversify to offset a decline in buyouts. Its
largest unit runs fund of  hedge funds  and credit investing, with
$52.4 billion of assets.  “The economics are not going to be attractive for a few
years,” James said.  Private-equity funds raised $57 billion in the third
quarter, 16 percent more than in the previous quarter, when
commitments fell to a six-year low, according to researcher
Preqin Ltd.  Funds focused on the U.S. raised the most in the third
quarter, with 37 firms gathering $41.1 billion, London-based
Preqin said today in a  statement . Leveraged-buyout firms,
including Blackstone, raised the most capital.  Patria Stake  Blackstone agreed yesterday to pay $200 million in cash and
stock for a 40 percent stake in Patria Investimentos, a
Brazilian private-equity and asset-management firm, to expand in
Latin America. It is backing a new hedge-fund firm run by George
“Beau” Taylor, the former head of commodities propriety
trading at Credit Suisse Group AG, with $150 million, two people
with knowledge of the plan said last week.  Leveraged buyouts are recovering after the financial crisis
froze lending in mid-2007, with firms pursuing smaller
acquisitions that require less debt. Takeovers involving
private-equity firms more than tripled in the third quarter to
$59 billion from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Private-equity firms pool investor money to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  Blackstone was formed in 1985 by Stephen Schwarzman and  Peter G. Peterson , former U.S. secretary of commerce and
chairman of Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  