-- BOE's Fisher Says U.K. Bank Lending May Take `Some Years' to Recover Again
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-09-30T09:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/boe-s-fisher-says-u-k-bank-lending-may-take-some-years-to-recover-again.html
Bank of England policy maker  Paul Fisher  said the supply of lending may take “some years” to
recover and the cost of borrowing is likely to be higher than
before the financial crisis.  “Despite various forms of support from the Bank of England
and from government, it is clear that the lending capacity of
the banking system, in the U.K. and elsewhere, is impaired and
will take some years yet to recover,”  Fisher  said in a speech
in London today. “The supply of bank lending to businesses
during the recovery is likely to be more expensive than it was
pre-crisis and possibly constrained in quantity.”  Fisher also said that a central bank “should not allow its
liquidity operations” to become “a source of sustained funding
for banks.” The Bank of England’s Special Liquidity Scheme is
due to expire in January 2012 and won’t be extended or replaced.  “Suppose the scheme were to be rolled on indefinitely,”
he said. “What was intended and designed as system-wide central
bank liquidity support would become instead a fiscal operation.
We would be using government debt to subsidize a group of
private sector firms, with the public purse being at risk.”  While the central bank plans to extend the range of
eligible collateral it will accept in its discount window
facility to portfolios of loans to individuals, Fisher said
today that it would be “inappropriate” to include leveraged
loans “given the higher risk associated with them.”  “As these schemes come to an end, the challenge for the
banks is not so much the sourcing of an additional quantity of
funding,” Fisher said. “It is to roll over that existing
market funding into different funding instruments.”  Challenge  The policy maker said the level of loans due for repayment
in the next few years is a “particular challenge” for smaller
companies and that non-banks may have a “key role” to play.  He also said that the bank’s bond-purchase plan has helped
ease credit strains in the economy by encouraging investors to
buy higher-risk assets.  “The asset purchase program, although focused on buying
gilts, was intended to support the liquidity of all private-
sector securities by forcing would-be gilt holders to purchase
more risky assets, rather than by direct central bank purchases
of those assets,” he said. “There is plenty of evidence to
suggest that was indeed the outcome and most private sector
markets have recovered to some degree.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fergal O’Brien  at  fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  