-- Boeing Delays 747-8 Another Six Months to Mid 2011
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-09-30T15:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/boeing-delays-747-8-model-another-six-months-amid-engineering-challenges.html
Boeing Co.  extended a yearlong
delivery delay for its newest 747 jet by six months as engineers
redesign some parts and said it will add a fifth plane to the
test fleet to speed up the work.  The postponement to mid-2011 shouldn’t have a material
impact on Boeing’s 2010  earnings , the Chicago-based company said
in a statement today. Boeing has taken $2.04 billion in charges
amid three prior delays that had pushed back the latest delivery
date of the freighter version -- due before the passenger model
-- to the end of this year.  The fifth variant of the 40-year-old jumbo jet stretches
the iconic hump on top and features new engines and the longest
wing Boeing has ever built. The new design forced engineers to
make more changes than the company expected. While  analysts 
surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted additional charges, higher
 profit  from existing jets helped Boeing make up for added
expenses for the 747, Gleacher & Co.’s  Peter Arment  said.  “It’s a plane they’re very familiar with on the
manufacturing front, so they’re very comfortable with their
costs despite the delay,” said Arment, an  analyst  based in
Greenwich, Connecticut. “We’re seeing the benefit of the mature
programs continuing to more than offset the additional costs
they’re incurring.”  Analysts’ Projections  The new timeline matches what analysts had predicted, based
on the average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Eight
analysts had projected an average financial charge of about $360
million. Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  has warned since
July that the 747-8’s schedule was at risk.  Boeing rose 64 cents to $66.61 at 11:47 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading , after touching $67.97 for the
highest intraday price since Aug. 10. The shares had climbed 22
percent this year before today.  Engineers are working on dozens of issues discovered since
the 747-8’s maiden flight in February, Boeing Commercial
Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  said in an interview this week.  Some problems, such as buffeting around the wheel well on
landings, have been resolved, while others are “addressable”
and need more time, he said.  Engineers are testing software this week to correct
unwanted oscillation, or vibration, during flight. They’re also
redesigning the inboard aileron actuator, a system on the wings
that helps the plane turn, after it moved up and down
unexpectedly on one of the jets during testing.  Test Flights  Boeing has four freighters doing test flights from a base
in Palmdale, California, because the 787 Dreamliner -- delayed
by almost three years -- is using the Boeing Field testing
center in Seattle. The test fleet was originally only supposed
to have three jets. While Boeing had said that the 747-8’s
initial woes were due to the Dreamliner siphoning away
resources, Albaugh said the team is getting what it needs.  The first 747 rolled out of Boeing’s Everett, Washington,
factory  42 years ago today . It was the world’s largest airliner
until the Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo, which carries more than
500 passengers, entered service in 2007.  In November 2005, Cargolux Airlines International SA placed
the first order for the $303 million 747-8 freighter, which has
16 percent more room for cargo.  The $300 million passenger version, called the
Intercontinental, holds 51 extra seats, for a total of 467, and
is scheduled to enter service with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  at the
end of 2011, a year later than planned. That target remains
unchanged, Marc Birtel, a Boeing spokesman, said today.  12th Freighter  The company is working on its 12th freighter in the wide-
body factory in Everett, Washington and has begun building two
Intercontinentals. The building, the world’s biggest by volume,
was constructed specifically for the 747 in 1967.  Boeing spreads its costs to develop new planes over an
initial pool of aircraft it expects to sell. If the anticipated
expenses exceed the expected  revenue , then the program is in
what’s called a reach-forward loss position. Costs above revenue
then have to be accounted for immediately even though they may
not be incurred for some time. The 747-8 is only the second
plane in Boeing’s 94-year history to have that accounting
status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ; 