-- Bovespa Stock Index Posts Biggest Quarterly Gain in Year on Growth Outlook
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-30T20:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/bovespa-futures-fluctuate-as-europe-debt-concern-offsets-economic-growth.html
Brazil’s Bovespa  stock  index
advanced, capping the biggest quarterly advance in a year, on
speculation quickening economic growth won’t trigger inflation.  Retailer  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar  rose for the first time in eight sessions after the
central bank cut its inflation forecast and maintained its
prediction for economic growth.  Cia. de Concessoes Rodoviarias ,
Brazil’s biggest toll-road operator, climbed to the highest
price since January.  Banco Santander Brasil SA , the Brazilian
unit of Spain’s biggest bank, jumped the most in two months on
speculation a $1.4 billion stake sale has ended.  “Growth seems strong, consumer demand seems very high,”
said  Nicholas Field , an emerging-market money manager in London
at Schroders Plc, which oversees $255 billion. “The central
bank’s decided to pause for the moment. Everything seems to be
rolling along pretty nicely.”  The  Bovespa  increased 0.3 percent to 69,429.78 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo at 4 p.m. New York time, for a monthly
gain of 6.6 percent, the largest since July. Forty-one stocks
rose on the measure while 24 fell. The real strengthened 0.7
percent to 1.6891 per dollar.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has surged 14 percent since
June 30, the biggest advance since the quarter ended September
2009, as policy makers stopped raising borrowing costs. The
central bank held the benchmark Selic at 10.75 percent on Sept.
1 after increasing the rate by 200 basis points in its three
previous meetings.  Lower Rates  Policy makers today cut Brazil’s 2011 inflation forecast to
4.6 percent from a previous prediction of 5 percent in June,
according to the quarterly inflation report released today on
the central bank’s website. That’s closer to its target of 4.5
percent and signals a “dovish” monetary policy as concern
about a slowdown in the world economy persists, Bank of America
Corp. said. The central bank forecast Brazil’s gross domestic
product will expand 7.3 percent this year.  “The risk of lower rates next year dominates that of
further tightening, as uncertainties around global growth
increase,” Bank of America economists including  Virgilio Castro Cunha  wrote in a note to clients today. “Recent activity
figures suggest that domestic growth has slowed.”  The Bovespa fluctuated earlier today, losing as much as 0.4
percent amid renewed concern over Europe’s government debt
crisis.  ‘Weak’ Outlook  Ireland is preparing to take majority control of Allied
Irish Banks Plc and pump extra cash into Anglo Irish Bank Corp.,
raising the cost of repairing the financial system to as much as
50 billion euros ($68 billion). Ireland’s deteriorating finances
fueled investor concerns that it would become the first
government after Greece to tap the 750 billion-euro rescue fund
set up by the European Union and International Monetary fund to
stanch the debt crisis.  Spain’s top credit rating was cut one level by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited a “weak” economic outlook and
doubts that the nation will reach deficit-reduction targets.  “The key thing hanging over the market is global growth,”
said Field.  Brazilian bonds are posting their longest streak of monthly
gains since President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva was elected in
October 2002, as investors bet his successor will preserve
policies that are fueling the fastest economic expansion in two
decades.  Dilma Rousseff , Lula’s chosen heir and the leader in
polls ahead of the Oct. 3 vote, is pledging to maintain fiscal
policies that are helping spur growth of more than 7 percent in
Latin America’s largest economy.  Stake Sale  Pao de Acucar increased 2 percent to 58.35 reais while
toll-road operator CCR advanced 2.8 percent to 43.65 reais.  Santander gained 3.9 percent to 22.80 reais. The stock
slumped 1.6 percent this month through yesterday after Banco
Madesant - Sociedade Unipessoal SA and Santander Insurance
Holding SL said in an Aug. 16 filing that they would sell as
many as 104.3 million American depositary shares “from time to
time.” The stake sale may be over now, said  Kelly Trentin , head
of research at Spinelli Corretora in Sao Paulo.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 12.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, compared with 12.7 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.6 times
for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.1 times the reported profits
of its companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  