-- BP Asks Judges to Send Workers’ Savings Cases to Texas
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   T i m o t h y   M a d d u x
-- 2010-09-30T17:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/bp-asks-judges-to-send-worker-cases-on-savings-plan-losses-to-texas-court.html
Lawsuits by workers claiming BP
Plc’s North American unit mismanaged their retirement savings
plan should be sent to the Texas court already handling investor
claims prompted by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, company lawyers
told a panel of judges.  The employees previously asked that the suits be combined
in Chicago, where the retirement plan is administered. BP today
told a panel of federal judges meeting in Nashville, Tennessee,
that the cases belong in Houston because the claims are similar
to those in other investor suits.  “The important thing to focus on here is the vast overlap
in discovery,” or evidence-gathering,  Daryl Libow , BP’s
attorney, told the judges. “Five of the seven members of the
employee plan oversight committee are in Houston.”  In the suits, filed as class actions on behalf of all U.S.
employees participating in the company’s retirement savings
plan, workers claim losses of more than $1 billion from the
stock plunge after the April 20 spill. BP’s pre-spill safety
record made the company a risky investment, the employees say.  The actions should stay in Chicago, where seven of the
eight suits were filed, lawyers for the workers said in court
papers. The cases were brought under the federal Employee
Retirement Income Security Act, or  ERISA .  “The key legal issue in the ERISA actions is whether the
company stock was a prudent investment for the plan during the
class period,” the workers’ lawyers said in court papers filed
Aug. 27. “This is not an issue in the securities actions.”  400 Cases  BP is facing more than 400 lawsuits over the largest
offshore oil spill in U.S. history, set off by the April 20
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico.  Claims by fisherman, restaurants, real estate interests,
governments and others for economic loss have been combined with
personal injury and wrongful-death suits for pretrial treatment
in a multidistrict litigation in federal court in New Orleans
before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier .  The panel, meeting today at the Vanderbilt University Law
School, in August consolidated lawsuits over claims that the
company misled investors before and after the spill.  Those cases were sent Judge  Keith P. Ellison  in Houston.
The panel told the workers’ lawyers last month to show why their
cases shouldn’t also go there.  Lawyers for the employees said today the cases could be
combined before U.S. District Judge  Rebecca Pallmeyer  in
Chicago, who is already handling the lawsuits filed there.  Employees’ Lawyer  “Judge Pallmeyer has great expertise in the ERISA area,”
workers’ attorney Ronald Kravitz told the panel.  “We do have two world-class judges here to choose from,”
said panel member  W. Royal Furgeson Jr.   The employees claim that BP Corp. North America Inc. and
members of the savings plan committee breached their fiduciary
duty to the investors in the BP stock fund.  “Defendants knew or should have known that investment in
the BP stock fund was an imprudent investment for the
participants due to BP’s longstanding and blatant disregard of
safety reports, warnings, and recommendations necessary to
prevent catastrophic disasters,” lawyers for investor David M.
Humphries said July 9 in court papers.  The plan administrators also knew or should have known that
BP’s statements about its commitment to safety and the
environment “were untrue and misleading,” Humphries’ lawyers
said.  Judicial Panel  The seven-judge multidistrict litigation  panel , created in
1968, meets periodically around the U.S. to decide whether
lawsuits in different federal districts have common factual
questions that can be decided once and applied to all cases.  The process is designed to streamline the exchange of
evidence and avoid duplication. Once pretrial proceedings are
completed, the individual cases are sent back for trial in the
courts where they were first filed.  The judges didn’t say when they will rule. They typically
decide two to three weeks after a hearing.  The lawsuits are In Re: BP Plc Securities Litigation, MDL
No. 2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston), and In Re: BP Securities, Derivative and Employment
Retirement Income Security (ERISA) Litigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Maddux in Nashville, Tennessee,
at   timothydmaddux@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 