-- BP to Pay Record $15 Million Fine for Violations at Texas City Refinery
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-09-30T19:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/bp-north-america-unit-to-pay-15-million-in-largest-single-facility-fine.html
A  BP Plc  unit will pay $15 million,
the largest-ever Clean Air Act penalty on a single facility, to
resolve claims stemming from two fires and a leak at a Texas
refinery that killed 15 people, the Justice Department said.  Residents near the refinery in Texas City, Texas, were
ordered to take shelter as a result of the incidents at the BP
Products North America Inc. facility in 2004 and 2005, the
government said today in a statement. The accidents released
thousands of pounds of flammable and toxic pollutants, it said.  The settlement resolves allegations that  London-based BP 
failed to identify all regulated hazardous air pollutants used
at the refinery in plans submitted to environmental agencies,
according to the statement. The penalty is the largest ever
assessed for civil violations of chemical-accident rules under
the Clean Air Act, the Justice Department said.  “BP’s actions at the Texas City refinery have had terrible
consequences for the people who work there and for those in
nearby communities,” said  Cynthia Giles , assistant
administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office
of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance.  The Clean Air Act violations were revealed by a series of
inspections of the refinery following a separate March 2005
explosion that killed 15 people and injured more than 170. The
EPA had identified other violations settled in a February 1990
accord where the company agreed to pay a $12 million penalty and
spend more than $161 million on pollution controls and improved
management.  Residents of Texas City, located near Galveston, were
ordered to stay indoors during the three incidents, as thousands
of pounds of flammable and toxic air pollutants were released.  The accord is subject to a federal judge’s approval.  Daren Beaudo , a BP spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 