-- BP Rises as Dudley Says Dividend Payments May Resume in 2011 First Quarter
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-09-30T17:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/bp-rises-to-seven-week-high-as-dudley-says-dividend-may-resume.html
BP Plc  rose to its highest price in
more than seven weeks after  Robert Dudley , who becomes chief
executive officer tomorrow, said the company will consider
paying a dividend in the first quarter of next year.  BP  advanced 1.6 percent to 427.8 pence in London trading
today, the stock’s highest closing price since Aug. 9. The
shares are still down 35 percent since April 20, when an
explosion at a BP well in the Gulf of Mexico killed 11 workers
and started the worst U.S. oil spill in history.  Dudley pledged yesterday to rebuild trust after the
accident, which may result in the company becoming barred from
U.S. licenses.  BP suspended its dividend  for the first three
quarters to help pay for the spill, for which it set aside $32
billion in its second quarter results.  “The board will get together and talk before the end of
the year about restoring a dividend in some form in the first
quarter,” Dudley said in an  interview  with the British
Broadcasting Corp. posted on its website. “It’s obviously for
the board to decide, but from what I see happening in the
performances of the businesses, I believe we will get there.”  BP yesterday announced a reorganization of the exploration
and production division of the company, ousting its chief  Andy Inglis , and creating a new safety unit that it said will have
“sweeping powers” to intervene in operations if it finds them
to be dangers.  John Browne, BP’s CEO from 1995 to 2007, said that Dudley
is “just the right person to do the job” after  Tony Hayward ,
Browne’s successor, stepped aside in the wake of the spill.  “He has plenty of strengths,” Browne told reporters in
Lisbon today. “I wish him the very best of luck.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
 Joao Lima  at   jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  