-- Brazil's Central Bank Signals Benchmark Rate Pause on Lower CPI Forecast
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-09-30T16:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/brazil-s-central-bank-signals-benchmark-rate-pause-on-lower-cpi-forecast.html
Brazil’s central bank cut its 2011
inflation  forecast  to a level closer to its  target , signaling
the benchmark  interest rate  may remain unchanged over the next
15 months.  Policy makers reduced their 2011  inflation  forecast on the
so-called reference scenario to 4.6 percent, down from 5 percent
in June, according to the central bank’s quarterly inflation
report released today on its website. The central bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent.  “The Monetary Policy Committee believes that a convergence
of inflation toward the target’s mid-point is tending to
materialize,” the central bank said. Economic activity is
expanding at a pace more “consistent with long-term
equilibrium.”  Policy makers kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at
10.75 percent on Sept. 1 after raising borrowing costs by 200
basis points in its three previous meetings from a record low
8.75 percent. They said slower global economic growth is likely
to help contain domestic inflation.  Yields on interest rate future contracts due in January
2012 fell two basis points to 11.47 percent at 12:20 a.m. New
York time.  Rate Increases  Traders are betting the central bank will resume rate
increases early next year and push the overnight rate to at
least 12.25 percent by the end of 2011 as demand stokes
inflation, according to estimates by Bloomberg based on interest
rate futures contracts.  Policy makers forecast that in their reference scenario, in
which interest rates are kept unchanged at 10.75 percent,
inflation will slow to 4.4 percent in the third quarter of 2012.  The inflation report shows the central bank is
“comfortable” with keeping rates unchanged until the end of
next year,  Zeina Latif , senior economist for Latin America at
RBS Securities Inc., said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Economists forecast consumer prices will rise 5.05 percent
this year and 4.94 percent in 2011, exceeding the government’s
target, according to the median forecast in a central bank
survey published this week.  On the domestic front, the central bank said today a
mismatch between supply and demand still poses risks for
inflation that could quicken in the short term on higher food
prices.  Low Unemployment  Record low unemployment could also stoke consumer prices as
workers negotiate wage increases, Carlos Hamilton, economic
policy director at the central bank, told reporters today.  “The central bank is signaling they will keep interest
rates unchanged now and leave the inflation problem for next
year,” Andre Perfeito, economist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage
Gradual Investimentos, said today in a phone interview.  Policy makers also see risks of “significant increases”
in commodity prices.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose two basis
points to 11.85 percent at 12:08 p.m. New York time.  Fueled by domestic demand, Latin America’s biggest economy
is expected to grow this year at the fastest pace in a quarter
of century.  After falling from June to August, food prices are rising
in September and pressuring inflation, the bank said. Consumer
inflation accelerated to 0.31 percent in the month through mid-
September, beating estimates and boosting expectations that the
central bank may need to raise rates in the first half of 2011.  Rising Inflation  Annual inflation as measured by the benchmark IPCA-15 price
index quickened to 4.57 percent in the 12 months through mid-
September from 4.44 percent in mid-August.  Brazil’s  broadest measure  of inflation rose the fastest
since May this month. Construction, consumer and wholesale
prices, as measured by the IGP-M index, rose 1.15 percent in
September, the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation
said yesterday in a report. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
expected 1.12 percent, according to the median forecast from 27
analysts.  The central bank said it was ready to adjust its “monetary
policy stance” should its forecast that inflation will converge
to its target fail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  