-- Buffett Expects `Large Investment Opportunities' in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-30T11:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/buffett-expects-large-investment-opportunities-for-berkshire-in-china.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said he
expects “large” opportunities in China, making the world’s
fastest growing major economy a “logical” place to invest.  “Almost anyone, a third-grade child from America, can see
that this economy is booming,” Buffett said at a briefing today
in the southern Chinese city of Changsha. China’s transformation
is “unlike anything that’s ever taken place in history.”  Buffett, 80, is turning his attention outside the U.S.
after his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  bought Fort Worth, Texas-based
railroad  Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp.  this year for $27
billion in his largest deal. In China this week, he and
Berkshire Vice Chairman  Charles Munger  visited the facilities of
automaker BYD Co., part owned by Berkshire, and with  Bill Gates 
met with local business leaders to promote philanthropy.  “China’s a very big economy and it’s going to get a lot
bigger,” Buffett said. “That means it has large investment
opportunities and that’s what Berkshire Hathaway is looking for.
We need to put large sums to work, so China is a logical
place.”  Berkshire’s largest acquisition of a non-U.S. firm was
Iscar Metalworking Cos., an Israeli company with operations in
China and Japan. Buffett paid $4 billion for 80 percent of Iscar
in 2006. Berkshire agreed to buy a 9.9 percent stake in  BYD   in
2008, and last year he injected $2.6 billion into  Swiss
Reinsurance Co. , the second-biggest seller of backstop coverage
for insurers.  Economic Growth  China’s  gross-domestic product  surpassed Japan’s in the
second quarter, expanding 10.3 percent from a year earlier, and
was second only to the United States. China will overtake the
U.S., where annual GDP is about $14 trillion, as the largest
economy by 2027, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  chief
economist  Jim O’Neill .  The value of China’s currency, the yuan, wasn’t a
consideration when Berkshire decided to invest in BYD, Buffett
said today. “The subject of currency never came up and that
would continue to be the case today,” he said.  The U.S. House of Representatives voted yesterday for a
measure that would let American companies petition for duties on
imports from China to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan.
The Senate won’t take up its version until after the November
election, said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat.  Munger today declined to comment on the bill, saying “We
don’t think that Berkshire Hathaway should be telling the
government of China or the government of the United State how to
resolve their currency negotiations.” Buffett didn’t address
the issue.  Overseas Deals  Li Lu , the hedge fund manager who helped arrange
Berkshire’s BYD investment, may push Buffett’s company to make
more deals outside the U.S., according to  Michael Yoshikami , who
oversees about $1 billion, including Berkshire shares, at YCMNet
Advisors in Walnut Creek, California. Berkshire’s Munger expects
Li, former president of the Student Congress on Tiananmen
Square, to become a top investment official at Berkshire, the
Wall Street Journal reported in July.  The money manager met Munger after college and the two
exchanged thoughts on investing, according to an essay Li wrote
for the China Entrepreneur Magazine in May and posted on the
 website  of his hedge fund, Himalaya Capital.  Buffett previously traveled to China in 2007 and told
investors then to be “cautious” of China’s stocks after they
had doubled in the first 10 months of the year. Berkshire posted
record earnings in 2007 as Buffett booked a $3.5 billion profit
selling a stake in  PetroChina Co.  that he acquired for about
$500 million.  -- Liza Lin  and Andrew Frye. With assistance from  Stephen Engle 
in Changsha  John Liu  in Beijing. Editors:  Dan Kraut ,  Dan Reichl   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net 
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  