-- Buffett, Billionaires Can Put Dent in Deficit: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-09-30T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/buffett-soros-can-put-a-dent-in-u-s-deficit-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Time is running out for Congress to
extend the Bush tax cuts before they expire on Dec. 31.  Thank goodness for that. I’m bored with the subject, tired
of the debate and sick of the finger-pointing to score political
points.  Last week, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  tabled the
debate on whether to extend the tax cuts for everyone, no one or
everyone except the rich until after the midterm election. House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , who was keeping her options open, caved
yesterday, telling some lawmakers she would delay the
politically charged vote until after Nov. 2.  I’m not even sure anymore what the debate is about. For
almost a decade, Democrats have derided the cuts in marginal,
capital gains and dividend  tax rates  enacted under President
 George W. Bush  as “tax cuts for the rich.” How is it, then,
the middle class is threatened by their expiration?  The Democratic line, promulgated by lawmakers and
economists alike, is that extending tax cuts for individuals who
make more than $200,000 a year ($250,000 for married couples)
costs a lot and produces very little bang for the buck. That’s
because the rich end up saving the money the government allows
them to keep.  I want to scream every time I hear that line of reasoning.
Of course the rich have a lower  marginal propensity to consume 
than the poor. They’re rich!  Creating Start-Ups  Cutting taxes on income and capital encourages the rich to
take risks, invest, even start a business. Those business start-
ups are the sole source of  job creation , according to the
Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City. How else is the economy
going to absorb all the  unemployed  Democrats claim to be worried
about?  The goal is to increase supply, not boost demand. Supply
creates its own demand, according to  Say’s Law , named after the
late 18th-early 19th century French economist, Jean Baptiste
Say.  Now that we’ve cleared that up, let’s talk about
alternatives. For all those Democrats in Congress who want to
raise taxes (ever wonder how so many of them became millionaires
on a civil servant’s salary?), why not start by setting an
example?  The Internal Revenue Service doesn’t put a cap on how much
a taxpayer can fork over to the federal government. Anyone can
give a gift to the U.S. Treasury’s Bureau of Public Debt to
reduce the debt held by the public. The  Treasury Direct  website
tells you how. You can write a check or contribute  online  via
credit card.  Pennies From Heaven  Last year, the Treasury received more than $3 million in
 gifts , the biggest annual take since 1995’s $7.3 million. Most
of the gifts are small contributions, “from pennies to a few
thousand dollars,” says  Mckayla Braden  of the Bureau of Public
Debt’s public affairs office.  Public Law 87-58, “Gifts to Reduce the Public Debt,” was
passed on June 27, 1961, in response to a generous bequest of
$20 million from an estate, Mckayla says. Since then the
single largest gift was $3.5 million in 1992, also a bequest
from an individual’s estate.  In the first 10 months of fiscal 2010, which ends today,
Treasury received $2.7 million in gifts.  All the money goes into a gift fund. From there it gets
dumped into the general fund, just like our Social Security
taxes. It’s one big pile of dough.  With $13.5 trillion of  debt outstanding , $9 trillion of
which is held by the  public , it will take more than nickel-and-
dime contributions to make a dent in the U.S.’s indebtedness.  Chipping In  Here’s where  Warren Buffett  and  George Soros  come into
play. These billionaire investors and philanthropists could make
a difference. So could Pelosi, whose husband Paul is a
successful San Francisco financier and businessman.  Heck, even a small fry like  Charlie Rangel  could do a good
deed for his country and chip in a few bucks -- over and above
the interest he owes on taxes he  failed to pay  on his Dominican
Republic villa.  Part of the problem is so few people know about the give-a-
gift/reduce-the-debt program. The only way to find out about it
is through news stories, on the Treasury Direct website or
buried in the IRS’s tax filing  instructions .  The last two aren’t viable options. Anyone who has trolled
the Treasury website looking for documents or data knows how
hard it is to find something even when you know what you’re
looking for. And the IRS’s website is a depressing reminder of
how badly the U.S. needs tax reform: something simpler, flatter,
with fewer loopholes and politically driven exemptions.  Earn Points!  I bet every tax filer in this country would willingly
donate our tax-preparation fees to the cause of debt reduction
if April 15 were just another day of the month.  Short of real tax reform, the Treasury will have to spice
up the gifts program if it wants to get the public’s attention.
It could offer some prizes for the biggest contributions.  Maybe treat the five biggest donors to a beer summit with
Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner . Or a tour of the U.S. Mint and
some fast-appreciating gold coin souvenirs? Or what about
offering points -- just like the come-ons from credit card
companies --that could be redeemed for prizes such as a ride on
Air Force One?  Treasury Direct is too darn dull in a world of rapid-fire
high-frequency trading. It’s just another area where the
government could take a lesson from the private sector.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  