-- Bugatti, Ferrari Sell Out of Supercars as Luxury Roars Back
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r ,   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-09-30T22:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/bugatti-sells-out-of-2-7-million-world-record-model-as-luxury-roars-back.html
Bugatti,  Volkswagen AG ’s supercar
brand, and Fiat SpA’s Ferrari have sold out of their most
expensive models as demand for luxury vehicles roars back.  All five of Bugatti’s 1.95 million-euro ($2.7 million)
World Record, the globe’s fastest serial-production car, have 
been reserved. Chief Executive Officer  Franz-Josef Paefgen 
showed the car, which has a top speed of 415 kilometers 
(258 miles) per hour, at the Paris Auto Show this week.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz,
the world’s two biggest luxury-car makers, are both targeting 10
percent sales increases this year as the economic recovery
sparks a return of flashy purchases. BMW shares have surged 62
percent, Volkswagen has gained 35 percent and Daimler has
advanced 25 percent this year.  “The reports of luxury’s death have been greatly
exaggerated,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at IHS
Automotive in Lexington, Massachusetts. “People still want
those luxury vehicles. Once you’re in luxury, it’s awfully hard
to get out of it.”  Buyers hoping to purchase the Ferrari SA Aperta are also 
out of luck. Ferrari isn’t making any more of the 80 SA Apertas 
that it’s already sold. The model costs 400,000 euros and was 
built to honor car designers Sergio and  Andrea Pininfarina .  Maserati’s GranTurismo  “We are sorry for many Ferrari collectors, but we cannot
do more,” Ferrari Chairman  Luca Cordero  di Montezemolo said in
an interview in Paris yesterday. Ferrari is predicting double-
digit growth in earnings and may end 2010 with close to record
profit, he said.  Maserati, also owned by  Fiat , unveiled the GranTurismo MC
Stradale in Paris, the fastest, lightest model ever from the
Italian marquee. The car surges to 100 kilometers per hour in
4.6 seconds and has a top speed of 301 kilometers per hour.  “Customers are looking forward to buying the new
Maserati,” said Nicola Sculco, 64, a Milan lawyer who runs the
Maserati Club in Italy and owns a 3200 GT Biturbo and several
old Maseratis. “There’s enthusiasm on this model where Maserati
marries its philosophy of elegance and style with speed and a
sportive character.”  Maserati, whose deliveries through August are up 20
percent, is considering expanding into new segments and plans to
add a new high-end sedan to boost sales, CEO  Harald Wester  said.  Orders Rising  “Our order portfolio is increasing with each passing
month,” Wester said. “2010 is proving to be a very good year
for Maserati.”  At Porsche SE, the limited-production 911 Speedster may
sell out by the end of October as orders for the sports car grow
“by the hour,” Porsche’s development chief  Wolfgang Duerheimer 
said in an interview yesterday. The 408-horsepower vehicle,
which will be limited to 356 cars, sells for $275,000.  “Since the middle of the year, we’ve been blessed with
record order intakes on a monthly basis,” Duerheimer said.
“Market sentiment is improving, things are pointing up.”  Owners of high-end cars such as Ferrari and  Porsche  are
trying to skirt new-car jealousy by buying a new model equipped
exactly like their current vehicle, Lindland said.  “That way the neighbors never really notice,” she said.  Recovering economies have helped consumers regain
confidence, spurring automobile purchases. On top of that, in
the high-end segment the availability of new models acts as its
own incentive.  New Products  “New product helps; that stimulates consumer behavior,”
 Ian Robertson , BMW’s sales chief, said in an interview. With
growing demand in China, Russia, Brazil, and other emerging
markets, “we can look forward to a period where we continue to
see those steps forward,” he said  BMW introduced a revamped version of the X3 mid-sized
sport-utility vehicle and presented a 6-Series coupe concept in
Paris. Sloped-back coupes, which appeal to sportier drivers,
were popular at the show, with  Mercedes  debuting an overhauled
CLS and Audi premiering the new A7 as performance and sex appeal
took precedence over the latest advances in electric cars and
engine efficiency.  “The premium auto will remain what it always has been, a
highly emotional product,” said  Thomas Weber , Mercedes’
development chief.  Bugatti’s World Record, which is part of the Veyron line,
sold out 10 days after the super-car maker offered the five
vehicles it plans to produce, spokeswoman  Emanuela Wilm  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Paris via the Berlin newsroom at 
2499 or  creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
 Andreas Cremer  in Paris via the Berlin newsroom at 
   acremer@bloomberg.net ;
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Paris via the Milan newsroom at 
4231 or  tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 