-- Build Americas Lose Ground to Tax-Exempt Munis as Yields Reach Record Low
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-09-30T16:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/build-americas-lose-ground-to-tax-exempt-munis-as-yields-set-record-low.html
Build America Bonds shrank in the
third quarter to the lowest percentage of municipal issuance
since the first three months of their existence amid record-low
yields and concern that Congress has yet to extend the program,
drawing borrowers to the tax-exempt market.  Issuance of the taxable Build Americas was about $21.8
billion from July 1 through September, or about 23.5 percent of
overall municipal sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the lowest since the 15.1 percent in the
second quarter of 2009, when the program began. Total munis sold
to date are about $290.6 billion, 7 percent above the same
period in 2009.  Average tax-exempt yields on top-rated 30-year bonds fell
as much as 59 basis points in the quarter as investors sought
less risky assets, reaching  3.66 percent  on Sept. 1, the lowest
in at least 20 months, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “It’s been kind of a wild ride here,”  John Hallacy ,
manager of municipal research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “When you can do
30-year paper below 4 percent, it’s a good deal.”  Build America Bonds, the fastest-growing part of the $2.8
trillion U.S. municipal debt market, were first sold in April
2009 as part of the economic stimulus package and include a 35
percent federal subsidy on interest-rate costs. Legislation
introduced by Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  would
extend the program, which expires Dec. 31, by one year with the
subsidy reduced to 32 percent. Previous extension attempts
stalled in Congress.  ‘Headline Risk’  “There’s been a lot of headline risk for Build America
buyers,” Hallacy said. “They’d like to think they’re going to
be around.”  The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey sold $400
million in debt in July, choosing to issue all tax-exempts
because of the low rates, authority spokesman  Steven Coleman 
said at the time.  Louisiana  borrowed $394 million in August, eschewing Build
Americas because tax-exempts provided the state “a greater
comfort level,” according to  Whitman Kling , director of the
Louisiana Bond Commission.  The risk of renewed recession led investors to the
perceived safety of U.S. national and state debt in August,
pushing 10-year benchmark yields to a 20-month low. Top-rated
tax-exempt municipal yields due in 10 years fell 44 basis points
in the quarter, touching  2.58 percent  on Aug. 25, the lowest
ever, according to data from Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors dating to January 2001.  ‘Relative Safety’  “Investors were attracted to the relative safety of the
fixed-income markets due to questions over the strength and
sustainability of the U.S. economic recovery and global economic
growth more broadly, as well as the volatility that has played
out in the equity markets,” said  Peter DeGroot , head of the
municipal index and strategies group at Barclays Capital in New
York.  Municipal yields rose to the highest level relative to
Treasuries in almost a year and a half on Sept. 1, according to
data from MMA. Ten-year AAA general-obligation yields reached a
ratio of  106 percent  of comparable maturity federal debt -- the
most since April 29, 2009.  This compares with the  S&P 500  equities index reaching a
10-month low on July 2, and a four-month high on Sept. 24,
Bloomberg data show.  Average yields on Build America Bonds yesterday fell about
3 basis points to  5.48 percent , the lowest on record, according
to data from a Wells Fargo index dating to Aug. 26, 2009. Build
America issuance for 2010 had been forecast to be as much as
$150 billion, pushing total municipal sales to $450 billion,
according to a Jan. 4 report by MMA’s  Matt Fabian .  Overall Borrowing  States and local governments borrowed $92.8 billion in the
third quarter, the lowest since the third quarter last year,
Bloomberg data show.  Even as absolute yields continued to fall during the
quarter, investors accepted lower rates in exchange for the
safety of their assets, according to  Evan Rourke , a portfolio
manager with Boston-based Eaton Vance Corp., which has almost
$10 billion under management.  Investors “became more psychologically ready to buy at
current yields, which helped drive the market,” Rourke said.  Tax-exempt bonds posted their best quarterly performance
since September 2009, returning 3.7 percent through yesterday,
according to the BofA Merrill Lynch Municipal Master Index,
which tracks total return on tax-exempt bonds.  Relative Returns  Build Americas suffered their first negative month this
year, with the bonds’ Merrill index falling 0.44 percent in
September. Still, the federally subsidized securities gained for
a third-straight quarter, advancing 4.8 percent in the last
three months.  Company debt had the quarter’s best returns at 6.8 percent,
according to a Merrill U.S. corporate bond index, which tracks
AA rated bonds due in 15 years or more. The index advanced even
as corporate investors lost 1.2 percent in September, the second
negative month this year.  U.S. sovereign debt had its best third-quarter performance
since 2007, as the index returned 2.7 percent, according to
Merrill’s U.S. Treasury Master Index.  The quarterly gains indicate the interest in fixed income,
according to  Phil Condon , head of municipal-bond portfolio
management for Boston-based DWS Investments, which oversees
about $10 billion in its municipal bond funds.  “Demand is still good across all of fixed income,” he
said. “People still seem interested and yields keep dropping
down. It was a good quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 