-- Goldman Sachs Says Buy Energy Options Before ISM Data
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-09-30T20:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/buy-energy-stock-options-before-ism-report-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should buy options on
U.S. energy stocks before the Institute for Supply Management’s
manufacturing report tomorrow because the shares may have
larger-than-average swings, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Equity derivatives strategists  John Marshall  and  Maria Grant  recommended buying options on 25 stocks, including
 Chesapeake Energy Corp.  and  Noble Energy Inc. , that historically
have had above-average price moves on days when ISM data are
released and whose options are “inexpensive.”  “Energy companies tend to dominate the list of those that
make unusually large moves on ISM day,” the New York-based
strategists wrote. “A decline in the ISM could be a negative
headline that causes volatility.”  Manufacturing probably cooled in September with ISM’s
 factory index  falling to 54.5 from 56.3 in August, according to
the median of 82 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey before the
report. Goldman Sachs’ economists estimate 54. A reading above
50 signals growth for Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s gauge. The
index averaged 53.2 during the expansion that ended in 2007.  The Energy Select Sector SPDR Fund is the most sensitive to
ISM reports among nine exchange-traded funds tracking the
broadest industries in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
according to Goldman Sachs. The ETF rose 2 cents to $56.06 as of
4 p.m. in New York as energy stocks rose 0.1 percent for the
only gain among 10 industries in the U.S. stock benchmark.  The energy ETF has moved an average of 2.7 percent up or
down on the past 20 ISM release days, 1.76 times its move on an
average trading day over the same period. That compares with a
1.7 percent average ISM move for the  S&P 500 . The 25 stocks
recommended by the New York-based firm average a change of 4.7
percent.  ISM Sensitivity  “We do not believe this ISM sensitivity is priced into
October energy options,” Marshall and Grant wrote. “Both puts
and calls appear attractive for investors hedging long and short
positions, respectively.”  Goldman Sachs screened for stocks that have one-month
implied volatility below median levels over the past year.  Implied volatility is the key gauge of options prices and
expected price swings. Options are derivatives that give the
right to buy or sell assets at a set price by a specific date.
Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the price
of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or bet
that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  