-- Caisse Pension Fund May Borrow More After C$8 Billion Program, Sabia Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-09-30T17:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/caisse-pension-fund-may-borrow-more-after-c-8-billion-program-sabia-says.html
The Caisse de Depot et Placement du
Quebec, Canada’s biggest pension fund manager, isn’t ruling out
selling more bonds after completing an C$8 billion ($7.8
billion) borrowing program three months ago, Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Sabia  said.  The Caisse in June sold 750 million euros ($1 billion) in
3.5 percent bonds maturing in 2020 through its CDP Financial
unit, the last step in a seven-month plan to replace short-term
borrowings with longer-term debt. As of June 30, the Montreal-
based Caisse, which manages Quebec’s public pension plan, had
net assets of C$135.8 billion.  “We did the C$8 billion that we set out to do,” Sabia
said Sept. 28 in an interview at Caisse headquarters in
Montreal. “We dealt with the most pressing problem. Whether or
not down the road at some point we decide to do something else,
that’s possible. I won’t necessarily rule that out.”  The latest transactions mean that about 74 percent of the
Caisse’s sources of financing have maturities of more than two
years, while 78 percent of its assets are investments such as
real estate that the firm will hold for more than two years,
Sabia said. Before the refinancing, only 20 percent of the
borrowings were due in two years or more, while 80 percent of
the assets were long-term, he said.  “We had this really big mismatch between sources and uses
of funds,” Sabia said. “That exposed us to a huge amount of
refinancing risk. One of the things that this organization
learned in 2008 was that we can’t always count on refinancing.”  Record Loss  During the global financial crisis that followed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy, the Caisse sold equities,
closed out futures contracts and reduced its foreign-exchange
hedging amid a fall in the Canadian dollar. It eventually
reported a record loss of C$39.8 billion, or 25 percent, for
2008, including C$6.1 billion in hedging-related losses.  After posting a 10 percent gain last year, the Caisse
reported a 2.3 percent return in the first six months of 2010,
led by its infrastructure and private-equity units.  Sabia, 57, said he expects the refinancing to allow the
Caisse to seize investment opportunities more quickly than in
the past.  “We live in a period of exaggerated response and
disconnection between fundamentals and short-term market
reactions,” he said. “It takes very little to move markets. In
this environment, what really matters is institutional agility.
You need to be able to react to events and to do it quickly.”  Sabia, the former CEO of Canadian telecommunications
company BCE Inc., joined the Caisse in March 2009.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  