-- California Man Charged in $225 Million `Scratch and Dent' Property Scheme
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/california-man-charged-in-225-million-scratch-and-dent-property-scheme.html
A $225 million Ponzi scheme involving
investments in rehabilitated “scratch and dent” real estate
led to fraud and money laundering charges against a California
businessman, prosecutors in Los Angeles said.  Bruce Fred Friedman, 60, the owner of Sherman Oaks,
California-based Diversified Lending Group Inc., was arrested
Sept. 13 in Cannes, France, U.S. Attorney  Andre Birotte Jr.  said
yesterday in a statement. He faces a prison sentence of as long
as 360 years if convicted on all 23 counts that he’s charged
with, according to the statement.  Friedman offered investors secured notes that promised
annual returns of 9 percent or 12 percent and told them that
Diversified Lending bought, rehabilitated and rented out real
estate properties across the U.S., according to the statement.
Friedman used the investors’ funds for other business ventures
and for a charitable foundation and companies affiliated with
his family and friends, prosecutors said.  A Federal Bureau of Investigation agent estimated that
Friedman’s victims lost $191 million, according to Birotte’s
statement.  Richard Drooyan , a lawyer who represents Friedman in a
related civil lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, said he wasn’t involved in the criminal case and
couldn’t comment.  Don Smaltz, Friedman’s criminal defense lawyer, didn’t
immediately respond yesterday to a voice-mail message left with
his law firm and an e-mailed request for comment.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Jill Feeney  said it may take
several months before Friedman will be extradited to the U.S.  The case is U.S. v. Friedman, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 