-- Cameron Says He'll Guarantee Funds for Defense Amid Planned Spending Cuts
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-09-30T11:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/cameron-says-he-ll-guarantee-funds-for-defense-amid-planned-spending-cuts.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he will guarantee proper funding of the armed forces after
Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said budget cuts might “seriously
damage” military morale and hurt the ruling Conservative Party.  “As prime minister, I can absolutely guarantee you we will
have well-funded, strong armed forces to defend our country,”
Cameron told ITV’s “This Morning” program today. Fox knows the
premier is “listening to him,” Cameron said.  In a letter to Cameron leaked to the Daily Telegraph
newspaper yesterday, Fox said the scale of the planned
reductions would have “grave political consequences” for the
Conservatives, the senior partner in the coalition government.
Cuts might undermine the armed forces’ capability, especially at
sea, he wrote.  “His fears are unfounded because we’re not going to take
bad decisions,” Cameron said. The government will publish its
first strategic defense review since 1998 within weeks, setting
out cuts to programs as it seeks to tackle the  record budget
deficit  and redefine military needs in the post-Cold War age.  “We have thought very carefully about how to fund our
armed forces properly and above all how we structure them for
the future,” Cameron said. “We need to fit them for the
dangerous world we live in, where you need greater flexibility
and a different structure of your armed forces. That is what we
are going to get right.”  Cameron has not yet made a final decision on which defense
programs should be axed, a person familiar with the discussions
said two days ago. In his letter, Fox warned cuts might destroy
“much of the reputation and capital you, and we, have built up
in recent years.”  The letter exposed the tensions between the defense
ministry and Cameron as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  prepares to detail the deepest budget cuts since World
War II. Fox and Osborne have already clashed over who should
fund the renewal of Britain’s Trident nuclear-missile system.  Among projects under discussion are a 4.9 billion-pound
($7.8 billion) order for two aircraft carriers. British media
have also reported that orders for attack aircraft to replace
Tornado jets may be cut.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 