-- Canadian Economy Shrinks 0.1% in July to Post First Decline in 11 Months
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-09-30T14:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/canadian-economy-shrinks-0-1-in-july-to-post-first-decline-in-11-months.html
Canada’s  gross domestic product 
shrank for the first time in 11 months in July, as retailers,
manufacturers and builders posted declines.  Canada’s economic output fell 0.1 percent to a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of C$1.23 trillion ($1.19 trillion) in
July, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The result matched
the median forecast of 22 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Canada’s economy may have slowed more in the third quarter
than the central bank predicted in July, when it forecast 2.8
percent annual growth. The Bank of Canada raised its policy
interest rate for a third time on Sept. 8 and said further moves
must be “carefully considered” given “unusual uncertainty”
about the outlook.  The report “is one more argument to add to a long list of
indicators that will give the Bank of Canada ammunition to take
a pause in October and December,” said  Sebastien Lavoie , an
economist at Laurentian Bank Securities in Montreal, who
correctly predicted July’s drop.  Lavoie predicts the central will leave its key rate at 1
percent for the next six to nine months and may raise it by 50
basis points by the end of 2011. He expects the economy to
expand between 0.1 percent and 0.2 percent per month over the
next few months.  Canada’s dollar rose for the first time in four days. The
currency appreciated 0.6 percent to C$1.0265 per U.S. dollar at
10:05 a.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0326 yesterday.  Slowing Housing  Canada’s housing market showed signs of slowing in today’s
report, as the central bank has been predicting. The output of
real estate agents and brokers tumbled 8 percent in July,
cutting the industry’s output by one-third from the start of the
year, the agency said. Residential construction fell 2 percent,
which led a 0.5 percent decrease in construction.  “The drop in July GDP was disappointing though not
unexpected,”  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist with Royal
Bank of Canada, said in a note to clients. Until there is a
rebound in growth in Canada and the U.S. “the Bank of Canada is
expected to remain on the sidelines until March of next year.”  Retailing  shrank 0.5 percent, led by stores selling
furniture and other home-related goods, the agency said.
Manufacturing output fell 0.7 percent.  Canada’s retail, wholesale and manufacturing sales all fell
unexpectedly in July, Statistics Canada reported earlier this
month. The agency also said the trade deficit widened to the
biggest gap since at least 1971 during the month.  Consumer Confidence  Canada’s biggest trade partner, the U.S., reported this
week that consumers lost confidence in September. The Conference
Board’s sentiment index declined to 48.5, the weakest level
since February, according to  figures  from the New York-based
private research group.  Mining, oil and gas  grew 1.1 percent in July from June. The
finance and insurance sector grew 0.1 percent and public
administration expanded 0.1 percent, Statistics Canada said.
Transportation and warehousing also rose 0.1 percent.  Gregg Saretsky , president and chief executive officer of
WestJet Airlines Ltd., Canada’s biggest airline by market value,
said the company is “waiting to see really clear evidence of a
strong economic recovery domestically before we’re prepared to
let our cash balances reduce,” he said in a Sept. 23 analyst
conference call.  Service industries fell 0.1 percent in July, as did goods-
producing industries, the statistics agency said.  Gross domestic product gained 3.7 percent from July 2009,
today’s report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 