-- Canada's Currency Strengthens as Economy Contracts in Line With Forecasts
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-09-30T20:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/canadian-currency-strengthens-as-economy-shrinks-in-line-with-forecasts.html
The Canadian dollar gained for the
first time in four days against its U.S. counterpart after data
showed the nation’s economy contracted in July, the first drop
since August 2009, in line with economists’ forecasts.  The currency advanced against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts except Brazil’s real as the government said
Canada’s  gross domestic product  shrank 0.1 percent after gaining
0.2 percent in June. Central bank Governor  Mark Carney ’s
statement that he’ll need to use “caution” in any future
interest-rate increases kept a lid on Canadian dollar gains.  “The market had priced in poor numbers for Canadian GDP,”
 Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at
Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, said via e-mail.
“Coming in on expectations is actually a bit of a relief to the
market, so initial reaction is a stronger Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, appreciated 0.4
percent to C$1.0289 per U.S. dollar at 4:39 p.m. in Toronto,
from C$1.0326 yesterday. It earlier gained as much as 0.9
percent. One Canadian dollar purchases 97.19 U.S. cents.  The currency gained 3.7 percent versus the greenback in
September, the most in a month since June 2009. It also advanced
3.7 percent for the quarter.  The loonie remained higher even after Carney said major
headwinds facing the country’s economy, and “unusual”
uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook, mean the Bank of
Canada needs to be cautious in raising interest rates further.  ‘Unusual Uncertainty’  “The unusual uncertainty surrounding the outlook warrants
caution,” Carney, 45, said today in the text of a speech in
Windsor, Ontario. “With risks of a renewed U.S. slowdown, with
constraints beginning to bind growth in emerging economies, and
with domestic considerations that will slow consumption and
housing activity in Canada, any further reduction in monetary
stimulus would need to be carefully considered.”  The currency pared earlier gains after North American
stocks fell from the day’s highs, and as money managers
purchased U.S. dollars to rebalance portfolios. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was down 0.3 percent at closing after falling
as much as 0.8 percent and gaining 1.1 percent.  “With month- and quarter-end today, we could see some
rebalancing and the reversal today in equities from the highs
will pressure the Canadian dollar,”  Michael Leavitt , a
Montreal-based institutional- derivatives broker at MF Global
Canada Co., wrote via e-mail.  Fund managers with fixed weightings of foreign assets buy
and sell the greenback to adjust for the value of U.S. equities.  Paring Bets  Traders have been trimming bets that economic growth will
be strong enough for Carney to raise borrowing costs at a fourth
consecutive policy meeting next month because the U.S. economy,
consumer of about three-quarters of Canadian exports, remains
fragile. The U.S. said today its economy grew at a 1.7 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, compared with a 3.7 percent
pace in the first quarter.  The Federal Reserve said last week it’s “prepared to
provide additional accommodation” to spur U.S. growth. Carney
said in a speech on Sept. 24 there are “limits” to how far
monetary policy in the two countries can diverge.  Probabilities of a quarter percentage-point increase at the
Oct. 19 Bank of Canada meeting stood at 18 percent today before
Carney’s speech, down from 40 percent two weeks ago, according
to Bank of Nova Scotia data derived from overnight index swaps.  Bias Against Boost  “This morning’s number will not likely add to any”
expectations for an increase,  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada, said by phone from
Toronto. “It may even take away from some of the pricing-in
that’s already in the market. I see it as confirming the
market’s overall bias against a rate hike in October.”  Since Carney lifted Canada’s key interest  rate  by 25 basis
points to 1 percent on Sept. 8, a report showed Canada’s
unemployment rate increased and measures of inflation and retail
sales unexpectedly fell, pointing to a weaker recovery than
policy makers predicted.  Canadian government bonds were little changed, with the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note rising less that 1 basis
point to 2.74 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.
The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020
slipped 7 cents to C$106.38.  Canada will auction C$3 billion ($2.9 billion) of 10-year
notes on Oct. 6, according to a statement today on the Bank of
Canada’s website. The 3.25 percent debt matures in June 2021.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  