-- Carlyle's Rubenstein Says Buyout Fees are Declining
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2010-09-30T17:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/carlyle-s-rubenstein-says-buyout-fees-are-declining-in-wake-of-2008-crash.html
David Rubenstein , co-founder of the
Carlyle Group, said that private equity firms are lowering their
fees in the wake of the 2008 market crash.  Buyout firms such as Carlyle have traditionally charged
clients a 2 percent fee on committed capital and an incentive
fee that equals 20 percent of investment profits. As fundraising
becomes more difficult, buyout firms are cutting management
fees, Rubenstein said today at the Bloomberg Dealmaker Summit in
New York.  “I’m not sure anybody really gets 2 and 20 anymore,” said
Rubenstein. Large buyout funds now probably charge management
fees of 1 percent to 1.25 percent, he said. Deal and transaction
monitoring fees that buyout firms had charged to the companies
they acquired are “largely” going away.  “Investors have recognized and general partners have
recognized that there can be a change or improvement in the way
the construct has come together in private equity,”  Rubenstein
said.  Private-equity funds raised $57 billion in the third
quarter, 16 percent more than in the previous quarter, when
commitments fell to a seven-year low, according to researcher
Preqin. Funds focused on the U.S. raised the most in the third
quarter, with 37 firms gathering $41.1 billion, London-based
Preqin said today in a statement. Leveraged-buyout firms,
including New York-based Blackstone Group LP, raised the most
capital.  Returns Count Most  Another potential change is whether private-equity firms
charge their management fees on committed capital or money that
has actually been invested, Rubenstein said. Most private-equity
clients support the payment of a 20 percent profit
participation, also known as the carry, because they want to
encourage managers to make money.  “The most important thing is the net rate of return, after
the fees are done with, the carry is done with, what are you
left with,” Rubenstein said. “If you go back over 5 years, 10
years, 15 years, 20 years, and look at top performances, you
will find that you do better in private equity than any other
thing else you can legally do with your money.”  Carlyle has invested about $65 billion of equity since its
founding in 1987, Rubinstein said, adding that the firm’s
internal rate of return has averaged 30 percent annually since
then. After fees are deducted, Carlyle’s annual returns have
averaged 25 percent.  66 Funds  The Washington-based firm now has more than $90 billion in
assets under management. Carlyle runs 66 funds that specialize
in four areas, including buyouts, credit, growth capital and
real estate, according to its website.  In July, Carlyle agreed to acquire NBTY Inc., a
manufacturer of nutritional supplements, in a transaction valued
at $3.8 billion.  Rubenstein, a native of Baltimore, practiced law in New
York with the firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison
before cofounding Carlyle. He also was Deputy Assistant to the
President for Domestic Policy from 1977 through 1981 during the
Carter Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 