-- Canada's Carney Says `Caution' Needed on Further Interest Rate Increases
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-09-30T19:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/carney-says-headwinds-force-canada-to-be-cautious-on-more-rate-increases.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said he’ll cut the bank’s growth forecast next month and
signaled he’s likely to delay raising interest rates further.  “The unusual uncertainty surrounding the outlook warrants
caution,” Carney, 45, said today in Windsor, Ontario. “With
risks of a renewed U.S. slowdown, with constraints beginning to
bind growth in emerging economies, and with domestic
considerations that will slow consumption and housing activity
in Canada, any further reduction in monetary stimulus would need
to be carefully considered.”  The comments suggest the Bank of Canada has become more
wary of breaking away from the world’s major central banks on
policy, even though Canada is benefiting from rising demand for
its commodities and its banks have largely escaped the financial
crisis. Carney is alone among G-7 bankers to raise interest
rates this year.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said Sept. 21 it’s prepared to
ease monetary policy further and the Bank of England last week
signaled policy makers are moving closer to adding stimulus. The
international setting “isn’t consistent with an environment in
which the Bank of Canada can carry forward with further hikes,”
said  David Tulk , senior macro strategist with TD Securities in
Toronto.  Limits to Divergence  In his speech, Carney said that while Canada’s economy has
been stronger than others, the global environment will limit how
quickly Canada can raise interest rates. “While Canada’s
circumstances and the discipline of the inflation target dictate
a different policy stance than in the United States, there are
limits to this divergence,” he said.  Carney is “telling market participants that your
expectations for very low probability of us raising rates is
correct,”  Michael Gregory , a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  Canada’s economy can be expected to grow at a “modest
pace” because of the effects of higher household debt levels
and a slower global recovery, Carney said.  Growth is “more modest than we had expected and it will be
more modest in the third and fourth quarters,” Carney told
reporters following the speech, adding the bank “will put a
finer point on that on Oct. 20 when we release our upcoming
forecast,” referring to the next  monetary policy report .  Paring Bets  The bank raised its policy  interest rate  a quarter point to
1 percent on Sept. 8, the third increase this year, and
investors had been pricing in strong likelihood as recently as
two weeks ago of another rate increase next month. The bank’s
next rate announcement is Oct. 19.  The chance of a quarter-point increase at the October
meeting stood at 18 percent today before the speech, down from
20 percent yesterday and 40 percent two weeks ago, according to
Bank of Nova Scotia data derived from overnight index swaps.  While Carney said the need for emergency measures has
passed, “exceptionally stimulative” monetary policy is
consistent with achieving the central bank’s 2 percent  inflation 
target, he said, adding inflation has been “slightly lower”
than expected.  Carney’s comments “set the bank up to pause on rates in
October,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist with Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in a note to clients.  Swap Rates Fall  The rate on the three-month overnight index  swap , which
measures what investors predict the central bank’s benchmark
will average over time, fell 1.1 percentage points to 1.06
percent after the speech. The Canadian dollar pared gains
following the report, trading at C$1.0283 per U.S. dollar at
3:25 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0326 yesterday.  Canadian  retail , wholesale and manufacturing sales all
unexpectedly fell in July and the country’s trade deficit
widened to the biggest gap since at least 1971. Earlier today,
Statistics Canada reported the economy shrank 0.1 percent in
July, the first decline in 11 months, matching the median
forecast of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  today scaled back
plans to withdraw stimulus by limiting proposed increases to
payroll taxes amid signs of a slowing recovery. Carney said that
will help to create jobs.  Rising Debt  Carney said Canada’s economy won’t be able to rely as much
on housing and personal consumption to fuel the recovery since
households are poised to slow consumption growth because of
rising debt levels. He said the rebound in the  labor market ,
which has returned employment to pre-recession levels, has been
led by public-sector jobs and “involuntary part-time” work.  “However welcome, these headline figures mask some
important details,” Carney said. “In fact, although employment
has regained its pre-recession level, hours worked have not.”  Carney also said returning to a “durable” global recovery
will be a slow process that could take a decade. That could keep
global interest rates “very low” and central banks in some
major economies to expand unconventional monetary policies.  Carney said that since interest rates may need to remain
low, other Canadian authorities should remain “vigilant” to
ensure “financial imbalances” aren’t created due to low
borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 