-- Carney Watching U.S. Means October Rate Boost Odds Diminish: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-09-30T18:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/carney-watching-u-s-means-october-rate-boost-odds-diminish-canada-credit.html
Chances that Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  will raise interest rates next month are
heading toward zero amid signs the slowdown in the U.S. economy
is hampering the Canadian recovery.  Probabilities of a quarter percentage-point increase at the
Oct. 19 central bank meeting stood at 18 percent today, down
from 20 percent yesterday and 40 percent two weeks ago,
according to Bank of Nova Scotia data derived from overnight
index swaps. Bank of Montreal pegged the odds of an October rise
at 10 percent to 20 percent. Carney said today that “caution”
is warranted in any future increases.  Traders are trimming bets that  growth  will be strong enough
for Carney to raise borrowing costs at a fourth straight meeting
because the U.S. economy, consumer of about three-quarters of
Canadian exports, remains fragile. The Federal Reserve said last
week it’s “prepared to provide additional accommodation” to
spur growth. Carney said later in a speech there are “limits”
to how far monetary policy in the two countries can diverge.  “The market has totally reversed its view on the Bank of
Canada,”  Blake Jespersen , a currency strategist at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital unit, wrote in an e-mail, referring to an
October rate increase. Both Bank of Montreal and Scotia predict
less than an even chance for an increase in December.  A government report showing Canada’s  economy shrank  for the
first time in almost a year may make rate increases even less
likely. Statistics Canada said today that gross domestic product
fell 0.1 percent in July, the first decrease since August 2009,
matching the median of 22 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Bias Against a Hike’  “This morning’s number will not likely add to any”
expectations for an increase,  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada, said by phone from
Toronto. “It may even take away from some of the pricing-in
that’s already in the market. I see it as confirming the
market’s overall bias against a rate hike in October.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s companies instead of its
federal government ended yesterday at 144 basis points,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The spread
has tightened 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, in
September and the same amount since June 30. Yields fell to 3.64
percent, unchanged since the end of August and down from 3.95
percent at the end of June.  Global corporate bonds have returned 4 percent so far this
quarter, including reinvested interest, compared with 2.96
percent for Canadian corporate debt, according to the Merrill
data. For global debt, that would be the best performance since
the three months through September 2009.  Corporate Sales  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest lender by
assets, sold $1 billion of 3.25-year U.S. dollar-denominated
notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 1.125
percent notes were priced at 99.853 cents on the dollar to yield
1.171 percent, the data show.  HSBC Bank of Canada paid 126.1 basis points over benchmarks
to sell C$1 billion (C$970 million) of 3.56 percent bonds due in
October 2017.  In the nation’s provincial bond market, relative yields
tightened to 57 basis points yesterday from 60 basis points on
Aug. 31 and 64 basis points on June 30. Yields ended yesterday
at 2.94 percent, from 2.93 percent at the end of last month.
Provincial debt has made investors 0.77 percent this month,
extending the gain this quarter to 3.73 percent and the 2010
return to 7.88 percent, already the best annual performance
since 2002.  Manitoba paid 84 basis points over benchmarks to sell C$300
million of 4.1 percent bonds due in March 2041, in its first
debt sale since July.  Government Debt Spreads  British Columbia’s municipal financing authority, which
issues debt on behalf of local governments, sold C$230 million
in a reoffering of its 4.45 percent bonds due in June 2020,
bringing the issue to C$435 million outstanding. The debt priced
to yield 91 basis points over benchmarks.  Government bonds, with about C$326 billion outstanding,
have returned 0.26 percent this month, after reinvested
interest, the Merrill data show. The index dropped 0.83 percent
in March, its last monthly loss. U.S. government bonds are flat
this month, compared with a 0.29 percent drop for government
bonds worldwide.  Since Carney lifted Canada’s key interest  rate  by 25 basis
points to 1 percent on Sept. 8, a report showed Canada’s
unemployment rate increased and measures of inflation and retail
sales unexpectedly fell, pointing to a weaker recovery than
policy makers predicted.  A Bank of Canada on hold may cut into the yield  advantage 
of Canadian 2-year bonds over their U.S. counterparts. The
spread reached 106 basis points last week, the most in more than
two months and close to the highest in seven years.  ‘Spreads Will Narrow’  “Canada-U.S. spreads will narrow quite a bit,”  Carlos Leitao  , chief economist at Laurentian Bank Securities in
Montreal, said in a telephone interview. He predicts the 2-year
yield gap in Canada’s favor will tighten to 75 basis points in
the second half of 2011, from 95 basis points today. “If we’re
not that much stronger than the U.S. and we don’t require so
much higher policy rates, that spread will narrow.”  Every 0.1 percent miss in monthly GDP versus consensus
forecasts means shorter-term yields may decrease by 2 to 4 basis
points, according to  Eric Lascelles , chief economics and rates
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit.  “The market is so focused on double-dip concerns and the
Bank of Canada is very much in play,” Toronto-based Lascelles
said in an e-mail.  Probabilities derived from swap rates differ with signals
on interest rates from the Taylor rule formula for determining
optimal rates, which show the gap in Canadian and U.S. benchmark
interest rates is at a 15-year high and borrowing costs are
poised to rise further in Canada.  Taylor Rule  Using the rule formulated Stanford University economist
 John Taylor , which measures inflation and output to estimate the
ideal interest rate, the Bank of Canada’s benchmark should be
about 2 percent, 1 percentage point higher than it is, according
to  Camilla Sutton   and  Sacha Tihanyi , currency strategists at
Bank of Nova Scotia. The U.S. federal funds rate is 1.75
percentage points above its Taylor rule recommendation, which is
below zero.  The combined difference of 2.75 percentage points indicates
the two central banks will continue on opposite paths, with the
Bank of Canada raising rates and the Fed providing stimulus,
Toronto-based Sutton and Tihanyi wrote in a research note.  ‘Unusual Uncertainty’  Carney said today major headwinds facing the country’s
economy, and “unusual” uncertainty surrounding the economic
outlook, mean the central bank needs to be cautious in raising
interest rates further.  “The unusual uncertainty surrounding the outlook warrants
caution,” Carney, 45, said today in the text of a speech in
Windsor, Ontario. “With risks of a renewed U.S. slowdown, with
constraints beginning to bind growth in emerging economies, and
with domestic considerations that will slow consumption and
housing activity in Canada, any further reduction in monetary
stimulus would need to be carefully considered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  