-- Carney May Cut Interest-Rate Outlook by Stressing Stalling Canada Economy
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-09-30T14:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/carney-may-cut-interest-rate-outlook-by-stressing-stalling-canada-economy.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
may underscore concern the recovery is stalling and signal a 
pause in interest-rate  increases  in a speech that follows the 
first monthly economic contraction in almost a year.  Carney, 45, who raised the policy  rate  three straight
times, has said further moves would be “carefully considered”
given “unusual uncertainty” about the outlook. He may
elaborate in a speech on “Employment in a Modest Recovery” at
12:35 p.m. New York time, or at a later press conference. 
Earlier today, Statistics Canada reported the economy shrank 
in July for the first time in 11 months.  The Bank of Canada became the first Group of Seven central
bank to raise rates after the global recession, while the U.S.
Federal Reserve has signaled more stimulus may be needed. The
speech in Windsor, Ontario -- across the border from Detroit --
comes less than three weeks before the central bank’s Oct. 19
interest rate announcement, at which investors price in a  16
percent  chance of another increase.  “It costs the Bank of Canada nothing to take a pause in
October,” said  Derek Holt , vice-president of economics at Bank
of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto. “Growth has
come in materially weaker than the Bank of Canada” forecast, he
said, pointing to a “disturbing degree of coincident
deterioration” in economic indicators.  ‘Substantial Downgrade’  Today’s speech may stress that weakness in the U.S. is
hurting Canada’s exports, and that may begin to affect domestic
demand, said  Derek Burleton , senior economist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank.  “If the Bank of Canada is considering a more substantial
downgrade to their forecasts than what they applied at the last
fixed announcement date, this might be an opportunity,”
Burleton said. The central bank has already cut its forecast for
third-quarter growth twice this year, and in its Sept. 8
statement said the recovery would be “slightly more gradual”
than it forecast in July.  “Our level of short-term concern has probably gone up a
bit,” said  Michael Sabia , chief executive officer of the Caisse
de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada’s biggest pension fund
manager. While Canada is “a little better off” than other
countries, it can’t be completely insulated from difficulties
elsewhere, Sabia said in a Sept. 28 interview. “At the end of
the day, an open economy is an open economy.”  ‘A Struggle’  Canadian  retail , wholesale and manufacturing sales all
unexpectedly fell in July and the country’s trade deficit
widened to the biggest gap since at least 1971.  “The early indications really don’t look much better for
August,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit. “For the economy as a
whole it’s going to be a struggle to even grow better than 1.5
percent in the third quarter.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said slower growth won’t
trigger a new round of government spending, and he plans to end
a two-year, C$47 billion stimulus package in March. The central
bank expects spending restraint by governments will cut growth
by 0.2 percentage point next year.  CIBC World Markets last week cut its 2011 growth forecast
citing weak consumer spending and U.S. exports, and said Carney
won’t raise rates again until the second quarter of next year.  “Don’t be too surprised if Governor Carney takes a more
dovish tone in his speech,” said  Krishen Rangasamy , an
economist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto.  Auto Layoffs  One obstacle to a full economic recovery is the subject of
Carney’s speech: employment. Canada’s jobless rate was 8.1
percent in August, greater than the 6.1 percent two years
earlier as Canada went into a recession.  Carney’s event will take place a 10-minute drive away from
the Canadian headquarters of Chrysler Group LLC. Windsor has
suffered from auto industry layoffs and the effects of a high
Canadian dollar that’s deterred U.S. visitors. The city’s
unemployment rate, 11.1 percent in August, was the country’s
highest. Chrysler and General Motors Co., which closed its  last 
factory in Windsor in July, emerged from bankruptcy last year.  The prospects for renewed demand from American customers
across the Detroit River aren’t good -- the Federal Reserve said
on Sept. 21 the pace of recovery and U.S. job growth have
“slowed in recent months” and said it may need to ease
monetary policy further to spur growth and support prices.  “Carney is coming at a time when the businesses in our
region are in a transition mode,” said Jennifer Jones,
chairwoman of the city’s chamber of commerce and president of
Media Street Productions Inc. “Access to capital is a crucial
aspect of our success and we would recommend the Bank of Canada
lay low until the economic recovery, particularly in the U.S.,
gets some traction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 