-- McDonald's Seeks Waiver Over New Health-Care Law, Official Says
-- B y   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-09-30T04:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/mcdonald-s-seeks-health-care-waiver-may-seek-alternative-plan-for-workers.html
McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, asked federal health-care regulators
to waive part of a new law that may force the company to seek an
alternative insurance plan for some workers, an official said.  McDonald’s doesn’t plan to drop  health-care  coverage for
employees, said  Danya Proud , a spokeswoman for the Oak Brook,
Illinois-based company, in an interview yesterday. She declined
to provide a memo sent to U.S. Health and Human Services in
which McDonald’s requested the waiver, saying the correspondence
is proprietary. The company doesn’t know how many employees
could be affected if a change is made, Proud said.  The law is intended to provide  health insurance  coverage to
32 million uninsured people by 2019, reduce Medicare spending by
about $455 billion over the next decade and create new programs
to change the way medical care is  paid for . It also implements
new consumer protections and overhauls  insurance company 
business practices.  “We’re not going to walk away from health-care insurance
completely, but we’re going to have to look for alternatives if
we can’t get the resolution we’re seeking from Health and Human
Services,” Proud said.  McDonald’s told federal regulators that it may drop health
insurance for almost 30,000 hourly restaurant workers unless a
requirement in the law is waived, the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday, citing a company letter to the U.S. Health
and Human Services. The story isn’t correct, said Jessica
Santillo, a spokeswoman for the department in Washington.  No Guidance Issued  “The new law provides significant flexibility to maintain
coverage for workers,” Santillo said in an e-mailed statement.
“Guidance on the new medical loss ratio rules has not even been
issued,” she said, referring to another provision of the law
that could affect McDonald’s insurance plans.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is working with
businesses such as McDonald’s that are committed to providing
health benefits to protect coverage for employees, she said.  The government may allow some low-cost plans like those
offered at McDonald’s, which have limited benefits, to get
waivers from the health law’s insurance requirements, according
to a Sept. 3 Health and Human Services  memo . Those requirements
were waived for McDonald’s on Sept. 24, Santillo said.  “In order to ensure that individuals with certain coverage,
including coverage under limited benefit or mini-med plans,
would not be denied access to needed services or experience more
than a minimal impact on premiums, the interim final regulations
contemplated a waiver process,” the Health and Human Services
Department said earlier this month.  Caps Removed  Without a waiver, plans like McDonald’s would have to
comply with provisions in the law that include requiring health
plans to remove caps on how much patients can be paid in
benefits in a year before their coverage stops, according to the
Sept. 3 government memo.  Annual caps and lifetime limits are being eliminated in an
overhaul of health care as a way to ensure traditional insurance
plans didn’t drop patients’ coverage when they needed it most,
in the middle of a serious illness. However, the mandates may be
too expensive to be practical for low-cost plans, the government
said in the September memo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Duane Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  