-- CFTC Swaps Proposal May Force Ownership Changes at LCH.Clearnet, Tradeweb
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/cftc-plan-may-force-ownership-changes-at-lch-clearnet-tradeweb.html
LCH.Clearnet Ltd., Tradeweb Markets
LLC, NYSE Euronext and other companies may be forced to change
their ownership structure under proposed rules by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  The CFTC is considering capping ownership stakes in swaps
clearinghouses, exchanges and trading systems at 20 percent for
individual banks and other users of derivatives, people familiar
with the matter said yesterday. The CFTC, which will  present  its
first proposed rules tomorrow for the $615 trillion over-the-
counter derivatives market, may not grant exemptions for
existing companies, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks haven’t been made public  “What is an LCH.Clearnet going to do, that’s almost
completely dealer-owned?” said  Kevin McPartland , a senior
analyst with Tabb Group in New York. “I can’t see how they’d
expect that kind of massive divestiture of these clearinghouses
that control trillions of notional” in swaps trades, he said.  The rules are still being formed and may change before
they’re released, one of the people said. Groups made up of bank
holding companies, non-bank financial firms, major swaps users
or dealers may not own more than 40 percent of clearinghouses,
the people said. Another option for clearinghouses is that
restricted owners would have no limits on a combined stake if
none of them exceed 5 percent, they said.  Effort Opposed  Representative  Stephen Lynch , a Massachusetts Democrat,
proposed a similar plan last year that wasn’t enacted. The
effort was opposed by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, and the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association, two banking groups, as well as by the Futures
Industry Association, Wall Street’s industry group for exchange-
traded derivatives.  “If they were against the Lynch amendment then you can
guess the banks will be against this new proposal,” said
 Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at Stanford University in
Palo Alto, California.  London’s LCH.Clearnet owns the world’s largest interest-
rate swap clearinghouse and is majority-held by banks. Tradeweb,
a derivatives trading platform, is a partnership between Thomson
Reuters Corp. and banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News,
competes with Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal
information and trading systems.  LCH.Clearnet already has a 5 percent ownership limit for
voting rights in place,  Andrea Schlaepfer , a spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed comment. “Clearing houses are systemically
important and should have a diverse ownership as well rigorous
oversight from regulators.”  Public Comment  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members,
increase stability in OTC derivatives markets because they
lessen the effect of a default by sharing risk among the
members. They also use daily margining procedures to keep
accounts current and allow regulators to see market positions
and prices.  Scott Schneider , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.
Clayton McGratty, a Tradeweb spokesman, and  Eric Ryan , a
spokesman for New York-based NYSE Euronext, declined to comment.  The CFTC plans to ask for public comment on whether there
should be a collective ownership level established for regulated
exchanges and swap-execution facilities, similar to the
aggregate level for clearinghouses, the people said.  The proposals reflect “a general distrust by the
Commission of the banks to embrace regulatory changes in the OTC
derivatives market,” said  Robert Webb , a finance professor at
the University of Virginia. “This distrust is understandable
given the weaknesses in certain segments of the OTC derivatives
market highlighted during the financial crisis.”  Conflict of Interest  Lynch wanted last year to contain conflict-of-interest
issues by limiting banks’ ownership of swaps companies they must
use to clear trades under new regulations designed to overhaul
Wall Street and reduce systemic risk. His amendment was stripped
from legislation before final passage, with Congress giving the
CFTC the authority to set limits.  Lynch said at the time that he was concerned that the banks
would limit which types of trades they accept for clearing.
Dealers earn higher profits when trades are executed in the
unregulated over-the-counter market, which doesn’t use
clearinghouses.  U.S. lawmakers sought to regulate swaps through the Dodd-
Frank bill passed in July after the trades complicated efforts
to solve the financial crisis. In most cases regulators have
until July 2011 to write the new guidelines, which mandate that
most interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps be processed
by clearinghouses after being traded on exchanges or swap-
execution facilities.  Temporary Exemptions  Under Lynch’s plan, companies in existence as of Jan. 1,
2010 wouldn’t have been affected if their ownership doesn’t
change. That grandfathering may not exist in the proposed CFTC
rules, with firms having two years or two elections for boards
of directors, to come under compliance, the people said.  Clearinghouses may be allowed to file temporary exemptions
to the CFTC related to the ownership rules, the people said.  “It just doesn’t seem practical,” McPartland said,
referring to the two-year time frame. “It’s too extreme,
especially in the short term.”  One issue that needs to be determined is how the CFTC
defines the type of companies which will face the ownership
restrictions. The commission is now deciding how to write the
definitions of “swaps dealer” and “major swap participants,”
both categories of market users that will face stricter
oversight. Those same companies will face the ownership
restrictions, according to the  Dodd-Frank Act .  Board Composition  The CFTC will also propose that 35 percent of the board of
directors of clearinghouses, exchanges and swap-execution
facilities be made up of directors who have no ties to the
industry, known as public directors, the people said. The
commission plans to ask for public comment on whether that level
should be increased to 51 percent, the people said.  The composition of the board will apply to the regulated
entity, such as a clearinghouse, and to the parent company, they
said.  Tradeweb , based in New York, also partners with Morgan
Stanley, Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., Credit Suisse
Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Barclays Plc.  Other companies that are bank-owned or majority-controlled
by banks include NYSE Euronext’s new exchange, NYSE Liffe U.S.,
which signed an agreement last year to sell stakes to Goldman
Sachs, Morgan Stanley and UBS, among other financial firms.  Banks own more than 20 percent of FXall, an online
currency-trading network based in New York, while six of the 10
owners of Kansas City, Missouri-based BATS Global Markets,
operator of the third-largest U.S. stock market, are brokers.  A call to the New York office of FXall was answered by a
recording saying it was after business hours.  Randy Williams , a
BATS spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  