-- Chelsea Owner Demands English, European Titles This Year: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-09-30T10:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/chelsea-owner-demands-english-european-titles-this-year-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Roman Demands  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  is demanding that the team
win the Premier League and Champions League this season, captain
John Terry said, according to  the Sun .  The Russian has spent more than 1 billion pounds ($1.58
billion) on the club since 2003, and told players at the
beginning of the season that “he wants to win everything,”
Terry said.  City Target  Manchester City is targeting Israeli teenager Gai Assulin,
who canceled his contract with Barcelona, the  Daily Mirror said.   The 19-year-old is coming to England for a physical exam
after impressing City coach  Roberto Mancini ’s staff on a
previous visit, the newspaper said. The Italian plans to bring
the player into his squad as soon as possible, it added.  Sousa Struggles  Leicester manager  Paulo Sousa  has one match to save his job
after the team won only one of its first nine league matches,
and is last in the Championship,  the Daily Mail said .  The Foxes, who reached the league playoffs last season
under  Nigel Pearson , face Scunthorpe at home this weekend.  Rio Deposed?  England manager  Fabio Capello  may allow Liverpool’s  Steven Gerrard  to remain captain, dumping defender  Rio Ferdinand ,  the
Sun said.   Ferdinand’s frequent injuries have meant he’s no longer
captain at Manchester United, and Gerrard has shown leadership
since taking over the national team, the newspaper said.  Van Damme Homesick  Defender  Jelle van Damme , who joined Wolves four months
ago, is homesick and may not last out his three-year contract,
 the Mirror said.   The Belgian signed a 2.5 million-pound contract before the
season, and the 26-year-old says he misses his homeland and that
his former club, Anderlecht, “will always be” his team, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 