-- Business Activity in U.S. Unexpectedly Accelerates
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R   H o m a n
-- 2010-09-30T20:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/chicago-ism-business-activity-index-unexpectedly-rose-to-60-4-in-september.html
Business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly accelerated and fewer workers filed claims for
jobless benefits, easing concern the world’s largest economy is
retrenching further.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  business barometer  climbed to 60.4 in September, exceeding
the highest estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The number of  applicants  for unemployment insurance payments
fell more than projected last week, another report showed.  Manufacturing figures tomorrow and next week’s September
jobs report will need to confirm that a further slowdown in the
economy has been averted in order to reassure Federal Reserve
policy makers, who last week said they were willing to take more
steps to spur growth. As firings abate, employers aren’t adding
enough workers to reduce an  unemployment rate  that’s hovering
near 10 percent.  “There are still significant headwinds that remain,” said
 Michael Gapen , a senior U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc.
in New York. “It’s a moderate recovery. We see the Fed as being
on a meeting-to-meeting basis at this point.”  Stocks fell, trimming the biggest September rally since
1939, as investors sold the month’s best-performing shares. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to 1,141.2 at the 4
p.m. close in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note
was little changed compared with late yesterday at 2.51 percent.  Readings greater than 50 for the ISM-Chicago index signal
expansion. The  median forecast  of 57 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the gauge would fall to 55.5. Estimates
ranged from 53.6 to 58.3.  More Orders  The group’s measures of orders and production rose above
their six-month averages, indicating corporate investment in new
equipment will remain a source of strength for the economy.  “After a soft patch, manufacturing is in a process of
mustering some activity,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial
economist at Jefferies & Co. in New York. “It seems to be
moving in the right direction again and that will help the
economy continue to grow.” McCarthy forecast the Chicago index
would rise to 58.  Automakers including Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor
Co.  are among manufacturers seeing sales picking up while
holding below pre-recession levels.  “The auto business is pretty steady and coming back up a
little bit,” Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  told
reporters in Ann Arbor, Michigan, on Sept. 17. The economy “is
coming back slower than past recessions.”  Outlook Nationally  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the outlook
nationally. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge of measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the U.S.
and abroad.  Today’s report was at odds with other measures of
manufacturing that showed a slowdown. Another report today
showed factories in the Milwaukee region stagnated. Regional Fed
surveys earlier this month showed  New York-region  factories
expanded in September at the slowest pace this year, while those
in the Philadelphia area shrank for a second month.  The ISM’s monthly national  factory index , due tomorrow, may
drop to 54.5 in September, the lowest reading in 10 months,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.  Fewer Claims  The number of applications for jobless benefits dropped by
16,000 to 453,000 in the week ended Sept. 25, Labor Department
figures showed. The total number of people on benefit rolls and
those getting extended payments also fell in the prior week, the
report showed.  Companies in August added 67,000 workers to payrolls while
total employment fell by 54,000, the Labor Department said
earlier this month. Unemployment rose to 9.6 percent, and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast joblessness will hold
near that level for the rest of the year.  “Employers are still kind of cautious,” said Russell
 Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
Detroit, who forecasted claims would fall to 455,000. “We need
to regain that broader momentum in the economy, and something
like that is just slow to develop.”  The economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, revised figures from the Commerce Department also
showed today. The increase in gross domestic product compares
with a 1.6 percent estimate issued last month. GDP grew 3.7
percent in the first three months of the year and 5 percent at
the end of 2009.  Little Pickup  Economists surveyed this month projected little pickup in
growth for the rest of the year as joblessness hobbles consumer
spending and housing languishes around record lows.  “We have a slow-growing economy,” said  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “What
we’re getting will do nothing to bring down the unemployment
rate. The improvement in the labor market is very slow.”  The economy is a top issue for voters in the November
congressional elections, and polls show the public is
increasingly skeptical of President  Barack Obama ’s performance.
Earlier this week, Obama signed legislation that will cut taxes
and provide credit help for small businesses, calling it an
essential step for job growth in a slow economy.  -- With assistance from Shobhana Chandra in Washington and Keith
Naughton in Southfield, Michigan. Editors:  Carlos Torres , Vince Golle   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 