-- Chile Peso Rises to 27-Month High on Rates, Economic Growth
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-09-30T21:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/chilean-peso-increases-to-a-27-month-high-on-speculation-fed-may-buy-bonds.html
Chile’s peso rose to a 27-month
high after its strongest quarter since 2008 as the central bank
 raised rates  and economic growth accelerated.  The peso gained for an eighth day today, rising 0.4 percent
to 483.55 per dollar, the strongest since June 9, 2008, from
485.6 yesterday. The peso rose 13 percent in the quarter, more
than any other major Latin American currency tracked by
Bloomberg, from 546.04 on June 30.  Following an earthquake in February, South America’s fifth-
largest economy has rebounded, growing at the fastest pace in
 five years , with money flowing into the country from insurers
and government bond sales. The central bank, after cutting
borrowing costs to a  record low  amid a recession, lifted
interest rates by 2 percentage points in four months, furthering
bolstering the currency.  “The peso has appreciated substantially,” said  Igor Arsenin , a strategist at Credit Suisse Group in New York.
“Going forward, there’ll be pressure to intervene. However, the
central bank may decide that the peso is doing some of the work
for them, and that they’re only going to raise the rate by 25
basis points at the October meeting.”  The rising peso has tamed expectations for inflation as
prices for Chilean imports, such as oil and gas, fall. Yields on
inflation-linked central bank bonds rose to the highest since
May today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on a basket of inflation-linked bonds due in 10
years rose eight basis points to 3.09 percent today, a 50 basis
point increase on the month.  “This rise reflects the decline in inflation expectations
in the short term,” said  Aldo Lema , chief economist at Banco
Security in Santiago. “Breakeven inflation has been declining
and that has impacted the long end of the curve.”  Chile’s inflation forwards market is pricing in a 3.08
percent increase in consumer prices this year, down from 3.15
percent yesterday and a high of 4.02 percent in July, according
to Banco Santander SA prices.  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  