-- Chile Unemployment Rate Unchanged at 8.3 Percent in Three Months to August
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2010-09-30T16:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/chile-unemployment-rate-unchanged-at-8-3-percent-in-three-months-to-august.html
Chile’s jobless rate remained
higher than expected in the three months through August as the
number of people entering the labor force offset gains in
employment.  Unemployment in the South American country held steady at
8.3 percent, the National Statistics Institute said today in
Santiago. The median forecast of 13 economists  surveyed by
Bloomberg  was for a jobless rate of 8.2 percent.  Unemployment generally increases in the winter months of
June through August as the agriculture industry sheds jobs,
 Alejandro Puente , an economist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, said. The jobless rate probably will fall as the
economy continues to grow this year, rounding out 2010 at about
7.5 percent, he said in an interview from Santiago.  “It’s significant that unemployment stayed at these levels
and in the future employment should increase, especially in a
sector that continues to lag behind others -- construction,” he
said. “At the same time, in coming months we should see
seasonal increases in sectors like retail.”  The Chilean peso rose 0.4 percent to 483.86 per dollar at
11:46 a.m. New York time. The currency has gained 4.9 percent
this year, the second-most among major Latin America currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Colombian peso.  Chile’s  unemployment rate  opened the year at 9.7 percent,
falling below 9 percent for the first time in 2010 in the three
months through April.  Construction Jobs  The construction industry shed 4,300 jobs in the three
months through August as government building programs after a
Feb. 27 earthquake faced delays, Puente said. Hiring could
increase as efforts accelerate, he said.  Roughly 18,500 public employees lost their jobs in the
three months through August, while the transport, storage and
communications industries together shed 5,290 jobs, the
institute said in the report. The manufacturing industry hired
15,200 workers and retailers created 7,150 jobs, it said.  Chile’s economy is set to expand by as much as 5.5 percent
this year, the fastest pace since 2005, the central bank said in
its latest quarterly monetary report. The International Monetary
Fund estimates the economy will grow 5 percent this year after
contracting 1.5 percent in 2009.  The economy grew 6.5 percent in the second quarter this
year and a faster-than-expected 7.1 percent in July from a year
earlier. The economy will grow 8 percent in August, the fastest
increase since 2004, according to the median forecast of three
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . Chile’s central bank is
scheduled to publish August economic data Oct. 5.  Pessimistic  Unemployed Chileans are increasingly pessimistic about
finding a job, Santiago-based research group Libertad &
Desarrollo said in a Sept. 29 report. Fifty-three percent of
those polled are optimistic they can find work, down from 59
percent in a June poll and 67 percent in March, the report said.  Optimism continues to increase among the employed,
according to the study. Sixty-eight percent of those polled said
they have little or very little fear of losing their jobs, up
from 62 percent in both March and June and 54 percent in
December, Libertad & Desarrollo said.  Conducted in September, the poll of 1,054 people had a
margin of error of four percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  