-- China National Nuclear Plans to List Newly Formed Unit, Power News Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-30T03:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/china-national-nuclear-may-list-newly-formed-unit-power-news-reports.html
China National Nuclear Corp. , the
country’s biggest builder of reactors, is planning to list a
newly formed unit, state-backed China Power News  reported ,
without citing anybody.  The unit, established this year, will be responsible for
getting investment financing, plant operation, and research and
development, said the newspaper, run by the State Electricity
Regulatory Commission. It didn’t say where the unit may be
listed. Pan Jianmin, a Beijing-based spokesman for the parent,
couldn’t be immediately reached on his office phone for comment.  China is developing its own brand of nuclear technology as
the world’s biggest polluter expands its fleet of atomic plants
to cut reliance on more polluting coal, which fuels 80 percent
of the nation’s power plants. The country also wants to export
reactors as global demand for nuclear power grows.  “We hope to qualify for listing in the first half of next
year,” China Power News reported, citing Chen Hua, general
manager of the unit. “We’re conducting preparatory work
according to procedures required by the China Securities
Regulatory Commission and relevant departments.”  China National Nuclear is also seeking “strategic
investment” in the unit before the year-end, Chen was cited as
saying. The unit holds stakes in six of the group’s generation
subsidiaries.  Separately, rival atomic builder  China Nuclear Engineering
Group Co.  hopes to list in China by the end of 2011, China Power
News said in the same report, citing Zu Bin, vice general
manager of the Beijing-based company. The listing plan has been
submitted to the State Council, or Cabinet, for approval, the
newspaper said.  -- Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Ryan Woo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 