-- China Frees Three of Four Japanese Citizens Held After Territorial Dispute
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-09-30T07:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/china-releases-3-of-4-japanese-citizens-detained-after-territorial-dispute.html
China released three of four
Japanese detained last week for allegedly videotaping military
targets, a sign tensions sparked by a shipping collision in
disputed waters earlier this month may be easing.  “Three of the four have been released,” Japan’s Foreign
Minister  Seiji Maehara  said in parliament today. “It’s not
clear why these four people were detained. We are calling for an
early resolution regarding the remaining person.”  The arrests exacerbated a sovereignty dispute between
Asia’s two biggest economies over uninhabited islands in the
East China Sea that threatened bilateral trade. Maehara said
yesterday that China could take an important “first step” in
repairing ties by releasing the four men, employees of
construction company Fujita Corp.  The three men were freed after admitting they violated
Chinese law and expressing regret, China’s state-run Xinhua News
Agency said. The fourth man, Sadamu Takahashi, remains under
house arrest in northern Heibei Province, Xinhua said.  Japan last week released the captain of a Chinese fishing
trawler it had detained for 17 days after his boat collided with
two Coast Guard vessels near the contested islands. His
repatriation failed to assuage China, which disrupted exports to
Japan and demanded compensation. Japan countered by calling on
China to pay for repairs to the patrol boats.  Chemical Weapons Disposal  The Fujita employees were in China preparing for a project
to dispose of chemical weapons abandoned by the Japanese
military in China during World War II, the company said in a
Sept. 24 statement.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  earlier today in
parliament apologized to the public for “causing concern” over
the China spat. He reiterated the country’s claim over the
islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and  Senkaku  in Japanese.  “Territorial problems don’t exist between Japan and
China,” Kan said.  Sovereignty over the area would give the holder rights to
undersea gas and oil reserves. China and Japan have yet to
implement a 2008 agreement to jointly develop the fields.  A Chinese government spokeswoman said Japan should “stop
making irresponsible remarks” a day after Maehara said China
had unnecessarily exacerbated tension over the incident.  Japan should “safeguard the larger interests of bilateral
relations with concrete actions,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
 Jiang Yu  said in Beijing. She reiterated China’s claims over the
islands and said any actions taken in regard to the natural gas
fields nearby is “lawful and reasonable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  