-- China’s Stocks Rise, Capping Quarterly Gain; Developers Rally
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-30T07:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-property-market-crackdown-yuan-legislation.html
China’s stocks  rose, capping their
first quarterly gain this year, on speculation government
measures to tame real-estate prices will remove uncertainty over
tightening and prevent asset bubbles from hurting the economy.  China Vanke Co.  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led an index
of property stocks to its biggest gain in four months after
Citigroup Inc. said the measures, including the introduction of
a trial property tax, have “partially settled” policy
uncertainties. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s
third-largest by assets, advanced for the first time in two
weeks.  Zijin Mining Group Co.  and Zhongjin Gold Corp. climbed
more than 3 percent after bullion prices rose to a record.  “The current stock prices of property companies already
reflect expectations of very strict crackdown measures,” said
 Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.
“The market will now form a good outlook for the economy.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 44.98, or 1.7 percent, to
2,655.66 as of 3 p.m., the most since Aug. 16. The  CSI 300 Index 
added 2.1 percent to 2,935.57. China’s markets will be closed
from tomorrow until Oct. 7 for the National Day holiday.  The Shanghai index climbed 11 percent this quarter on signs
the nation’s economic slowdown is stabilizing including data
yesterday showing manufacturing accelerated for a second month.
Still, the gauge has plunged 19 percent this year, the world’s
third-worst performer, as the government imposed tightening
measures ranging from restrictions on multi-house purchases to a
22 percent cutback on annual new lending by banks. The
government started tightening earlier this year in order to
prevent asset bubbles from unraveling the economy.  Property Tax  A  gauge  of property stocks under the Shanghai Composite
jumped 3.9 percent, the most since May 24 and paring its loss to
27 percent this year.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer,
climbed 7.6 percent to 8.40 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second
biggest, gained 8.9 percent to 12.36 yuan. Gemdale Corp., the
fourth largest, rallied 5.2 percent to 6.42 yuan.  China will speed up the introduction of a trial property
tax in some cities and then expand the levy to the whole country
to curb rising real estate prices, the government said in a
statement on its website yesterday, without giving a timetable.  The state also asked commercial banks to stop offering
loans to buyers of third homes and extended a 30 percent down
payment requirement to all first-home buyers, according to the
statement.  A measure of developers and banks in the CSI 300 rose 2.7
percent, the second most among the 10 industry groups, after
Morgan Stanley reiterated its “overweight” ratings for the two
groups.  AgriBank  led gains for banks, advancing 3.2 percent to 2.61
yuan. China Merchants Bank Co. rose 2.3 percent to 12.95 yuan.
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co., the Chinese partner of
Citigroup Inc., gained 3.8 percent to 12.96 yuan.  Lacks Substance  “‘We do not think there is much substance in the latest
property tightening policies, except the requirement of a 10
percent higher down-payment ratio, announced overnight, and we
believe the likely negative market response provides an
opportunity to buy the properties and related sectors,”  Jerry Lou  and  Allen Gui , Morgan Stanley analysts, wrote in a note.  China’s property stocks have already fully priced in
government measures to tame real-estate prices and the effects
of yesterday’s policy tightening are limited, according to China
International Capital Corp. Investors should buy and hold shares
of “branded” property companies by taking advantage of low
share prices, CICC said in a report today. Excessive liquidity
is the root cause of gains in housing prices, it said.  Property prices  in 70 major cities rose 9.3 percent in
August from a year earlier, prompting the government to extend a
crackdown on speculators and multiple home purchases. The state
may implement the property tax soon in cities including Shanghai,
Shenzhen and Chongqing, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Policy Uncertainty  The tightening measures have “partially settled” policy
uncertainties, according to Citigroup. The effects from the
additional measures “may not be that significant” and a
meaningful decline in sales is unlikely, according to a report
by  Oscar Choi  and  Marco Sze . Property stocks have already
factored in most of the bad news and investors should add to
their positions in bigger developers including Vanke, it said.  Policy uncertainty was cited by UBS AG as one of the
market’s major concerns that may keep stocks “range bound” in
the next couple of months.  The yuan weakened for the first time in 13 days on
speculation China won’t accelerate appreciation in response to
the threat of U.S. trade sanctions.  Yuan Legislation  The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation
prodding China to raise the value of the yuan, as Democratic
lawmakers pressed election-season proposals they said would
increase factory employment. The measure on China’s currency
passed 348-79, with 99 Republicans voting with Democrats. It’s
the first time the House passed such legislation after years of
vows to do so by lawmakers in industrial states such as Ohio,
Michigan and Pennsylvania.  Zijin Mining, China’s largest gold producer, surged 8.8
percent to 7.27 yuan. Zhongjin Gold, the second biggest, climbed
3.8 percent to 39.22 yuan. Gold futures rose to a record for the
ninth time since mid-September as the slumping dollar boosted
demand for the precious metal as an alternative investment.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editor:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  