-- China's Dagong Ratings Firm Still Aims to Enter U.S. Market After Rebuff
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-30T04:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/china-ratings-company-still-aims-to-enter-u-s-market-after-sec-rejection.html
Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. 
said it will press ahead with plans to enter the U.S. after the
Securities and Exchange Commission rejected its application to
be an approved debt rating service.  Dagong is urging China’s securities regulator to talk to
the U.S. government and enable the company to comply with U.S.
laws that require direct access to its books, Chairman Guan
Jianzhong said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. Of the 10
firms U.S. regulators have approved, two are Japanese and one is
Canadian, according to a list by the SEC.  “There is an objective need for Dagong to go
international,” Guan said. “As one of the main world
creditors, the basic credit conditions overseas and the state of
assets are very important to the sustainable development of
China. In this post-crisis era we can change the layout of the
international credit ratings industry.”  The SEC turned down the firm’s December request in a Sept.
22 order, in part because it couldn’t reliably ensure the
Beijing company would comply with U.S. reporting rules, which
include the ability to carry out on-site inspections. Dagong
said requests for records required under U.S. law would have to
go through the  China Securities Regulatory Commission , which
would collect the documents.  ‘State Secrets’  The Chinese regulator could withhold anything considered
“state secrets” or information of “vital interest to relevant
securities companies,” the SEC said in  its order . This
“potential information vacuum” undermines reporting rules, the
commission said.  Dagong is considering taking legal action against the
order, Guan said, though the SEC has made it into a government
dialogue by focusing on cross-border regulation. “We hope that
the Chinese government can take hold of this problem,” he said.
“From the beginning they have supported it.”  Guan said the company could avoid the issue of state
secrets, adding that was “not the main problem.” Once Dagong
enters the U.S., its unit would be regulated like local credit
rating firms, he said.  Guan said Dagong will open an office in Hong Kong by next
year to rate yuan-denominated bonds issued in the territory.  Of China’s three largest credit rating agencies, Dagong,
founded in 1994, is the only one without a foreign partner.
Guan, whose company charges for ratings services, said Dagong
would offer another viewpoint on credit risk.  “The whole world invests in America and relies on the
three large credit ratings firms,” he said. “If we go, we can
see risk from a different angle and give investors another
choice.”  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Tom Kohn ,  Ed Johnson   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  