-- Chronic Bubble Phobia Has German Investors Shunning Stocks, Playing Safe
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-09-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/chronic-bubble-phobia-means-german-investors-shun-putting-money-in-stocks.html
At 79, Karl-Friedrich Markwort is old
enough to remember the postwar economic collapse that left
German currency and equities all but worthless. So it might not
seem surprising that Markwort, a retiree in the Frankfurt suburb
of Bad Soden, steers clear of stocks.  He was lured into the market once, during the 1990s
Internet boom, because he wanted to own “the businesses of the
future,” he says. By the time  Deutsche Telekom AG , Germany’s
biggest phone company, spun off part of its T-Online unit in an
April 2000 public offering, Markwort was eager to own 500
shares. “I was lucky because I was only allocated 35,” he says.
He later sold them for a 50 percent loss. “I don’t trust the
stock market now,” he adds. “I wouldn’t invest there anymore.”  In Düsseldorf, 44-year-old Reinhard Strueven feels the same
way. His re-tirement plan consists of a pension, a bank account,
an investment apartment -- and no equities, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Oct. 4 issue. Max Ruehle, 30, a
furniture store owner in Wiesbaden who lost 30,000 euros
($38,424) on stocks from 2001 to 2005, also stashes his cash in
the bank. “If I want to play with money, then I go to a casino,”
he says.  When it comes to investing, many Germans are uncomfortable
taking risks. Only 6 percent directly owned stocks in the first
half of 2010, according to  Deutsches Aktien-institut  (DAI), a
shareholder lobby association, whereas stock ownership for the
French is 15 percent and 10 percent for Britons, according to
official figures.  Financial Assets  Only 9.4 percent of the German population owned shares of
mutual funds in the first half of 2010, versus 44 percent of
households in the U.S. in 2009. At the end of 2009 stock
investments represented 3.9 percent of the financial assets of
German households, the lowest level since at least 1991. Instead
of stocks, Germans have 28 percent of their assets invested in
life insurance products, 18 percent in cash and short-term
deposits, and 20 percent in bank deposits.  Some of Germans’ reluctance to sink their money into
equities is a result of the structure of the retail banking
system, which is dominated by locally owned savings banks and
cooperative lenders. As a result, investment advice tends to be
more conservative than in other Western economies.  Local Power  The banks “have a different type of governance, with more
local power,” said Andreas Hackethal, a professor of finance at
Frankfurt’s Goethe University. “People know each other, and
that’s an incentive to be more conservative as advisers don’t
want to risk personal relationships.”  As well as the 2003 implosion of the Neuer Markt -- a
technology-focused market started four years before -- there was
also a series of money-losing IPOs to frighten people away from
stocks: In 1996 the Kohl government privatized Deutsche Telekom,
and shares  surged  from the equivalent of 14.57 euros in the
public offering to its high of 103.5 euros in March 2000, before
the dot-com bust shattered the price, and Germany’s fragile
investing confidence along with it.  Today, Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom still trades below its
IPO value. Shares of  Deutsche Post AG , Europe’s biggest mail
carrier which also has its headquarters in Bonn, followed a
similar pattern, selling for 21 euros each in a 2000 IPO.
They’re now worth little more than half that.  Since German reunification in October 1990, the  DAX Index 
has more than quadrupled in value, confounding skeptics who said
the costs of subsidizing East Germany’s crippled economy would
cause years of stagnation. So far this year, German stocks have
performed better than those in most developed nations.  Still, Germans aren’t going for it. “The thinking of the
broad population,” says DAI director  Franz-Josef Leven , “is that
shares are here to lose money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net .
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  