-- Cigna, Restaurants Seek Low-Wage Health-Plan Waivers
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g ,   B u r t   H e l m   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-09-30T21:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/cigna-restaurants-seek-health-law-waivers-on-covering-low-wage-employees.html
U.S. restaurants have asked the
federal government to waive health overhaul rules that may force
companies to abandon  low-cost  “mini-med” plans that insure 1.4
million minimum-wage and part-time employees.  Cigna Corp ., the Philadelphia-based health insurer, has
also asked for a waiver on behalf of its “limited-benefit”
customers, and expects to hear back soon from federal officials,
Gloria Barone Rosario, a spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.
She declined to name the clients involved.  McDonald’s Corp.,  the world’s largest restaurant chain,
yesterday said it may be forced to seek alternative plans to
cover 30,000 workers if it can’t get a waiver. The companies are
seeking exemptions from two health-law mandates. One requires
plans to spend at least 80 percent of member premiums on medical
care. The other bans companies from capping yearly coverage for
each worker. Mini-med programs are designed to offer a low-cost
way to cover part-time employees with limited benefits.  Without waivers, “mini-med plans would either no longer be
offered or lead to a significant increase in premiums,” the
 National Restaurant Association  wrote in an Aug. 27 letter to
U.S. health officials asking that all of its members be
exempted. “Restrictions found in the regulations would infringe
both the spirit and the letter of the law,” the letter said.  Jessica Santillo, spokeswoman for the Department of Health
and Human Services, declined to comment on waiver requests and
said she couldn’t immediately provide a list of companies that
had sought the exemptions.  UnitedHealth Plans  UnitedHealth Group Inc. , owner of the biggest U.S. insurer
by sales, offers limited plans to fewer than a dozen companies
covering “well under 1,000” employees, and hasn’t yet sought a
waiver, said  Daryl Richard , a spokesman for the Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based company.  The plans are helpful for companies with workforces that
don’t make enough to afford coverage, or for which it might be
prohibitively expensive to insure, Richard said. “It at least
provides an essential set of benefits for a portion of the
workforce that may not have typically had access” to health
coverage, Richard said.  Health insurance costs may rise as much as 500 percent for
restaurants with more than 50 employees if all employees
participate in a company-sponsored plan, said  Todd Gordon ,
president of insurance broker The Benefits Group Inc.  ‘Frightening Time’  “It’s a frightening time for any company with a small
number of salaried employees and a large number of hourly
employees,” the Atlanta-based Gordon said in a telephone
interview.  The health-care costs for franchises may rise from 1
percent of each store’s revenue to as much as 5 percent if they
hire a significant number of full-time employees, said Jordan
Krolick, president of restaurant consulting firm Tound & Drowth
LLC.  “Is it the end of the world? No. But you’ve already got
incredibly tight margins. It’s almost like paying a second
franchise fee,” Krolick said in a telephone interview.  McDonald’s , based in Oak Brook, Illinois, was granted an
exemption to one of the health-law’s provisions on Sept. 24, the
health department’s Santillo said in an e-mail. It is seeking
another waiver for the rule still being developed that requires
plans to spend at least 80 percent of premiums on medical care,
known as the “medical-loss ratio.”  ‘Significant Flexibility’  “The new law provides significant flexibility to maintain
coverage for workers,” Santillo wrote.  “HHS remains committed to implementing the law in a way
that minimizes disruption to coverage that is available today,”
Jay Angoff, who heads the department’s Office of Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight, said today in a separate
statement.  The department intends to create a similar waiver program
for the medical-loss ratio requirements, Angoff said.  More than 1,000 U.S. employers, larger and small, offer
mini-med plans, said Ronald Fontaneta, director of the health
and group-benefits division at Towers Watson & Co., a New York-
based benefits consultant.  Many of the plans cap annual benefits at levels of $2,000,
$5,000 or $10,000, he said. They often spend as little as 65
percent of premiums on medical care, because of the
administrative costs associated with their high-turnover
workforces, he said.  Top Providers  Cigna and  Aetna Inc.  are the top U.S. providers of the
plans, said Lindsay Shearer, a Cigna spokeswoman, in an e-mail.
Cigna’s plans cover about 1,700 clients and about 250,000
people, she said.  Barone Rosario, the other Cigna spokeswoman, said the
company requested a benefit-cap waiver from the health
department on behalf of its customers. She declined to name the
clients involved.  Companies have stressed “how important these programs are
to employees in this interim period between now and 2014,” she
said. That’s when the health law would expand Medicaid, the
government insurance for the poor, and offer subsidies to buy
private coverage for low-income workers who don’t qualify for
the government program.  Aetna Waiver  Aetna  has already received a waiver for some its customer
from the annual benefits cap, said  Fred Laberge , a spokesman for
the Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer. “We’ve worked with HHS
and will continue trying to ensure employers and employees in
limited-benefit plans can keep” their benefits, he said in an
interview. He couldn’t immediately say how many people Aetna
covers under the plans.  McDonald’s hint at dropping insurance may be good news for
health plans led by WellPoint and UnitedHealth, said  Jason Gurda , a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in Boston. The potential
embarrassment of workers losing coverage is likely to make the
administration more willing to waive or loosen requirements of
the law, among them the medical-spending rules, Gurda said in a
note to clients today.  Florida and other states have talked of seeking delays in
the spending requirement to keep insurance companies from
dropping out of some markets, he said.  McDonald’s letter is “exactly the type of publicity the
administration and the Democrats do not want heading into the
November elections,” Gurda wrote.  “The political risk of large companies and/or states
threatening the loss of health insurance coverage is something
the administration will want to avoid, and as a result, we
believe waivers aren’t going to be that difficult to receive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 