-- Clearwire Says Three Sprint Executives Exit Its Board
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-09-30T20:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/clearwire-board-members-cowen-elfman-and-hesse-resign.html
Clearwire Corp. , the high-speed
wireless carrier, advanced in Nasdaq trading after executives of
majority owner  Sprint Nextel Corp.  stepped down from its board,
clearing the way for additional fundraising.  Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse , strategy head
 Keith Cowan , and  Steven Elfman , president of network operations,
resigned, Kirkland, Washington-based Clearwire said in a
statement today.  Sprint’s loosening grip on the board may make Clearwire
more attractive to new investors, said  Ben Abramovitz , an
analyst with Kaufman Brothers LP in New York. Sprint combined
its WiMax mobile network with Clearwire in 2008 and owns more
than half of the company. Sprint’s control of Clearwire’s  board 
and strategy may have scared off some potential investors who
thought Sprint had “undue influence,” he said.  “What they’re trying to do is create a more open process
to allow  Clearwire  to optimize their attempts at raising
incremental funds,” Abramovitz said.  Clearwire  rose  16 cents, or 2 percent, to $8.09 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. New York time. The stock has
risen 20 percent this year. Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint,
up 27 percent this year, advanced 3 cents to $4.63 in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Fuel Expansion  Clearwire said this month it is looking for additional
funds to fuel expansion, and has had discussions with a number
of potential investors, including Deutsche Telekom AG’s mobile-
phone company, T-Mobile USA Inc.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint, said the resignations
were made to address antitrust concerns, rather than to help
Clearwire raise additional funds.  The company got $1.56 billion from Sprint and other
investors in 2009 to cover up to 120 million people with its
high-speed network by the end of this year. Clearwire sells the
service under its own brand and through its partners, which
formed the company with Sprint two years ago by contributing an
initial $3.2 billion. Other  investors  include Google Inc., Time
Warner Cable Inc. and Comcast Corp.  The resignations followed a case in the U.S. Supreme Court
regarding the National Football League’s agreement with  Adidas
AG’s  Reebok to sell clothing bearing team logos. The justices
ruled that the league should be treated for antitrust purposes
as 32 separate teams, rather than as one entity.  Joint Ventures  The ruling means that members of joint ventures could
potentially be treated as separate entities in some situations,
which may bar them from taking actions as a group, and making
them more vulnerable to antitrust suits.  “The decisions to resign were made out of an abundance of
caution to address questions raised by  Clearwire  regarding new
developments in antitrust law,” Clearwire said. The other four
Sprint-appointed board members will remain in place, the company
said.  Sprint has the right to appoint seven of Clearwire’s 13
directors. The company will name replacements for the executives
in the next 90 days,  Mike DiGioia , a Clearwire spokesman, said
in an e-mail. If they don’t, the spots will be filled by the
nominating committee on the board, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  