-- Clock That Once Overlooked LSE Floor Moves to Texas in Time for Christmas
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-09-30T13:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/clock-that-once-overlooked-lse-floor-moves-to-texas-in-time-for-christmas.html
A clock that hung over the trading
floor at the  London Stock Exchange  for a quarter of a century is
heading to Texas after an unidentified woman outbid Chi-X Europe
Ltd., the bourse’s biggest rival, for the relic.  Eight clocks bearing the names of cities from San Francisco
to Johannesburg were sold for a total of 41,800 pounds ($66,064)
at an auction last night at the No. 1 Lombard Street restaurant,
a former banking hall in the City, as London’s financial
district is called.  The London clock attracted the highest price, selling for
9,400 pounds to a Texan woman after Chi-X, Europe’s largest
alternative trading system, also vied for the timepiece. The
buyer, who bid over the phone, also won the San Francisco, New
York and Tokyo clocks, paying a total of 27,400 pounds. The four
clocks are intended as a Christmas present for her husband, who
runs a commodities trading firm, according to the auction venue.  London-based Chi-X Europe, which also accounted for about
14 percent of trading in the benchmark Swiss Market Index this
year, paid 3,500 pounds for the Zurich clock.  Belinda Keheyan ,
head of marketing at Chi-X Europe, said the company has already
sold on the timepiece.  The clocks overlooked the  LSE’s now defunct trading floor 
on Threadneedle Street from 1971 to the middle of the 1990’s.
The electric timepieces, made by Italian clockmaker Solari & C,
were found in a market in London’s East End by designer  Mark
Lawson Bell .  “They were extremely boring clocks, I prefer the ones on
my iPad apps,” said  Gavin Oldham , who started on the floor of
the stock exchange in 1976 and now owns the Share Centre, a
retail brokerage with more than 160,000 customers. “I hope they
work because they certainly weren’t much to look at.”  A ninth clock, bearing the name of Hong Kong, was unsold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 