-- CLOs Attract MetLife, Babson Seeking Wide AAA Yield Spreads as Loans Rally
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-09-30T12:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/clos-attract-metlife-babson-seeking-wide-aaa-yield-spreads.html
Insurance companies, seeking to
boost diminishing returns from other debt markets, are snapping
up the safest portions of collateralized loan obligations with
yields that are 10 times higher than before the credit crisis.  MetLife Inc.  and Babson Capital Management LLC, on behalf
of its owner Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., are buying
pieces of CLOs ranked AAA that pay 240 basis points more than
the London interbank offered rate. That compares with spreads of
25 basis points for debt backed by auto loans, 39 for top-rated
credit-card bonds and 40 for similarly graded AAA student loan
securities, according to August Morgan Stanley data.  Insurer interest in the highest-rated portions of CLOs may
help spark a revival in the securities after sales tumbled 98.7
percent during the seizure in credit markets between 2007 and
2009. That bodes well for borrowers, who need to address the
$325 billion of loans coming due in the next four years.  “There is a search for yield going on across asset
classes,”  Vishwanath Tirupattur , head of securitized product
research at Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview. “CLO
AAA spreads continue to be significantly wider than comparable”
alternatives, which is motivating insurers to buy, he said.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return. The loans they buy are used to back
acquisitions and leveraged buyouts, including the purchase of
Burger King Holdings Inc. by 3G Capital.  ‘Hugely Beneficial’  While more than $246 billion of U.S. leveraged loans have
been arranged this year, that’s down from the peak of $882
billion in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Leveraged loans are typically rated below investment grade, or
less than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  Narrower yield spreads may foster more issuance of CLOs,
which would potentially help borrowers that need to refinance
the $325 billion of loans coming due through 2014 as measured by
Barclays Capital and S&P’s LCD unit.  “For an orderly transition to occur, having a new-issue
CLO market will be hugely beneficial,”  Brad Rogoff , co-head of
U.S. credit strategy at Barclays, said in a telephone interview.  Insurance companies that bought AA or A rated pieces of the
debt prior to the credit crisis, can now get higher potential
returns with lower risk, said  Matt Natcharian , head of Babson’s
structured credit team in Springfield, Massachusetts. In 2007, a
piece of a CLO rated A may have paid 80 to 120 basis points, he
said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Spread is Attractive’  “This spread is attractive given the large amount of
credit losses these securities can withstand,” Natcharian said.
He declined to comment on the firm’s investments.  Babson President  Cliff Noreen   said  in a  presentation  Sept.
21 that the firm has bought the highest-rated portion of CLOs
for its clients as an indirect way to invest in leveraged loans
with investment-grade ratings.  MetLife, based in New York, is “continuing to identify and
purchase highly-rated securities, such as CLOs,”  Chris Breslin ,
a spokesman for the insurer, said in an e-mailed statement.  The market for CLOs is opening up after collapsing in 2007,
pushing spreads to as wide as 725 basis points more than Libor
in April 2009 from 23 basis points two years earlier, Morgan
Stanley data show. Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to
each other.  Some $1.3 billion of U.S. CLOs backed by widely syndicated
loans were issued this year through August, compared with $1.215
billion for all of last year, Morgan Stanley data show. In 2007
about $91.1 billion of that type of CLO was issued in the U.S.  Apollo, WCAS  Apollo Management LP, WCAS Fraser Sullivan Investment
Management LLC, an investment firm backed by Welsh Carson
Anderson & Stowe, and Doral Money Inc., along with Babson as the
collateral adviser, have completed CLOs this year.  Leveraged loans have  returned  5.61 percent this year after
surging 52.2 percent in 2009, according to the S&P/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index. The market lost 28.2 percent in 2008.  The gains mean that even investors in the lowest rated
pieces of CLOs are again receiving payments as defaults slow.
The trailing 12-month global speculative-grade default rate
ended August at 5 percent, and may fall to 2.4 percent in
January 2011, according to Moody’s.  “We have bounced back from the credit lows we had observed
sometime around late spring last year and that has been
instrumental in allowing us to have a somewhat more positive
view with respect to ratings going forward,” Ramon Torres,
senior vice president at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  