-- Commerzbank May Need Up to 10 Years to Return Aid, Merkel's FDP Ally Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-09-30T12:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/commerzbank-may-need-up-to-10-years-to-return-aid-merkel-s-fdp-ally-says.html
Commerzbank AG , which was bailed
out with taxpayer money during the financial crisis, may need as
long as 10 years to return the funds out of its own earnings,
said Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Free Democratic Party allies.  The scenario is outlined in an FDP paper from this month
showing that Frankfurt-based Commerzbank, Germany’s second-
biggest lender, may not be able to pay back 16.4 billion euros
($22.4 billion) of capital injected by the state from earnings
alone before 2015 at the earliest. Merkel’s coalition has said
it  favors  selling its stake in the bank to speed disposal.  Commerzbank’s “limited earnings potential” signals that a
buyback of the government’s silent participation in the lender
“is unlikely in the foreseeable future,” stated the document,
which was circulated to lawmakers. The paper assumed a mid-term
outlook of annual earnings after tax of 3 billion euros, meaning
that the payback of funds would take 5 to 10 years.  The lender may not have to rely entirely on such a move as
the government is preparing a bill that will allow it to sell
holdings taken in banks in 2008 and 2009 as shares at nominal
value on the market.  Commerzbank may start returning the silent participation
from 2012, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said on Sept.
9. One of the options under consideration to help the lender pay
back state aid would be a share sale, he said. Commerzbank
predicted it will return to a full-year profit this year after a
loss of 4.5 billion euros in 2009, and the government said it
 doesn’t expect  the bank to need further help from taxpayers.  Still, as Merkel is tackling the country’s budget deficit
to underpin the euro’s stability, pressure to sell the stake in
Commerzbank will remain constant, the FDP document stated.  Germany pays an annual 419 million euros on interest on the
bonds it sold to finance the bank rescue, according to the
paper. The lender is obliged to pay 9 percent interest on the
deposit only in years in which it reports a profit.  The rescue package is “generally a cost to taxpayers,”
the FDP said in the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  