-- Japan Deflation Moderates, Unemployment Falls, Signaling Recovery Intact
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-01T05:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/consumer-prices-decline-for-18th-month-as-yen-gains-economic-growth-slows.html
Japan’s deflation moderated and
the unemployment rate fell, indicating the nation’s recovery
remains intact as policy makers consider stimulus measures to
protect the economy from a strengthening yen.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food slid 1 percent in
August from a year earlier after falling 1.1 percent in July,
the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo. The jobless rate
dropped to 5.1 percent from 5.2 percent, while the number of
people no longer in the labor force increased, it said.  Today’s reports show little sign that the yen’s climb to
a 15-year high against the dollar has hurt the domestic
economy so far, a contrast with data yesterday showing
 industrial production  unexpectedly slid. The Bank of Japan
meets next week to consider whether to expand a credit
program and Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is compiling stimulus to
shore up growth.  “Employment lags behind the current state of the
economy, so today’s improvement in the jobless rate reflects
the firmness in the economy in the first half of this year,”
said  Mika Ikeda , an economist at Nomura Securities Co. in
Tokyo. Even so, “deflation still persists in Japan.”  Intervention Warning  Highlighting the Japanese government’s concern about an
appreciating currency, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said that
Japan is ready to resume intervening after selling yen for
the first time in six years last month. “We will continue to
take decisive measures as needed” on the yen, Kan said today
in a policy speech in parliament.  The yen traded at 83.46 per dollar at 2:31 p.m. in Tokyo
from 83.54 before the consumer price report was published. It
has risen about 5 percent in the past three months. The
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  was 0.8 percent higher.  The stronger yen prompted  Nintendo Co. , the world’s
biggest maker of video-game machines, to cut its annual net
profit forecast by 55 percent to 90 billion yen earlier this
week.  Murata Manufacturing Co. , an electronics components
maker, will eliminate 3,000 temporary positions and increase
production overseas as the yen’s strength forces it to reduce
costs, President  Tsuneo Murata  said this week.  The 1 percent decline in August’s consumer price index,
the 18th straight drop, matched the median estimate of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Consumer Sentiment  A separate report from the Bank of Japan today showed
that sentiment among Japanese consumers worsened in September
for the first time in six quarters and more people said they
expect prices to drop in a year from now.  The yen’s advance has lowered import costs and Japan’s
biggest retailers have cut prices, increasing deflationary
pressure, said economist  Mari Iwashita . The Bank of Japan
will likely respond to the rising yen by expanding its 30-
trillion yen ($360 billion) lending facility on Oct. 5, 14 of
17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said.  “Moves by retailers to take advantage of the yen’s gain
are spreading, putting renewed downward pressure on consumer
prices,” Iwashita, chief market economist at Nikko Cordial
Securities in Tokyo, said before the report. “The pace of
core prices declines have eased in recent months, but their
drops may resume worsening.”  Retailers including supermarket operator Daiei Inc. and
 Ryohin Keikaku Co. , which operates Mujirushi Ryohin stores,
have announced plans to cut prices.  Shrinking Growth  The yen’s strength has weighed on Japan’s export-reliant
economy, which expanded at less than half the pace in the
April-June period compared with the previous quarter. Reports
this week showed  overseas shipments  grew at the slowest pace
this year in August,  industrial production  unexpectedly
declined for a third month and gains in retail sales were
smaller than economists forecast.  A slowdown in economic growth may threaten the Bank of
Japan’s forecast that core prices will stop falling in the
year starting April 2011. The bank’s board predicted core
prices will rise 0.1 percent in the next fiscal year after
falling 0.4 percent this year. It will update forecasts at an
Oct. 28 meeting.  “It’s unlikely the consumer price index is going to
turn positive this fiscal year or next in an environment like
this,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu
Corp. in Tokyo. “Households are looking for cheaper products,
and companies have little pricing power, resulting in a
pricing war.”  Fed Policy  The U.S. economy is also threatened by falling prices.
The Federal Reserve last month said for the first time that
too-low inflation, in addition to sluggish growth, would
warrant its taking action, as it moved closer to a second
wave of unconventional monetary easing.  Depending on whether the yen continues appreciating and
the economy keeps weakening, BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
and his board colleagues might have to consider more
loosening of credit even after possibly increasing the 30-
trillion yen credit program for lenders next week, economist
 Hiroaki Muto  said.  “With global growth slowing, an end of deflation is
being put off further and further, and that means pressure on
the BOJ to do more will linger,” said Muto, a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset and Management Co. in
Tokyo.  Job Market  In a sign that decelerating economic growth is
discouraging people from looking for work, the number of
people no longer in the labor force increased by 90,000 in
August from July, the employment report showed.  “The pace of improvements in the job market won’t pick
up for the next year,” said Itochu’s Maruyama. “With the
yen’s strength, companies are likely to expand production
overseas, so they’re not ready to hire meaningfully at
home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  