-- Copper Declines for First Day in Three as China Extends Curbs on Property
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-09-30T08:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/copper-drops-below-8-000-as-china-extends-moves-to-cool-property-prices.html
Copper dropped for the first time
in three days after China stepped up measures to rein in
property prices, dimming the demand outlook for industrial
metals. Zinc and lead also declined.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange fell as much as 1.4 percent to $7,953 a metric ton and
traded at $8,049 at 3:39 p.m. Singapore time. January-delivery
copper on the Shanghai Futures Exchange lost 0.4 percent to end
the day at 60,590 yuan ($9,057).  China will speed up the introduction of a trial property
tax in some cities and then expand the levy to the whole country
to curb rising real-estate prices, the government said, without
giving a timetable. Property prices in 70 major cities rose 9.3
percent in August from a year earlier, prompting the government
to extend a crackdown on speculators and multiple home purchases.  “The measures they took before didn’t have much effect on
curbing property prices and we’ll probably see more steps taken
following this one as the government seems determined to cool
the market,” Lin Ling, an analyst at Industrial Futures Co.,
said from Shanghai. “Investors are also liquidating their
positions before the long holiday tomorrow.”  China’s financial markets are closed from Oct. 1 to Oct. 7
for the National Day holiday.  The state asked commercial banks to stop offering loans to
buyers of third homes and extended a 30 percent down-payment
requirement to all first-home buyers, according to a statement
posted on a government website. This adds to measures announced
from mid-April, which include curbing loans for third-home
purchases, increasing down-payment requirements and raising
mortgage rates.  Monthly Advance  Copper has still jumped 23 percent since the end of June,
heading for the best quarterly rise in a year, as the dollar
tumbled on prospects for a further easing of U.S. monetary
policy by the Federal Reserve to bolster the economy.  The Dollar Index, a six-currency measure of the greenback’s
value, rose today for the first time in five days. It is down
8.3 percent this quarter, the worst performance since the three
months ending June 2002.  “We’ve been quite divorced from the fundamentals, trading
more on the performance of other markets like the dollar and
equities,” said Lin.  Asian stocks fell today before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies in Washington and ahead of data that may
show the U.S. economy is slowing. Ireland’s central bank said
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Allied Irish Banks Plc may need as
much as 14.4 billion euros ($19.6 billion) in extra capital,
adding to concerns the economic recovery is faltering.  Aluminum in London was little changed at $2,344.25 a ton,
zinc lost 0.9 percent to $2,206 a ton, lead dropped 0.7 percent
to $2,283 a ton, nickel declined 0.5 percent to $23,225 a ton
and tin decreased 0.2 percent to $24,275 a ton by 3:41 p.m. in
Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  