-- Copper Prices Fall as Dollar’s Rebound Damps Commodity Demand
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-09-30T18:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/copper-heads-for-its-largest-quarterly-climb-in-a-year-on-weakening-dollar.html
Copper futures in  New York  fell
after the dollar rebounded, eroding demand for commodities as
alternative investments.  The greenback gained as much as 0.4 percent against a
basket of six major currencies after touching the lowest level
in eight months. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw
materials fell for the first time in seven sessions, led by
declines in sugar, natural gas and corn. Yesterday, copper
prices in London reached a 26-month high as inventories dropped.  “The dollar is putting a bit of pressure on copper,” said  Michael Gross , an analyst at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,
Florida. “Bulls may think this is the right time to take
profit.”  Copper futures for December delivery dropped 1 cent, or 0.3
percent, to close at $3.6515 a pound at 1:25 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. The metal is up 24 percent in the three months
ended today, the largest quarterly gain in a year.  “The market is due for a nice, little correction over the
next couple of days,” said  Michael K. Smith , the president of
T&K Futures & Options in  Port St. Lucie , Florida. Copper
probably will resume the rally next week and may reach $4 by
Dec. 31 on rising demand from  China , India and Brazil, he said.  Stockpiles tracked by the  London  Metal Exchange fell for
the fourth straight day to the lowest level since Nov. 4.
Inventories are down 26 percent this year, on course for the
first annual contraction since 2004.  ‘Bullish’  “The structural constraints of the supply side of the
market are getting increasingly evident and imply a challenging
outlook ahead,” Laredo, Texas-based researcher Harbor
Intelligence said in a report. “Fundamental, technical and
cyclical analyses point out that the underlying picture of the
market will be bullish for a while.”  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months fell $50,
or 0.6 percent, to $8,014 a metric ton ($3.64 a pound).
Yesterday, the price reached $8,075, the highest level since
Aug. 1, 2008.  Zinc, lead and tin also fell in London. Aluminum and nickel
rose.  To contact the reporters on the story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Stablum in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 