-- Cotton Is `Overbought,' May Drop 11%, Steel Vine Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/cotton-overbought-may-decline-11-steel-vine-says-technical-analysis.html
Cotton futures may be headed to an
11 percent decline, ending a rally that sent prices to a 15-year
high, according to a technical analysis by  Spencer Patton , the
chief investment officer at Steel Vine Investments LLC.  The 14-day relative-strength index and stochastics are
signaling that the price likely will drop to 96 cents a pound
within a couple of days and then slip to 90 cents by the end of
October, Patton said. Yesterday, cotton for December delivery
plunged 4 cents, the maximum allowed, to close at $1.0124 a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  “Cotton is extremely overbought, according to the
stochastics, but the indicator is just about to roll over,
indicating a good time to sell,” Patton said yesterday in an
interview from Chicago. “Also, the RSI has broken below 70,
which is an indicator that the price is losing strength and is
headed for a pullback.”  Cotton futures rose 65 percent in the past year, as of
yesterday, touching a 15-year high of $1.064 on Sept. 28, on
concern that supplies will lag behind demand. India, the second-
biggest supplier, said on Sept. 28 it will delay overseas
shipments by a month. China is the world’s largest grower and
the U.S. is the biggest exporter.  “The fundamentals of cotton are bullish, but the move has
probably been too much, too quickly,” Patton said. “Long-term
support for cotton is at 80 cents, and it should certainly stay
above that through year end.”  Patton, who founded Steel Vine last year and invests mostly
in commodities and equities, correctly predicted in July that
raw-sugar futures would rally to 19 cents a pound.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 