-- Cotton Futures Fall on Rising Supplies, Highest Prices in Fifteen Years
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-09-30T17:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/cotton-futures-fall-on-rising-supplies-highest-prices-in-fifteen-years.html
Cotton futures fell for the second
straight session as rising stockpiles in India and the highest
prices in 15 years may encourage textile mills to slow the pace
of buying. Orange juice gained.  Cotton stockpiles in India will be 15 percent higher for
the season ending July 31, compared with a year earlier, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said Sept. 10. India, the second-
biggest grower and exporter, halted shipments in April to
bolster domestic supplies. Before today, prices surged 65
percent in the past year.  “We’ll have enough cotton in the pipeline hitting mills in
October,” said  Sharon Johnson , a senior analyst at First
Capital Group LLC in Atlanta. Textile makers will be “more
selective in terms of price,” she said.  Cotton for December delivery declined 1.04 cents, or 1
percent, to $1.002 a pound at 1:10 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York, after slipping to 99.29 cents, the lowest level this
week. On Sept. 28, the fiber reached a 15-year high of $1.064 as
U.S. inventories dwindled.  Yesterday, cotton tumbled 3.8 percent, the most in a year,
on signs of higher production in India. The country will resume
exports on Nov. 1.  “It’s looking increasingly like we have a top in place,”
Johnson said. “Once you start taking the momentum out of the
rally, it’s really tough to get that back.”  Yesterday,  stockpiles  held at warehouses monitored by ICE
rose 5.3 percent, the most since March 3. They plummeted 98
percent in the past four months.  The International Cotton Advisory Committee will release
its monthly forecast tomorrow for world production and demand.  Orange Juice  Orange juice rose on concern that a storm developing in the
Atlantic Ocean may intensify and damage citrus groves in
Florida, the world’s largest grower after Brazil.  The weather pattern has a 30 percent chance of becoming a
tropical cyclone, the National Hurricane Center said in a
 statement  at 8 a.m. Miami time. The disorganized thunderstorms
are in area that “could be problematic for Florida,” said
 Sterling Smith , an analyst at Country Hedging Inc. in St. Paul,
Minnesota. “It might keep the market a little bit nervous.”  Orange-juice futures for November delivery advanced 2.25
cents, or 1.5 percent, to $1.545 a pound on ICE. Before today,
the commodity gained 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  