-- Cotton Prices Resume Rally as U.S. Exports Increase; Orange Juice Advances
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-09-30T19:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/cotton-rises-more-than-2-as-u-s-exports-increase-orange-juice-advances.html
Cotton futures rose for the foruth
time in five sessions on signs of increasing demand for supplies
from the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter. Orange-juice prices
gained.  U.S. export sales of upland cotton in the week ended Sept.
23 jumped 54 percent to 780,045 bales from a week earlier, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said today. India, the second-
biggest exporter, halted shipments in April to bolster domestic
supplies. Prices have surged 62 percent in the past year.  “The export numbers were real strong,” said  Gary Raines ,
an economist at FCStone Fibers & Textiles in Nashville,
Tennessee. There were “solid increases to a number of
countries, but definitely to China,” he said.  Cotton for December delivery rose 0.68 cent, or 0.7
percent, to settle at $1.0192 a pound at 2:42 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, capping an 18 percent gain for the
month and 33 percent rally in the quarter. On Sept. 28, the
fiber reached a 15-year high of $1.064 as U.S. inventories
dwindled.  Yesterday, cotton tumbled the most in a year on signs of
higher production in India. The country will resume exports on
Nov. 1.  “It’s looking increasingly like we have a top in place,”
said  Sharon Johnson , a senior analyst at First Capital Group LLC
in Atlanta. “Once you start taking the momentum out of the
rally, it’s really tough to get that back.”  Yesterday,  stockpiles  held at warehouses monitored by ICE
rose 5.3 percent, the most since March 3. They plummeted 98
percent in the past four months.  The International Cotton Advisory Committee will release
its monthly forecast tomorrow for world production and demand.  Orange Juice  Orange juice rose on concern that a storm developing in
the Atlantic Ocean may intensify and damage citrus groves in
Florida, the world’s largest grower after Brazil.  The weather pattern has a 30 percent chance of becoming a
tropical cyclone, the National Hurricane Center said in a
 statement  at 2 p.m. Miami time. The disorganized thunderstorms
are in area that “could be problematic for Florida,” said
 Sterling Smith , an analyst at Country Hedging Inc. in St. Paul,
Minnesota. “It might keep the market a little bit nervous.”  Orange-juice futures for November delivery advanced 4.7
cents, or 3.1 percent, to settle at $1.5695 a pound at 2 p.m. on
ICE, the biggest increase since Sept. 21. The commodity has
gained 12 percent this month, 5.8 percent in the third quarter
and 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  