-- Sanofi to Pay Covance as Much as $2.2 Billion in 10-Year Research Contract
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-09-30T13:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/covance-wins-10-year-2-2-billion-drug-research-pact-with-sanofi-aventis.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA, France’s biggest
pharmaceutical company, signed a 10-year, $2.2 billion agreement
with contract researcher  Covance Inc.  in a bid to lower costs
and improve the productivity of drug development.  Covance will perform laboratory tests for Sanofi and will
buy the French company’s sites in Porcheville, France, and
Alnwick, U.K., for $25 million, Princeton, New Jersey-based
Covance said in a statement today. Sanofi will pay Covance
between $1.2 billion and $2.2 billion during the contract, it
said. Covance shares rose the most in almost nine months.  “A key strategy for Sanofi-Aventis is to transform its R&D
model and discover new medicines through the use of novel
technologies and innovative partnerships,”  Marc Cluzel ,
Sanofi’s head of research and development, said in the
statement. The agreement will help boost “our R&D efficiency.”  The deal will help Sanofi reduce research costs and the
time needed to move medicines from the laboratory to patients,
Covance Chief Executive Officer  Joe Herring  said in an interview
today in Paris, where Sanofi is based. The French company has
been closing plants, focusing on fewer diseases and seeking
partnerships to replenish its pipeline of new drugs in the face
of increased competition from generic medicines.  “Improving R&D productivity is really a mandate” for
large pharmaceutical companies, Herring said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television. The Porcheville and Alnwick
facilities will help Covance win new contracts in France and in
other southern European countries, he said.  Keeping Jobs  The agreement with Sanofi is expected to be completed
before the end of the year, Herring said. Covance agreed to
maintain employment at the Porcheville and Alnwick sites for at
least the next five years, the U.S. company said.  Covance has been looking for more predictable revenue by
moving away from periodic contracts. It struck a 10-year, $1.6
billion research agreement with  Eli Lilly & Co.  in 2008 under
which Covance purchased a Lilly research facility and agreed to
provide clinical testing for the Indianapolis-based company.  The deal with Sanofi “will be profitable for us day one
and throughout the full 10 years,” Herring said in a separate
interview. It “will be accretive” to Covance’s earnings-per-
share next year, he said.  The U.S. company will probably hire more people worldwide
“because of this large inflow of work” that will come from
Sanofi, Herring said.  Covance rose $2.97, or 7 percent, to $45.15 at 9:40 a.m.
New York time in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock gained as much as 7.3 percent, the biggest intraday
advance since Jan. 13. Before today, the shares had fallen 22
percent in the past year.  Sanofi has “significantly downsized” its R&D operations,
cutting hierarchical levels to 6 from 11 and reshuffling the
jobs of most people, Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher , who took over in December 2008, said during an
investor conference in Paris today. Sanofi research and
development “is still a work in progress” and probably “it
will take a number of years to get it right,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  