-- Curly Dudamel Rouses Classical Music Scene, Adds Fun: Interview
-- B y   S h i r l e y   A p t h o r p
-- 2010-09-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/curly-dudamel-rouses-classical-music-scene-brings-energy-fun-interview.html
Shoulders rotating, fingers snapping,
feet stamping.  Gustavo Dudamel  has me doing something I never
could have imagined in my wildest dreams.  Along with more than a thousand other people, I’m dancing
the Turkey Trot with the  Vienna Philharmonic  in Lucerne’s
prestigious  KKL  concert hall. This one is going in my resume.  Granted, it’s a children’s concert. Still, it’s hard to
escape the feeling that this is new territory for the Vienna
Philharmonic too, especially when the tousle-headed Venezuelan
bounces from the podium, brass whistle in hand, and cavorts with
the ensemble in a rousing samba.  Afterwards, in his dressing room, Dudamel gives an
ebullient demonstration of the two-tone samba whistle. “So I
learned to play this new instrument too!” he says.  The whistle comes out again during the evening concert,
broadcast live around the globe, as Dudamel leads the Vienna
Philharmonic through  Leonard Bernstein ’s “Divertimento for
Orchestra” and Julian Orbon’s “Tres Versiones Sinfonicas.”  It takes chutzpah to bring utterly new repertoire to one of
the world’s most traditional orchestras. Before the concert,
Dudamel shows traces of anxiety, poring over the scores’ complex
changes of meter and tangled structures. He flicks the dense
pages, granting each an intense glance, like a human camera.  “Now it’s all in here,” he sighs at last in satisfaction,
tapping a finger against the floppy curls. A photographic memory
seems to be another Dudamel attribute, along with boundless
energy, ferocious focus and an irrepressible sense of fun. The
concert is a triumph, and the usually sedate Lucerne audience
leaps to its feet and cheers.  Bluegrass Dude  There’s a pause in our conversation as the 29-year-old
Venezuelan and the 168-year-old orchestra jet to Vienna and on
to the U.S. We pick up the thread by telephone. Dudamel is in
Lexington, Kentucky, conducting his ensemble as the unlikely
highlight of the  Alltech FEI World Equestrian Games , billed to
the bluegrass masses as “Get Ready for Vienna and the Dude.”  “It’s like the Olympic Games for horses,” says “the
Dude.” “We are having a wonderful time, seeing this place,
these beautiful horses, and making music.”  Dudamel’s rise from the poverty of urban Barquisemeto to
the world’s most glamorous concert platforms was meteoric. A
competition win in Bamberg six years ago, a contract with a big-
name agent, a series of major orchestras enchanted by his charm
and talent, and Dudamel was on his way. Today, he’s music
director of the  Los Angeles Philharmonic , Sweden’s  Gothenburg
Symphony Orchestra  and Venezuela’s  Simon Bolivar Orchestra , an
ensemble he began conducting as a teenager.  ‘What a Life!’  Does he miss anything about his former life?  “I love to travel, but sometimes it’s nice to stay in one
place,” Dudamel says. “I’m happy and I enjoy it, but sometimes
it’s a little crazy. Still -- what a life!”  Besides, he adds, working with the Vienna Philharmonic
isn’t really new. In his childhood it was a collection of tin
soldiers that he lined up in orchestral formation and conducted
to the sound of a Viennese CD. Inside his head, though, it was
real.  “I was dreaming, but I believed that it was true,” he
says. “And now it’s happening. This is the kind of experience
you have to share with the younger generation. You have to
believe that things will happen, you have to work and love what
you’re doing.”  Battling Routine  Sharing with the younger generation is something that
matters intensely to Dudamel. Himself a product of the State
Foundation for the National System of Youth and Children’s
Orchestras of Venezuela ( FESNOJIV , or “El Sistema”), he’s one
of the half-million children, most of them from below the
poverty line, who have profited from the country’s revolutionary
free music-education system.  “Whenever I listen to a children’s orchestra, I learn,”
he says. “They feel everything, they enjoy everything, they
have amazing energy. If I could change one thing in today’s
music industry, it would be the routine. We have to avoid having
people sit there and play because it’s their job. Playing music
has to be necessary for the human being, like water, like air.”  Grand thoughts from a young man who now can afford to stay
in the finest hotels. Dudamel’s rapid rise to fame has come with
a steep rise in income. What does he spend it on?  “My material life is simple,” he says. “I come from a
working family, from the world of El Sistema, where what matters
is the music, the children, the future. I don’t have time to
shop. I don’t live in a castle. I love to eat well, and to
celebrate with family and friends.”  Dinner With Bach  What would be his dream dinner party?  “I’d love to meet Bach,” says Dudamel. “He’s the master
of all our music. I’d love to meet Beethoven. Mozart. Mahler
would be interesting. And Mendelssohn, because he was a genius.  “There are many living people I admire --  Abbado ,  Rattle ,
 Barenboim . But the person I most admire is Maestro (Jose
Antonio) Abreu (founder of El Sistema). I admire his vision and
how he works to make it true.”  Doesn’t at least part of the celebrity income go on
maintaining that glossy mop of designer curls?  Dudamel roars with laughter. “This is funny! Because the
hair, it’s not a fashion thing. I was working so much that I
didn’t have a chance to go to the hairdresser. Now I go about
once a year. It’s cheap!”  Gustavo Dudamel and the Vienna Philharmonic play at
 Carnegie Hall  on Oct. 2 and 3. Dudamel leads the Los Angeles
Philharmonic in the  Walt Disney Concert Hall  on Oct. 7, 8, 9,
10, 14, 15, 16, and 17. He conducts a new production of Bizet’s
“Carmen” at  La Scala , Milan, from Oct. 29 through Nov. 18.  Information:  http://www.gustavodudamel.com .  ( Shirley Apthorp  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Shirley Apthorp at  Sarabande@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 