-- Current-Account Deficit Widens to a Record as Machinery Imports Increase
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-09-30T13:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/current-account-deficit-widens-to-a-record-as-machinery-imports-increase.html
India’s  current-account  deficit
widened to a record last quarter as an accelerating economy
boosted imports of oil and machinery.  The measure of trade and investment flows posted a $13.7
billion gap in the three months ended June 30 after a $13
billion shortfall in the previous quarter, the Reserve Bank of
India said in an e-mailed statement in Mumbai today. The median
forecast of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
$12.5 billion gap.  A widening current-account deficit may weaken the currency
and halt the biggest rupee rally since May 2009, said Indranil
Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. India’s economy
expanded 8.8 percent last quarter, the fastest pace in 2 1/2
years.  “The widening current-account deficit may have a
depreciating pressure on the rupee,” said Pan, chief economist
at Mumbai-based Kotak Mahindra.  The currency, which has climbed 4.7 percent this month,
will drop 1.2 percent by Dec. 31, according to a Bloomberg poll.  Trading patterns also signal a possible reversal, after the
rupee’s so-called relative strength index closed yesterday at
75.6, up from 37.3 at the end of last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Readings above 70 indicate a currency may
have risen too fast.  Trade Deficit  “The higher trade deficit combined with lower invisibles
surplus resulted in the widening of the current-account
deficit,” the Reserve Bank said in the statement.  Exports totaled $53.7 billion last quarter, less than the
$87.9 billion of imports, widening the trade deficit to $34.2
billion, according to the statement.  Inflows from the so-called invisibles that include software
 export  earnings and remittances were $20.5 billion last quarter,
compared with $21.2 billion year ago, the statement showed.
India’s capital account showed a surplus of $17.5 billion in the
three months through June, compared with a $4.6 billion surplus
in the year ago period, the Reserve Bank said.  The current-account deficit in the fiscal year to March is
likely to be 2.9 percent of the gross domestic product, same as
in the previous year, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the
Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in Mumbai
today. There won’t be any difficulty in the financing of the
deficit, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net . 