-- German Stocks Drop for Fourth Day; Linde, Volkswagen Retreat in Frankfurt
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-09-30T16:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/daimler-volkswagen-fraport-kabel-man-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated amid
concern that the cost of bailing out European banks is rising
and as Spain’s had its credit rating cut one level by Moody’s
Investors Service.  Linde AG  and Volkswagen AG both dropped more than 1.5
percent.  Symrise AG  fell 1.6 percent as UBS AG downgraded the
stock. Deutsche Bank AG rallied 2.3 percent after saying third-
quarter sales and trading revenue matched last year’s level.  The  benchmark DAX Index  lost 0.3 percent to 6,229.02 in
Frankfurt, a fourth straight decline for the longest losing
streak since Aug. 13. The measure has still rallied 5.1 percent
this month, bringing its quarterly gain to 4.4 percent, as
investors speculated that the economy will continue to grow even
as European nations slash spending to control their budget
deficits and China takes steps to cool its growth. The broader
HDAX Index also decreased 0.3 percent today.  “The sovereign debt crisis is imminent right now with
Spain’s downgrade and the Irish government needing to put in
more money to rescue banks,” said  Philipp Musil , who helps
oversee about $10 billion at Semper Constantia Privatbank AG in
Vienna. “We will get a slowdown of the economy in the coming
quarters but no double dip. We expect a setback in October but
we could see a year-end rally.”  Ireland’s government is preparing to take majority control
of  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and pump extra cash into  Anglo Irish
Bank Corp . to draw a line under its financial crisis.  Total Cost  The total cost of bailing out the country’s banks may
ultimately rise to about 50 billion euros ($68 billion), under a
“stress case” scenario for Anglo Irish, according to figures
published by the country’s finance ministry and the central bank
in Dublin today. The base case estimate is 45 billion euros, the
figures show. Allied Irish may need as much as 3 billion euros.  Moody’s lowered Spain to Aa1 from Aaa with a stable
outlook, it said today in a statement. Spain lost its top grade
at Fitch Ratings in May and at Standard & Poor’s in January
2009.  German stocks erased declines earlier as reports from the
U.S. showed initial jobless-benefit claims declined last week,
second-quarter growth was higher than economists estimated and
business activity unexpectedly accelerated in September.  Linde, VW  Linde , the world’s second-biggest maker of industrial
gases, slipped 2 percent to 95.48 euros. Volkswagen, Europe’s
largest carmaker, lost 1.6 percent to 88.53 euros, the lowest
price in amost three weeks.  Symrise lost 1.6 percent to 20.39 euros as UBS cut its
recommendation on the maker of fragrances to “neutral” from
“buy.”  Kabel Deutschland  rose 1.8 percent to 29.10 euros. Deutsche
Bank said it placed as many as 15 million shares in Germany’s
largest cable-television operator, or about 16.7 percent of the
company, on behalf of Cable Holding SA to institutional
investors. Kabel Deutschland said the price was set at the upper
end of the range.  Deutsche Bank rallied 2.3 percent to 40.15 euros. “Thanks
to a very strong second half of September, third-quarter sales
and trading revenues are at last year’s levels, which as we all
know have been pretty good,” Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said at a conference in London today. The investment
bank reported about 3 billion euros ($4.1 billion) in sales and
trading net revenue in the year-earlier period.  Beiersdorf AG rose 0.9 percent to 44.90 euros as DZ Bank AG
reiterated its “buy” rating on the stock. “We see huge
operational potential for Beiersdorf to increase its margins
especially in the U.S. and in China,” Frankfurt-based analyst
 Arne Rautenberg  wrote in a report today. “We do see Beiersdorf
with its very strong “Nivea” brand as a perfect fit into the
Procter & Gamble Co. product portfolio,” Rautenberg said.  Fraport  Procter & Gamble Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald 
said yesterday that the company has a “terrific global brand”
in Nivea skin cream.  Fraport  AG added 1.3 percent to 44.61 euros, the highest
close in more than two years. Chief Executive Officer  Stefan Schulte  said Frankfurt airport will increase its pretax profit
about 10 percent a year through 2015 as it adds a runway and
benefits from an expansion of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 