-- Daimler CEO Considers Partnerships, Purchases to Boost Profit
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-09-30T12:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/daimler-ceo-considers-partnerships-purchases-to-boost-profit.html
Daimler AG , the world’s second-
largest maker of luxury cars, is considering partnerships with
competitors and is open to acquisitions to boost economies of
scale and profitability.  Daimler and Renault SA are looking at an expanded
cooperation that may include electric-car parts, Chief Executive
Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said at the Paris Motor Show today. The
Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker has had “superficial
contact” with Toyota Motor Corp. on working together, he said.  Daimler, also the world’s largest truckmaker, may consider
acquisitions in the commercial-vehicle segment, Zetsche said,
adding that he isn’t in talks with  Fiat SpA  about the Italian
carmaker’s industrial unit.  Daimler and the alliance between Renault and  Nissan Motor
Co.  swapped 3.1 percent stakes in April to underscore a
partnership that will help the German manufacturer expand its
lineup of small cars. The two automakers will share a new
platform, which will be used for the Smart city car and Renault
Twingo. The models, to be launched from 2013, will come in two
and four-seat versions. The manufacturers will also supply each
other with engines and cooperate on delivery vans.  An electric version of the joint Smart/Twingo platform
would “make sense” because both companies are looking for
economies of scale on electric car components, Zetsche said.  Daimler may also share a small-car platform with Nissan’s
Infiniti luxury brand, Zetsche said, confirming comments made at
the show last night by Nissan.  Fiat Industrial  Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne  said Sept. 27 that he’s open to
a possible partnership for the truck and tractor business that
he’s spinning off from Italy’s largest manufacturer. Marchionne
said then that Daimler hadn’t made an offer for Fiat Industrial.  “We would never exclude, if there was a window of
opportunity, to participate in further consolidation” in the
truck market, Zetsche said, adding that there were no imminent
targets and “no talks” with Fiat about the Iveco truck division.  Zetsche said the Renault-Nissan alliance is his “number-
one priority” and that he doesn’t expect any results soon from
the talks with Toyota, declining further comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Paris via the Berlin newsroom at 
6226 or  creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  