-- Debt Markets Bifurcate as Banks Hoard, Bond Funds Flourish: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-09-30T16:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/debt-markets-bifurcate-as-banks-hoard-bond-funds-flourish-credit-markets.html
Record-low borrowing costs for the
biggest U.S. companies such as  Microsoft Corp.  are failing to
trickle down to  Mel Hodges ’s five-person computer consulting
firm in Pennsylvania.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, led at least
$340 billion of U.S. corporate bond offerings this quarter, the
busiest July-through-September period on record, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Smaller businesses struggled as
banks pared commercial and industrial lending 11.3 percent in
the past year, Federal Reserve data show.  While yields on corporate bonds have fallen, rates on
commercial and industrial loans of less than $100,000 climbed.
The divergence shows that almost two years after lowering its
benchmark interest rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent, the
Fed’s efforts to stimulate the economy have done little to help
smaller businesses that create most U.S. jobs.  “Larger companies can go to the market and that market is
largely repaired,” said  Adolfo Laurenti , deputy chief economist
at Mesirow Financial Inc., a broker-dealer and money manager in
Chicago. “If you’re a smaller company and you don’t have access
to the market, you need to go through some intermediary such as
banks. You are getting the losing end of the stick because banks
have become very risk averse.”  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, one of four
nonfinancial U.S. companies with top AAA credit ratings, sold
$4.75 billion of bonds on Sept. 22, including 3-year, 0.875
percent notes and 5-year, 1.625 percent debt. The coupons were
the lowest on record for those maturities, according to the
Barclays Capital U.S. Corporate Index of investment-grade debt.  Credit Line  Hodges, 55, said he was considering asking to expand a
$25,000 line of credit to $40,000 earlier this year when the
bank raised the possibility of cutting the line to $12,000.
Ultimately, the bank, which Hodges declined to name, maintained
the existing line.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
 American International Group Inc. ’s debt from default fell to
the lowest since July 2008 after the insurer agreed with U.S.
regulators to repay its bailout by converting the government’s
holdings into common shares.  Credit-default swaps on AIG dropped 21.3 basis points to a
mid-price of 235 at 11:25 a.m. in New York, according to broker
Phoenix Partners Group. The contracts have lost 369.3 basis
points since May 25 and are down 3,448 basis points from their
record in May 2009.  Outperforming Government Debt  Corporate bonds worldwide are poised to outperform
government notes in the three months since June, a reversal from
the second quarter. The debt has returned 3.897 percent this
quarter, compared with 2.295 percent for government debentures,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch global index data.
Company bonds have gained 9.08 percent in 2010.  Leveraged loan returns are rebounding from an April-
through-June loss. The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA  U.S. Leveraged
Loan 100 index has returned 4.01 percent this quarter, following
a loss of 2.586 percent in the preceding period. For the year,
loans have gained 5.61 percent.  Corporate bond sales total at least $803.2 billion
worldwide this quarter. While that’s up from $595.8 billion in
the second quarter, offerings declined from $940.4 billion in
the first three months of 2010, Bloomberg data show. Issuance in
the U.S. this month of $145.4 billion is the highest for any
September.  Record-Low Yields  Sales are soaring as borrowers take advantage of
investment-grade corporate bond yields as low as 3.645 percent
on Sept. 28, the lowest ever, down from 4.935 percent a year
earlier, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The spread over the federal funds rate on commercial and
industrial loans of less than $100,000 by U.S. banks rose to
4.67 percent in May, compared with 4.37 percent a year earlier,
Fed data show.  Banks pared commercial and industrial lending to $1.24
trillion in the week ended Sept. 8 from $1.4 trillion a year
earlier, Fed data show. Banks’  holdings  of government debt
reached a record $1.6 trillion in the week ended Sept. 1, 15
percent more than a year earlier, according to Fed data compiled
by Bloomberg going back to 1973.  Owners of small businesses who seek to finance their
ventures by tapping equity in their houses are being squeezed,
with the median  price  of an existing home in the U.S. falling to
$178,600 in August from $203,200 two years earlier, according to
the National Association of Realtors in Chicago. One in six
small business owners have a mortgage on their home that is used
to fund their firms, according to data from the National
Federation of Independent Business.  ‘Desperately Need Funds’  “A lot of people that desperately need funds are either in
industries or locations that are undergoing much distress and
those businesses may not have been financed right to weather
today’s economic climate,” said Bob Seiwert, a senior vice
president at the American Bankers Association who heads its
Center for Commercial Lending and Business Banking.  Banks also often look to the value of a borrower’s personal
assets when making small business loans, Seiwert said. The
decline in residential property values over the past three years
means people looking to start or expand a business often don’t
have any equity left in their homes to tap, he added.  Hodges said it’s “really offensive” he can’t get money
from banks to expand his business in Easton, Pennsylvania.  Investor Appetite  “It’s a great life being in business, but many nights it
keeps you up trying to figure out how you’re going to make
payroll,” he said.  That may not be an issue for even the least-creditworthy
companies with access to debt markets, which have benefited from
investor appetite for corporate bonds. Investors poured $480.2
billion into mutual funds that focus on debt in the two years
ended June 30, more than went into stock funds during the
Internet bubble, according to the Washington-based Investment
Company Institute.  High-yield, or junk, debt sales of $191.4 billion this year
have surpassed the annual record with three months to go in
2010, Bloomberg data show. Speculative-grade debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Freescale Semiconductor Inc. , the Austin, Texas-based
computer chipmaker bought in a 2006 leveraged buyout led by
Blackstone Group LP, sold $750 million of 10-year, 10.75 percent
notes on Sept. 22 after increasing the size of its offering from
$500 million. Moody’s ranked the debt Caa2, eight levels below
investment grade, and S&P graded it an equivalent CCC. Debt
carrying that rating is deemed “currently vulnerable” to non-
payment, according to S&P.  Buybacks, Acquisitions  Proceeds from Microsoft’s sale may be used to fund working
capital, capital expenditures, stock buybacks and acquisitions,
it said in a regulatory filing. The company also plans to pay
for dividends and share repurchases because much of its cash is
held overseas.  Microsoft spokesman Peter Wootton declined to comment.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed the Small Business Jobs
Act on Sept. 27 and said the legislation, which will cut taxes
and provide credit help to small businesses, is an “essential”
step to aid job growth.  The Small Business Administration says small companies
created 64 percent of net new jobs in the past 15 years. The
U.S. economy continues to stagnate with unemployment at 9.6
percent last month, according to the Labor Department.  “Although most firms faced problems obtaining credit
during the depths of the crisis, over the past year or so a
divide has opened between large firms that are able to tap
public securities markets and small firms that largely depend on
banks,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a gathering of
central bankers last month in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  The slowdown in borrowing isn’t all due to tighter lending
standards, according to Seiwert of the bankers group.  “The reason that you don’t see lots of loan volume in the
small business area is a lack of demand,” he said. “Economists
have indicated that the recession is over but most small
business owners haven’t seen that recovery in terms of customers
walking through the door.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  