-- Deep-Water Oil Drilling Ban Was Necessary Public Policy, U.S. Tells Judge
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/deep-water-oil-drilling-ban-was-necessary-public-policy-u-s-tells-judge.html
A deep-water drilling ban was
necessary after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill because the
industry had no good response to the disaster, U.S. regulators
defending the moratorium told a federal judge.  President  Barack Obama  imposed the first six-month ban on
drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet in May in response to an
explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, leased by  BP Plc .
The blast triggered a gusher of oil, creating the biggest
offshore oil spill in U.S. history. Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  issued new rules July 12 after U.S. District Judge
 Martin Feldman  found the first ban too broad and threw it out.  “Not a single operator” could adequately contain and
clean up a massive oil spill in deep water, Guillermo Montero, a
lawyer for the Interior Department, told Feldman at a hearing in
New Orleans yesterday to consider a challenge to the revised
rules. “This is a policy call,” he said.  “A policy call which I’m not enslaved to accept unless I
find it was reasonably discerned,” the judge responded.  Feldman rejected the first ban on June 22. Yesterday, the
U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans decided that the
government’s challenge to that ruling was moot because the
second moratorium, imposed July 12, was now in place.  The oil industry, joined by governors in Louisiana and
Texas, has fought both bans. The second was challenged in a suit
by  Ensco Offshore Co. , which claims Salazar overstepped his
authority, setting new rules in an attempt to circumvent
Feldman’s June 22 order.  “The Deepwater Horizon tragedy was a terrible event,”
Adam Feinberg, a lawyer for Ensco, said yesterday in court.
“But it cannot justify the second moratorium.”  ‘Complete Sham’  He called the government’s decision-making process “a
complete sham” and said the July ban was “an improper,
preordained decision.”  Feldman said he found it “staggering” that the day after
the appeals court “temporarily upheld” his ruling on the first
ban, regulators circulated an internal memo describing the need
for a moratorium as “fact.” Three days later, Salazar
implemented the second ban, which Feldman said led him to
question how much reconsideration of new evidence the secretary
undertook before issuing the same policy.  The judge said he was concerned regulators had unfairly
“tainted” the entire deep-water drilling industry “because of
perhaps improper conduct by a company or companies involved in
the Deepwater Horizon explosion.” He said he would “try to get
a decision out as quickly as is reasonable.”  Second Ban  The second moratorium addressed Feldman’s concerns about
the original ban, the U.S. said in court papers. The regulations
suspend deep-water drilling until Nov. 30 at the latest. The
government may lift the ban earlier if officials determine such
operations may safely resume.  National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  declared the BP well
“effectively dead” Sept. 19, almost five months after the
Deepwater Horizon blew up.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 