-- Deutsche Bank's Third-Quarter Sales, Trading at 2009 Level, Ackermann Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-09-30T11:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/deutsche-bank-s-third-quarter-sales-trading-at-2010-level-ackermann-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said third-quarter sales and trading
revenue matched last year’s level after a rebound in September.  “Thanks to a very strong second half of September, third-
quarter sales and trading revenues are at last year’s levels,
which as we all know have been pretty good,” Ackermann said at
a conference in London today. The investment bank reported about
3 billion euros ($4.1 billion) in sales and trading net revenue
in the year-earlier period.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest, said on Sept. 21 it
expected a third-quarter loss after writing down the value of
its existing  Deutsche Postbank AG  holdings. Third-quarter pretax
profit at the corporate-banking and securities unit, headed by
 Anshu Jain , may be “substantially below” the year-earlier
level on lower sales and trading, the bank said at the time.  Deutsche Bank gained as much as 3 percent in Frankfurt
trading and was up 2.2 percent by 1:24 p.m. local time. The
shares have fallen 11 percent this year, valuing the company at
37.3 billion euros.  Rights Offer  Ackermann is raising about 10.2 billion euros in Europe’s
biggest rights offer this year to acquire Postbank and boost
reserves before tighter rules are implemented. The  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  this month reached an agreement
for rules that more than double capital requirements for banks.  “Our estimates for core Tier 1 at the beginning of 2013 or
at end of 2012, it depends a little bit on which analyst reports
you are reading, are substantially above consensus estimates,”
Ackermann said at the conference, which was hosted by Bank of
America Corp. The core Tier 1 capital ratio is a measure of
financial strength.  A combined Deutsche Bank-Postbank may be among the
“weakest capitalized” securities firms with an estimated 7.4
percent Tier 1 ratio in 2012 after the introduction of Basel III
rules, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  Kian Abouhossein  said in a
note to investors on Sept. 29. “Deutsche Bank remains less
capitalized than other investment banking peers,” he said.  The German company is focusing on reducing non-core legacy
assets and is “confident” it will reach internal targets for
reducing risk-weighted assets to free up capital for
investments, Ackermann said today.  “We will have a lot of capital available for future growth
and I have no doubt that in the new business we continue to make
good money,” the CEO said. “I’m actually pretty confident that
we can still achieve good returns in investment banking,” he
added, when asked about the impact of regulation on
profitability.  Deutsche Bank wants to have enough capital to be able to
digest Postbank, meet all regulatory requirements and “on top
of that, to be in a position to pay dividends and also to have
and demonstrate organic growth,” Ackermann said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  