-- Deutsche Bahn Units Will Plead Guilty to Price Fixing Charges, U.S. Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-09-30T20:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/deutsche-bahn-units-will-plead-guilty-to-price-fixing-charges-u-s-says.html
Six freight-forwarding companies,
including two units of German railway  Deutsche Bahn AG , agreed
to plead guilty and pay $50.3 million in fines for taking part
in price-fixing schemes, the  U.S. Justice Department  said.  The department today said the companies are EGL Inc., based
in Houston; Kuehne & Nagel International AG of Schindellegi,
Switzerland; Geologistics International Management Ltd. of
Hamilton, Bermuda; Panalpina World Transport Ltd. of Basel,
Switzerland; and the two Deutsche Bahn units, Schenker AG of
Essen, Germany, and BAX Global Inc., based in Toledo, Ohio.  Federal investigators uncovered six different conspiracies,
the earliest beginning in 2002, to set fees and charges for
cargo to be shipped by airplane to the U.S., the department said
in a press release.  Freight-forwarding companies arrange for cargo to be hauled
by transportation providers.  BAX and Schenker “fully cooperated” with the
investigation, said Raquel Garcia, a company spokeswoman. “We
have implemented a comprehensive compliance program,” she said
in an interview.  Kuehne & Nagel also said in a statement that it had aided
the probe. The company “takes its obligation and commitment to
abide by all laws, including the antitrust laws, very
seriously,” according to the statement.  In a statement, Panalpina said, “The infringements likely
did not affect prices paid by Panalpina’s customers.”  Agreeing to plead guilty made sense for EGL, a unit of
Apollo Management LP’s Ceva Group Plc, said John Pattullo,
Ceva’s CEO.  “This agreement is in the company’s best interests,” he
 said  in a statement.  Geologistics didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  