-- Distressed Homes Sell at 26% Discount in U.S. as Supply Swells
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/distressed-u-s-homes-sell-at-26-discount-as-foreclosure-supply-increases.html
Homes in the foreclosure process
sold at an average 26 percent discount in the second quarter as
almost one-fourth of all U.S. transactions involved properties
in some stage of  mortgage distress , according to  RealtyTrac Inc.   A total of 248,534 homes that sold in the period had
received a default or auction notice or been seized by banks,
RealtyTrac said in a report today. The number was up 5 percent
from the first quarter and down 20 percent from a year earlier,
according to the Irvine, California-based data seller.  “We’re still clearly building up more distressed
inventory,”  Rick Sharga , RealtyTrac’s senior vice president,
said in a telephone interview. “That will either put downward
pressure on prices or keep them from going up.”  The discount reflects the average sales price of homes in
the foreclosure process compared with properties not in
distress, according to RealtyTrac. About 24 percent of all homes
sold were in some stage of foreclosure, down from 31 percent in
the first quarter. The average price of a distressed property
was $174,198, up from $171,971, the company said.  Foreclosures are adding to a swelling U.S. housing supply
as an unemployment rate of 9.6 percent and the end of a federal
homebuyer tax credit dampen purchases. Home seizures in August
reached a record for the third time in five months, with more
than 95,000 repossessions, RealtyTrac said earlier this month.
Home prices dropped in July, the eighth consecutive year-over-
year decline, the Federal Housing Finance Agency said Sept. 22.  ‘Extraordinary’ Spike  Distressed sales dropped as a portion of total transactions
because the homebuyer tax credit of as much as $8,000 spurred an
“extraordinary sales spike,” Sharga said. The benefit expired
April 30.  Sales of homes with mortgage distress probably will account
for a quarter to a third of all transactions through 2011, up
from 1 to 3 percent before the housing crisis, Sharga said.  “Many people elected to use the $8,000 credit as their
discount, rather than buy a house that needed $8,000 worth of
work,” Sharga said.  Bank-owned properties  sold for an average discount of
almost 35 percent in the second quarter, little changed from
both the previous quarter and a year earlier. Such properties
accounted for 15 percent of all U.S. home sales, down from
almost 19 percent in the first quarter and 20 percent a year
earlier, RealtyTrac data show.  Short Sales  Properties in default or scheduled for auction sold for an
average discount of almost 13 percent, down from 16 percent in
the previous quarter and 19 percent a year earlier. These homes
are often sold in short sales, where lenders accept less than
the outstanding loan amount for the property, RealtyTrac said.
Sales of properties either in default or headed for auction
accounted for 9 percent of all transactions.  The average price was $154,147 for bank-owned properties
and $204,932 for homes in default or scheduled for auction,
RealtyTrac said.  Nevada  had the highest proportion of distressed sales of
any U.S. state in the second quarter, with 56 percent of all
transactions involving properties seized by banks or at risk of
foreclosure.  Arizona  ranked second at 47 percent, while
California was third at 43 percent.  Distressed sales accounted for at least a quarter of total
sales in Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Florida, Michigan,
Georgia, Idaho and Oregon, RealtyTrac said.  Ohio had the highest average price discount for foreclosed
homes at almost 43 percent. Kentucky followed at 41 percent and
California was third at 39 percent.  Michigan, Tennessee, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa
and the District of Columbia all had average distress discounts
of at least 35 percent, RealtyTrac said. The company sells
default data from more than 2,200 counties representing 90
percent of the U.S. population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  