-- Dividend-Stock Strategy May Gain Momentum, Bank of America Says
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/dividend-stock-strategy-may-gain-momentum-in-u-s-bank-of-america-says.html
The leadership of  high-yielding
stocks  is far from over because the group is the least liked by
fund managers while poised to gain popularity among a growing
population of aging Americans, Bank of America Corp. said.  Utilities  and  phone companies , which offer the highest
dividend yield among the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s  10
industry groups, are owned by mutual funds in the smallest
proportion relative to their weighting in benchmark indexes,
according to data compiled by Bank of America. Portfolio
managers are likely to be forced to raise holdings of those
shares as earnings growth slows and more Americans favor stable
returns, analysts led by Savita Subramanian wrote in a note
dated Sept. 28.  “We’re still in the early stages of building interest,
given that dividend yield still remains a somewhat underutilized
investment theme,” Subramanian said. “When profits growth
grows scarce, investors tend to seek out companies with stable
earnings and avoid companies with volatile earnings growth.
Companies with strong and stable dividends generally align with
this theme.”  The first global recession since World War II prompted
investors to seek safety in fixed-income assets. Almost $57
billion was withdrawn from U.S. stock mutual funds from May
through August, the most during any four-month period since
2008, according to data compiled by the Investment Company
Institute. At the same time, about $100 billion was stashed in
bond funds.  Industry-Group Gains  Phone stocks and utility companies, whose dividend yield
averages 5.36 percent and 4.28 percent, respectively, have
jumped 12 percent and 5.6 percent in the past six months through
yesterday for the best performance of the 10 groups in the S&P
500. Companies in the benchmark gauge, including more than 120
that offer no dividend, pay an average of 0.96 percent of their
share price to shareholders.  “Companies with attractive and above-market dividend yield
are still -- and could continue to be -- a scarce resource,”
Subramanian wrote. “Over the next decade, retiring Baby Boomers
are shifting in preference from capital appreciation to income.
This secular increase in demand creates a compelling case for
the relative attractiveness of equities with above average,
sustainable and growing dividend yield.”  The analysts said investors should buy Russell 1000 stocks
in the second quintile of dividend yield because they are "safe
-- but not stretched" and "offer the strongest relative gains
over time on a risk-adjusted basis."  Dividends are recovering from the worst year on record in
the U.S., where 804 companies reduced payouts by a combined $58
billion, according to data compiled by S&P.  Dividends  may rise
20 percent through 2012, analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Profit growth, on the other hand, will slow to 15 percent
next year from 35 percent in 2010, the fastest expansion since
1988, according to Bloomberg data.  The slowdown in earnings growth “is generally a tailwind
for dividend-yield strategies,” said Subramanian.  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  