-- Dollar Falls Before U.S. Data on Easing Concern; Euro Recovers
-- B y   B o   N i e l s e n
-- 2010-09-30T11:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/dollar-set-for-biggest-monthly-loss-since-2008-versus-euro-on-u-s-economy.html
The dollar slipped to a five-month
low versus the euro before a report  today  that will probably
show business activity in the U.S. fell this month, fanning
speculation the Federal Reserve will start buying bonds.  The greenback fell against all of the 16 most traded
currencies. The Chicago Purchasing Managers Index likely slid to
55.5 in September, the lowest since November, a Bloomberg  survey 
of 57 economists showed. The euro rose after lenders asked the
European Central Bank for 104 billion euros ($142 billion) in
three-month loans, less than some analysts expected, suggesting
tensions in the region’s financial markets are easing.  “With every piece of evidence we get on the state of the
U.S. economy, the market is adjusting its assessment” of the
next Fed move, said  Stephan Maier , a foreign-exchange strategist
at UniCredit SpA in Milan. The ECB auction “is an upside factor
for the euro versus the dollar. With a weaker Chicago PMI, we
may see a still weaker greenback in the afternoon.”  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.3653 per euro at 7 a.m.
in New York, the weakest level since April 14, from $1.3627
yesterday. The greenback dropped to 83.28 yen from 83.70 yen
yesterday, and touched 83.17 yen, the lowest since Sept. 15. The
euro fell to 113.84 yen from 114.06 yen.  ECB Funding  The euro erased an earlier decline against the dollar as
the ECB said it will lend banks 29.4 billion euros for six days
to help ease the expiry of 225 billion euros in longer-term
loans.  Today’s figures, combined with similar ECB funding data
yesterday, are “a lot less than the market would have
expected,” said  Nick Matthews , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “The reliance on ECB cash
might be waning.”  The ECB is phasing out non-standard measures used to
fight the financial crisis. Institutions have been wary of
lending to each other after Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
fueled concern that some governments may struggle to refinance
their debts. The ECB is still lending banks as much cash as they
need, although the durations of the loans are shortening.  The greenback has depreciated against all 16 of its most-
traded counterparts since the end of June on speculation the
Federal Reserve will resume buying bonds to help the economy. It
dropped the most against Sweden’s krona, falling 16 percent.  “There is more widely a consolidation move to the weak
dollar story,” said  David Deddouche , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  