-- Hertz Ends Hunt for Dollar Thrifty, Leaving Clear Path for Avis
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/dollar-thrifty-shareholders-vote-against-hertz-offer.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc.  ended its
attempt to acquire  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc.  after
shareholders rejected the deal, clearing the way for  Avis Budget
Group Inc. ’s $1.53 billion takeover offer.  Investors holding about 13.8 million  shares  voted against
the $1.44 billion Hertz bid at a special meeting in Chicago
yesterday, versus 11.8 million shares in favor. Hertz CEO Mark
Frissora said in a statement that the company would cease all
activities related to the Dollar Thrifty takeover and work to
expand its Advantage brand and U.S. off-airport business.  Hertz’s exit clears the way for Parsippany, New Jersey-
based Avis, which two days ago sweetened its offer with a $20
million breakup fee that Dollar Thrifty for weeks had asked it
to add in case the proposal doesn’t win regulatory approval.
Dollar Thrifty’s  board  had cited the lack of such a fee in
rejecting the offer.  “We respect the vote of our shareholders, and remain
confident in our ability to continue to deliver outstanding
value for them,” Dollar Thrifty CEO  Scott Thompson  said in a
statement. “We will evaluate all of our options going forward
in order to maximize value for Dollar Thrifty shareholders.”  Thompson’s statement didn’t mention Avis by name.  Avis said yesterday in a statement that it will commence an
exchange offer for Dollar Thrifty on its most recent terms
within 10 days.  Dollar Thrifty rose 4 cents to $50.14 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Park Ridge, New Jersey-
based  Hertz  fell $1.02, or 8.8 percent, to $10.59.  Avis  rose 13
cents, or 1.1 percent, to $11.65.  Avis Premium  Avis’s bid, valued at $53.41 a share at yesterday’s closing
prices, represents a 51 percent premium to the average price of
Dollar Thrifty’s shares in the 20 days before Hertz’s first
offer. The average premium in acquisitions of auto- or
equipment-rental businesses since 2005 was 17 percent.  Dollar Thrifty has gained 29 percent since the day before
Hertz’s offer of $41 a share in cash and stock was announced in
April. The shares traded for less than $1 as recently as March
2009.  Hertz and Avis have fought over Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
 Dollar Thrifty  for about five months, in part because of the
consolidation of the U.S. market. The four largest U.S. rental-
car companies account for 81 percent of the industry’s revenue,
according to IBISWorld.  Hertz Locations  Hertz  is the largest worldwide airport car-rental brand,
operating from more than 8,200 locations in 146 countries. Ford
Motor Co. in December 2005 sold Hertz to Clayton Dubilier & Rice
Inc., the Carlyle Group and Merrill Lynch’s buyout unit. The
car-rental company raised $1.32 billion in an initial share sale
less than a year later.  Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley are providing financial
advice to Avis, and Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Arnold & Porter LLP
are acting as legal counsel.  Barclays Plc and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
advised Hertz on its April offer, with Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
and Jones Day providing legal advice. Dollar Thrifty was advised
by JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and law firm
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Chicago at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 