-- Dombrovskis Likely to Retain Power in Latvian Vote as Russian Party Gains
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-09-30T07:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/dombrovskis-likely-to-retain-power-in-latvian-vote-as-russian-party-gains.html
Latvian Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis , who curbed spending to unlock bailout funds, will
probably remain in power after Oct. 3 elections that may see a
Russian party garner the most votes for the first time.  Polls show the premier’s Unity bloc is about even with
Harmony Center, which represents Russian speakers who make up
almost a third of the population and haven’t been in government
since Latvia gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.  Dombrovskis is likely to form the next government because
he is the candidate most closely aligned with President  Valdis Zatlers ’ criteria of backing the International Monetary Fund-led
rescue and maintaining Latvia’s links to the EU and NATO. The
39-year-old premier cut wages and raised taxes to keep funds
flowing from a 7.5 billion-euro ($10 billion) loan program as
Latvia suffered the European Union’s worst recession.  “It’s clear that Dombrovskis is going to get the first
shot at forming a government, the question is can he put it
together,” said  Daunis Auers , a political scientist at the
University of Latvia in Riga. “He should have enough seats in
parliament to give him legitimacy to be the candidate.”  Harmony was backed by 21.2 percent of voters, compared with
19.2 percent for Unity in a Sept. 25-27 poll by  Latvijas Fakti .
Greens & Farmers and For Fatherland & Freedom, the other members
of Dombrovskis’ coalition, had 9.9 percent and 5.2 percent,
respectively. For a Good Latvia, led by members of the previous
government, was at 7.8 percent. About 19 percent of the 1,004
respondents were undecided. The margin of error was 3.2 percent.  ‘Not Just Rumors’  While there is a “big possibility” that Dombrovskis’
three-party coalition will have more than 50 lawmakers in the
100-seat parliament, adding Harmony would help shield the
government from public anger at further budget cuts, said  Aigars Freimanis , director of Latvijas Fakti.  The Finance Ministry estimates the next budget should
contain an additional 350 million lati ($671 million) of savings
as Latvia seeks to cut the deficit to the EU limit of 3 percent
of gross domestic product by 2012 from 8.5 percent this year.  “I have a suspicion that talk of Harmony Center joining
are not just rumors,” Freimanis said in an interview.  Dombrovskis would prefer to keep the current coalition
intact, he said yesterday on Latvijas Radio.  Even if Harmony doesn’t take part in the next Cabinet, no
government since independence has survived a four-year term,
meaning the party may get the chance to join a future coalition.  ‘Unsung Hero’  Dombrovskis, a former finance minister and central bank
economist, was named prime minister on Feb. 26, 2009, two weeks
after his predecessor’s four-party coalition collapsed. Latvia
almost ran out of money before the new government broke approved
a supplementary budget that ensured the continued flow of funds
from the IMF and EU.  Latvia’s credit default swaps, which investors use to
protect against default or speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, surged to 1,193 basis points in March 2009. They
fell to 334.8 basis points on Sept. 28, below the costs for
Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Romania and Hungary.  Lithuanian Prime Minister  Andrius Kubilius  said Sept. 24
that Dombrovskis was an “unsung hero,” because his budget cuts
created stability in the Baltic region.  A peaceful demonstration by about 10,000 people seeking new
elections turned into a riot on Jan. 14, 2009, in Riga, when a
few hundred protesters broke windows at the parliament building
and set fire to a police car.  Lack of Trust  Trust in government and the parliament hit record lows in
January last year, according to a poll by SKDS. About 4.5
percent of those surveyed said they trusted the parliament and
7.3 percent trusted the government, the lowest figures since the
poll began in 1996. The rates now are about 11 percent for
parliament and about 18 percent for the government.  Harmony has gained support by moving away from pro-Russia
policies, opposing the austerity program and lessening its focus
on minority rights, said  Nils Muiznieks , a political scientist
at the University of Latvia.  None of the 15 governments Latvia has had since
independence included a party representing Russian speakers, a
group that includes Ukrainians and Belorussians. After 45 years
as part of the Soviet Union, many Latvians distrusted parties
advocating ties with Russia.  “They’ve done a systematic job of burnishing their image,
of being more statesman-like, less Russia friendly, more
moderate than ever before,” Muiznieks said. “They’ve added new
leaders who speak fluent Latvian and look moderate.”  Ready to Lead  Even so, Harmony won’t get a “controlling” share of power
or hold posts sensitive to national security and foreign policy
if it joins the government, Muiznieks said.  Janis Urbanovics, the party’s candidate for prime minister,
is a 51-year-old former engineer who has been a member of
parliament since 1995.  Urbanovics says he’s in favor of cooperating with the IMF
and supports continuing Latvia’s participation in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization mission in Afghanistan. Harmony
opposes cutting pensions and wants to reduce the budget deficit
partly by fighting corruption, he said.  “I am ready to be a prime minister,” Urbanovics said in a
Sept. 28 interview. “I am nominated by the most popular
political force. I know what misfortunes Latvia is facing. I
know how to fix them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  