-- Dong Energy Abandons IPO Plan, Says It Will Take a Year to Restart Process
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-09-30T09:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/dong-energy-public-sale-preparation-abandoned-ceo-eldrup-says.html
Dong Energy A/S has abandoned all
preparation for an initial share sale and said it will take
about a year to restart the process after the government shelved
what was to be Denmark’s biggest such sale in more than a decade.  “We are not working on it now at all,” said Dong Chief
Executive Officer  Anders Eldrup  in an interview in Copenhagen.
“We did the job last time. If we are asked to start again we
will benefit to some extent from that, but much of it we have to
start up from scratch because so many things have changed.”  Denmark’s government had planned to sell a 22 percent stake
in Dong, which produces and distributes oil, natural gas and
electricity throughout the Nordic region. Eight regional power
companies were also to divest a combined stake of almost 6
percent. The government postponed the IPO on Jan. 21, 2008, as
the global financial crisis sent the MSCI World Index of the
most-traded stocks plunging 42 percent that year.  The state still intends to offload a 28 percent stake in
Dong, which analysts surveyed by Bloomberg at the time estimated
could have raised $3.5 billion in 2008. There is no timeline for
taking a decision,  Peter Brixen , head of asset sales at the
Finance Ministry told Bloomberg on Jan. 27.  Preparing an initial sale of Dong may take about a year,
Eldrup said. “Last time it took us around one year. Maybe it
could be done a little faster here, but not much faster.”  For now, the world’s largest operator of  offshore wind
farms  is focusing on organic growth in wind, oil and gas, though
the company isn’t ruling out acquisitions, Eldrup said.  “That’s for the board to decide, but hopefully we can have
a steady production line so that each year one or two offshore
wind parks are commissioned,” he said.  Greenland Oil  Dong is building the 400-megawatt Anholt offshore wind farm
in Denmark and the 1,000-megawatt London Array in the U.K. along
with Germany’s biggest utility,  E.ON  AG, and Abu Dhabi renewable
energy Masdar.  The Danish utility also holds an exploration license with
partners  Exxon Mobil Corp  and  Chevron Corp  in Greenland together
with  Cairn Energy Plc,  the explorer that announced its first oil
discovery there on Sept. 21.  “We have not made a decision on drilling,” Eldrup said,
adding that Dong and its partners are analyzing seismic studies.
“It’s more complicated than normal because a big layer of
basalt is on top of the underground and you get reflections in
the seismic studies that are very difficult to interpret.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  