-- Drilling Ban, Galleon, Bank of America in Court News
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-09-30T12:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/drilling-ban-bank-of-america-proxy-access-in-court-news.html
U.S. regulators asked the federal
judge in New Orleans who threw out the Interior Department’s
first ban on deep-water oil drilling not to reject a second
version of the moratorium.  U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans struck
down the first order June 22, finding it overly broad and
punitive to the Gulf Coast economy. Lawyers for Interior
Secretary Kenneth Salazar asked Feldman yesterday to reject an
oil industry suit and uphold the revised ban imposed in July.  “This is a policy call,” Guillermo Montero, one of the
Interior Department’s lawyers, told Feldman.  “A policy call which I’m not enslaved to accept unless I
find it was reasonably discerned,” the judge responded. Feldman
also told the lawyers yesterday that he would “try to get a
decision out as quickly as is reasonable.”  Separately, the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans
yesterday narrowed the dispute by rejecting a government appeal
of Feldman’s June 22 order stopping enforcement of the original
six-month ban on drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet. The
court found the original ban, imposed after BP Plc’s Gulf of
Mexico oil spill, was “legally and practically dead.”  The appeals panel said the second ban rendered Feldman’s
original order irrelevant and tossed the appeal.  “Any opinion expressed by this court on the merits and
legality of the issuance of the preliminary injunction would
address an injunction that is legally and practically dead,”
the panel said in a 2-1 decision.  The second moratorium was challenged in a suit filed by
 Ensco Offshore Co. , which claims Salazar overstepped his
authority, setting new rules in an attempt to circumvent
Feldman’s June 22 order.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans). The appeal is Hornbeck Offshore Services v. Salazar,
10-30585, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  SEC Can’t Have Rajaratnam Wiretaps, Appeals Court Says  A federal appeals court blocked a demand by the  Securities
and Exchange Commission  for wiretaps from the insider-trading
prosecution of Galleon Group co-founder Raj Rajaratnam for use
in its related civil suit.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the
SEC’s civil enforcement case, erred in ordering Rajaratnam and
his co-defendant, Danielle Chiesi, to turn over the wiretaps, a
panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York ruled yesterday.
The defense received the recordings from federal prosecutors in
their criminal case.  The appeals court said Rakoff abused his discretion because
U.S. District Judge Richard J. Holwell, who is presiding over
the criminal case, hasn’t yet ruled on their legality. The
decision doesn’t bar the agency from obtaining the wiretaps
later in the case after Holwell rules.  “The district court clearly exceeded its discretion in
ordering disclosure of thousands of conversations involving
hundreds of parties, prior to any ruling on the legality of the
wiretaps and without limiting the disclosure to relevant
conversations,” the panel said in its  opinion .  Rajaratnam, 53, and Chiesi, 44, are accused of illegally
using tips from company executives, hedge fund employees and
other insiders. They were charged in October 2009 as part of the
biggest insider-trading prosecution in history. The scheme
reaped $52 million in illegal profits, according to the SEC.  According to Rajaratnam and Chiesi, the government
wiretapped conversations involving 18,150 communications
involving 550 people on 10 phones over the course of 16 months.  Prosecutors said they lack the legal authority to provide
the wiretaps directly to the SEC, according to the appeals
court. “The more prudent course” may have been to postpone the
civil trial until after completion of the criminal trial, a
proposal that was agreed to by all the parties in the case, the
appeals court said.  The appeals court rejected an argument by Rajaratnam and
Chiesi that federal law bars the disclosure of wiretaps in civil
cases.  “We are pleased with the 2nd Circuit ruling today that the
Commission has a legitimate right to obtain relevant, legally
intercepted wiretap materials from defendants prior to their
disclosure in criminal proceedings,” John Nester, an SEC
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Rajaratnam, 10-CV-462, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  Black’s Lawyer Urges Court to Throw Out Conviction  Conrad Black’s 2007 convictions for fraud and obstructing
justice should be thrown out because it’s impossible to tell
whether jurors found him guilty under a now-invalid legal
theory, his lawyer told a federal appeals court.  A three-judge panel in Chicago heard Black’s case yesterday
for the second time following a U.S. Supreme Court decision that
narrowed the scope of the so-called honest services fraud
statute, the law used to prosecute the former Hollinger
International Inc. chairman.  “None of the fraud or obstruction convictions can survive
examination of the trial record,” Black’s appellate lawyer,
Miguel Estrada, told the judges during oral arguments.
Prosecutors, in court filings, said there’s ample evidence to
support Black’s conviction on other grounds.  Black, 66, was convicted by a U.S. jury in July 2007 after
a four-month trial. He and three other former executives at the
Chicago-based publisher now known as Sun-Times Media Group Inc.
were found to have stolen $6.1 million from the company as they
engineered its sale of assets.  The Supreme Court, ruling on former Enron Corp. Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey K. Skilling’s appeal, said the statute
can be applied only to allegations involving bribes or kickbacks
that deprive citizens or shareholders of honest services.
Federal prosecutors also used the law in cases against ex-
Illinois governors George Ryan and Rod Blagojevich.  In a separate opinion, the court returned Black’s case to
the Chicago appellate judges to reconsider how the jury arrived
at its verdict. Jurors were allowed to base their vote for
convictions of Black and the other Hollinger executives on
either honest-services fraud or conventional fraud without
having to specify.  The men were convicted on three fraud counts spanning two
separate transactions, one involving a $5.5 million payment and
another for $600,000.  The trial court case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appellate case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, 7th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (Chicago).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Asks Courts to Halt Rulings Amid Foreclosure Review  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the third-biggest U.S. mortgage
servicer, said it’s asking courts to delay judgments in pending
foreclosure cases while the bank reviews and possibly resubmits
statements.  JPMorgan began to “systematically re-examine” foreclosure
filings after learning that employees may have signed affidavits
without personally reviewing underlying records, relying instead
on other personnel, said Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for the New
York-based firm. The review includes at least 56,000 loans and
covers 23 U.S. states in which courts oversee the foreclosure
process, a person briefed on the matter said.  “We have requested that the courts not enter judgments in
pending matters until we complete our review,” Kelly said
yesterday. The review is expected to be finished in “a few
weeks,” he said.  Attorneys general in at least five states are investigating
borrowers’ claims that some of the nation’s largest home lenders
and loan servicers are making misstatements in foreclosures.
Ally Financial Inc. said last week it found a “technical”
deficiency in the foreclosure process at its GMAC Mortgage unit
allowing employees to sign documents without a notary present or
with information they didn’t personally know was true.  Misstatements may stall foreclosures in some states and
exacerbate losses for bonds backed by home loans, Fitch Ratings
said in a statement yesterday. Fitch is reviewing how servicers
handle foreclosures and may downgrade them if they aren’t taking
adequate steps to avoid lapses, Diane Pendley, a managing
director at the ratings company, said in the statement.  As of June 30, JPMorgan serviced $1.35 trillion of U.S.
home mortgages, or almost 13 percent of the market, according to
industry newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. The other servicers
in the top five are Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co.,
Citigroup Inc. and Ally.  For more, click here.  Goldman’s Tourre Seeks Dismissal of SEC’s CDO Suit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s Fabrice Tourre asked a federal
judge to dismiss a Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit,
saying the transactions at issue in the complaint didn’t take
place in the U.S.  The sole investor alleged in the complaint to have
purchased notes in the transaction was a foreign bank that
invested overseas, Tourre’s lawyer said in a filing yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan. The transaction “was not subject to
the antifraud provisions of federal securities laws,” according
to the filing.  The SEC sued Goldman Sachs and Tourre in April over claims
the firm misled investors in collateralized debt obligations
linked to subprime mortgages.  Tourre, the only Goldman Sachs executive sued individually,
remains a defendant in the case after the firm agreed to a $550
million settlement in July. Fiona Laffan, a Goldman Sachs
spokeswoman, said Sept. 9 that Tourre “remains an employee on
paid leave.”  The case is SEC v. Goldman Sachs, 10-CV-3229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Microsoft Gets Apple, Google Support in I4i High Court Appeal  Microsoft Corp.  is getting some support from  Google Inc. 
and  Apple Inc.  in its efforts to overturn a patent-infringement
verdict that forced the software maker to change its Word
program.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, is asking
the U.S. Supreme Court to consider making it easier to
invalidate patents in a case it lost to closely held  I4i Inc.  of
Toronto. Google,  Apple,   Intel Corp.,   Toyota Motor Corp.  and
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association trade
group are among those that filed papers yesterday urging the
high court to take the case.  Under federal law, a patent is presumed valid because it
has undergone scrutiny by the  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office 
and courts require “clear and convincing” evidence to overcome
that. Microsoft contends that the presumption doesn’t apply when
a jury is hearing evidence that wasn’t considered during the
application process.  “Juries take the presumption of validity very seriously
and are extremely reluctant to second-guess the PTO’s
determination,” a group including Google, retailer Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and phone company Verizon Communications Inc. said
in a filing yesterday. “The clear-and-convincing-evidence
standard serves only to tilt the playing field even further in
favor of patent holders.”  The case before the Supreme Court involves a dispute over
I4i’s invention related to customizing extensible markup
language, or XML, a way of encoding data to exchange information
among programs. Microsoft issued an update to its Word software
to comply with a court order that it stop using the invention.  The case is Microsoft Corp. v. I4i LP, 10-290, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington). The appeals court case is I4i LP v.
Microsoft Corp., 2009-1504, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court case is I4i LP v.
Microsoft Corp., 07-cv-113, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Tyler).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Lawsuits  Business Groups Sue SEC Over Proxy-Access Rule  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s biggest
business lobby, and the  Business Roundtable  sued the Securities
and Exchange Commission to overturn a rule that makes it easier
for investors to oust corporate directors.  The two groups decided to sue after completing a legal
analysis of the regulation, they said yesterday at a news
conference in Washington. The rule, which allows shareholders
owning 3 percent of a company to nominate board members on
corporate ballots, was passed by a divided SEC last month.  “These rules are wholly unnecessary,” said David
Hirschmann, president of the chamber’s Center for Capital
Markets Competitiveness. “This special interest-driven rule
will give small groups of special-interest activist investors
significant leverage over a business’ activities.”  SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro has said the 2008 credit crisis,
which cost financial firms more than $1.82 trillion, shows
shareholders need more clout in picking board members to oversee
companies.  Before the SEC approved its rule, shareholders could
nominate dissident directors only by mailing a separate ballot
and persuading other investors to vote with them. Activist
investors such as Carl Icahn and Nelson Peltz have waged proxy
fights to get their candidates elected to boards of companies
they said were underperforming.  The SEC, in a 3-2 vote, stipulated that investors or groups
of shareholders who have owned 3 percent of a company for three
years could have board candidates on proxy statements.  Under the regulation, shareholders would be able to
nominate at least one director and as much as 25 percent of a
board. Investors couldn’t use the rule if their intent is to
oust a majority of board members and take over a company.  The financial-regulation law signed by President Barack
Obama in July authorized the SEC to let investors place director
nominees on corporate proxies. The law’s language was meant to
make it easier for the SEC to withstand a legal challenge.  The chamber and Washington-based Business Roundtable, which
represents chief executive officers of the biggest U.S.
companies, have retained Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP lawyers
Eugene Scalia and Amy Goodman to handle the case, which was
filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.  “We believe that the commission’s proxy-access rules are
both lawful and in the best interests of the public and
shareholders,” SEC spokesman John Nester said in the agency’s
statement. “The commission will, of course, carefully consider
and timely respond to the motion for a stay.”  For more, click here.  Ambac Sues Countrywide Over Mortgage-Backed Bonds  Ambac Assurance Corp. sued  Bank of America Corp.  over $16.7
billion of mortgage-backed securities, saying the bank’s
Countrywide Financial Corp. fraudulently induced Ambac to insure
the bonds.  Ambac  found that 97 percent of 6,533 home mortgage loans it
reviewed across the 12 securitizations sponsored by Countrywide
didn’t conform to the lender’s underwriting guidelines,
according to the complaint filed in New York state Supreme
Court. Many of the loans were made to borrowers with limited or
no ability to meet their payment obligations, Ambac said.  Ambac has paid hundreds of millions of dollars in claims
connected to defaults in the securities, according to the suit
filed yesterday. At the same time, Countrywide has refused to
comply in a timely fashion with its obligations to repurchase
the out-of-guideline loans or bring them into compliance, the
lawsuit claims.  Ambac  is “entitled to redress for Countrywide’s massive
fraud and pervasive and material breaches, including damages
sufficient to place Ambac in the same position it would have
been in had it never insured the transactions,” the suit says.  Shirley Norton, a spokeswoman for the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based lender, said the bank has no comment.  The case arises out of 12  Countrywide-sponsored 
transactions that closed between 2004 and 2006, nine of which
involve home equity lines of credit secured by second-lien
mortgages and three that involve fixed amount second-lien loans.  Over the last two years, the loans in the transactions have
 defaulted  at what Ambac calls “extraordinary rates.” To date,
the suit claims, more than 35,000 loans with a total principal
balance of more than $1.95 billion have defaulted or been
charged off. As a result, the suit says, Ambac has been forced
to make more than $466 million in claim payments.  The case is Ambac Assurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 651612/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Lehman, Nortel Challenge U.K. Regulator on Pension Debt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s European unit and  Nortel
Networks Corp.  are challenging the U.K. Pensions Regulator in
court over whether they must pay as much as a combined 2.25
billion pounds ($3.55 billion).  The  Pensions Regulator  this month issued a so-called
financial support direction against Lehman Brothers and its
affiliates seeking funds to cover a deficit of more than 148
million pounds in the former investment bank’s retirement plan.
The panel  issued a similar order  against Toronto-based Nortel in
July seeking as much as 2.1 billion pounds for the underfunding
of its plan.  Lehman Brothers International Europe and Nortel are jointly
challenging the regulator’s claims in a London court, saying
they shouldn’t be required to pay the deficits while they are in
administration or bankruptcy protection. Judge Kim Lewison ruled
at the hearing yesterday that the parent company and Lehman
Brothers Asset Management (Europe) Ltd. can also join the
challenge to protect their specific interests.  Lehman doesn’t want to have to pay the European unit’s
debts, its lawyer, Barry Isaacs, said at the hearing.  David Hannant, a spokesman for the regulator, declined to
comment because the case is ongoing.  Lehman Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history in September 2008, and its European unit is liquidating
in London. Nortel and affiliates filed for bankruptcy in the
U.S., Canada and London in January 2009.  A bankruptcy judge in Delaware ruled last month that
efforts by the U.K. regulator to force Nortel to contribute to
its retirement plan violate the so-called automatic stay in the
case, and halted the request.  ABB Units Charged With Violating U.S. Bribery Law  The U.S. charged two units of  ABB Ltd. , the world’s biggest
electricity-networks builder, with conspiracy and violating the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  According to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court
in Houston, ABB and its co-conspirators made “concealed,
corrupt payments” to officials at Comision Federal de
Electricidad, an electric utility owned by Mexico, “in exchange
for improper business advantages to ABB Inc. and ABB NM,
including the award of contracts.”  The payments related to an upgrade for Mexico’s electrical
network in a contract that generated $44 million in revenue for
an ABB unit, prosecutors claim.  Laurence A. Urgenson, a lawyer representing Zurich-based
ABB, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. ABB Inc., 10-664, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Boston Scientific Claims Rivals Infringe U.S. Stent Patents  Boston Scientific Corp.,  the world’s second-biggest maker
of heart devices, sued Cook Group Inc., TaeWoong Medical Co. and
EndoChoice Inc. over mesh tubes used in minimally invasive
surgery.  Boston Scientific claims the tiny tubes that prop open
arteries and are used in endoscopies are infringing at least
three patents. The complaint, filed Sept. 27 in federal court in
Boston, targets Evolution stents made by closely held Cook
Group; TaeWoong’s Niti-S; and the Bonastent made by EndoChoice
and South Korean partners Standard Sci-Tech Inc. and Sewoon
Medical Co.  Boston Scientific makes the WallFlex stent and related
delivery system. The products are used in endoscopy products for
the treatment of diseases of the digestive system, according to
the complaint. The patents relate to types of stents that work
better when inserted, for instance, in the food pipe.  The company’s endoscopy unit generated $134 million in U.S.
sales in the second quarter, driven largely by the U.S.
introduction of the WallFlex binary stent system and continued
sales of the WallFlex esophageal stent, Boston Scientific  said 
in an Aug. 5 regulatory filing.  Boston Scientific, based in Natick, Massachusetts, is
seeking unspecified cash compensation and an order that would
prevent further use of its inventions. Three patents were
asserted against all of the companies, and a fourth, for a self-
expanding esophageal stent, was asserted only against
Bloomington, Indiana-based Cook.  The Bonastent received U.S. Food and Drug Administration
clearance earlier this year, Alpharetta, Georgia-based
EndoChoice said April 29. Officials at Cook and EndoChoice
didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment.
Officials at  TaeWoong  and Standard Sci-Tech couldn’t be reached.  Closely held TaeWoong is based in Goyang-Si, South Korea,
and Standard Sci-Tech is based in Seoul, according to the
complaint.  The case is Boston Scientific Corp. v. Cook Inc.,
10cv11646, U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts.  Eli Lilly Sues Celesio U.K. Units Over Generic Zyprexa Sales  Eli Lilly & Co. , the world’s biggest maker of psychiatric
drugs, sued two U.K. units of drug distributer  Celesio AG  for
allegedly infringing its patent for the schizophrenia drug
Zyprexa two years ago.  Celesio’s  Lloyds Pharmacy  and Aah Pharmaceuticals
businesses sold about 800,000 tablets of generic Zyprexa before
agreeing in 2008 to halt sales, Eli Lilly said in a complaint
filed in the High Court in London on Aug. 18 and made public
last week.  Eli Lilly, based in Indianapolis, took legal action two
years ago against “a number of companies” to stop sales of the
generic known as olanzapine, according to an e-mailed statement
from Edward Sagebiel, an Eli Lilly spokesman. The sales ended
after Eli Lilly’s patent expiration won an extension until Sept.
26, 2011, according to the complaint.  The lawsuit “has been undertaken by Lilly to obtain its
damages as a result of the sale of those products” in 2008,
Sagebiel said.  Lloyds Pharmacy agreed to halt the sales “and hold the
remainder of the stock in quarantine,” Sarah Stokes, a
spokeswoman for Lloyds Pharmacy, said in an e-mail. The lawsuit
relates to a single batch of olanzapine that Lloyds Pharmacy
purchased and the company is no longer selling it, she said.  Dean Enon, a spokesman for Coventry, England-based Aah
Pharmaceuticals, referred calls to Stokes.  The case is: Eli Lilly v. AAH Pharmaceuticals, Lloyds
Pharmacy, High Court of London, Chancery Division, No.
HC10C02699.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Court Rulings  Visteon Accord on Contract, Bankruptcy Debt Approved  Visteon Corp.  won court approval to settle a dispute with
 Ford Motor Co.  over the automaker’s claim that Visteon owed it
$160 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher S. Sontchi in Wilmington,
Delaware, approved the deal’s terms yesterday. Under the
settlement, Ford will drop its demand for $160 million from
Visteon and instead will pay the company $29 million, James
Mazza, a Visteon attorney, said in court.  The approval was the last Visteon needed to exit
bankruptcy, Mazza said in an interview after the hearing. The
company expects to leave bankruptcy by Oct. 1, the date
announced in August when it won court approval of its
reorganization plan.  “No other court action is necessary,” Mazza said.  Visteon will continue supplying parts to Ford under a
contract valued at about $600 million, Mazza said in court.  The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 