-- Dubai Government's $1.25 Billion Bond Paves Way for Gulf Company Debt Sale
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-09-30T13:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/dubai-government-s-1-25-billion-bond-paves-way-for-gulf-company-debt-sale.html
Dubai government’s first bond sale
since the Gulf Arab emirate’s debt woes roiled global markets in
November is paving the way for companies in the region to return
to debt markets.  Emaar Properties PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
property developer, yesterday increased its offering of
convertible bonds to $450 million from $375 million. The company
said it received $3 billion in bids. Arab Petroleum Investments
Corp., an energy investment unit whose largest shareholders are
the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, said yesterday it plans to sell a
benchmark-sized Saudi-riyal bond.  Dubai received orders of about $5 billion for its two-part
bond sale in which it raised $1.25 billion. It was the emirate’s
first sovereign issue since state-controlled holding company
Dubai World sought to renegotiate debt repayments on $24.9
billion. The emirate, which doesn’t have a credit rating, last
sold bonds in October 2009, raising $1.93 billion from five-year
Islamic notes.  “The fact that this sale seems to have gone down well will
encourage others,” said  Nigel Rendell , an emerging-markets
economist at RBC Capital in London. “There’s certainly demand
out there for more. New issues are going to get snapped up.”  Emerging market bond sales have raised $85 billion this
month, an increase of 38 percent compared with September 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield
investors demand from emerging market debt over U.S. treasuries
has narrowed 24 basis points in September to 279, according to
JPMorgan EMBI Plus EMBI + Sovereign Spread.  Qatar Also Issuing  Qatar Telecom QSC  hired six banks to help organize meetings
with credit investors ahead of a possible dollar-bond sale, the
Gulf Arab country’s largest telecommunications company said
today.  Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ  started meeting investors last
week to sell its first dollar Islamic bond, knows as sukuk.  “We are always looking for the right opportunity. It
depends on the pricing,” Saudi Basic Industries Corp. Chief
Financial Officer Mutlaq al-Morished said today. Sabic Capital,
a unit of Saudi Basic delayed the sale of a bond in May because
of unfavorable spreads, Al-Morished said May 26.  Dubai’s 5-year, $500 million issue was priced to yield 6.7
percent and the $750-million, 10-year bond was priced to yield
7.75 percent. Dubai’s 6.396 percent Islamic bonds maturing 2014
were yielding 6.431 percent at 5:43 p.m. in the emirate, down 39
basis points this month, according to prices on Bloomberg.  “The Dubai debt story is improving,” Chavan Bhogaita,
head of credit research at National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC,
wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “I would expect this to be
reflected in healthy order books for any high quality
government-related entity issuance that we may see out of Dubai
before the end of the year.”  Dubai’s Borrowing  The emirate and its state-controlled entities borrowed $109
billion to transform itself into a regional tourism and
financial hub, according to estimates by the Washington-based
International Monetary Fund. Abu Dhabi, which holds about 7
percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, and the U.A.E.
government lent Dubai about $20 billion last year as the
sheikhdom struggled to repay debt after credit markets froze.  Dubai’s government has projected a deficit of 6 billion
dirhams ($1.6 billion) this year, narrowing from 12.9 billion
dirhams last year, according to a bond prospectus published on
Sept. 27. Dubai’s government had outstanding debt of 105.47
billion dirhams at the end of July, according to the prospectus.  Progress on Dubai World’s restructuring as well as a
rebound in the services sector will prompt the IMF to raise its
economic forecast for the U.A.E. and Dubai, Middle East director
 Masood Ahmed  said on Sept. 16. The fund currently predicts 1.3
percent growth for the U.A.E. economy for this year and a 0.4
contraction for Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net  or
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 