-- Dutch Minority Government Plans $25 Billion Spending Cuts, Ban on Burqas
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-09-30T15:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/dutch-minority-government-plans-25-billion-spending-cuts-ban-on-burqas.html
Liberals and Christian Democrats in
the Netherlands vowed to cut spending by 18 billion euros ($25
billion) by 2015 and ban full-face Islamic veils in their
program for the first minority government since World War II.  “We’re going to reorganize the government finances,”  Mark Rutte , 43, the Liberal Party leader who will become prime
minister in the government backed by  Geert Wilders ’s anti-Islam
Freedom Party, told reporters in The Hague today. “We want to
give back the Netherlands to the hard-working citizen.”  Austerity measures are the key topic on the government’s
agenda. The Netherlands, the fifth-largest economy in the euro
region, must narrow its budget deficit to 3 percent of gross
domestic product by 2013 from almost 6 percent this year to meet
European Union rules. The latest plans will cut the shortfall to
0.7 percent by 2015, according to the government planning
agency, known as the CPB.  The coalition plans to lower spending on development aid by
1 billion euros a year and aims to cut its contribution to the
EU by the same amount. The defense budget will be cut by 600
million euros, civil servants’ salaries will be frozen and
several ministries will be merged.  More Police  Rutte’s government, which will have as its slogan “Freedom
and Responsibility,” also intends to build more highways,
increase the speed limit on them and hire 2,500 new police
officers. To satisfy the Freedom Party, it will ban the wearing
of full-face veils in public.  Lawmakers from the Christian Democrats will await the
outcome of a special party convention Oct. 2 before they take a
final decision to approve the coalition. Rutte’s and Wilders’s
parties agreed to the program yesterday.  It’s taken three attempts to form the coalition following
the inconclusive June 9 election. A previous round of talks
between the three parties collapsed Sept. 3 after senior
Christian Democrats opposed cooperation with the Freedom Party.  The government will have 52 seats in the lower house of
parliament and rely on the 24 Freedom Party lawmakers to give it
the smallest possible majority in the 150-seat chamber.  The yield premium investors demand to hold Dutch 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds has narrowed to 23.1
basis points from 29.6 basis points on election day.  Wilders’s party more than doubled its representation in
parliament in the election, while the Christian Democrats, who
were led into the vote by Balkenende, lost half of their
support. Rutte’s party is the largest in the new parliament.  ‘Fitna’ Charges  The Freedom Party is in favor of a ban on new mosques, less
development aid and a reduction of European Union influence in
the Netherlands. Wilders, 47, receives police protection around
the clock and faces trial next week on charges of inciting
hatred in his 2008 film “Fitna,” in which he calls on Muslims
to rip out “hate-preaching” verses from the Koran.  “From now on, the Netherlands will become safe,” Wilders
told reporters in The Hague today. “We will reduce the number
of immigrants and people seeking asylum,” Wilders said, adding
there will also be a ban on the burqa.  Although the Freedom Party leader won’t be a part of the
government, Wilders’s involvement may hurt Dutch diplomatic and
business interests abroad. “Fitna” sparked protests in
majority-Muslim countries including Indonesia and Pakistan and
led to calls to boycott Dutch products in Malaysia and Iran.  Denmark, Britain  The agreement in the Netherlands mirrors the way Denmark
has been governed since 2001. A minority coalition of Liberals
and Conservatives in Denmark relies on the support of the anti-
immigrant Danish People’s Party to get legislation through
parliament.  The time it’s taken to form a government in The Hague
contrasts with the U.K., where it took Conservative leader  David Cameron  and the Liberal Democrats’  Nick Clegg  just five days
after May 6 elections to agree on a program for the country’s
first coalition since World War II.  While the Dutch Liberals and Christian Democrats will count
on the Freedom Party for their majority in the lower house of
parliament, Wilders’s party has no seats in the  upper house , an
institution it is seeking to abolish, according to its program.  The Liberals and Christian Democrats currently have 35 of
the 75 seats in the upper chamber, falling short of the majority
needed to approve legislation.  The Freedom Party will thus have to run in March provincial
elections to ensure it gains representation in provincial
councils, which will elect members of the upper house in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fred Pals  in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  