-- Heavy Rain, Wind Delay Flights on U.S. East Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-09-30T21:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/heavy-rain-wind-delay-u-s-east-coast-flights-tornado-watch-is-in-effect.html
High wind and heavy rain swept
across the U.S. East Coast, tying up air traffic in New York,
prompting Washington to hand out sandbags and knocking out power
in North Carolina and Virginia. More rain is expected in New
York late today.  Delays of almost two hours were reported at LaGuardia
Airport in New York, almost an hour in Newark, New Jersey, and
four hours at John F. Kennedy International Airport, according
to the Federal Aviation Administration.  Water is covering part of the 11th Street bridge ramp in
Washington. The city has also made sandbags available at New
Jersey Avenue and K Street Southeast for residents who need
them, according to city statements.  “This is a major flooding event and we are expecting more
rain to come tonight,” said Heather Sheffield, a National
Weather Service meteorologist in  Sterling, Virginia , which
covers Washington and Baltimore. “And half our area is still
under a tornado watch.”  The  watch area  covers portions of Delaware, northeast
Maryland and southeast Pennsylvania.  High winds, possibly a tornado, knocked down trees in Anne
Arundel County, Maryland, between Washington and Baltimore.
Naval Air Station Patuxent River in Maryland recorded 8.9 inches
(22.6 centimeters) of rain. Flood watches and high-wind warnings
cover the East Coast from Maine to South Carolina.  Sheffield said it would take at least a day to determine
whether the tree damage in Maryland was caused by a tornado.  Rail Blocked in Baltimore  Baltimore’s light rail north of the Cold Spring station has
been blocked by downed trees and buses are shuttling customers,
according to the  Maryland Transit Administration’s  website.  David McNeill , spokesman for Progress Energy Inc. in
Raleigh, North Carolina, said 13,000 Progress customers in the
Carolinas were without power because of the heavy rains. The
company restored power for 32,000 customers.  Power-generating plants have not been affected, McNeill
said. Progress has more than 1.4 million customers in the
Carolinas.  As of 3:25 p.m., 16,762 customers in Virginia and North
Carolina were without power, according to  Dominion Resources
Inc.’s  website.  Airport Delays  In addition to slowdowns in New York and Newark, airports
in Boston and Philadelphia were also reporting delays, according
to the FAA website.  Southwest Airlines Co.  suspended flights out of LaGuardia
and Long Island, according to a company statement.  “Anybody from eastern Virginia on up to New England is
fair game for at least a few inches of rain,” said  Tom Kines ,
senior expert meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in State
College, Pennsylvania. “Any of these heavier rain bands that
come through can contain gusty winds of 30 to 40 miles per
hour.”  Another round of heavy rain expected to arrive in New York
late today is forecast to leave more than  4 inches  on Manhattan
before it leaves tomorrow, said John Murray, a Weather Service
meteorologist in Upton, New York.  “We’re expecting quite a bit more rain with this next area
of low pressure and it should be quite a bit stronger,” Murray
said. “As it approaches, expect winds to increase quite a
bit.”  Murray said wind gusts of 60 mph are possible throughout
the night. A flood watch is in effect until late tomorrow,
according to the weather service. A high-wind warning expires
early tomorrow.  Rivers Rising  The James River in Richmond is forecast to rise by 8.75
feet in the next two days, according to the Weather Service. The
Delaware River at Washington Crossing, Pennsylvania, is expected
to rise by more than 17 feet.  The Potomac River near Washington was expected to rise by 6
feet and the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia is forecast to
crest at 15.2 feet, 8.8 feet higher than its current level,
according to the Weather Service.  Kines said the remnants of Tropical Storm Nicole are also
lingering off the East Coast. If that system tracks inland, it
would add even more rain and wind gusts.  “That is another piece of energy and we will have to wait
and see,” Kines said.  On Jamaica, where Nicole struck yesterday before
dissipating off the Florida coast, at least five people are dead
and nine are missing, according to Richard Thompson, deputy
director general for Jamaica’s  Office of Disaster Preparedness &
Emergency Management .  Thompson said 78 communities have been damaged by flooding
and high winds. Officials haven’t been able to put a price on
the damage yet, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  