-- ECB Lends Banks 29.4 Billion Euros to Smooth Maturing Loans
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-09-30T09:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/ecb-lends-banks-29-4-billion-euros-to-smooth-maturing-loans.html
The European Central Bank said it
will lend banks 29.4 billion euros ($40 billion) for six days to
help ease the expiry of 225 billion euros in longer-term loans.  Banks today need to repay 75 billion euros in 12-month
funds, 18 billion euros in six-month funds and 132 billion euros
in three-month loans. The 12- and six-month loans won’t be
renewed as the ECB phases out the non-standard measures used to
fight the financial crisis.  In a three-month loan offered by the ECB yesterday, banks
asked for 104 billion euros, which was less than some analysts
expected. The loans are offered at the ECB’s  benchmark rate  of 1
percent.  Today’s six-day cash “will tide the banks over to the next
ECB main refinancing operation next week,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “The ECB
doesn’t want to leave them high and dry but it will be watching
this very closely to assess the health of the banking system.”  The ECB said yesterday it is concerned that some banks in
the European Union remain overly reliant on central bank cash.
Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said on Sept. 6 that
addiction to ECB liquidity is “a problem” that “needs to be
tackled.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB said 50 banks asked for the six-day
funds at 1 percent. Banks can currently borrow one-week money
from each other in the market at about 0.52 percent.  While the ECB is still lending banks as much cash as they
need against eligible collateral, the duration of the loans is
shortening.  The ECB started to phase out its longer-term loans last
year. Greece’s debt crisis, which sparked a bond-market rout and
threatened to undermine the foundations of the single currency,
forced a rethink. In May, the ECB reintroduced full allotment in
its three-month tenders and agreed to make an additional six-
month loan.  Earlier this month, the ECB decided to provide banks with
unlimited liquidity in operations of up to three months until
the end of the year as the euro-region recovery shows signs of
weakening.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  