-- U.S. Economy Grew 1.7% in Second Quarter as Recovery Slowed
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-09-30T12:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/economy-in-u-s-grew-1-7-in-second-quarter-as-recovery-slowed.html
The U.S. economy grew at a 1.7
percent annual rate in the second quarter, marking the start of a
slowdown in growth that has concerned the Federal Reserve.  The revised increase in gross domestic product was more than
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
compares with a 1.6 percent estimate issued last month, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington. The
world’s largest economy grew 3.7 percent in the first three
months of the year and 5 percent at the end of 2009.  Economists surveyed this month projected little pickup in
growth for the rest of the year as a  jobless rate  hovering close
to 10 percent hobbles consumer spending and housing languishes
around record lows. Stocks and Treasury securities have rallied
since Fed policy makers said Sept. 21 that they were prepared to
do more to spur the economy and prevent prices from falling.  “We have a slow-growing economy,” said Michael Feroli,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “What
we’re getting will do nothing to bring down the unemployment
rate. The improvement in the labor market is very slow.”  Stock-index futures rose, erasing earlier losses, after a
separate report showed first-time filings for jobless benefits
declined. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
December gained 0.3 percent to 1,143.80 at 8:46 a.m. in New York.  Jobless Claims  Initial jobless claims dropped by 16,000 to 453,000 last
week, lower than the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey, Labor
Department figures showed today.  GDP was forecast to grow at a 1.6 percent annual pace,
according to the median estimate of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Projections ranged from gains of 1.3 percent to 2.2
percent. Today’s report is the third for the quarter.  The final revision to second-quarter growth reflected bigger
gains in consumer spending and inventories.  The economy is among the top concerns for voters in the
November congressional elections, and polls show the public is
increasingly skeptical of  President Barack Obama ’s performance.
His administration is pushing a proposal that would extend
middle-income tax cuts while letting the top rates rise in order
to mitigate the effect on the budget deficit.  Growth Forecast  Growth will average 2.1 percent from July through December,
according to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey from Sept. 1 to Sept. 8, down from their projections a
month earlier. Analysts also cut estimates for next year,
predicting consumer spending will cool and unemployment will hold
above 9 percent.  There’s a 20 percent chance the economy will slide into
another recession, according to the median estimate the
economists surveyed.  “We continue to see what we believe to be a slow-growth
economy, but still a growth economy,” Charles “Wick” Moorman,
chief executive of  Norfolk Southern Corp ., the second-largest
U.S. railroad by market capitalization, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday. “We saw a fairly sharp snap-back
as 2009 went on and early in 2010. That seems now to have
slowed.”  The  S&P 500  fell 0.3 percent yesterday to close at 1,144.73,
trimming the gauge’s biggest September rally since 1939. The two-
year Treasury note reached a record-low yield of 0.41 percent on
Sept. 22.  Jobs Lost  The loss of 8.4 million jobs caused by the recession, which
ended in June 2009, has taken a toll on consumer confidence and
spending. The housing market is yet to show sustained growth in
the absence of a government tax credit for buyers.  At the same time, corporate profit gains indicate business
investment, which has been the mainstay for manufacturing and the
recovery, will keep growing, albeit at a slower pace.  Sluggish growth and low inflation are among the reasons
economists in the Bloomberg monthly survey pushed back the timing
of the Fed’s first rate increase to the fourth quarter of 2011
from the prior three months.  “The pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed
in recent months,” Fed policy makers said in their statement on
Sept. 21, when they kept the benchmark interest rate near zero.
“Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains
constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower
housing wealth, and tight credit.”  Consumer Spending  Today’s report showed consumer spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, rose at a 2.2 percent pace last
quarter, the fastest since the first three months of 2007 and
more than the 2 percent the government estimated last month.
Spending added 1.54 percentage points to GDP in the second
quarter.  Household spending figures for August, due tomorrow, may
show a 0.3 percent gain following a 0.4 percent increase in July,
according to the Bloomberg survey median  Today’s report showed the trade gap was revised to $449
billion from $445 billion, as imports climbed more than
previously estimated. The deficit subtracted 3.5 percentage
points from growth, the biggest reduction since record-keeping
began in 1947.  A bigger gain in inventories contributed 0.82 percentage
points to second-quarter growth, more than the government
estimated last month.  The need to restock depleted inventories, a major driver of
the economic recovery, will diminish in coming months as
companies try to keep stockpiles more in line with demand.  Corporate Profits  Corporate profits increased 3 percent, the smallest gain
since a decrease in the final three months of 2008, today’s
report showed. They were up 10.5 percent in the first quarter.
Earnings rose 37 percent from the second quarter of 2009,
indicating companies have the means to lift spending on new
equipment and payrolls.  Business spending on new equipment and software rose at a
24.8 percent pace last quarter, the most since 1983. Spending on
structures including office buildings and factories declined 0.5
percent, previously reported as a 0.4 percent increase.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to consumer
spending and strips out food and energy costs, climbed at a 1
percent annual pace. Policy makers, in their statement last week,
also said that inflation is “somewhat below” levels consistent
with the central bank’s congressional mandate for stable prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  