-- Ecuador Will Probably Tap China, Pensions to Finance Deficit, Fitch Says
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-09-30T14:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/ecuador-will-probably-tap-china-pensions-to-finance-deficit-fitch-says.html
Ecuador will probably tap the
nation’s pension fund and seek a loan from China next year to
help finance its estimated $2.7 billion budget deficit,
according to  Erich Arispe , an analyst at Fitch Ratings.  South America’s seventh-biggest economy may need as much as
4.3 percent of gross domestic product to fund the “relatively
large” deficit, Arispe, a New York-based analyst at Fitch, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Ecuador is using debt to increase spending on
infrastructure projects and social programs in a bid to lower
unemployment and boost economic growth, President  Rafael Correa 
said in a June 5 statement. The nation’s default on $3.2 billion
in bonds since 2008, declining oil production and a slump in
private investment has crimped funding sources, Arispe said.  Correa “has to find a way to finance his ambitious
investment projects,” Arispe said. “Given the limited
potential of increased oil-derived revenue” and declining
investment, “increasing debt is the option they have at this
point.”  Ecuador’s Finance Ministry didn’t respond to an e-mail or
telephone message after normal working hours yesterday. Finance
Minister  Patricio Rivera  last week declined to answer reporters’
questions about next year’s budget.  Default Risk  The nation also will probably seek loans from Corporacion
Andina de Fomento, a Caracas-based multilateral lender, and the
Inter-American Development Bank, the biggest infrastructure
lender in Latin America, Arispe said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 6 basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 10.36 percent at 9:09 a.m. New York
time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index. Ecuador’s
spread has widened 23 basis points in the third quarter,
compared with a 58 basis-point drop for the index.  Ecuadorean sovereign debt is the second-riskiest after
Venezuela’s among 15 emerging markets tracked by JPMorgan,
according to the bank’s EMBI+ indexes.  The government next year will also begin offering treasury
notes with a term of less than one year to boost liquidity,
Rivera said Sept. 24. Ecuador has proposed legal changes to
allow the country’s banks to use short-term government bonds for
as much as 75 percent of their reserves and let the government
boost public debt to 50 percent of GDP from the current limit of
40 percent, Rivera said.  Economic Growth  The Finance Ministry said yesterday China delivered $800
million of a $1 billion loan agreement signed last month and
will deliver the remaining $200 million in the “next months.”
Ecuador owed China $3.66 billion as of July 31, according to a
Finance Ministry report. The figure doesn’t include the $1
billion loan signed in August.  Ecuador’s GDP will probably rise as much as 3.5 percent in
2011, up from an estimated 3 percent this year, while inflation
increases to 5.1 percent from Fitch’s forecast of 3.9 percent,
Arispe said.  Ecuador’s economy expanded 0.33 percent in the  first
quarter  from the previous three-month period and 0.6 percent
from the same period a  year  earlier as growth in non-oil
industries helped compensate for the steepest decline in crude
revenue since 2007, the central bank said June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  