-- Elster Cuts IPO Price After Liberty Mutual Pulls Biggest U.S. IPO of 2010
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-09-30T21:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/elster-group-cuts-ipo-price-after-liberty-mutual-shelves-sale.html
Elster Group SE  raised 28 percent
less than sought for its initial public offering, while Liberty
Mutual Agency Corp. shelved the biggest U.S. IPO of 2010.  Elster, the Essen, Germany-based provider of gas and water
meters, sold 16.2 million American depositary receipts at $13
each yesterday after offering them at $16 to $18, according to a
statement and a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing.
 Liberty Mutual Agency  cited unfavorable market conditions as it
postponed a $1.3 billion offering.  The price cut and postponement were setbacks to an IPO
market that had started to rebound this month as China’s  SouFun
Holdings Ltd.  and  Country Style Cooking Restaurant Chain Co. 
posted first-day rallies of more than 47 percent. At least 45
companies have shelved or withdrawn U.S. initial sales this year
amid concern that the economy’s recovery from the longest
recession since the Great Depression is deteriorating.  “The IPO market is certainly not a slam dunk,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private
Bank, which oversees $55 billion. “A lot of investors,
individual and professional alike, just don’t have a strong
conviction, and that means the market is pretty mercurial.”  Underwriters  Deutsche Bank AG  of Frankfurt and New York-based Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. led the sale from
Elster, which climbed 6.2 percent to $13.80 in New York Stock
Exchange trading today.  Rhino Resource Partners LP  advanced 6.8 percent to $21.90
after the Lexington, Kentucky-based operator of coal properties
sold 3.24 million units at $20.50 each. Raymond James Financial
Inc. of St. Petersburg, Florida, Toronto-based  Royal Bank of
Canada , and Stifel Financial Corp. of St. Louis led the IPO.  Citigroup Inc.  of New York and Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America Corp. arranged Liberty Mutual Agency’s
offering of 64.3 million Class A shares at $18 to $20 each.  The insurer’s deal would have surpassed the $676 million
raised in June by Houston-based  Oasis Petroleum Inc.  as this
year’s biggest U.S. IPO. General Motors Co. of Detroit may seek
$8 billion to $10 billion in a November initial sale, two people
familiar with the matter said last week.  ‘Across the Bow’  At the IPO’s midpoint price of $19, Boston-based Liberty
Mutual Agency’s shares were valued at 1.3 times tangible book
value, according to IPOdesktop.com in Marina del Rey,
California. That’s higher than the average ratio of 1.12 for
Warren, New Jersey-based  Chubb Corp. ,  Travelers Cos.  in New York
and three other companies Liberty Mutual Agency cited as
competitors in its prospectus, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Liberty not getting done is maybe a little bit of a shot
across the bow: If you want to come, value it better,” said
 Scott Billeadeau , who helps oversee $19 billion at Fifth Third
Asset Management in Minneapolis. “Buyers are going to be choosy
about how much they’re going to pay.”  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd.  sold 6.1 million
ADRs at $13.90 each today after offering them for $10 to $12,
according to Bloomberg data.  Bank of America  and Deutsche Bank
arranged the deal.  China Ming Yang Wind Power Group Ltd. , a Guangdong, China-
based maker of wind turbines, will seek to raise as much as $400
million offering 25 million ADRs at $14 to $16 each today. New
York-based Morgan Stanley,  Credit Suisse Group AG  of Zurich and
Bank of America will lead the sale.  MakeMyTrip  Companies from mainland China account for five of the 10
best performing U.S. IPOs this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Gurgaon, India-based online travel-reservations provider
 MakeMyTrip Ltd.  surged 184 percent for the second-biggest gain.  “The dynamics surrounding the insurance industry are very
different from the dynamics of some of the more successful IPOs
that have occurred recently,” said  Lawrence Creatura , a
Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors
Inc., which oversees about $350 billion. “Company-specific and
industry-specific conditions matter to IPO investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 