-- Emanuel Said to Resign Friday, Rouse to be Replacement
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-09-30T21:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/emanuel-said-expected-to-resign-white-house-chief-of-staff-post-tomorrow.html
Rahm Emanuel  will resign tomorrow
as President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff in preparation for a
campaign to become Chicago’s mayor, people familiar with the
matter said.  He’ll be replaced at the White House, at least on an
interim basis, by  Peter Rouse , currently a senior presidential
adviser who was Obama’s Senate chief of staff, one person with
direct knowledge of White House plans said.  White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  refused to confirm
Emanuel’s resignation, while saying Obama would be making a
personnel announcement at the White House about 11 a.m.
tomorrow.  Emanuel, 50, was the first major appointment Obama
announced after winning the presidency and has played a crucial
role at the White House.  “The president starts his day with a meeting with Rahm and
ends it with a meeting with Rahm,” Gibbs said. “His
leadership, his energy has helped us accomplish so much.”  Emanuel , who served three terms in the U.S. House
representing part of Chicago’s North Side and adjacent suburbs
before being picked by Obama for the White House job, said in
April he would be interested in the mayor’s job once Chicago
Mayor  Richard M. Daley  decides not to seek reelection.  Emanuel’s ‘Aspiration’  “That’s always been an aspiration of mine,” Emanuel said
in an interview on PBS television’s “ Charlie Rose Show .” “If
Mayor Daley doesn’t, one day I would like to run for mayor.”  Daley announced Sept. 7 that he wouldn’t seek re-election
to a seventh term. The last day to file nomination papers for
the mayoral election is Nov. 22. The election is in February.  Emanuel worked as a senior strategist and chief fundraiser
for Daley’s 1989 campaign, before joining the 1992  Bill Clinton 
presidential campaign. He then was appointed as a senior White
House adviser. After leaving the Clinton administration in 1998,
he spent three years in investment banking before running for
Congress in 2002.  Emanuel will be the fourth top-level adviser to leave the
White House since July. Others who have left or have announced
their departures are National Economic Council Director  Lawrence Summers ,  Peter Orszag , who was budget director, and  Christina Romer , head of the president’s Council of Economic Advisers.  The Associated Press first reported the plan for Emanuel to
announce his resignation tomorrow.  Time of Transition  The period after the midterm congressional elections often
is a time of transition for administration officials. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  told Foreign Policy magazine in August
that wants to leave his job next year. Obama’s top political
adviser,  David Axelrod , told the Chicago Sun-Times last week
that he likely will leave the White House early next year to
begin working on Obama’s re-election campaign.  Obama is selecting a longtime trusted aide to fill the gap
left by Emanuel’s departure.  Rouse, 64, served as Obama’s chief of staff when the
president was in the U.S. Senate, and before that was chief of
staff to former Senate Democratic Leader  Tom Daschle , where he
earned the nickname “the 101st Senator.”  Rouse worked on Obama’s presidential campaign and was co-
chairman of the transition team after the election and became a
senior adviser to Obama at the White House.  “Pete has been with Senator-elect, Senator, President-
elect and now President Obama,” Gibbs said. “There’s a
complete loyalty and trust with somebody like Pete.”  Gibbs said the president and others at the White House have
“enormous” respect for Rouse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  