-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to 27-Month High, Extending Quarterly Gain
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-09-30T22:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/emerging-market-stocks-fluctuate-after-china-issues-new-property-measures.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
27-month high as new Chinese measures to tame real-estate prices
and Ireland’s plan to recapitalize banks boosted demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.5 percent to
1,075.53 as of 5:40 p.m. in New York, extending its third-
quarter rally to 17 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index  jumped
1.7 percent for the biggest gain in almost seven weeks and the
top advance among benchmark indexes in major developing nations.  China’s policy makers have “been doing exactly the right
thing in trying to engineer a soft landing” in the economy,
 Geoff Lewis , head of investment services at JPMorgan Asset
Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Hong
Kong. “Growth has come down, but not too precipitously.”  China, the fastest-expanding major economy, will speed up
the introduction of a trial property tax in some cities and then
expand the levy to the whole country to curb real-estate
speculation, the government said yesterday. Citigroup Inc.
analysts said the measures have “partially settled” policy
uncertainties. Ireland’s government plans to take majority
control of Allied Irish Banks Plc and pump extra cash into Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. as it seeks to rebuild its financial system.  Stocks rose to their highest levels of the day after U.S.
government data showed the economy and personal consumption grew
more than estimated in the second quarter and jobless claims
decreased more than forecast last week. Investors may get more
clarity on the outlook for growth in the world’s largest economy
when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies before
the Senate Banking Committee today.  Monthly Gain  The MSCI emerging-market index had its best quarterly gain
in a year after rallying 11 percent in September, the best
monthly increase since July 2009. For the year, the 21-country
gauge is up 8.7 percent, following its record 75 percent rally
in 2009.  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led an index
of Chinese property stocks to its biggest gain in four months.
The industry’s shares have already fully priced in government
measures to tame real-estate prices and the effects of
yesterday’s policy tightening are limited, according to China
International Capital Corp. Property prices in 70 major Chinese
cities rose 9.3 percent in August from a year earlier.  India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  rose 0.6
percent today, while Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index climbed
0.2 percent to an all-time high. Russia’s  Micex Index  advanced
1.5 percent and Poland’s WIG20 increased 1.2 percent.  Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  advanced 0.3 percent. Gains in
the country’s benchmark stock index were led by OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Vale SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  