-- Emerging Market Share Sales Beat Developed Nations for 1st Time
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   M i c h a e l   T s a n g
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/emerging-market-share-sales-beat-developed-nations-for-1st-time.html
Emerging markets are attracting
more money from share offerings than industrialized nations this
quarter for the first time in at least a decade as companies
in Brazil and China complete record sales.  Companies from  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  to  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd.  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 21 countries
raised $138 billion through initial public offerings and
additional sales this quarter, beating the $62 billion in
industrialized countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion as executive
chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd., says that last
week’s record offering from Brazil’s Petrobras signals that
emerging market share sales may be approaching a “bubble.” For
bulls from Huntington Asset Advisors to Thornburg Investment
Management, faster  profit growth  and economies that are forecast
to expand twice as much as industrialized nations mean that
stocks in developing countries are still a buy.  “The emerging markets are going to be the best place to
be,” said Paul Attwood, who helps oversee $13.3 billion at
Huntington in Cincinnati. “Although emerging markets are
starting to get to a point where the valuations are not as
attractive, the growth is going to be there. That plays into
healthy IPO markets.”  2007 Peak  Equity sales in developing nations this quarter exceeded
the previous high of $72 billion in the last three months of
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Beijing-based  PetroChina
Co. , the country’s biggest oil company, completed the largest
offering of that quarter on the day MSCI’s emerging market gauge
 peaked , raising $8.9 billion in Shanghai on Oct. 29, 2007.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  traded at 18 times the
earnings of its companies as PetroChina sold its shares, the
highest level in five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The next day the gauge began a 12-month, 66 percent plunge as a
freeze in credit markets spurred the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  For Templeton’s Mobius, the ability of Petrobras to raise
as much as $70 billion last week to develop offshore fields
signaled that emerging market stocks may again be approaching
levels of excessive valuations. Brazil’s state-controlled oil
producer sold 2.4 billion common shares for  29.65 reais  each and
1.87 billion preferred shares at 26.30 reais apiece on Sept. 23
in the world’s biggest equity sale on record.  ‘Very Careful’  As part of the sale, the Rio de Janeiro-based company
issued about $42.5 billion of stock to Brazil’s government in
exchange for the rights to develop 5 billion barrels of oil
reserves. Mobius said the day after the offering that the deal
was an “abomination” that treated minority shareholders
unfairly and showed “we may be entering an IPO bubble.”  “That is a signal,” Mobius said in an interview with
Bloomberg HT television yesterday in Istanbul. “We have to be
very careful.”  Valuations for Petrobras haven’t reached excessive levels
yet, according to Mobius. At the time of the sale, the oil
producer traded at  7.5 times profit , almost half the ratio of
14.6 for the 113 companies in the  MSCI World Energy Index ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  was valued at 14.6 times
earnings as Petrobras completed its offering, 19 percent cheaper
than when PetroChina sold shares three years earlier, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Record IPO Gap  IPOs in emerging economies raised $42.3 billion this
quarter, exceeding initial sales in the developed world by a
record $31.4 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Chinese
companies accounted for the three largest sales.  Agricultural Bank of China, the country’s biggest lender by
customers, raised $22.1 billion in Shanghai and Hong Kong this
quarter to surpass  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.’s 
$21.9 billion deal in 2006 as the world’s largest IPO. Both
companies are based in Beijing.  China Everbright Bank Co.  of Beijing sold $3.2 billion in
shares. Zhejiang, China-based  Ningbo Port Co. , operator of the
world’s second-busiest harbor, raised $1.1 billion on Sept. 15.  China’s IPO market is “the big story of the year,” said
 Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $3 billion. “There’s kind of a
feeding frenzy there.”  Earnings Estimates  Earnings  for the 915 companies in China’s Shanghai
Composite Index will climb 20 percent next year, while profits
for the 68 companies in Brazil’s  Bovespa  index will rise 29
percent, Bloomberg data show. That compares with 15 percent for
the  MSCI World Index  of 24 developed countries and 14 percent
for U.S. companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Economies in emerging markets will grow 6.5 percent in
2011, according to estimates from the Washington-based
International Monetary Fund. That compares with 2.4 percent for
developed nations and 2.6 percent forecast for the U.S.  IPOs on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock
Market have raised $20.4 billion in 2010, while companies have
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to sell about
$50 billion in shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the widest gap since at least 1999, the data show.  General Motors Co.  will seek to raise $8 billion to $10
billion in a November IPO, less than the $16 billion the
Detroit-based automaker originally targeted, two people familiar
with the matter said last week. The earlier figure would have
made GM’s sale the second-largest initial offering ever in the
U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘More Excited’  AIA Group Ltd., the main Asia unit of bailed-out New York-
based insurer  American International Group Inc. , got preliminary
approval last week for an October IPO that may raise about $15
billion, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  “Investors in general are relatively pessimistic about the
prospects for the U.S. and they’re sort of forecasting a long,
slow recovery,” said  Timothy Cunningham , a fund manager at
Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management,
which had $56 billion in assets as of June 30. “When I think
about the recent deals and the deals we’re looking at, I think
we’re more excited about some of the international ones than we
are about some of the domestic ones.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 