-- EMI May Win Challenge Over U.K. Tax Rebate on Music Samples, EU Court Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-09-30T12:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/emi-may-win-challenge-over-u-k-tax-rebate-on-music-samples-eu-court-says.html
EMI Group Ltd.’s bid to get back
about 3.3 million pounds ($5.2 million) in U.K. taxes it paid on
promotional music materials was given a boost by a ruling at the
European Union’s highest court.  The  European Court of Justice  case sought to evaluate
whether albums and singles EMI distributed to the media to
promote new releases are samples or gifts of small value.
Samples are intended to promote sales and aren’t necessarily
covered by VAT or sales taxes, the  EU  court said in a ruling
today from Luxembourg. If a U.K. court determines that they are
samples, EMI can seek the return of the tax.  The dispute was triggered by value-added tax EMI paid to
the U.K. tax authorities between 1987 and 2003. EMI argued U.K.
tax rules weren’t in line with EU law and the VAT, a consumption
levy charged on goods and services, shouldn’t have been charged.  Today’s ruling is a win for the music company, accounting
firm Deloitte LLP said.  “This is a significant decision from the ECJ and will
impact many businesses both in the U.K. and across the EU which
distribute samples or gifts of small value,” said Giles
Salmond, a director in the tax dispute resolution group at
Deloitte.  Spokespeople at EMI in London didn’t immediately respond to
a voicemail message seeking comment.  Not ‘Wrong’  The U.K. Revenue and Customs office said the ruling doesn’t
“mean that all the U.K.’s legislation on samples and business
gifts is wrong.”  “We will need to carefully consider the judgment and
determine the extent to which U.K. legislation may require
amending,” the tax agency said in a statement.  EMI’s Chief Executive Officer  Roger Faxon  earlier this
month said three senior executives will depart as the debt-laden
music company restructures its global operations. Faxon said
London-based EMI must transform itself into an artists’ rights-
management business from a product-centric company that sells
CDs.  The case is  C-581/08 , EMI Group Ltd v The Commissioners for
Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  