-- Lebanon Can Bypass Hezbollah Budget Objection on Hariri Probe, Hamdan Says
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-09-30T15:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/emlak-of-turkey-to-build-50-000-houses-with-proceeds-from-ipo.html
Lebanon’s government will still be
able to pass this year’s budget, even if the Shiite Hezbollah
movement and its allies object to an article that allocates
funds for a United Nations court investigating the killing of
former premier  Rafiq Hariri , a senior official said.  “The budget will pass,” said  Ali Hamdan , adviser and
spokesman to Parliament Speaker  Nabih Berri , in an interview
today. “The article, like many other articles in the past, can
be dropped.” He said the issue is likely to become “a matter
of bargaining within parliament.”  Lebanon is obliged to pay 49 percent of the costs of the UN
Tribunal investigating Hariri’s killing. Should funding be
insufficient, U.N. resolution 1757, which created the court,
stipulates that the Secretary General and the Security Council
can explore alternate means of financing.  Parliament’s Budget and Finance Commission failed last week
to approve that budget item. The secretary-general of the
 Hezbollah movement ,  Hassan Nasrallah , said in July that the
 tribunal  was an “Israeli project” and a plot against his
group. He said some Hezbollah members may be indicted.  The risk of such charges being brought has fueled a crisis
in Lebanon’s national unity government. The administration is
led by Western-backed Prime Minister Prime Minister  Saad Hariri ,
son of the slain premier, and also includes Hezbollah and its
allies, who say indictment of group members may plunge Lebanon
back into sectarian strife. A 15-year civil war ended in 1990.  Budget Delays  Political disputes have blocked parliamentary ratification
of a budget in Lebanon for the past five years.  Hezbollah has called for the abolition of the UN tribunal,
questioning its independence and constitutional mandate. It has
also pressed for the detention and trial of false witnesses that
it says misled the initial investigation and wrongly pointed the
finger at Syria and its allies in Lebanon, including Hezbollah,
for Hariri’s killing.  “Hezbollah’s position is known with regard to this issue
and we won’t approve the funding,” the group’s spokesman
 Ibrahim el-Moussawi  said in an interview today.  Saad Hariri has rejected demands to end the tribunal. “All
the intimidation and threats will not affect our full commitment
to the international tribunal,” his Future movement said in a
statement this week.  The tribunal in April last year ordered the release of four
Lebanese pro-Syrian generals held in connection with Hariri’s
killing, saying there wasn’t sufficient evidence to continue
their detention, after some witnesses changed or retracted their
statements.  Beirut Protests  Syria and Hezbollah have denied any role in the killing,
which sparked a wave of protests in Beirut that led to the
withdrawal of Syrian troops from the country in 2005 after a 29-
year presence.  The tribunal’s president,  Antonio Cassese , told the Beirut-
based Daily Star newspaper in May that an indictment was likely
to be filed between September and December.  In December 2005, Lebanon’s government asked the UN to set
up a tribunal to try those responsible for the killing of Hariri
and 22 others by a roadside bomb in February that year.  “Parliament at large, the general assembly, will decide
whatever it wants when it votes on the budget,” said  Mohamad Chatah , Hariri’s chief political adviser, in a phone interview
today. “It can vote any item in or out, therefore the issue of
the tribunal’s funding may yet to be approved by parliament when
it reaches the floor.”  The budget is likely to be discussed in parliament as soon
as the third week of October, Hamdan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 