-- Emperor’s Seal, Pink Diamond Lead $210 Million Hong Kong Sale
-- B y   A d a m   M a j e n d i e
-- 2010-09-30T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/emperor-s-seal-pink-diamond-lead-210-million-hong-kong-sale.html
A jade seal of China’s 18th century
Qianlong emperor is one of the star attractions at Sotheby’s
3,200-lot Hong Kong auction that may raise HK$1.6 billion ($210
million) in a test of Chinese demand for art.  The milky-white block of jade, inscribed “ruler who
believes in heaven,” has carved dragons on top. It has a high
estimate of HK$30 million. The seven-day marathon also includes
cases of Chateau Lafite Rothschild; a 6.4 carat pink diamond;
antiques; jewelry and paintings by masters including Chinese
abstract painter Zao Wou-ki, New York-based  Sotheby’s  said.  The sale will show whether rising wealth in China will
continue to drive an increase in prices. Sotheby’s said the sale
has 800 more lots than its April auction in the city, which took
a record HK$2 billion and revived prices in most categories to
pre-credit-crisis levels.  “The estimate for the fall auction is the highest in our
37-year history of auctions in Asia,”  Kevin Ching , Sotheby’s
chief executive officer for Asia, said in a telephone interview.
“I’m reasonably confident we’ll do as well or better than our
spring sale.”  Rare wines are auctioned first, at the weekend, followed by
Modern and Contemporary Asian Art, traditional Chinese paintings
and ceramics, antiques, jewelry and watches through Oct. 8.  The wine sales, including lots from the cellars of Marcus
D. Hiles and SK Networks, the trading arm of one of South
Korea’s largest conglomerates, are expected to be dominated by
Asian appetite for labels such as  Lafite  and Chateau Petrus.
Chinese buying may help Hong Kong become the world’s biggest
wine auction market this year after its sales outperformed New
York in the first half.  2005 Romanee-Conti  Top lots include a case of Romanee-Conti 2005 estimated to
sell for as much as HK$1.17 million and 20 cases of Lafite 2000
expected to fetch as much as HK$234,000 each.  The art lots begin on Oct. 4 with the modern and
contemporary Southeast Asian paintings, dominated by Indonesian
works. Since Indonesian buyers came in force to push up prices
at Sotheby’s last Hong Kong sale in April, the  Jakarta  stock
exchange has risen another 23 percent, boosting the wealth of
the nation’s collectors.  Top lot among the modern offerings is S. Sudjojono’s 1956
work “A New Dawn,” with a high estimate of HK$2.5 million.
Leading the contemporary estimates is a new  Nyoman Masriadi  work
“Sok Ngirit (Pretending to be Prudent),” depicting a line of
people outside a telephone box. Its upper estimate is HK$2.2
million.  Frenzied Bidding  Later the same day, bidding is expected to intensify with
works by abstract artist  Zao Wou-ki  leading the Chinese 20th-
century art session. Seventeen works by China-born Zao, 89,
offered by rival  Christie’s International  in Hong Kong in May
fetched a total of HK$332.3 million in frenzied bidding.  Sotheby’s is offering two of the Paris-based artist’s
works. The first, “18-10-60,” a crimson painting from 1960,
has a top estimate of HK$18 million. The second, with a high
estimate of HK$15 million, is “5.3.71-28.11.74,” from more
than a decade later after the death of his partner in 1972.  In the contemporary sessions, works by Chinese artists
including  Zhang Xiaogang , Yu Youhan, Ding Yi, Li Songsong and
Wang Du will be offered, led by a 1992 Zhang painting that has a
high estimate of HK$23 million.  Sex and Violence  Sotheby’s is also staging “The Voyeur,” a special section
on the themes of sex, violence and the grotesque in contemporary
Asian art, with works from Japan, South Korea and China.  Later in the week, the focus switches to the traditional
Chinese paintings by masters such as  Wu Guanzhong  and Fu Baoshi,
with high estimates at HK$7 million apiece, and the ceramics and
antiques that were the mainstay of the Hong Kong auctions when
prices of contemporary art collapsed during the recession.  The Oct. 7-8 sessions on ceramics and works of art include
the jade seal, as well as two floral-medallion vases from the
imperial workshops in the Qianlong period.  “This season is the largest sale ever in our category both
in terms of the sheer number and value of masterpieces of
Chinese art that will be offered,”  Nicolas Chow , Sotheby’s
deputy chairman, said in a statement on the company’s website.  Sotheby’s, the world’s biggest publicly traded auction
company, sold a record HK$2 billion of antiques and art in Hong
Kong in its five-day sale of 2,400 items in April, when prices
of the top lots recovered to pre-credit-crisis levels. The
auction house had estimated the spring sale would tally HK$1.3
billion.  Mainland Demand  Almost 40 percent of the April total came from antiques,
led by bidding from mainland Chinese collectors for imperial
pieces and ink paintings by deceased masters such as Fu Baoshi.
Interest in Chinese contemporary art also recovered, pushing
prices to 2-year highs.  The equivalent sale the previous year took HK$691 million.
Prices of the top Chinese contemporary artworks fell 70 percent
during the crisis from May 2008, when  Zeng Fanzhi ’s painting of
Red Guards fetched HK$75.4 million.  Hong Kong’s $500 million-a-year art auction market was
dominated in 2009 by mainland Chinese, who accounted for 40
percent of sales.  Potential buyers who aren’t represented at this month’s
sale at the  Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre  can bid
via Sotheby’s  online bidding system .  To contact the writer on the story:
 Adam Majendie  in Hong Kong at  amajendie@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 