-- Energizer Wins Bankruptcy Court Permission to Bid on American Safety Razor
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-30T19:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/energizer-wins-bankruptcy-court-permission-to-bid-on-american-safety-razor.html
Energizer Holdings Inc. , known for
its battery powered pink  bunny  and Schick shavers, won court
permission to bid for bankrupt competitor American Safety Razor
Co. as a judge rejected the outcome of an earlier auction.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath  in Wilmington,
Delaware, ruled today that American Safety, which makes surgical
blades and discount shavers, must hold a new auction for its
assets.  Walrath threw out the results of the first auction, won by
American Safety lenders who agreed to cancel their $244 million
claim in exchange for control of the company. Only lenders were
allowed to bid in the first auction.  “If there’s more than one bid, the debtors must hold an
auction,” Walrath said. “The process has not been fair.”  Andrew Torgove , American Safety’s financial adviser,
testified Sept. 28 that the Cedar Knolls, New Jersey-based
company rejected a $301 million cash offer from St. Louis-based
Energizer before the first auction began. The bid raised too
many antitrust issues, said Torgove.  Energizer, which also makes batteries and is known for
advertising with a pink bunny that “keeps going ... and
going,” is the world’s second-biggest wet-shave razor seller,
behind  Procter & Gamble Co. ’s Gillette.  ‘Show-Me-The-Money’  “This is a show-me-the-money case and Energizer has showed
them the money,”  Robert Stark , an attorney for lower-ranking
creditors, told Walrath.  Lawyers for Energizer and American Safety wouldn’t comment
after the decision, read in open court.  Walrath said one of the “problematic” aspects of the
earlier sale process involved a non-refundable deposit.
Energizer offered to give American Safety a $5 million deposit,
while American Safety demanded $35 million.  “Deposits are normally refundable,” Walrath told the
company’s lawyers.  She also said she was bothered by the suggestion that
senior lien holders might get the deposit, when the money should
go to the bankruptcy estate.  “There are criminal sanctions” if the process involves
“improper motives,” Walrath said, adding that she hasn’t
identified any wrongdoing in the case.  Walrath said Energizer will need “a business week” to go
through financial documents and evaluate the company’s worth
before making a firm offer.  ‘Hold an Auction’  “Then we’ll hold an auction,” she said.  American Safety filed for bankruptcy protection in July
with plans to sell itself to lenders.  American Safety blamed its bankruptcy on increased
competition for inexpensive shavers and the loss of its biggest
customer,  Wal-Mart Inc.   Second-lien lenders lead by BlackRock Kelso Capital Corp.
claimed executives mismanaged the company and are fighting any
competing bids in order to save their own jobs.  BlackRock and GSO/Blackstone Debt Funds Management LLC hold
about 28 percent of American Safety’s $178 million in second
lien debt. Those groups support Energizer’s bid.  American Safety was acquired for $658 million in cash and
debt in 2006 by London-based Lion Capital LLP, the company said
in court papers.  American Safety was founded in 1875 and manufactured the
first safety razor for shaving in the U.S. It was a public
company from 1993 until 1999, when it was bought by private
equity firm J.W. Childs Associates, L.P.  Shares of Energizer, with about $4 billion in sales for the
fiscal year ending in September 2009, fell 16 cents to $67.27 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 3:12 p.m.  The bankruptcy case is In re American Safety Razor Co., 10-
12351, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 