-- Menon, Who Probed Barings's Leeson, Becomes Singapore's Attorney General
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-10-01T07:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/menon-with-barings-scalp-takes-office-as-singapore-s-attorney-general.html
Singapore’s new Attorney General
 Sundaresh Menon  took office today as the city state steps up
its pursuit of financial misconduct and prepares to further
liberalize the legal industry to boost its economy.  The 48-year-old lawyer’s experience ranges from
investigating the 1995 collapse of Britain’s oldest merchant
bank Barings Plc, after rogue trader Nick Leeson in Singapore
made losing bets on derivatives, to hearing a lawsuit involving
the country’s largest charity fraud while serving as a judicial
commissioner for a year.  Menon, the former managing partner at  Rajah & Tann LLP ,
Singapore’s second-largest law firm by lawyers, succeeds  Walter Woon , who pledged in January that the city will match “brain
for brain” the  best lawyers  that corporate criminals can afford.
Singapore’s central bank won its first civil lawsuits for stock
rigging and insider trading this year. The attorney general’s
office also oversees the 100 foreign law firms and 960 foreign
attorneys in Singapore.  “He would have a very good insight to the best way of
tackling corporate crime” with his experience of commercial
disputes, said Singapore International Arbitration Centre
Chairman Michael Pryles.  Singapore’s attorney general, appointed by the president
for two years, must ensure that prosecutions aren’t brought for
political or other extraneous reasons said Woon, now Dean of the
Singapore Institute of Legal Education.  ‘Heavy Responsibility’  “The office of the attorney general carries with it a
heavy responsibility,” Menon said in a statement today.
As attorney general, he said he would have to depend on “strong
advocates and advisers with a fearless sense of justice and a
commitment to the rule of law.”  As deputy chairman of the Singapore International
Arbitration Centre, Menon played a key role in transforming it
from something “regarded by some as parochial into a truly
international organization,” Pryles said.  “He’s established extensive contacts within the Indian
judiciary, in the sub-continent,” Pryles said.  Menon graduated with first class honors from the National
University of Singapore and received a Masters degree from
Harvard Law School in 1991, the same year U.S. President  Barack Obama  graduated from the Cambridge, Massachusetts,-based college.  Menon also headed the Asian disputes practice of Cleveland-
based law firm Jones Day and attends Church of St. Ignatius in
Singapore, where he conducted an eight-week course on the Bible
beginning in August.  International Network  His international network may help Singapore as it seeks to
expand the legal and financial services industries. The
government is considering allowing more foreign law firms to
practice local corporate law after granting licenses to six at
the end of 2008.  Singapore, the third-most competitive nation for doing
business, was ranked 21st out of 139 countries for its judicial
independence, according to the  World Economic Forum’s 2010-2011
Global Competitiveness Report.   As a judicial commissioner in 2007, Menon said that he had
no interest in indulging critics of the integrity of Singapore’s
judiciary when he declined to allow a foreign lawyer to appear
for The Far Eastern Economic Review in a defamation case.  “This court has one primary interest, and that is to do
justice to all without fear or favor,” he said. “The judgments
of this court speak for themselves.”  As head of the attorney-general’s chambers with  150 legal
officers,  Menon has responsibility for cases including the
prosecution of British author Alan Shadrake who has been charged
with contempt of court for challenging the independence of the
city’s legal system.  ‘Thankless Job’  “It’s a hard and thankless job,” said Woon, 54, who
stepped down as attorney-general in April. “The person who
occupies the hot seat has to have a thick skin and a strong
sense of duty and justice to cope.”  As a government-appointed inspector, Menon at 33 co-
authored Singapore’s report on the collapse of Barings after
Leeson’s $1.4 billion of trading losses brought down the bank.  As a judicial commissioner, he told the lawyer for
Singapore’s National Kidney Foundation, suing its former chief
executive to recover misappropriated funds, not to call the co-
defendants “cronies”.  “We can avoid the use of these terms at this stage,” he
told K. Shanmugam, now Singapore’s Law Minister. “The gentlemen
in question are entitled to be treated with respect and
dignity,” Menon said, adding that he wasn’t suggesting that
anything else was intended.  “He will raise the game when he becomes AG,” said
 Davinder Singh , chief executive officer of Singapore law firm
Drew & Napier LLC. “His time in office will be marked by
fairness, sound judgment and humility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  