-- EnPro, General Dynamics Units Sued by U.S. Over Clean Air Violations
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-09-30T23:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/enpro-general-dynamics-units-sued-by-u-s-over-clean-air-violations.html
EnPro Industries Inc.  and General
 Dynamics Corp.  were sued by the U.S. government for allegedly
making and installing marine engines that weren’t certified by
the Environmental Protection Agency.  EnPro’s Coltec Industries unit manufactured and sold 32
engines that weren’t covered by an EPA “Certificate of
Conformity,” while a General Dynamics unit installed the
engines in ships it built and sold in the U.S., the Justice
Department said in a complaint filed today in federal court in
Washington. Those engines had missing or defective labels in
violation of clean air rules, according to the lawsuit.  “The manufacturer must demonstrate to EPA in the
application for the certificate of conformity that its engines
meet the applicable standards,” the U.S. said in court papers.  The lawsuit is part of an effort to ensure marine
compression engines comply with federal rules on clean air
emissions standards, the Justice Department said. The government
is seeking $32,500 for each violation prior to Jan. 12, 2009,
and $37,500 for each violation after that date. In addition, the
complaint asks the companies to remedy the violations.  The disagreement is over labeling, EnPro said.  “This is a minor dispute over engines that were compliant
with emissions standards,” said  Don Washington , a spokesman
for Charlotte, North Carolina-based EnPro. “We strongly
disagree with the Department of Justice and the EPA and will
vigorously defend ourselves.”  James Gill, a spokesman for Falls Church, Virginia-based
General Dynamics, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Coltec Industries Inc., 10cv1659, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 