-- Merkel Straddles Fences After Euro's Near-Death Experience
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-09-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/merkel-straddles-european-fences-after-near-death-experience-for-currency.html
For a fleeting moment last spring, it
was possible to believe that Europe’s economic crisis had turned
 Angela Merkel  into a true believer in the European cause.  Three days after putting up the biggest chunk of a
750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) package to save Europe’s common
currency from the Greek financial contagion, the German
chancellor gave voice to a set of pro-European musings straight
out of the post-World War II dream factory, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Oct. 4 issue.  European unity, she said in a May 13 speech, is the “most
tantalizing, magnificent, auspicious idea.” Not only must
Europe forge a genuinely integrated economy, she declared, but
it needs “a common European army.”  Reality soon burst the bubble. Beer-garden rage at the idea
of throwing hard-earned German money after bad Greek debt gave
Merkel’s popularity numbers a kick. If an election were held
today, polls show, Germany’s first woman leader would not win.
It’s a reminder that in Germany, which is still straining under
the financial and social costs of unification, good deeds that
further the cause of Europe offer no political payoff. The
people who shattered Europe, then helped rebuild it, like the
Continent just the way it is.  “Even in the absence of this crisis, Germany would be
placing itself in the camp of the stand-pat, conservative
powers,” says  Jeffrey J. Anderson , a professor at the
Georgetown University School of Foreign Service in Washington. A
rebounding economy gives Germany “even less incentive to do
anything risky on the European front. The Germans are standing
back and saying: We fixed our problems with fiscal rectitude and
a sober, conservative approach, and the rest of you ought to be
following suit.”  Post-War Leaders  A child of Communist East Germany, Merkel, 56, lacks the
emotional roots of the war-scarred German generation that built
the European Union to be more than a marketplace.  Konrad Adenauer  bound Germany to the West in part to protect his
country from itself.  Helmut Kohl  regarded German and European
unity as two sides of the same coin--a coin that he made sure
was denominated in euros. It is this legacy that Merkel is now
struggling to uphold.  Merkel, a trained physicist, had her political awakening
when the Berlin Wall fell. Within a year she was in the first
all-German government as minister for women and youth, courtesy
of Kohl’s eye for eastern talent. Her rise was so quick that she
skipped the intensely local politics that gave her predecessors
grassroots credibility. She also displayed a ruthless streak.
When news broke in 1999 that Kohl had run a slush fund during 16
years as chancellor, Merkel, by then secretary-general of the
Christian Democratic Union, publicly denounced her mentor.  Tied to Euro  Now Merkel is bound by the institutions Kohl created: the
EU and the euro. As Greece veered toward default and threatened
to drag Spain, Ireland, and Portugal down with it, the pressure
on the euro drove the equivocating Merkel to rescue the system
not because she loves Europe, but because  Germany is its
leading beneficiary.  While Kohl battled to keep German and European interests in
perfect alignment, he was also the consummate domestic political
opportunist. He dodged and weaved for months in 1990 before
recognizing Poland’s border with Germany as inviolable--the same
kind of fence-straddling Merkel was accused of when Greece
pleaded for help. And by the end of his tenure in 1998, Kohl,
with his treasury buckling under the cost of subsidizing the
East, was making idle threats to stop paying into the EU budget.  ‘Massively Exaggerated’  So when critics--including many from her Christian
Democratic base--expressed outrage over Merkel’s handling of the
debt shock, the complaints were “massively exaggerated,” says
 Horst Teltschik , 70, a Kohl confidant who negotiated German
unification. “It would be superhuman to act immediately and
know all the answers in such a crisis. Helmut Kohl wouldn’t have
done it differently. Just like Chancellor Merkel, he would have
been willing to take risks in order to preserve the euro.”  Merkel, the overnight political phenomenon, lacks her
patron’s gift for milking a European crisis for gains at home,
and now she is paying the price. In May the CDU lost control of
North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s largest state, and with it a
majority in the upper house of Parliament. A rare contested vote
almost upended Merkel’s candidate for Germany’s ceremonial
presidency. Battles with her coalition allies over taxes stirred
talk of a leadership vacuum less than a year into her second
term.  The fiscal crisis and cleanup operation confirmed Germany’s
preeminence in Europe. It also made the German people even more
hesitant to embark on new EU ventures: 53 percent regard the
euro as a “bad thing,” according to a June poll by the German
Marshall Fund of the U.S.  Reluctant Leader  Merkel is not the only reluctant leader the country has
seen. Hesitancy was hardwired into Germany’s postwar politics as
the nation did penance for the crimes of the Nazi regime. Its
response was to wield power through the EU, in tandem with
former archenemy France. That worked as the EU grew from 6
countries in 1957 to 15 in 1995, and it worked for the creation
of the euro in 1999. But things are different in today’s larger
bloc.  Defeats for German-French projects used to be rare; now
they are increasingly common, as when other governments rejected
France and Germany’s argument for a European financial
transaction tax on Sept. 7. “For a long time the German-French
relationship has been much more appearance than reality,” says
 Guenter Verheugen , 66, Germany’s EU commissioner from 1999 to
2010. “The days are gone when a German-French directorate could
set the course of European integration.”  More Than Numbers  It’s not only a numbers game. German and French interests
have been drifting apart since the end of the Cold War. As
France tapped on the brakes, Germany was the prime mover behind
the EU’s expansion to the east, seeing it not only as a moral
imperative but as good for business. Eastern Europe bought
11 percent of German exports in 2009, trumping the U.S.’s
7 percent share. The eastward shift in the EU’s center of
gravity also reestablished Germany’s buffer zone to Russia.  As doubts swirled around the euro, the French were the
first to accuse Germany of having benefited unfairly. Europe’s
economic imbalances weren’t due only to peripheral countries
living beyond their means, French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said in March. Germany was also at fault for saving too
much, the argument went, spending too little, and getting rich
off exports to the rest of Europe.  Export Engine  Merkel bristled at the charge that Germany, by boosting its
industrial competitiveness, was winning a zero-sum European
game. One prong of Germany’s export model is to invest in
factories abroad. Some 64 percent of that investment is in the
EU, sustaining 2.9 million jobs, according to Bundesbank data.  “The export model directly benefits other countries,”
says Heleen Mees, a researcher at the Erasmus School of
Economics in Rotterdam. “It’s very worthwhile for those
countries to have German factories and technologies.”  Merkel has won on one point. As the EU tries to strengthen
the euro region’s financial management, the onus is on weaker
countries to improve how they do things, not on Germany to
abandon fiscal rigor and loosen the lid on wages. Yet that’s
about the only point she has taken so far. German calls for
harsher sanctions on deficit offenders face resistance, and
German pleas for an “orderly” default mechanism for debt-
swamped countries are going nowhere.  Enthusiasm Wanes  It’s no wonder that German enthusiasm for Europe has
soured, with the proportion calling EU membership a “good
thing” plunging to 50 percent from 60 percent in an EU poll in
May. That attitude underpins a tough German stance against
increasing the EU’s annual 123 billion-euro budget. Grand
European projects --- such as joint bond issuance or a
centralized foreign or immigration policy --- fail to excite a
country that, after centuries of strife, is at last satisfied
with its place on the map.  While consenting to the EU’s unhurried expansion to the
Balkans, Merkel has transformed Germany from being a supporter
of Turkish membership to a die-hard opponent. The best Turkey
can hope for is a “special relationship,” she said in Istanbul
in March. Even in her Europe-of-the-future speech in May, the
message was that the EU had enlarged too far and too fast.  What about the Europe of the present? It can look to
Merkel’s Germany for crisis management, if not for bold steps
that go beyond the status quo. “When the crunch comes and
there’s a crisis, Europe takes action,” says  Hans Eichel , 68,
German Finance Minister from 1999 to 2005. “I’d like to see us
make progress not only when there’s a crisis, but day in and day
out. For that we need politicians with a passionate commitment,
not politicians who just react to crises.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  