-- Estonian Industrial Production Growth in August Slowed From Record Pace
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-09-30T05:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/estonian-industrial-production-growth-in-august-slowed-from-record-pace.html
Estonian  industrial production 
growth slowed in August from a record pace the previous month as
electronics and energy output decelerated.  Production increased 22.8 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a revised 24.5 percent the previous month,
which was the biggest on record since 2000, the Tallinn-based
statistics office said on its  website  today. Output was
unchanged from the previous month on a seasonally adjusted
basis.  Growth in external demand from Estonia’s key trade
partners, Sweden and Finland, is slowing after a stronger-than-
forecast recovery at the beginning of the year, the central bank
said yesterday. An acceleration in annual gross domestic product
growth to more than 5 percent in the second half of this year,
will be temporary, the bank said. Still, it forecast GDP growth
to accelerate in 2011 to 4.2 percent from an expected rate of
2.5 percent in 2010 due to improving domestic demand.  “Industrial production has experienced a very V-shaped
recovery, and is now growing year-on-year at its briskest
pace in the past ten years,” Nordea Bank AB said in a note
before the report. “After the initial bounce we expect
to see a moderation in growth to more sustainable levels.”  Export sales of manufacturing, led by wireless network gear
and wind generators made by local units of Sweden’s Ericsson AB
and Zurich-based ABB Ltd., rose 41 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 38 percent increase in July. Still,
manufacturing of computer and electronics products grew 121.5
percent, compared with a 341 percent gain in July.  Domestic sales grew an annual 3 percent, compared with no
change the previous month. Energy output grew an annual 41.5
percent, following a 51.5 percent jump in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  