-- Europe Is Favored to Win Ryder Cup Golf as U.S. Faces Losing Streak Abroad
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-01T07:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/europe-is-favored-to-win-ryder-cup-golf-as-u-s-faces-losing-streak-abroad.html
Europe is favored to take back the
Ryder Cup and extend the overseas losing streak of the American
team as play began today in Newport, Wales.  Phil Mickelson  and  Dustin Johnson  meet England’s  Lee Westwood  and Germany’s  Martin Kaymer  this morning to open golf’s
top biennial international team competition at Celtic Manor. The
U.S., which won the cup two years ago in Louisville, Kentucky,
hasn’t been victorious in Europe since 1993.  “I would like to break that and take the cup home with
us,” U.S. captain  Corey Pavin  told reporters on Sept. 28.
“That’s what we’re here for. It has been a long time.”  Europe is a 4-7 favorite at U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc.
That means a successful $7 bet brings in $4 plus the original
stake. The U.S. is 7-4, with a tie a 10-1 chance.  Play started at 7:45 a.m. local in rainy conditions, with
winds of as much as 26 miles-per-hour (42kph) forecast,
according to the U.K. Met Office. Skies are expected to clear
for the afternoon session.  “Europe’s players should have a bit more experience of the
inclement playing conditions, and we’re expecting them to get
off to a good start,” David Williams of Ladbrokes said.  The teams start with a four-ball competition, contested by
two-man teams. The golfer with the lowest score on a hole wins
it for his team. The players meet in four-balls and foursomes,
or alternating shots, today and tomorrow, with singles matches
scheduled for Oct. 3. The U.S. needs 14 of a possible 28 points
to keep the trophy, while the Europeans need 14 1/2 to take it
back.  Woods, Stricker  Tiger Woods  and  Steve Stricker  of the U.S. take on  Ian Poulter  and  Ross Fisher  in the third match, while  Stewart Cink 
and  Matt Kuchar  play Northern Ireland’s  Rory McIlroy  and  Graeme McDowell . The final group is Americans  Bubba Watson  and  Jeff Overton  against  Luke Donald  and  Padraig Harrington .  It’s the 38th version of the competition, and the U.S. has
lost on the past three occasions it’s been staged in Europe.  “There will be a lot of firepower out there, and it will
be the guys who make the most birdies who will win,” Pavin said.  U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc  expects a record 50 million
pounds ($78.6 million) to be wagered on the event, with 74
percent of bets backing the European squad so far.  ‘It could be a very expensive tournament for us bookies if
Europe, the favorites, do win,” spokesman  Rupert Adams  said in
an e-mail.  Record Wagers  Hill’s Adams estimates that the previous record was 35
million pounds wagered on the Ryder Cup two years ago. About 27
million pounds was bet on the event last time it was held in
Europe, he said.  The pairing of Woods and Stricker is a 4-5 favorite to
defeat Poulter and Fisher in the four-ball today, according to
William Hill. The bookie expects Europe to be leading after the
first session, making it an 8-11 favorite. The U.S. is a 13-8
underdog to be leading after today, with a tie at 5-1.  Europe captain  Colin Montgomerie  said it’s important for
his team to get a good start this morning.  “It’s very important to get that momentum, to win that
first series,” he said. “You take on that momentum into the
afternoon to take a lead into Friday night. It’s so important to
get the crowd behind us and keep them there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  at Celtic Manor through the London sports desk at
   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 