-- European Stocks Fall for Fourth Day; Allied Irish Shares Tumble
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-09-30T11:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-allied-irish-santander-may-move.html
European stocks  retreated for a
fourth day after the Irish government said it will take majority
control of Allied Irish Banks Plc in its second bailout of the
lender. U.S. index futures and Asian shares fell.  Allied Irish plunged 28 percent as Ireland also said it
will pump extra cash into already nationalized Anglo Irish Bank
Corp., taking the total cost of bailing out the banks to as much
as 50 billion euros ($68 billion). Shares of Societe Generale SA
and Credit Agricole SA also retreated.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 0.2 percent to
260.42 at 12:29 p.m. in London, trimming September’s rally to
3.6 percent. The gauge has risen 7.1 percent this quarter,
poised for its biggest three-month advance in a year, amid
optimism the global economy will avoid another recession. Still,
concern that some European countries may struggle to repay their
debt has left the gauge 4.3 percent below its April high.  “Allied Irish is in worse shape than first thought,” said
 David Buik , a London-based market strategist at BGC Partners.
“The damage increasingly caused by Anglo Irish and the addition
that Allied Irish needs more capital leads us to believe Irish
debt will need restructuring. You cannot rule out intervention
by the IMF.”  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said today there is
“no question” that Ireland will have to seek outside help,
saying the nation is “fully funded.”  China Property Taxes  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  declined 0.8 percent today as
banks fell and Nintendo Co. lowered its profit forecast. China’s
government said it will speed up the introduction of a trial
property tax in some cities and then expand the levy to the
whole country to curb rising real estate prices, without giving
a timetable.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures slipped 0.2 percent
before reports on U.S. initial jobless claims and business
activity. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled
to address a Senate Banking Committee hearing today amid
speculation the Fed is preparing to buy more debt to support the
recovery.  In Spain, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the
country’s top credit rating one level to Aa1, citing a “weak”
economic outlook and doubts that the nation will reach deficit
reductions targets.  Allied Irish Slides  Allied Irish tumbled 28 percent to 39.5 euro cents, the
lowest level since March 2009, as the government prepared to
take majority ownership of the lender. The bank will seek to
raise 5.4 billion euros in a stock offering in November and its
Managing Director  Colm Doherty  and Chairman  Dan O’Connor  will
both step down.  “The big surprise is the increased capital number for
Allied Irish,” said  Sebastian Orsi , an analyst with Merrion
Capital, a Dublin-based securities firm. “The government could
end up with over 90 percent of the group, subject to investor
take-up of the planned stock sale to shareholders.”  Separately, Allied Irish may sell its $2.2 billion stake in
U.S. lender M&T Bank Corp. to institutional investors after
talks to sell the holding to Banco Santander SA broke down, a
person familiar with the talks said.  Bank of Ireland Plc, which raised 2.93 billion euros in
June, climbed 5.3 percent to 60 euro cents after the central
bank said the lender doesn’t need any extra capital.  SocGen, Credit Agricole   Societe Generale  dropped 2.8 percent to 42.02 euros in
Paris, even after France’s second-biggest bank reiterated that
it won’t need to raise new capital to meet regulatory
requirements.  Credit Agricole, France’s second-largest lender by assets,
dropped 3.1 percent to 11.51 euros. Switzerland’s Credit Suisse
Group AG lost 2.6 percent to 41.89 francs.  Deutsche Bank AG  climbed 2.2 percent to 40.12 euros after
Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said Germany’s biggest
bank saw more “stability” in September and sales and trading
revenue in the third quarter was at last year’s level. He was
speaking at a conference in London today hosted by Bank of
America Corp.  Accor retreated 0.7 percent to 26.38 euros after the
hotelier scrapped the sale of its 49 percent stake in Groupe
Lucien Barriere SA after the offer didn’t receive the expected
interest from investors. The planned share sale, which valued
the company at as much as 700 million euros, isn’t in Accor
shareholders’ interests, the company said.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc, owner of the Holiday Inn
brand, lost 1.7 percent to 1,130 pence.  Missed Estimates  Compass Group Plc  declined 2.8 percent to 536 pence,
falling for the first time in three days. The world’s largest
catering company said it expects full-year organic sales growth
of 3 percent. That missed some analysts’ estimates including
JPMorgan Chase & Co’s forecast of 3.2 percent.
      Nokia Oyj  limited declines in the Stoxx 600, rallying 3.5
percent to 7.46 euros as the world’s biggest maker of mobile
phones started shipments of its N8 smartphone.  TomTom NV jumped 8.2 percent to 4.90 euros after Europe’s
biggest maker of personal navigation devices said it reached a
supply agreement with Mazda Motor Corp.
      ThyssenKrupp AG  climbed 1.9 percent to 24.03 euros. Chief
Executive Officer  Ekkehard Schulz  said steel demand from the
car, electronic and household appliances industries is “very
strong” and will be maintained into next year. He was speaking
in an interview with the Financial Times.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. will say today its  business barometer  fell to 55.5 this
month from 56.7 in August, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Initial claims for
jobless benefits declined to 460,000 last week from 465,000 in
the prior period, the survey shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 