-- European Union Cap-and-Trade Hasn't Given Price Signal, Investor Poll Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-09-30T11:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/european-union-cap-and-trade-hasn-t-given-price-signal-investor-poll-says.html
The European Union’s carbon trading
system hasn’t provided the needed long-term price signal for
investors to switch away from carbon-intensive technologies, the
 Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change  said.  A survey of more than 40 investors including property,
carbon, infrastructure and pension funds found that fewer than
10 percent of respondents said the EU Emissions Trading System
had provided a strong enough price incentive to change from
more polluting technologies and none said the EU-ETS had
provided long-term price certainty, the group said today.  The group, with 60 members managing about 5 trillion euros
($6 trillion) of assets, said the EU should decide quickly
whether the 27-nation bloc will raise its emissions target for
2020 to a 30 percent cut from 1990 levels from 20 percent. It
also called for long-term plans for emissions trading and more
durable support for renewable energy in member states.  The bloc should “provide clarity on the EU-ETS out to 2030
in order to be consistent with the investment cycles of large
renewable energy and energy infrastructure assets,” the group
said in an e-mailed statement. “The EU ETS will only support a
shift into low-carbon investment if it provides investors with
strong price signals over a significant period of time.”  The EU has said it’s on course to meet its 20 percent
target and that the bloc is ready to move to 30 percent should
other countries follow. European Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  this month said there aren’t enough comparable
international efforts for the EU to agree to a stricter goal.  Today’s survey also showed that 90 percent of asset
managers are deterred from making investments in renewable
energy by retrospective policy changes and the absence of
grandfathering guarantees in some member states. Grandfathering
is where new rules aren’t applied to old projects.  Dampening Confidence  While the group didn’t name specific policies in member
states as a concern, countries including Spain and France have
made or are planning changes to existing subsidies for solar
power, having previously said those incentives would be in place
for longer.  “Actual or threatened retroactive changes affect the
business case for existing investments and severely dampen
investor confidence in making future investments,” Ole Beier
Soerensen, chairman of the investor group, said in an e-mailed
reply to questions. Also, “administrative barriers relating
from national planning regimes should be removed,” he said.  Higher carbon prices are also needed to drive innovations,
the commission’s Hedegaard said on Sept. 3.  Carbon allowances in the EU’s emissions-trading system have
lost almost 40 percent from their 2008 levels as the global
financial crisis hampered growth and reduced industrial output.
Permits for December 2010 traded at 15.40 euros ($21.02) a
metric ton today compared with 24.05 euros two years ago.  EU Debate  The EU carbon-trading program covers more than 12,000
facilities that produce energy or goods ranging from paper to
cement. Polluters must have an allowance for each ton of carbon
dioxide they let off. Those producing more than their allowance
have to buy more; those that emit less can sell their surplus.  The EU has said it wants to make the ETS, started in 2005,
the cornerstone of a global carbon market and eyes linking it
with other systems by 2015.  Member states remain at odds on whether the bloc should
change its emissions target. While Danish Prime Minister  Lars Loekke Rasmussen  said yesterday he would propose at the next
summit of the EU heads of state that the bloc should
unilaterally deepen its goal, Polish Environment Minister
 Andrzej Kraszewski  said earlier this month such a move would be
“counterproductive.”  Companies that took part in today’s survey include APG
Asset Management, Henderson Global Investors, HgCapital and F&C
Asset Management Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net 
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  