-- European Finance Ministers Discuss Plan to Keep Clout at IMF
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-09-30T01:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/european-finance-ministers-discuss-plan-to-protect-clout-on-imf-board.html
European finance ministers meeting
today will seek to seal an agreement that protects their clout
at the International Monetary Fund while making room for
emerging economies such as Turkey at the executive board.  Advanced European economies, under pressure from the U.S.
to reduce the number of their seats on the IMF board, would
share access with Poland and Turkey under plans being discussed,
European officials involved with the talks said. Mexico and
Venezuela would split a board seat that they previously shared
with Spain, they said.  The proposed changes fall short of U.S. calls for European
nations to give up some of their board seats to make room for a
greater number of emerging economies, said  Domenico Lombardi , a
former IMF board member. Under the plan, western European
countries would have between six and eight seats at the board,
compared with eight to nine now.  The European proposal “does not address the thrust of the
U.S. request,” said  Lombardi , now a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in Washington. Instead, “What we are
talking about here is how to preserve the perks of national
representation in an increasingly global multilateral
institution.”  At stake is the governance of an institution that doesn’t
fully reflect the rising economic clout of countries such India
and  China , which this year surpassed Japan as the world’s No. 2
economy. The U.S., which last month blocked a proposal to
maintain the IMF board in its current 24-seat form, has said it
is seeking stronger representation of emerging economies to
bolster the fund’s legitimacy.  Pushing for Diversity  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  “supports
reforming IMF governance structures to better reflect the
realities of today’s global economy,” department spokeswoman
Natalie Wyeth said in an e-mail. “This includes reform of the
IMF Executive Board to strengthen the representation of emerging
market and developing countries.”  European Union members argue that their representation at
the board, accounting for about a third of seats, reflects their
share of the world economy.  The IMF’s board reviews loans to members, the health of
their economies and assessments of government policies. The
committee was originally 20 seats. Over the past 20 years,
member countries every two years have voted to allow an
additional four seats.  The U.S. blocked that vote last month to force a decision
on the reallocation of seats. Europeans are also seeking to make
the 24-seat board format permanent, said the officials familiar
with the plan.  Japan, Belgium  Germany, France and the U.K. each has its own seat, along
with the U.S. and Japan. Countries such as Switzerland and
Belgium have executive directors who represent groups of
nations.  European officials will be joined at their meeting today in
Brussels by IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , IMF
spokesman  Bill Murray  said. A former French finance minister,
Strauss-Kahn in the late 1990s unsuccessfully sought to merge
the seats of France and Germany.  Under the plan to be considered today, Belgium and Turkey
would take turns on the board to represent a group of countries,
according to three European officials who declined to be
identified because the proposal hasn’t been made public.
Switzerland would do the same with Poland. Spain, which now
rotates with Venezuela and Mexico to represent a group of Latin
American members, would join another group represented by the
Netherlands.  ‘Smoother Way’  Strauss-Kahn, speaking with reporters this week in
Washington, said it would be “fair” to give emerging countries
more say on the board, naming Turkey as an example. He also said
the U.S. could have acted in a “smoother way” to allow more
time for Europeans to come up with a proposal.  The opportunity may be lost for significant changes at the
board because emerging markets haven’t been vocal, said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a
former IMF official.  “The U.S. strongly believed that this was a golden
opportunity, that they were going to force Europe’s hand and the
emerging markets were going to rally behind,” he said. “The
emerging markets have been relatively quiet on this issue and
Europe has come back punching very hard.”  -- With assistance by  Meera Louis  in Brussels. Editors:
 Christopher Wellisz ,  Christine Spolar   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 