-- European September Inflation Quickens on Energy Costs
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-09-30T09:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/europe-september-inflation-accelerates-to-fastest-pace-in-almost-two-years.html
European inflation accelerated to
the fastest in almost two years in September, led by higher
energy costs.  Euro-area  consumer prices  rose 1.8 percent from a year
earlier after increasing 1.6 percent in August, the European
Union statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the
fastest pace since November 2008 and in line with the median
forecast of 33 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Crude-oil prices have increased 11 percent in the past
year, while wheat soared to a 23-month high in July, putting
pressure on companies to raise prices just as the recovery shows
signs of cooling. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on  Sept. 27  that while inflation should remain
“moderate,” risks are “tilted slightly on the upside.”  “With the impact of the recent surge in wheat yet to be
fully felt, higher food inflation might push the headline rate
up a bit further in the near term,” said  Martin van Vliet , an
economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “But core inflation should
continue to be held down by the still-substantial margin of
spare capacity in the economy.”  Today’s report is an  initial estimate  and the statistics
office will release a breakdown of consumer prices on Oct. 15.
 Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as energy,
held at 1 percent in August from the previous month.  ‘Slow Recovery’  The euro’s 4.9 percent drop against the dollar this year
has helped boost costs by making imported goods more expensive.
The single currency has been pushed lower partly on investor
concern that member states will struggle to rein in deficits.  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.3628 as of 10:18 a.m. in London.  European governments have been forced to step up spending
cuts, clouding the growth outlook and making consumers less
willing to spend as  unemployment  holds near a 12-year high.  The European Commission said on Sept. 13 that the euro
region’s  growth rate  probably halved to 0.5 percent in the third
quarter from 1 percent in the previous quarter. European Union
Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs  Olli Rehn  said on
that day that a it’s important to remain “vigilant.”  Pierre Pringuet , chief executive officer of  Pernod Ricard
SA  said on Sept. 2 that it’s a “slow recovery.” The maker of
Chivas Regal whiskey based in Paris on that day reported full-
year profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  The ECB, which aims to keep annual gains in consumer prices
just below 2 percent, on Sept. 2 forecast inflation to average
around 1.6 percent this year and about 1.7 percent in 2011.
Trichet said earlier this week in Brussels that the inflation
rate could increase “slightly in the short term.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank will hold its next rate
meeting on Oct. 9.  “Inflation is still expected to remain in check in the
medium-term,” van Vliet said. “There is little reason for the
ECB to consider a tighter interest rate stance anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  