-- Europe Finance Ministers to Unveil Proposal on IMF Seats Today
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-09-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/european-finance-ministers-to-unveil-proposal-on-imf-board-seats-tomorrow.html
European Union finance ministers will
reveal details today of a proposal to reorganize the
International Monetary Fund’s board to make room for emerging
economies such as Turkey.  “We need to move,” Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders , whose government holds the rotating EU presidency,
told a press conference in Brussels yesterday after leading a
meeting of EU finance chiefs also attended by IMF Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn . “We’ll try to explain a
precise proposal coming from Europe.”  At stake is the governance of an institution that doesn’t
fully reflect the rising economic clout of countries such India
and  China , which this year surpassed Japan as the world’s No. 2
economy. The U.S., which last month blocked a proposal to
maintain the IMF board in its current 24-seat form, has said it
is seeking stronger representation of emerging economies to
bolster the fund’s legitimacy.  Germany, France and the U.K. each has its own seat, along
with the U.S. and Japan. Countries such as Switzerland and
Belgium have executive directors who represent groups of
nations. Strauss-Kahn earlier this week said it would be
“fair” to give emerging countries more say on the board,
naming Turkey as an example.  European members argue that their board representation,
accounting for about one-third of the seats, reflects their
share of the world economy.  The Netherlands, which also represents a group of countries
on the IMF board, finds “it far too early to start on a
specific solution as long as you don’t know which step by Europe
is needed,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in
Brussels. “The reason we don’t want to speak about specific
countries is because we want to know from the U.S. what will be
enough, what we have to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Brussels at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 