-- European Leaders Signal Confidence in Irish, Portuguese Deficit Programs
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-09-30T12:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/european-leaders-signal-confidence-in-irish-portuguese-deficit-programs.html
Ireland and Portugal won the
backing of European Union authorities and investors after
pledging to meet budget-deficit targets amid concern that they
would buckle under their mounting fiscal burdens.  The Irish government gave an “important clarification of
the situation,”  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the euro-area
group of finance ministers, said in Brussels after Ireland
published details of its bank bailout cost. Portugal’s
announcement of tougher spending cuts is a “decisive step”
toward “meeting the budgetary targets,” European Union
Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs  Olli Rehn  said.  Yields on Portuguese and Irish bonds fell relative to
benchmark German bunds and the cost of insuring against
sovereign defaults plunged after the two countries pledged to
tackle their crises. The yield premium between both countries’
debt and German bunds had reached a record earlier this week on
speculation they may have to seek financial aid.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said today Ireland
won’t need “outside help” as he announced the final cost
repairing the financial system may rise to as much as 50 billion
euros ($68 billion). He also said Ireland “continues on its
planned path” to reduce its budget deficit to within the
European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product in
2014. The deficit will be more than 10 times that level this
year because of the bank costs.  ‘Manageable’ Costs  Juncker, who is also Luxembourg’s Prime Minister, signalled
that he’s confident about Ireland’s efforts to push down its
deficit, saying that the “fiscal adjustment has so far been
strong and consolidation measures taken have been effective.”
Rehn called the banking costs “very large but yet manageable.”  “What is absolutely key for us is the credibility and the
delivery of this commitment to correct the excessive deficit,”
said European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet ,
speaking at a news conference with Juncker and Rehn. “It’s the
key for the credibility of Ireland.”  He also said that “decisions are going in the very right
direction” in Portugal after the government announced plans to
reduce wages of public workers, raise some taxes and freeze
investment this year to help push down the euro region’s fourth-
biggest budget deficit. Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  called the measures “tough” and “painful.”  Investors are already growing more confident about
government efforts. The premium investors charge to hold 10-year
Irish bonds rather than Germany’s fell to 435 basis points today
from 446 basis points yesterday. For  Portugal , it dropped to 410
basis points from 423 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fergal O’Brien  at  fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  