-- Hewlett-Packard Names Leo Apotheker CEO
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-10-01T00:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/hewlett-packard-appoints-leo-apotheker-ceo-lesjak-will-return-to-cfo-post.html
Hewlett-Packard Co.  appointed
former SAP AG Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  as CEO and
president, turning to an external candidate who resigned from
his last job in February after sales and profit slumped.  The company named  Ray Lane , managing partner at Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, as nonexecutive chairman, according to
a statement today. The men will succeed  Mark Hurd , who held the
CEO and chairman roles until his resignation on Aug. 6. They
will both start at Palo Alto, California-based HP on Nov. 1.  Apotheker, 57, departed unexpectedly from SAP this year
after sales and shares slumped and he struggled to combat a
threat from Oracle Corp. At HP, he inherits a company that’s
using  takeovers  to expand in areas including services,
smartphones and networking gear. His background in software may
help the company as it weaves applications into hardware.  “There’s a lot of work to be done,”  Joel Achramowicz , an
analyst at Blaylock Robert Van LLC in Oakland, California. He
has a “neutral” rating on HP’s shares and says the CEO
decision won’t cause him to change that. “The company needs new
leadership that can make aggressive, risky moves to inject new
vitality into the enterprise.”  HP, the top maker of PCs and printers, has lost 9 percent
of its value since Hurd’s departure. The shares dropped an
additional $1.34, or 3.2 percent, to $40.73 in extended trading
after the announcement. Earlier, the stock declined 46 cents to
$42.07 in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Final Year  Apotheker’s last year at SAP was marred by a drop in sales,
profit and share-price value. In that period, SAP slashed more
than 3,000 jobs, its first major cuts since the company was
created. He was criticized by shareholders as being ineffective
at responding to  Oracle , which used acquisitions to expand in
applications, SAP’s area of expertise.  Apotheker presided over SAP’s first annual revenue decline
since 2003 as customers, hurt by the recession, delayed software
purchases. SAP shares, which reached an all-time high of 71.58
euros in March 2000 -- when  Hasso Plattner  was in charge -- lost
more than half their value by the time Apotheker left.  Still, over his more than 20-year tenure, he handled more
than a dozen acquisitions, including the roughly $7 billion
purchase of Business Objects, the company’s largest deal, HP
said in a statement today.  A globetrotter who speaks five languages, Apotheker rose
through the company’s sales division, unlike his three
predecessors, who had science backgrounds. He was appointed co-
CEO in 2008 and became SAP’s sole CEO in May 2009.  Mentoring Managers  Apotheker was credited with building SAP’s sales force and
hiring and mentoring top sales managers, including current co-
CEO  Bill McDermott .  “You have to give him credit for endurance,” McDermott said
in an interview. “You won’t find a guy more willing to connect
with customers.”  HP will benefit from Apotheker’s software expertise, said
 Shaw Wu , an analyst at Kaufman Brothers LP in San Francisco.  “Software is an area HP should be more aggressive in,”
said Wu, who recommends buying HP shares. “It’s a higher-margin
business.”  One of Hurd’s largest acquisitions was the $4.5 billion
purchase of software maker Mercury Interactive Corp. HP also
recently purchased security software maker ArcSight Inc., as well
as Fortify Software, which helps information technology
departments analyze code for security holes, and data-center
software company Stratavia.  ‘Strategic Vision’  “I can bring to this business the capacity to have a
strategic vision, a technology vision and the ability to make
people work together,” Apotheker said in an interview. “I’m a
global citizen and HP’s a global company.” A resident of Paris
during his tenure at SAP, he said he plans to relocate to
Silicon Valley and work from HP’s headquarters.  Apotheker spent his youth in Belgium and Germany, where his
parents, Polish Jews, moved after World War II. In an  interview
with BusinessWeek  in 2009, he recalled being a rebel. In high
school, Apotheker organized a student strike.  “I wanted a revolution -- and also for cigarettes to be
permitted in school,” he told the magazine, now called Bloomberg
Businessweek. In the melee that followed, a policeman on
horseback knocked out two of Apotheker’s teeth, he said.  Apotheker moved to Israel when he was 18 to attend Hebrew
University of Jerusalem, where he studied economics. He later
held several financial and operations jobs at European companies
before joining SAP in 1988. He was awarded the French Legion
d’honneur in 2007 for his contributions to the French economy.  Lane’s Tenure  Lane, 63, became managing partner at the venture firm
Kleiner Perkins in 2000 after serving as president and chief
operating officer of Oracle, the corporate-software company
where former CEO Hurd is now president.  Lane abruptly resigned from Oracle after eight years,
following a fallout with CEO  Larry Ellison . While at the
company, he turned down job offers for HP’s top job, as well as
Compaq Computer Corp., an Oracle spokeswoman said in 2000. HP
went on to acquire Compaq.  When Lane left Oracle, he said he wouldn’t run another large
company, planning instead to sit on boards of smaller
businesses. At Kleiner, Lane has focused in part on alternative
energy investments, including the electric car company Fisker
Automotive Inc. He previously was a senior partner at Booz Allen
Hamilton, where he led the information systems group.  Hurd, who had been HP’s CEO since 2005, left after a
company probe found he violated business conduct standards.
Earlier in the search, the board had been leaning toward an
internal replacement, a person familiar with the matter said.  Internal Candidates  The list of possible CEOs included Vyomesh Joshi, who runs
HP’s  printer business ;  Todd Bradley , head of the personal-
computer division;  Dave Donatelli , who runs the  storage and
server  unit; Tom Hogan,  executive vice president  of enterprise
sales and marketing; and  Ann Livermore ,  executive vice president 
of the enterprise business, the person said.  Hiring from the outside has had mixed results for HP. Under
Hurd, who was recruited from NCR Corp., HP surpassed
 International Business Machines Corp.  as the largest technology
provider by revenue and its profit more than tripled. He left
after an investigation of sexual harassment allegations found
inaccurate expense reports filed by Hurd or on his behalf that
concealed a personal relationship with an event organizer.  Hurd’s predecessor,  Carly Fiorina , came from Lucent
Technologies Inc. and was the first outsider to run HP since its
founding in 1938. She was ousted after the stock lost half its
value on her watch and the $18.9 billion acquisition of Compaq
failed to deliver promised results. Hurd joined Oracle Sept. 6.  Cathie Lesjak , HP’s chief financial officer, has served as
interim CEO since Hurd left. She said in August that she didn’t
want to be considered for the job. Lesjak will remain the
company’s finance chief.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  