-- Fannie Mae Investors Can't Sue Over Some Securities Fraud Claims, Losses
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/fannie-wins-dismissal-of-some-securities-fraud-claims-update1-.html
Investors can’t pursue some of their
securities-fraud claims against Fannie Mae in a lawsuit accusing
the government-controlled mortgage financier of recklessly
disregarding the deterioration of the U.S. housing market.  U.S. District Judge  Paul A. Crotty  in New York yesterday
granted Fannie Mae’s request to dismiss claims that it
misrepresented its exposure to subprime and Alt-A mortgages, two
types of home loans that contributed to more than $1.8 trillion
in worldwide financial losses and asset writedowns. Shareholders
are allowed to proceed with allegations that Fannie Mae misled
them about its internal controls and risk management practices.  “E-mails suggest that Fannie was conscious of its internal
inability to manage the risks associated with subprime loans,”
the judge said.  Shareholders  sued  Fannie Mae and its former executives in
2008 after the U.S. government took control of the company.
 Fannie Mae  fell 3 percent to 27 cents in over the counter
trading yesterday, compared with $69.49 on June 18, 2007.  The plaintiffs, including common and preferred stock
investors who bought shares from Nov. 8, 2006, to Sept. 5, 2008,
claim the company and its executives continued to invest in
risky mortgages without regard for the housing market’s growing
volatility.  Lied About Risk  The complaint also says Fannie Mae lied about its market
exposure and its ability to handle the risk.  Prices of existing U.S. homes  fell  11 percent during the
period the plaintiffs bought shares in Fannie Mae, which owns or
guarantees U.S. residential mortgages. Declines were driven in
part by rising foreclosures on subprime loans to borrowers with
weak or spotty credit histories.  Defaults also climbed on so-called Alt-A mortgages, which
carry higher interest rates and required little documentation of
the homeowner’s finances.  Janis Smith , a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae in Washington,
declined to comment on the ruling. Donald Hall and Glen
DeValerio, lawyers for the investors in the case, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment yesterday.  The case is In re Fannie Mae 2008 Securities Litigation,
08-7831, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 