-- FBI Arrests at Least 10 in Global Bank Hacking Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-09-30T15:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/fbi-charges-60-arrests-at-least-10-in-global-cyber-fraud-scam-u-s-says.html
At least 10 people were arrested in
the U.S. in connection with an alleged global scheme to hack
into bank accounts and steal millions of dollars using a
computer virus, the Federal Bureau of Investigation said.  U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  in Manhattan will hold a news
conference today to announce federal and state charges against
60 people related to the probe. Bharara’s office said the
hackers used a so-called Trojan horse computer program known as
“Zeus” and other Internet viruses to infect bank accounts.  The software counted keystrokes and collected personal
information such as log-ins, giving criminals unauthorized
access to the electronic banking accounts, according to a person
with knowledge of the investigation who wasn’t authorized to
speak on the record.  Authorities in the U.K. yesterday announced charges against
11 people for an online banking fraud that affected  HSBC
Holdings Plc ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and two other
banks, the Metropolitan Police said.  “The Zeus Trojan poses a sizeable threat to the safe use
of the Internet and is being used increasingly by cyber-
criminals worldwide -- not simply those believed to be involved
in this case,” police in the U.K. said.  Fifteen men and four women were arrested Sept. 28 in early
morning raids on suspicion of hacking thousands of U.K. bank
accounts and stealing about 6 million pounds ($9.5 million), the
 Metropolitan Police  said yesterday in a statement.  The 11 people charged, all identified as being from Eastern
Europe, face counts including conspiracy to defraud, money
laundering and possession of false or improperly obtained
identification, U.K. police said in a second statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  