-- Fed District Bank Presidents Disagree Over Whether to Pursue More Stimulus
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/fed-district-bank-presidents-disagree-over-whether-to-pursue-more-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve officials are
publicly disagreeing over the benefits of pursuing new monetary
stimulus in a sign that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  hasn’t secured
a consensus on whether to buy more Treasuries.  Policy makers have the tools to act and should respond
“vigorously, creatively, thoughtfully and persistently” to a
slow recovery, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said
yesterday in a New York speech. Separately, Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  said in New Jersey that the central
bank risks its credibility by taking actions, such as additional
securities purchases, that may fail to help the labor market.  The differing views show that if Bernanke aims to restart
Treasury purchases in November, as some economists project, he
may have to do so over the objections of some central bank
officials. That won’t stop him if economic data on hiring,
prices, and overall demand remains weak, said  Joseph Gagnon , a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington who worked at the Fed Board from 1987 to
2009.  “Bernanke was always able to have a coalition to do what
he wanted. He will have the votes,” Gagnon said. “There is a
mandate, Congress has said what they are supposed to do, and
they are not achieving that.”  Prices of U.S. Treasuries dropped in late New York trading
yesterday, pushing the yield on the 10-year note higher for the
first time in three days in reaction to open disagreement among
Fed officials. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose 4
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.50 percent in New
York trading. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to 1,144.73.  Prepared to Ease  The Fed’s Open Market Committee said Sept. 21 that it’s
prepared to ease monetary policy if needed to support its
mandate to achieve stable prices and full employment. Inflation
measures are “somewhat below” levels the  Fed panel  judges
consistent with its mandate, the Fed statement said.  “My firm view is that it is important that policy makers
be open to implementing policies consistent with achieving full
employment, and an appropriate level of inflation, within a
reasonable time frame,” Rosengren said.  Plosser, by contrast, said that “it is difficult, in my
view, to see how additional asset purchases by the Fed, even if
they move interest rates on long-term bonds down by 10 or 20
basis points, will have much impact on the near-term outlook for
employment.”  “Because I see little gain at this point, and some costs,
I would prefer not to engage in further asset purchases at this
time,” he added. Plosser is a voting member of the Fed panel in
2011, while Rosengren is a voting member this year.  In Between  Two other speakers, Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart 
and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of the Minneapolis Fed, fell in
between. Lockhart said Sept. 28 in Sewanee, Tennessee, that he
hadn’t made up his mind yet on easing policy, and Kocherlakota
said yesterday in London that purchases may have a “more muted
effect” than the more than $1 trillion of buying through March.  “There are members of the committee who are clearly
opposed to doing anything more and members who view doing
substantial purchases favorably,” said  Roberto Perli , director
of policy research at International Strategy & Investment Group
in Washington. “That puts Bernanke in the position to decide.”  Perli said Bernanke probably played a significant role in
including the word “mandate” three times in the Sept. 21
statement, indicating that the chairman sees the Fed at risk of
not fulfilling its obligations.  Insufficient Vigor  Bernanke told economists gathered at Princeton University
on Sept. 24 that the economic recovery lacked “sufficient vigor
to significantly reduce the high level of unemployment.”  “He probably feels the right thing to do is to ease policy
further,” said Perli, who until July was a member of the Fed
Board’s  Monetary Affairs Division  staff. “The questions now are
whether the benefits are worth the costs and, if they are, what
is the best way to implement asset purchases.”  Fed officials next meet for two days on Nov. 2-3 when they
will also discuss their latest forecasts for inflation, growth
and unemployment for the next three years.  The economy is expanding at a 1.9 percent annual rate in
the current quarter and will grow at a 2.3 percent rate in the
next three months, according to 61 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  That’s slower growth than economists say is needed to drive
the unemployment rate lower. The jobless rate has been above 9
percent since the worst recession since the Great Depression
ended in June 2009.  Some U.S. corporations are reporting strong prospects for
coming months.  FedEx Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Fred Smith  told
investors yesterday that he was “very bullish” on the outlook
for global shipping. Hewlett-Packard Co., the world’s largest
computer maker, forecast earnings and sales for fiscal 2011 that
exceeded analysts’ estimates, while Toys “R” Us Inc., the
world’s biggest toy retailer, said this week it plans to hire
45,000 employees to cope with demand during the holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net 
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  