-- Finland Banishes Marlboros From Shelves to Stub Out Smoking
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   N i c o l e   I t a n o
-- 2010-10-01T12:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/finland-banishes-marlboro-man-from-shelves-to-stub-out-smoking.html
Marlboro Man lit up his last
cigarette on Finnish TV screens in 1978. Soon, his smokes will
be out of plain sight in stores and selling tobacco to Marlboro
Jr. may land the retailer in jail.  Finland will push tobacco sales under the counter in shops
as a new law comes into effect in stages, starting today. The
Nordic nation, one of the first to ban tobacco adverts, is the
first to target an end to smoking through legal means.  “It’s a warning to the people who want to invest, or work
in, or be a part of the tobacco industry,” said  Ismo Tuominen ,
an official who helped draft the new law at the Helsinki-based
 Health Ministry . “This is a warning that we are trying to get
rid of this business in Finland once and for all. Our issue is
that no one has the right to kill people.”  Smoking bans in public places go back as far as 1977 and
the habit has been outlawed in bars and restaurants since 2007,
excluding tiny booths. The tactic is working. One in five Finns
smoke daily, down from one in four in the early 1990s,
 Statistics Finland  says. In 1998, 25 percent of men between the
ages of 15 and 24 smoked, falling to 18 percent in 2008. For
young women, the number dropped to 14 percent from 23 percent.  Under the new measures, selling tobacco to under-18s is
punishable by a fine or as long as six months in jail. Imports
will become more heavily restricted and all sales of snus, moist
tobacco placed in the mouth under the top lip, are forbidden.  ‘Easy and Cheap’  The display of tobacco products and brands, including
Marlboro, will be banned starting in 2012, which will force
shops to sell smokes from under the counter or from closed
cupboards with opaque doors. Marlboro is sold in 160 countries,
including Finland, by  Philip Morris International Inc.  and
 Altria Group Inc.  owns the brand in the U.S.  “I think this is a very easy and cheap way to protect
children,” Tuominen said.  Cigarette vending machines aren’t widely used in Finland
and are mostly found in bars with age limits on entry. The
machines are already regulated and will be fully banned in 2015.  “Maybe the biggest impact will be to stop the youngest
kids from smoking, as they don’t see the cigarettes in the
stores,” said Juhani Lehtonen, 18, a Helsinki high-school
student. “It won’t impact adults’ smoking at all.”  Smoking ‘Cool’  Not all agree the measures will stop kids smoking.  “It’s wasted effort,” said Sandra Suominen, 14, “It’s
going to be a new fad with the kids -- smoking will become
cool.”  The new law also expands the ban to outdoor events,
including football games and concerts, where smoking won’t be
permitted by the audience. Hotels may designate one in 10 rooms
for smokers and smoking will be prohibited in common areas of
apartment buildings.  About 5 billion cigarettes are sold in Finland annually,
almost a pack a week per citizen, according to the Finnish
Grocery Trade Association, whose members sell about 95 percent
of groceries in the country. Finns buy their smokes from
supermarkets, kiosks and gas stations. Corner shops, like the
Tabacs popular in France, are nowhere to be seen.  Tobacco sales bring in about 1.15 billion euros ($1.57
billion) to retailers each year and passengers import about 150
million euros of tobacco products, the association said.  ‘Hassle’  “Changing all the displays will require a lot of work and
imply a lot of cost for us,” Ilkka Nieminen, director in charge
of retail operations at the grocery association, said in an
interview. “There will be a lot of unnecessary hassle at the
cashier unless we find practical solutions for self-service to
continue.”  Changing the tobacco display units will cost retailers as
much as 30 million euros, the grocery association estimates.  “We don’t expect the retail display ban to reduce
consumption or sales volumes,” Janne Mansukoski, Managing
Director of  British American Tobacco Plc ’s Finnish unit, said in
an interview on Sept. 29. “We’ve not seen an impact in other
countries where a similar ban has been implemented.”  BAT, with net sales of 20 million euros in Finland last
year, estimates it has about 15 percent of the market.  Philip Morris International, the world’s largest publicly
traded tobacco company, has taken legal action against display
bans in Ireland and Norway and asked Finland’s Chancellor of
Justice to examine the legality of the ban with a response
expected within weeks, spokeswoman  Anne Edwards  said.  The U.K. prohibited smoking in bars in 2007 and will
implement a display ban in October 2011.  In New York, a smoking ban was instituted in 2003 and Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  is pushing to extend it from indoor workplaces
to public parks and beaches. The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  Smoking bans in New York and the U.K. led to a drop in the
number of hospital admissions for heart attacks. Among the
Nordic countries, Finland follows Norway and Iceland in
prohibiting displays.  “When we get from the present situation in which 20
percent of Finns smoke to 1 or 2 percent, it’s a success
story,” Tuominen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  