-- Fisher-Price Recalls 10.9 Million Hazardous Toys, U.S. Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-09-30T14:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/fisher-price-recalls-10-9-million-hazardous-toys-on-cut-children-reports.html
Mattel Inc. ’s Fisher-Price
subsidiary is recalling almost 11 million toys, including
tricycles, after reports of children being cut or choking, the
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission said today.  Fisher-Price notified the agency of certain design and
manufacturing flaws, triggering an investigation of company
products that found additional defects, said  Scott Wolfson , CPSC
spokesman. Fisher-Price wanted to do the four resulting recalls
at the same time, he said. Mattel, which bought the company in
1993, said in a regulatory filing today that removing the toys
will trim 2010 per-share earnings by 1 cent.  The recall is the largest for toys since Congress passed a
law two years ago beefing up the product-safety regulator’s
powers. Mattel and Fisher-Price were fined $2.3 million in June
2009 for toys violating federal lead-paint laws, at the time the
largest civil fine in CPSC history.  The recalls are led by 7 million Fisher-Price tricycles,
after 10 injuries were reported when children struck a
protruding plastic “ignition key” on the toy, the agency said.
East Aurora, New York-based Fisher-Price also is recalling 2.8
million infant toys, including the Baby Playzone Crawl & Cruise,
for choking hazards, the CPSC said.  The toymaker will recall 950,000 high chairs after reports
of 14 injuries, including seven children who needed stitches and
one treated for a tooth injury. The recalls also cover 100,000
toy cars with wheels that may detach, the agency said.  Fisher-Price said in a statement that it has hundreds of
millions of products in the marketplace used safely every day,
and it’s offering “simple fixes” to allow the recalled toys to
be used without danger.  ‘Overwhelmingly Safe’  “We want to reassure parents that our products are
overwhelmingly safe,” Fisher-Price spokeswoman Juliette Reashor
said in an e-mailed statement. “If we see an issue with a
product at any point, even after many have been sold and used
safely, we take appropriate action.”  Mattel fell 11 cents to $23.44 at 10:12 a.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares increased 18 percent
this year through yesterday.  The agency urged consumers to stop using the recalled toys
immediately and contact Fisher-Price at 1-800-432-5437 for
repair kits or replacements.  The consumer-product agency has increased its staff by more
than 25 percent and adopted a more aggressive approach in
levying fines in the three years since a scare over lead paint
in toys imported from China spurred Congress to act.  2007 Recall  Mattel of El Segundo, California, recalled more than 21
million toys in 2007, including Chinese-made products with lead
paint that drove Congress to give the CPSC more authority to
police the marketplace.  In the Fisher-Price recalls announced today, at least 10
injuries were linked to the company’s Trikes and Tough Trikes
toddler tricycles that have a protruding, D-shaped plastic
ignition key on which a child can sit or fall, the CPSC said.
The tricycles are intended for kids from 2 to 5 years old, the
agency said. Units with a flattened key aren’t included in the
recall.  Fisher-Price’s recalls cover the Stand ‘n Play Rampway, a
toy that lets children push small cars along a track of ramps.
There have been two reports of wheels detaching from the cars,
posing a choking hazard, the CPSC said.  All four recalls are being conducted by the CPSC with
Health Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  