-- Flaherty Pares Back Canada Payroll Tax Rise on Fragile Economic Recovery
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-09-30T17:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/flaherty-said-to-ease-canada-stimulus-exit-with-lower-payroll-tax-increase.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  scaled back plans to withdraw stimulus by limiting
proposed increases to payroll taxes amid signs of a slowing
recovery.  Canada will raise premiums for employment insurance by 5
cents per C$100 ($97.18), less than the 15 cent maximum that
could be recommended by an independent panel, Flaherty said
today. The measure will cost the government C$1.2 billion in
forgone revenue next year.  “If we allowed the maximum of 15 cents to happen, then we
would be running the risk of some significant economic harm at a
time of fragile recovery,” Flaherty said in Ottawa.  The governing Conservatives are relying on higher
employment insurance premiums to help the country become the
first in the Group of Seven to balance its budget within five
years, economists say. Flaherty’s  March budget  projected that
annual revenue from the payroll tax will increase by C$10
billion over that time.  The government “is depending critically on these increases
in employment insurance premiums to hit their budget balance
target,” said  Dale Orr , an economist at Economic Insight, in a
telephone interview.  Better Than Nothing  “It’s better to have a smaller increase in EI premiums in
January than the previously scheduled increase,”  Scott Brison ,
the opposition Liberal Party’s finance critic, told reporters in
Ottawa. “But we really question whether or not an increase at
all makes sense with such fragile job numbers.”  Canada’s jobless rate was 8.1 percent in August, greater
than the 6.1 percent two years earlier as Canada went into a
recession, according to Statistics Canada.  Trade, wholesale sales and manufacturing shipment data out
this month have failed to meet economist forecasts and the
country’s trade gap rose to a record C$2.7 billion in July.
Statistics Canada today reported the economy shrank 0.1 percent
in July.  Flaherty said the government will review the process that
sets increases to employment insurance premiums and that the
system will break even over time. The premiums will be allowed
to increase by a maximum of 10 cents per C$100 in earnings after
2011.  Hitting the Brakes  “The important thing here is that the government is taking
actions that will allow the recovery to continue rather than
putting the brakes on the economy,”  Perrin Beatty , president
and chief executive officer of the Canadian Chamber of Commerce,
told reporters in Ottawa.  Flaherty froze employment insurance premiums for two years
in his  2009 budget  as part of a C$47 billion stimulus package to
help the economy cope with the global recession. He had
announced plans to increase them in 2011 “in order to balance
the EI program over time,” according to the 2010 budget
documents.  The Conservatives created a panel in 2008, the Canada
Employment Insurance  Financing Board , to set rates for premiums.
That panel recommended the government boost the rate by C$0.15
for every C$100 of insurable earnings, two people familiar with
today’s announcement said earlier. The rate was frozen at C$1.73
per C$100 of insurable earnings in 2009 and 2010, which the
finance department projected would cost C$2.45 billion in
foregone revenue over two years.  Global Weakness  Flaherty’s most recent fiscal plan, released in March,
projected that revenue from employment insurance premiums would
increase 14 percent to C$20 billion in the fiscal year that
begins next March. That revenue would rise to C$26.6 billion for
the fiscal year ending March 2015.  Weakness in the global economy has led economists to mark
down forecasts for Canadian growth and prompted lawmakers to
ramp up calls for the government to implement additional
stimulus measures.  Flaherty said yesterday Canada’s deficit in the fiscal year
that ended in March may exceed a prior estimate of C$53.8
billion because of payments to provinces that adopted a new
harmonized sales tax. Flaherty forecasts a deficit of C$49.2
billion for the current fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  