-- Floods Delay U.S., China-Built Dam in Power-Starved Pakistan's Northwest
-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 2010-09-30T23:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/floods-delay-u-s-china-built-dam-in-power-starved-pakistan-s-northwest.html
Pakistan’s Gomal Zam dam, needed by
the government to ease power and water shortages, will be
completed six months late because of delayed funding and damage
from recent floods, its project manager said.  The barrage, being built by China’s state-owned  Sinohydro
Corp. , “will begin operating in April 2011” instead of this
month, said Colonel Muhammad Zaheer, who oversees the work for
the army’s  Frontier Works Organization . “The construction is 92
percent complete,” Zaheer said in an interview Sept. 28 at the
dam site.  The dam, in the impoverished district of South Waziristan,
is a key part of Pakistan’s economic development plan to
undercut the Taliban guerrilla movement. Militants had their
main base in the district until the army seized it last year,
and 1,500 troops protect the construction site, Zaheer said.  The first of two planned turbines will add 17.4 megawatts
of electricity to the national power grid, against Pakistan’s
supply shortfalls this year of 5,000 megawatts or more.  Canals built by Istanbul-based Tekser Construction will
irrigate 66,000 hectares (163,000 acres) of farmland in South
Waziristan and adjoining districts, Zaheer said.  Work on the dam began from 2002 until 2004, when it halted
after Taliban fighters kidnapped two Chinese engineers, one of
whom was killed in a Pakistani army rescue operation. The
original Chinese contractors withdrew from the project, and the
army’s construction branch resumed work in 2007, subcontracting
to Sinohydro and Tekser.  Worst Floods  This year’s monsoon floods, Pakistan’s worst ever,
submerged the site’s rock-crushing plant and caused mudslides
that buried access roads, causing $800 million rupees ($9.3
million) in damage, Zaheer said. He declined to provide details
on the delays in construction funding.  The U.S. Embassy in Islamabad said by e-mail in July that
President Barack Obama’s administration would step in to pay
$108 million of the $136 million projected cost for the dam and
irrigation project. The aid is part of U.S. efforts to improve
power supplies and agriculture as a way of stabilizing a country
it sees as crucial to its fight against Islamic militant groups
in South and Central Asia.  Sinohydro , which helped build China’s Three Gorges Dam, is
also working on the Khan Khawar Dam in Shangla, a northwestern
valley that has suffered attacks by the Taliban.  General news about Pakistan: {NI PAKISTAN BN} News about
Taliban: {NSE TALIBAN BN}  To contact the reporter on this story:  Anwar Shakir  in Peshawar,
Pakistan at   Ashakir1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  