-- Dropout Rate at 16 For-Profit Colleges Was 57%
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-09-30T16:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/for-profit-college-dropout-rate-of-57-is-likened-to-casino-odds-by-harkin.html
About 57 percent of students at 16
for-profit colleges who started classes in the 2008-2009
academic year have dropped out, Senator  Tom Harkin  said.  During the three years, an estimated 1.9 million students
left the institutions, most with nothing to show for their time
except debt, Harkin said today at a hearing in Washington,
quoting from a report by his office. The Senate Health,
 Education, Labor and Pensions Committee  is holding a hearing
today into whether the schools misled students on employment
prospects after graduation.  “Going to college should not be like going to a casino
where the house usually wins,” Harkin said at the hearing.  The report didn’t disclose comparable dropout rates for
public universities or nonprofit colleges. About 38 percent of
students at for-profit four-year colleges graduate within six
years, compared with 53 percent at public institutions and 64
percent at nonprofits, according to an April report from the
National Center for Education Statistics. The April report is
based on first-time, fulltime students who enrolled in 2002.  The U.S. Education Department has proposed a regulation
that would require for-profit colleges to show their students
get well-paying jobs or lose access to federal funds. Education
Secretary  Arne Duncan  on Sept. 24 delayed issuing the “gainful
employment” rule until early 2011 after receiving 91,000
comments, the most ever on an education issue, according to
department officials.  Federal Dollars  At 14 for-profit schools, federal dollars totaled 87
percent of revenue in 2009, according to the report.  Recruiters enticed Danielle Johnson, a mother from Iowa, to
enroll in  Washington Post Co. ’s Kaplan education unit, saying
she could train at home to be a nurse, a statement that turned
out to be untrue, she said. Kaplan refused to release her
transcripts, preventing her from transferring into a cheaper,
community college, she said.  “What the student presented today is not substantiated by
the facts,” Melissa Mack, a Kaplan spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. “We’re very proud of our practical-nursing program, in
which the Cedar Rapids campus enjoys a 92 percent job placement
rate.” Kaplan can’t provide specifics about individual students
because of federal privacy laws, Mack said.  While working students must have access to programs that
fit their schedules and training requirements, they also need
protection from the predatory recruiting programs and lending
fraud uncovered by a government probe of education companies,
said Arnold Mitchem, president of the  Council for Opportunity  in
Education, a nonprofit organization based in Washington, said at
the hearing.  ‘Access Is Critical’  “Access is critical, but access to what?” Mitchem said.
“Mountains of debt?”  For-profit colleges represent about 12 percent of U.S.
college students, according to the  Association of Private Sector
Colleges & Universities , a Washington-based industry group
formerly called the Career College Association. Those students
account for about a quarter of U.S. student loan dollars, said
Lauren Asher, president of the Institute for College Access &
Success, an advocacy group based in Oakland, California.  About 43 percent of all former students who defaulted by
2010 on loans they began paying off in 2008 were from for-profit
colleges, Asher said. The consequences of those defaults are
“severe and long-lasting,” she said.  ‘Until You Die’  “You will likely be hounded by collectors, and your debt
will increase significantly because of default and collection
fees,” Asher said. “You cannot get federal grants or loans to
return to school, and the debt can follow you until you die.
There is no statute of limitations, and the government can
garnish your wages, seize your tax refunds, and eventually take
a slice of your Social Security check.”  For-profit colleges have helped improve the lives of many
students who earlier failed at traditional, nonprofit
universities, said  Harris Miller , president and chief executive
officer of the for-profit colleges’ trade group.  “We can all play the anecdote game,” Miller said in a
telephone interview before the hearing began. “We have plenty
of students who would be glad to tell the committee how our
schools have turned their lives around.”  About 1,500 students, teachers and administrators rallied
in front of the U.S. Capitol yesterday to oppose proposed
industry regulations that would force for-profit colleges to
show that graduates are repaying their loans and make enough to
afford repayment.  ‘Great Job’  “All State does a great job of preparing you to present
yourself for a job,” said Sarah Martin, 22, a student at All
State Career School in Baltimore, who rode to Washington on one
of six buses the college sent to the rally.  “It’s up to you to take advantage of the situation,”
Martin said.  D’angelo Walker, a former student at Hoffman Estates,
 Illinois-based Career Education Corp. ’s Sanford-Brown College
whose story was included in a submission to the committee, said
his degree failed to help him get a job, and other colleges
won’t accept the credits he earned.  “I feel like I’ve been robbed,” Walker said. “Every
school is telling me that I will have to start over.”  Almost half of the students at for-profit colleges are
minorities and about two-thirds of the schools’ students have
incomes below the median for all undergraduates, Asher said.
These students are three times as likely to borrow to pay for
their education as those attending nonprofit colleges, Asher
said.  “The data clearly show that across levels of income and
categories of race/ethnicity, for-profit college students borrow
more than those who attend elsewhere,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 