-- For-Profit Colleges Seeking Loans `Rob' Students, Senate Testimony to Say
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-09-30T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/for-profit-colleges-seeking-loans-rob-students-senate-testimony-to-say.html
For-profit colleges leave students
with high debt and inadequate educations that can harm them for
years after they graduate or quit school, witnesses are
scheduled to testify today at a Senate hearing in Washington.  Recruiters enticed Danielle Johnson, a mother from Iowa, to
enroll in  Washington Post Co. ’s Kaplan education unit, saying
she could train at home to be a nurse, a claim that turned out
to be untrue, she said in testimony prepared for today’s  Senate
Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee  hearing. Kaplan
refused to release her transcripts, preventing her from
transferring into a cheaper community college, she said.  While working students must have access to programs that
fit their schedules and training requirements, they also need
protection from the predatory recruiting programs and lending
fraud uncovered by a government probe of education companies,
said Arnold Mitchem, president of the  Council for Opportunity in
Education , in prepared comments for the hearing.  “Access is critical, but access to what?” Mitchem said in
the prepared testimony. “Mountains of debt?”  For-profit colleges represent about 12 percent of U.S.
college students, according to the  Association of Private Sector
Colleges and Universities , a Washington-based industry group
formerly called the Career College Association. Those students
account for about a quarter of U.S. student loan dollars, said
 Lauren Asher , president of the  Institute for College Access and
Success , an advocacy group based in Oakland, California, in
comments prepared for the hearing.  ‘Severe’ Consequences  About 43 percent of all former students who defaulted by
2010 on loans they began paying off in 2008 were from for-profit
colleges, Asher said. The consequences of those defaults are
“severe and long-lasting,” she said in her remarks.  “You will likely be hounded by collectors, and your debt
will increase significantly because of default and collection
fees,” Asher said in her prepared comments. “You cannot get
federal grants or loans to return to school, and the debt can
follow you until you die. There is no statute of limitations,
and the government can garnish your wages, seize your tax
refunds, and eventually take a slice of your Social Security
check.”  For-profit colleges have helped improve the lives of many
students who earlier failed at traditional, nonprofit
universities, said  Harris Miller , president and chief executive
officer of the for-profit colleges’ trade group.  ‘Anecdote Game’  “We can all play the anecdote game,” Miller said in a
telephone interview before the hearing began. “We have plenty
of students who would be glad to tell the committee how our
schools have turned their lives around.”  About 1,500 students, teachers and administrators rallied
in front of the U.S. Capitol building yesterday to oppose
proposed industry regulations that would force for-profit
colleges to show that graduates are repaying their loans and
make enough to afford repayment.  “All State does a great job of preparing you to present
yourself for a job,” said Sarah Martin, 22, a student at All
State Career School in Baltimore who rode to Washington on one
of six buses the college sent to the rally.  “It’s up to you to take advantage of the situation,”
Martin said.  For-profit colleges have come under fire since a government
report released Aug. 4 found that recruiters at 15 colleges
misled students to boost enrollment. Senator  Tom Harkin , the
Iowa Democrat who heads the education committee, said he plans
to hold another hearing the first week in December. Harkin said
he will release information at today’s hearing collected from
education companies.  No Degree  “The companies get the profits, and the students get the
debt,” Harkin said in a telephone interview before the hearing.
“And many times they don’t even get a degree.”  Deceptive marketing has hurt low-income, minority students
across the U.S., Mitchem said in his prepared testimony.
Mitchem’s group submitted a list of stories from students who
said they had been misled by recruiters and administrators.  D’angelo Walker, a former student at Hoffman Estates,
Illinois-based  Career Education Corp. ’s Sanford-Brown College
whose story was included in the submission, said his degree
failed to help him get a job, and other colleges won’t accept
the credits he earned.  Starting Over  “I feel like I’ve been robbed,” Walker said in the
testimony. “Every school is telling me that I will have to
start over.”  Almost half of the students at for-profit colleges are
minorities and about two-thirds of the schools’ students have
incomes below the median for all undergraduates, Asher said.
These students are three times as likely to borrow to pay for
their education as those attending nonprofit colleges, Asher
said.  “The data clearly show that across levels of income and
categories of race/ethnicity, for-profit college students borrow
more than those who attend elsewhere,” she said in her
testimony.  Kathleen A. Bittel, who works in Education Management
Corp.’s Art Institute of Pittsburgh online division, also is
scheduled to testify at the hearing. The company assembled
deceptive career-placement data by counting entry-level jobs at
Toys “R” Us, Starbucks and a convenience store as related to
students’ degrees, Bittel said in a letter to Congress obtained
by Bloomberg News. The company investigated Bittel’s claims and
determined they were unfounded, Education Management said
yesterday in a statement.  Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said in August that he will
beef up his department’s enforcement arm to help stamp out
predatory recruitment practices. The Education Department is
preparing to publish rules that strengthen sanctions for
recruiters who mislead applicants, and require for-profit
colleges to tell students how many students graduate and get
placed in jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 