-- Ford's Fiesta Subcompact Fetching More Than Focus Car
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2010-09-30T14:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/ford-s-fiesta-subcompact-fetching-higher-prices-than-larger-focus-corolla.html
Ford Motor Co. ’s new Fiesta, the
first subcompact it has made in North America since the Pinto in
1980, is selling at higher prices than its Focus compact and
competing offerings from Japanese automakers.  The Fiesta is fetching an average of $3,000 to $4,000 above
its $13,995 base price as buyers load it with extra features
such as heated leather seats, said  George Pipas , Ford’s sales
analyst. At almost $18,000, the Fiesta is commanding a higher
average price than the  Honda Motor Co.’s  Civic compact and
 Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Corolla small car, according to Pipas.  The Fiesta, which went on sale in the U.S. in June, is an
attempt to turn around Ford’s history of making little or no
money selling small cars to U.S. consumers. With rising oil
prices boosting interest in those cars, Ford and  General Motors
Co.  are introducing models to meet drivers’ changing tastes
while delivering a profit.  “The Fiesta is the first test to see whether our strategy
is working,” Pipas said in an interview. “The car is
attracting younger buyers with higher incomes and education and
those are the kind of consumers who buy highly contented
vehicles.”  The Fiesta is a pillar of Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally’s  bet that U.S. buyers will embrace small cars equipped
with the amenities more typically found in larger models such as
sport-utility vehicles. The top model, which Pipas said accounts
for 39 percent of U.S. sales, has options such as push-button
starting, heated leather seats and a lighted gearshift knob.  40 Miles Per Gallon  The Fiesta is rated by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency to get 40 miles per gallon on the highway and 29 mpg in
the city, Ford said. That matches the highway mileage  GM  has
said its new Chevrolet Cruze compact achieves.  Fiesta buyers worldwide are younger, more affluent and
better educated than consumers who purchased the previous
version of the subcompact, Pipas said. The latest Fiesta model
debuted in Europe two years ago and in Asia last year. Ford sold
940,000 of the new Fiestas globally through August, with Europe
accounting for 85 percent, Pipas said.  The car is the first on Ford’s global B-size platform,
which Ford says will be one of 12 core vehicle underpinnings by
2013, down from 25 last year.  The Fiesta available in North America is built in Mexico
and is the first subcompact Ford has sold in the U.S. in more
than a decade. Only 7 percent of U.S. buyers are choosing the
cheapest trim level on the Fiesta, Pipas said.  “The Fiesta has the highest transaction price in its
segment in the U.S.,” Pipas said. “And the Fiesta’s average
transaction price is higher than vehicles in the segment above,
like the Corolla and the Civic.”  Higher Trim Levels  In Europe, 4 percent of buyers select the lowest-price
Fiesta, while 42 percent opt for the top trim level, Pipas said.
In China, the cheapest car attracts 5 percent of buyers, while
67 percent go for the mid-priced version and 28 percent take the
high-end Fiesta, Pipas said.  “Buyers choosing high-series content levels are not just a
U.S. thing,” Pipas said. “People want to buy the product. They
think it’s cool, like a Mini Cooper.”  In the U.S., where Ford sells the Fiesta for $13,995 to
$20,375, the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker will introduce a
new version of its Focus compact car early next year. Ford
hasn’t revealed prices for the new Focus. The current version
starts at $16,985 and can top $20,000.  Ford is hoping the new Focus will attract buyers with
demographics similar to those of the Fiesta, Pipas said. The
current Focus is sold primarily on price and now carries a
discount of more than $2,000, according to automotive researcher
Edmunds.com.  ‘Night and Day’  “The difference between the current Focus and the new
Focus is like night and day,” Pipas said. “If our Fiesta
experience is transferrable and an indication, then it casts a
positive light on Ford’s global  growth  strategy.”  Six out of 10 Fiesta buyers in the U.S. haven’t previously
purchased a Ford,  Jim Farley , Ford’s global marketing chief,
said today at a press briefing at the Paris Motor Show.  “We’ve been pretty surprised by the conquest power of the
Fiesta, because it’s not a cheap and cheerful small car. It’s a
premium small car,” Farley said. “We thought the Fiesta would
take away sales from the Focus, but as we get new customers in
the showroom, they’re discovering Focus. We’re selling more
Focuses as a result of the Fiesta.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Paris at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  