-- Four Synagogue Bomb-Plot Defendants Rest Their Case in New York Trial
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-09-30T17:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/four-synagogue-bomb-plot-defendants-rest-their-case-in-new-york-trial.html
Lawyers for four men on trial for
an alleged plot to bomb synagogues in New York City and shoot
down military aircraft rested their case after presenting two
witnesses.  Vincent Briccetti , an attorney for defendant James
Cromitie, called a personnel manager at the  Wal-Mart  store in
Newburgh, New York, where Cromitie was fired in March 2009 from
his job as an overnight shelf-stocker, and a neighbor who said
he bought a digital camera from the defendant.  Their testimony was aimed at showing Cromitie needed money
and was vulnerable to being lured into the bombing scheme by the
confidential informant who was the government’s key witness.  Prosecutors yesterday finished their case against the
Newburgh men. Judge  Colleen McMahon  sent home jurors until Oct.
4, when closing arguments are scheduled to begin. Deliberations
will start two days later. The trial in federal court in
Manhattan started on Aug. 23.  Cromitie, 44, David Williams, 29, Onta Williams, 34, and
Laguerre Payen, 28, are accused of plotting to plant bombs
outside a synagogue and a Jewish community center in the Bronx
section of New York City and fire heat-seeking missiles at
military planes at Stewart International Airport in Newburgh.  The men were working with the informant, Shahed Hussain,
who posed as a member of the Pakistan-based terrorist group
 Jaish-e-Mohammad  and supplied them with bombs and missiles
rendered harmless. They were arrested in a sting in the
Riverdale section of the Bronx on May 20, 2009.  Defense Argument  Defense attorneys maintain their clients are impoverished
victims of entrapment by the paid informant, lured into the
scheme with cash and food and promises of cars, reward money and
vacations. Prosecutors say the defendants were predisposed to
commit terrorist acts.  The charges against the men include conspiracy and
attempted use of weapons of mass destruction in the U.S. They
face as long as life in prison if convicted.  The neighbor who testified today, Jose Sanchez, said
Cromitie sold him a new Casio digital camera for $50 or $60 in
March 2009.  The informant testified earlier in the trial that he
supplied Cromitie with $200 to buy the camera for surveillance
and Cromitie claimed later to have broken it.  “It was brand new,” Sanchez said. “Great camera.”  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 