-- Gazprom, VTB's Best Bond Rally in a Year Fuels Borrowing: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-10-01T12:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/gazprom-vtb-s-best-bond-rally-in-a-year-fuels-borrowing-russia-credit.html
Russia’s best quarterly bond rally in
a year is sending international borrowing costs for companies
from OAO Gazprom to VTB Group to the lowest level on record and
fueling expectations of a jump in debt sales.  Russian company foreign-currency debt  gained 7.4 percent
and  government notes  added 7.5 percent in the past three months,
the biggest advances since the same quarter last year, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes of foreign-currency debt show. Corporate
yields fell 108 basis points to an average 5.65 percent, 8 basis
points from the lowest level since Bloomberg began compiling the
data in 2002.  “At these low yields I would expect a few Russian issuers
to sell international debt in October,” said  Jeremy Brewin , who
helps manage $2.3 billion of emerging-market debt at Aviva
Investors in London.  While companies from Vale SA of Rio de Janeiro to Korea
Electric Power Corp. in Seoul sent emerging-market bond sales to
a record last quarter, Russian companies largely stayed out of
the international debt market as a more stable exchange rate
spurred local issuance. Russian firms may sell as much as $7
billion of bonds overseas in the next three months, said
 Alexander Kudrin , head of fixed income research at Troika Dialog
in Moscow. The government, which returned to foreign markets for
the first time since its 1998 default in April, is considering
selling a debut ruble-denominated Eurobond by year’s end.  Bonds are rebounding after losses in the second quarter as
a 5.7 percent third-quarter jump in oil prices helps the world’s
largest energy exporter recover from its  worst economic
contraction  last year since the Soviet era.  Bank Sales  Banks accounted for all $4.4 billion of international bond
sales from Russia in the third quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance was down 15 percent for the
quarter and 22 percent lower than the same period in 2008 at
$15.6 billion.  In the ruble bond market, third-quarter sales climbed 4.5
percent to record 267.7 billion rubles ($8.8 billion), with
financial companies accounting for 25 percent of issuance, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russian companies may sell between $6 billion and $7
billion of international bonds in the fourth quarter to take
advantage of record low borrowing costs, according to Kudrin.  There’s a “scarcity premium” in the international debt
market that’s boosting demand, said  Luis Costa , an emerging-
market debt strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London.  “The pipeline of Eurobonds is clearly alive,” Costa said.
“But it’s been much less aggressive than we expected in terms
of volumes. We’ve seen much less over-supply than we thought.”  Gazprom Sale  Gazprom, Russia’s largest company, plans its first sale of
Eurobonds since July 2009 in the fourth quarter, Yana
Kolosovskaya, head of loans and guarantees, said in an interview
Sept. 21. Gains in the Moscow-based company’s 7.288 percent
dollar bonds due 2037 reduced the yield by 90 basis points, or
0.90 percentage point, in the third quarter to 6.535 percent
yesterday, 3 basis points from the lowest level since they were
sold in 2007.  OAO Severstal , the country’s largest steelmaker, said
yesterday executives plan to meet with dollar bond investors
next week for its first international sale since July 2008. The
yield on the Moscow-based company’s 9.75 percent dollar bonds
due July 2013 dropped 140 basis points in the past three months
to 5.64 percent yesterday, the lowest since they were issued in
2008, prices on Bloomberg show. Gains in Severstal’s 9.75
percent ruble notes due in February 2013 cut the yield 70 basis
points to 7.33.  VTB Group  VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender, hired banks for
its second benchmark dollar bond sale since February yesterday,
according to a banker with knowledge of the transaction. The
Moscow-based company’s 6.609 percent dollar bonds due October
2012 yielded 3.826 percent yesterday, the lowest since they were
sold in 2007, and down from 5.271 percent on June 30. The yield
on VTB’s October 2013 ruble bonds fell 7 basis points to 7.610
percent in the third quarter.  Gains in benchmark Russian government dollar-denominated
bonds reduced the extra yield investors demand over U.S.
Treasuries by 53 basis points to 230 during the third quarter,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference is more than
the spread of 148 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 202 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps below Russia’s Baa1 rating by
Moody’s Investors Service. Russia’s spread narrowed 6 basis
points today.  ‘Spread Compression’  “Russia has further spread compression potential to the
U.S. Treasuries curve and to the better Latin American and Asian
names,” Aviva’s Brewin said.  The ruble climbed 0.3 percent to 30.4750 per dollar by 4:20
p.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide
a guide to expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 30.7035 per dollar in three months.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 5 basis
points to 4.465 percent, the lowest since the bonds were sold in
April. The price of the country’s ruble notes due in August 2016
rose, pushing the yield 6 basis points lower to 7.29 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps climbed 0.5 basis point to
162 yesterday, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 1 basis point more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 47 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  Russia’s economy may expand 3.6 percent in 2010, less than
the government’s official 4 percent forecast, Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  said on Sept. 24. Inflation may
accelerate to as much as 8 percent this year, up from the
previous estimate of as much as 7 percent, his ministry said.  “We do not expect yields to continue coming down,”
Troika’s Kudrin said. “The macro situation in Russia is not
changing for the better.”  Borrowing Costs  Russian borrowing costs are likely to remain at current
levels or lower at least until the second quarter of next year,
 Herbert Moos , deputy chairman of VTB Group said in a telephone
interview in Moscow.  “Neither America, nor Europe are ready to raise rates and,
on the contrary, additional quantitative easing measures are
being discussed, which will boost liquidity and push rates below
even the current historically low levels,” Moos said.  The economic recovery in the U.S. weakened in the second
quarter more than initially estimated, with growth at a 1.6
percent annual pace as consumer spending declined and business
investment cooled. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
policy makers indicated Sept. 21 they may have to implement
additional measures, such as so-called quantitative easing, to
buoy the recovery.  “Russia still has good long-term potential for spread
contraction,” said  Dmitry Dudkin , head of fixed-income research
at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, in e-mailed comments. The
country’s 2030 dollar bonds are yielding 180 basis points more
than U.S. Treasuries, compared with a record low 88 in June
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The spread of Russia’s 2030 bonds must be much narrower,
below 100, just because fundamentally Russia has excellent
credit metrics, and they are not going to change significantly
over the next few years,” said Dudkin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  