-- Gazprom, E.ON Should Redirect Unbundling Complaints to EU, Lithuania Says
-- B y   B o   N i e l s e n   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2010-09-30T09:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/gazprom-e-on-should-redirect-unbundling-complaints-to-eu-lithuania-says.html
OAO  Gazprom  and E.ON AG, majority
shareholders of Lithuania’s gas utility  Lietuvos Dujos AB ,
should complain to Brussels about the nation’s unbundling plans
to the European Commission, Premier  Andrius Kubilius  said.  The Lithuanian government decided on May 19 to split the
gas sales and transmission ownership of Lietuvos Dujos, spurring
criticism from Gazprom and  E.ON . The initiative is part of the
European Union’s drive to force dominant energy companies to
give competitors access to transmission networks, according to
the government.  Gazprom and E.ON said on Sept. 20 in an open letter that
“an overhasty implementation of ownership unbundling” in
Lithuania could “cause disruption of gas supplies.” These are
“nervous statements” and they aren’t “a big surprise,” Kubilius
said an interview in Copenhagen yesterday.  “We can understand that Gazprom is a little bit worried
about unbundling development in European gas markets,” Kubilius
said. “But we see that Estonia decided to follow. The Poles are
also going with something similar. If somebody is unhappy in how
we implement European directives they should complain to
Brussels.”  Without competition, Lithuania risks staying in the
position where it has to pay $100 more than Germany for 1,000
cubic meters of Russian natural gas, Kubilius said.  ‘Big Issue’  “It’s really a big issue for us to get rid of our
dependence on the monopoly supply of gas,” he said. “It’s not
politics, it’s economics. We need to get rid of that dominating
monopoly situation.”  EU lawmakers in April 2009 approved legislation forcing
members to choose one of three options to ease access to power
and gas grids. The choices are to force the companies to sell or
spin off the transmission businesses, to require them to hand
grid management over to an independent operator or oblige them
to make the unit more independent through internal action.  Estonian Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  on July 29 said that
gas ownership unbundling for Estonia is “certainly as important
as for Lithuania.” The country has started a discussion though
hasn’t decided how the unbundling will be carried out, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net 
 Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  