-- Geithner Says No Threat of China Trade War or Currency Wars
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-01T04:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/geithner-says-no-threat-of-trade-war-with-china-or-world-currency-conflict.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  played down the danger of a trade war over China’s
currency policy after U.S. lawmakers took a step toward
approving a bill designed to protect against Chinese imports.  “We’re not going to have a trade war,” Geithner said in
remarks to a Washington conference yesterday hosted by The
Atlantic magazine and the Aspen Institute. He also said that if
the recent appreciation in the yuan “continues, that would make
a really material difference on their economics and on our
economics in ways that we think are important.”  The comments, along with the gains in the yuan, which
yesterday posted its biggest monthly gain against the dollar
since 2005, signal subsiding risk of tit-for-tat trade sanctions.
While the House of Representatives approved a bill this week
letting companies seek compensation for imports from countries
with misaligned exchange rates, the Senate has yet to vote.  “It won’t work if they pressure China too hard,” said  Xie Dongming , a Singapore-based economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. The prospect of trade war “will make both countries
suffer, and it’s not serving the best interest for the two
nations,” he said.  The yuan dropped 0.07 percent to 6.6912 per dollar in
Shanghai yesterday according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System, after advancing 1.74 percent for September, the most
since a dollar peg was ended in July 2005. Chinese markets are
closed for a holiday today.  No ‘War’  Geithner also dismissed risks of a global conflict over
exchange-rate policies after Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  this week warned of a “currency war” as his country
weighed a higher tax on capital inflows. Countries from South
Korea to China to Brazil and Switzerland have sold their
currencies as policy makers worldwide seek to boost exports.  The U.S. Treasury chief said yesterday he wasn’t sure
“what that means” to talk about a “currency war.” In any
case, “we’re not going to have currency wars,” he said.  Japan intervened in the foreign-exchange markets last month
for the first time since 2004 in a bid to suppress the yen’s
rise. Geithner hasn’t commented on that move, instead focusing
on U.S. efforts to encourage China to let the yuan appreciate.  China said in June it would allow its currency to become
more market-driven, without saying how much of a rise it would
allow or how quickly. The Obama administration, under pressure
from Congress, has said the yuan hasn’t been moving fast enough.  ‘Steep’ Path  Yesterday, Geithner said China has recently permitted the
currency to appreciate more quickly, in line with the more than
20 percent climb that authorities in Beijing allowed between
2005 and 2008. Officials kept the currency at about 6.83 per
dollar from July 2008 to June 2010 to shield exporters during
the global crisis.  “If you look at the pace it’s moved since Sept. 2, it’s
moving on a path pretty similar to the steep path it was in that
period of time,” Geithner said.  Economic data today indicated China’s manufacturing is
accelerating, giving Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government more room
to let the currency keep rising, according to Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch economist  Lu Ting  in Hong Kong.  Geithner also said the U.S. economy is “very resilient,”
with strong exports and business  investment . He said President
 Barack Obama ’s proposals to extend middle-class tax cuts have
broad-based support, and that the $700 billion Troubled Asset
Relief Program will have a final cost of under $50 billion as
banks and other bailed-out companies repay their government aid.  The Treasury secretary urged Republicans to work with the
administration to enact its economic agenda. He said the
Republican “Pledge to America” isn’t a credible alternative.  “It’s really just a press release, it’s not an economic
proposal for a country,” Geithner said. “It was designed as a
press release on the campaign -- unfair to evaluate it as a
serious economic plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  