-- German Jobless Rate Falls To Lowest Since April 1992 on Export-Led Demand
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-09-30T08:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/german-unemployment-falls-for-15th-month-on-manufacturing-exports-demand.html
German  unemployment  declined for a
15th month in September as carmakers and other manufacturers
boosted hiring to meet export-led demand.  The  number  of people out of work declined a seasonally
adjusted 40,000 to 3.15 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal
Labor Agency said today. Economists forecast a decrease of
20,000, according to the median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The  jobless rate  dropped to 7.5 percent, the lowest
since April 1992.  Companies such as  Daimler AG  and  Volkswagen AG  are adding
jobs as they harness faster economic growth in countries such as
China and Brazil.  Business confidence  in Europe’s largest
economy unexpectedly rose to the highest level in more than
three years this month amid signs buoyant exports and falling
joblessness are beginning to feed through to consumer spending.  For now, “this improvement is industry-driven,”  Alexander Krueger , head of capital market analysis at Bankhaus Lampe KG in
Dusseldorf, said in an interview. Even so, faced with weakening
global demand, “German consumption will carry the economy
along, so the general growth picture will continue.”  The euro slid 0.1 percent to $1.3619 at 10:10 a.m. in
Berlin. German 10-year bonds were little changed, with a yield
of 2.42 percent.  ‘Psychological Threshold’  Twenty years after reunification of East and West Germany
on Oct. 3, 1990, unemployment is approaching the “psychological
threshold of 3 million,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at
ING Group in Brussels. That may help Chancellor  Angela Merkel  as
she tries to reverse a decline in popularity of her coalition to
historic lows after months of party bickering and policy drift.  The drop in unemployment from a post-World War II high of
12.1 percent in March 2005, six months before Merkel was elected
to her first term, “should be a good lesson for other
countries, showing that structural reforms can yield positive
results,” Brzeski said in a note. “But a lot of stamina is
required.”  German economic growth  has shown signs of slowing after
gross domestic product jumped a record 2.2 percent in the second
quarter, the fastest since records for a reunified Germany began
in 1991.  Factory orders  unexpectedly declined in July and
 manufacturing expansion  eased for a second month in September.  Still, the Bundesbank last week said the recovery “remains
intact” as companies including truck maker  MAN SE  raise profit
forecasts and falling unemployment helps domestic consumption.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending increased 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, its first gain in a year. Household spending will
“continue to pick up” due to the improving labor market and
the “quite optimistic mood of consumers,” the Bundesbank said
Sept. 20. The German Retail Federation raised its outlook for
2010 retail sales on Sept. 23, projecting growth of 1.5 percent
after previously forecasting flat sales.  Strengthening consumer demand may offset some of the impact
of fiscal tightening as Merkel pushes through spending cuts and
revenue-raising measures to shrink the budget deficit as part
her efforts to stem the European debt crisis.  For now, exports are driving growth.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of luxury cars, said Sep. 16
it plans to add models and start a vehicle-leasing business in
China. Car exports to China tripled in the first half of the
year to 128,000, the Federal Statistics Office  said  last week,
exceeding the 122,000 cars shipped to China in 2009.  Wage Demands  As exports fuel the recovery and companies’ profits,
workers are seeking higher wages. The IG Metall union said today
it secured a 3.6 percent wage increase for 85,000 steel workers
at companies such as  ThyssenKrupp AG  and  Salzgitter AG .  Munich-based  Siemens AG , which this week predicted an
increase in fiscal fourth-quarter profit to “very
satisfactory” levels, reached an “open-ended” agreement with
union workers that will secure the jobs of its 128,000 German
employees indefinitely, avoiding compulsory layoffs “wherever
possible.”  Germany staved off mass unemployment during the financial
crisis with a state-sponsored program that assisted companies in
keeping workers on their roles working shorter hours. The Labor
Agency has said the “Kurzarbeit” programs have given way as
staff return to full-time employment.  “The German labor market has defied many skeptics and it
is hard to find reasons why the current trend on the labor
market should not continue,” Brzeski said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  