-- Towns South of Berlin Evacuated After Highest Flood-Alarm Level Imposed
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2010-09-30T07:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/germany-evacuates-towns-south-of-berlin-after-record-breaking-rainfall.html
Floodwaters from the rainiest
September on record in eastern Germany forced the evacuation of
at least 2,500 people in towns south of Berlin and closed
schools and hospitals along the Elbe and Spree rivers.  Authorities in Brandenburg imposed the highest level of
alarm for flooding in the southern part of the state, according
to the local police website. Water levels in many parts of
eastern Germany are still rising, with additional increases of
as much as 20 centimeters (8 inches) expected, the Brandenburg
environment ministry said.  “Flooding has further intensified in the southern part of
Brandenburg since Wednesday,” the  Brandenburg state police  said
on the website. “Crisis staff have implemented a catastrophe
alarm for the Elbe-Elster region and called on inhabitants to
leave the town of Elsterwerda.”  This month has been the rainiest on record in eastern
Germany, the  German weather service  said. A “dominant” low-
pressure system dumped as much as five times the normal amount
of precipitation on some parts of the region, the Offenbach-
based weather forecaster added.  About 1,000 people are piling up sandbags to shore up dikes
and in some regions travel is being restricted, Brandenburg
police said.  In Saxony, which borders the Czech Republic and Poland,
water levels are expected to peak by tomorrow in Dresden,
according to the state’s  environment ministry  website.  Three people drowned in a basement in the town of
Neukirchen less than two months ago following heavy flooding in
Germany, the Czech Republic and Poland. Rains will ease today
through tomorrow, the German weather service said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at  