-- Germany Discards Slow-Coach Tag to Be Europe's Locomotive
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g ,   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-09-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/germany-discards-slow-coach-tag-to-become-europe-s-locomotive.html
In German, die rote Laterne -- the
red lantern that hangs off the caboose of a train -- is slang
for last place. Less than a decade ago, Germans were wondering
whether that was an apt description for their dawdling nation.  Germany produced top-quality technology but seemed held
back by an aging, risk-averse population and a sclerotic
business culture. In 2005, Germany’s 10-year  growth rate  was
half, and its unemployment rate more than double, that of the
U.S. The Mittelstand -- Germany’s small and midsize-
manufacturers, often family-run -- seemed like a relic of
Europe’s industrial past.  That has changed, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Oct. 4 issue. Germany is now growing faster than the U.S. and
owns a lower  jobless rate  (7.6 percent in August vs.
9.6 percent). In the second quarter its economy bloomed at an
annualized pace of 9 percent.  On Sept. 16, the Federal Labor Agency’s IAB research
institute predicted that, despite a shrinking working-age
population, Germany is set to have the highest number of people
working since reunification. While the U.S. flirts with
Japanese-style deflation, Germany’s looming problem is worker
shortages.  “The German economy remains the showcase of the euro
zone,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels,
says.  Germany is Europe’s largest economy, with 82 million people
and a 2.4 trillion-euro ($3.23 trillion) gross domestic product,
sprawling from the Rhine to the Oder --- the hinge between the
European Union’s East and West.  Reunification  Its newfound success was two decades in the making. Early
on, in 1990, reunification opened the door for massive
investment by German companies, mostly in the former East
Germany. In 1999, the adoption of the euro, which overvalued the
deutsche mark, forced German companies to cut costs and increase
productivity to compete in the export market.  More significantly, labor market measures begun in 2003
under Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  made it easier to hire and
fire workers, and Germany’s Mittelstand companies have proved
nimble competitors.  In its achievement, Germany may serve as a model for other
Western economies competing with emerging markets.  German corporations saw reunification as a chance to grow.
It energized the nation’s businesses, says  Karl-Ludwig Kley ,
chief executive officer of Merck KGaA, a family-controlled drug
and chemical company that shares historic roots with Merck & Co.  Labor Reform  “Reunification has given the German economy a serious
boost in terms of investment, entrepreneurship, and a sense of
creating something new,” he says.  Labor reform played an important role. In the early 1990s
multinationals such as  Siemens AG  and  Volkswagen AG  coped with a
global slump by brokering deals with unions that allowed them to
opt out of collective wage agreements.  In 1994, companies got out from under rules that limited
temporary workers’ tenure to just six months, after which they
had to become permanent workers with full benefits.  Such deals, combined with the introduction of the euro in
1999, produced short-term costs for Germany but long-term
benefits, allowing companies more flexibility in hiring.  It was a start. Germany still had a long way to go.  By 2003, Chancellor Schroeder --- known as the  “Basta Chancellor”  for his uncompromising ways --- had had enough. The
economy was in another recession, unemployment was high, and the
social welfare system was underfunded and close to collapse.  Schroeder’s Threat  Schroeder, leader of a left-leaning coalition of the Social
Democrats and the Green Party, threatened the trade unions: If
they didn’t voluntarily agree to new wage and hiring rules, he
would make them into laws. This allowed companies to break
onerous wage agreements.  For their part, German labor unions gave up wage increases
in return for job security. In November 2004, workers at
Volkswagen, which had posted seven straight declines in
 quarterly profits , agreed to wage freezes and cost cuts worth
2 billion euros.  Schroeder’s campaign for labor market flexibility
culminated in 2005 with a reform package called Agenda 2010.  Trade unions hated it, because it compromised Germany’s
“cradle-to-grave” safety net by cutting jobless benefits,
asking workers to pay a small part of their health-care costs,
and putting more pressure on the unemployed to take low-paid
work or employment outside their area of training.  More Competitive  These reforms “would have been unthinkable until 2002,”
says Christine Trampusch, a professor of comparative politics at
the University of Bern in Switzerland. “They only happened
because the Chancellor stopped asking the trade unions’
permission and instead relied on a coalition between business
and the state to push the reforms.”  By a measure of worker productivity per euro spent, Germany
became 13 percent more competitive against its neighbors in the
11 years through 2009, according to the European Central Bank.  “Agenda 2010, which created a low-wage sector, was crucial
in terms of laying the foundations for the current employment
boom,” says  Hans-Werner Sinn , president of the Ifo Economic
Research Institute in Munich, which advises the government.  Although they worked, the tough reforms compromised
Schroeder’s popularity.  Angela Merkel , who succeeded him in
2005, reaped the benefits.  For a time, stronger growth produced soaring tax revenues.
Then the global financial crisis hit. German exports plunged,
and companies feared they would have to lay off thousands.
Merkel, though a Christian Democrat and economic conservative,
pushed through employer subsidies to reduce layoffs.  More Jobs  As the global economy recovered, German companies were
ready. By June 2010,  Daimler AG ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ,
and Volkswagen’s Audi unit were adding staff and cutting summer
factory breaks as demand for luxury cars returned quicker than
expected.  It wasn’t just large multinationals fighting for labor
reform or driving the economy. The Mittelstand --- family-owned,
small companies, typically with fewer than 500 employees ---
employs more than 70 percent of German workers and contributes
roughly half of the country’s GDP.  The Mittelstand also embodies the German approach to
business practice --- paternalistic, consensual, conservative,
and arguably more effective over the long haul than what Germans
sometimes dismiss as American-style cowboy capitalism.  Far from being relics of a simpler time, Mittelstand
companies have emerged as successful models in an era of
globalization --- agile creatures darting between the legs of
the multinational mastodons. Their blend of high technology,
long-term thinking, and focus on quality has helped German
manufacturing through the recession.  ‘Pillar of Society’  “The continuity of Germany’s Mittelstand is a pillar of
society that has helped avoid a surge of unemployment during the
latest crisis,” says  Hans Jaeckel , an economist at DZ Bank in
Frankfurt, the central institution for cooperative banks. “The
labor market has been lucky because of the Mittelstand’s long-
term focus.”  The Mittelstand approach encourages and benefits from a
strong sense of social responsibility. Government policy helped
Mittelstand companies hang on to workers through the 2008-09
recession.  Rather than firing workers, companies reduced working
hours, saving almost half a million jobs. Under a government-
subsidized short-work plan, or Kurzarbeit, companies were able
to move employees temporarily into abbreviated working weeks.
The government paid employees up to two-thirds of the money they
would have made had they worked their normal hours.  Quicker Response  Mittelstand companies also took advantage of a system of
worktime accounts that enabled workers to work fewer hours
without a reduction in pay, in exchange for promising to work
more hours when business picks up without a salary increase.  The aggregate effect was lower unemployment --- and a
quicker response when the global economy turned around. By May
of this year, unemployment in Germany was at 7 percent, a 17-
year low, as measured by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Mittelstand companies also better resisted the credit
crisis. Traditionally, they prefer bank loans to selling bonds
or issuing stock, avoiding short-term pressures from bondholders
and shareholders.  To keep the financing flowing, Merkel in December 2009 met
with leaders from the banking industry to ensure that companies
were getting sufficient funding. Savings banks increased lending
last year, while state-owned development bank KfW Group made
40 billion euros in loans available as part of the government’s
economic stimulus program.  Access to Financing  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, the country’s two largest
financial institutions, set up separate funds to ease financing
for the Mittelstand.  All this ensured that, even at the height of the financial
crisis, the Mittelstand had access to financing.  “There never was a credit crunch,” says Patrick Adenauer,
a grandson of former Chancellor  Konrad Adenauer  and president of
the German association of family-owned companies known as ASU.
Says Adenauer: “The German economy is financed long-term, and
that’s part of our culture and shouldn’t go lost even if the
Anglo-Saxons always tell us it’s hogwash.”  All of this is not to say that Germany has solved all
economic problems.  Adam Posen , a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics and a member of the Bank
of England’s Monetary Policy Committee, wrote a paper in 2003
called “Is Germany Turning Japanese?”  ‘Turning Into China’  He says Germany appears to have dodged Japan’s stagnant
fate, but that doesn’t mean the future is certain. Germany, he
says, remains overly dependent on exports, as does China.
Similarly, he says, Germany’s wages are too low, depressing
domestic consumption.  “The issue isn’t Germany turning into Japan now,” he
says. “The issue is Germany turning into China.”  Some German economists make a similar diagnosis.  “Fundamentally, it was wage restraint over the last 10
years that’s responsible for Germany’s success,” DZ Bank Chief
Economist  Stefan Bielmeier  says. “It’s questionable whether
that model is sustainable going forward.”  Every mature economy, of course, has its challenges.  Germany has managed its particular issues better than most
of its peers. At least, says former Finance Minister  Peer Steinbrueck , “Nobody is talking about the consumptive sick man
of Europe anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  