-- German Mittelstand Gives Chilean Miners, Economy Escape Route
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-09-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/german-mittelstand-gives-chilean-miners-economy-escape-route.html
The 33 Chilean workers trapped since
Aug. 5 in a copper mine deep below the earth’s surface are
relying on a German company more than 7,000 miles away to help
get them out.  Micon, a family-owned firm with about 60 employees in the
northern town of Nienhagen, designs and builds the precision
tool that is aiding the rescue effort. The equipment, made to
keep deep-drilling machines vertical, is among the Micon
products used in mines from Chile to Mongolia.  “We’re engineers at heart,” said Rainer Juergens, 69, who
founded the company 16 years ago and owns it with his son. Micon
exports more than 90 percent of its goods. “By focusing on
technology, we’ve turned a small and highly specialized company
into a world leader in our niche.”  Micon belongs to Germany’s Mittelstand -- more than 3
million small- and medium-sized enterprises that form the
backbone of Europe’s largest economy. With 82 million people and
a gross domestic product of 2.4 trillion euros ($3.3 trillion),
sprawling from the Rhine River to the Oder, Germany is the hinge
between the European Union’s east and west.  More than 40 percent of German exports are destined for the
16-nation euro zone and 63 percent for the 27-nation EU -- a 12
trillion-euro market with 500 million consumers. While global
leaders such as luxury carmaker  Bayerische Motorenwerke AG  and
engineering company  Siemens AG  may appear to be the locomotive,
it’s the Mittelstand -- companies with fewer than 500 employees
and annual sales of less than 50 million euros -- that employs
more than 70 percent of the country’s workers and contributes
about half of its GDP.  Consensual Approach  “Mittelstand is a philosophy rather than an order of
magnitude,” said  Ralph Wiechers , chief economist at VDMA
machine makers’ association, which represents 3,000 mainly
medium-sized companies. In September, the group doubled its
growth forecast for the year, predicting that German plant and
machinery output will increase 6 percent in 2010. “The
Mittelstand is the defining element of our economy,” he said.  A blend of high technology, long-term thinking and products
built to last bolstered the resilience of German manufacturing
through the recession, helping companies emerge less scathed
than in other western industrial nations, said  Hans Jaeckel , an
economist at DZ Bank in Frankfurt, the central institution for
cooperative banks.  “The continuity of Germany’s Mittelstand is a pillar of
society that’s helped to avoid a surge of unemployment during
the latest crisis,” Jaeckel said. “The labor market has been
lucky because of the Mittelstand’s long-term focus.”  Mittelstand companies will have created as many as 100,000
jobs by the end of 2010, the German Chamber of Industry and
Commerce said on Aug. 6.  Unemployment Rate  As the global recession pushed unemployment in the U.S. to
a 27-year high of 10.1 percent last October, the rate in Germany
fell to an 18-year low of 7.5 percent last month, according to
the Federal Labor Agency.  Government policy helped Mittelstand companies retain
employees through the 2009 recession. Rather than fire workers,
companies reduced working hours, saving almost 500,000 jobs.
Under a government-subsidized short-work plan, or Kurzarbeit,
firms were able to temporarily move employees to shorter working
weeks. They pay only for the hours worked and the government
provides up to two-thirds of the remaining wage.  Mittelstand companies also took advantage of a system that
allows them to reduce employees’ working weeks during down
periods. The hours saved accrue and can be worked up during
booms without adjusting wages.  Apprentice System  Germany’s apprentice system, which doesn’t have an
equivalent in the U.S., ensures that Mittelstand companies have
a steady flow of qualified workers. They take on 83 percent of
all apprentices in Germany, more than their share of total
employment. The system has roots in the Middle Ages, when master
craftsmen across Europe taught young people the skills of
stonemasonry, carpentry a roof-making.  Tital GmbH, a company of 420 employees that makes
precision-cast products for the airline and race-car industries
in North Rhine-Westphalia’s Sauerland region, trains 16
apprentices. Two will be offered a scholarship to study
engineering at a nearby university in exchange for returning to
the company after graduation, said General Manager Philipp
Schack, who, along with five colleagues, owns 80 percent of the
company.  “People who live here usually stay, but convincing
somebody to move to the countryside after finishing a university
degree is difficult,” he said. “We’re located in the middle of
nowhere. We have to raise our own young talent.”  Comparisons With U.S.  Statistically, the corporate landscape in the U.S. doesn’t
differ much from Germany. Small- and medium-sized enterprises
employ slightly over half of the U.S. workforce and contribute
roughly 50 percent to GDP, according to statistics from the U.S.
International Trade Commission, similar to the German figures.  “Germany is a tinkering country, where you found a company
once you’ve made an invention,” said Volker Wittberg, professor
at a university of applied sciences in Bielefeld, which trains
future Mittelstand employees. “Mittelstand is about products,
not so much about the people.”  The Mittelstand rebounded after World War II, when the
country’s destruction required Germans to start over, and small
businesses began to flourish again.  Lunor AG, a six-person manufacturer of high-end eyeglasses,
generates half its business abroad. South Korea is its fastest-
growing market, and customers include  Steve Jobs ,  Tom Cruise  and
Madonna.  Lessons Learned  A challenge for the Mittelstand is its concentration in
four sectors with less profitable products: machine tools, auto
parts, chemicals, and electrical equipment.  Mittelstand backers, though, insist they have a winning
formula. Micon, the company whose equipment is being used to
rescue the Chilean miners, is looking to expand.  “If we can just keep developing our equipment and make it
even more reliable than it already is, then I think we have a
good chance to keep growing over the next 10 years,” Juergens
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Basel at  jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  