-- German Two-Year Notes, Euribor Futures Drop as ECB Lending to Banks Falls
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-09-30T12:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/german-two-year-notes-euribor-futures-drop-as-ecb-lending-to-banks-falls.html
German  two-year notes  and Euribor
futures dropped after regional lenders demanded less in loans
from the European Central Bank than some analysts estimated,
prompting bets borrowing costs will rise.  The ECB said today it lent banks 29.4 billion euros ($40
billion) for six days to ease the expiry of 225 billion euros in
longer-term loans. Offerings for six and 12 months that are
ending won’t be renewed as policy makers phase out non-standard
measures used to fight the financial crisis. The central bank
lent 104 billion euros for three months yesterday.  “It’s likely that we’ll see an overall fall in excess
liquidity in money markets and that’s pushing up future rate
expectations,” said  Elwin de Groot , a senior market economist
at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, Netherlands. “There’s less need
for funding and you could argue that’s a positive signal. But
alternative investments are much less interesting than they were
a year ago and that’s probably having an impact on demand.”  The yield on two-year German notes rose 4 basis points to
0.83 percent as of 1:06 p.m. in London, after reaching 0.86
percent, the highest since July 28. The yield on the Euribor
futures contract for June 2011 rose 4 basis points to 1.24
percent as investors added to bets for higher borrowing costs.  ECB Executive Board Member  Juergen Stark  said two days ago
that the central bank is progressing with its exit from non-
standard policy measures.  ‘Non-Standard Measures’  “This week, and in the fourth quarter of 2010, a number of
non-standard measures will mature,” Stark said at a conference
in Istanbul. “They will mature and will not be renewed.”  Financial institutions have been wary of lending to each
other after Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis fueled concern that
some governments may struggle to refinance their debts. The cost
to Ireland of bailing out its banks may ultimately rise to about
50 billion euros, under a “stress case” scenario for Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., according to figures published by the
country’s finance ministry and the central bank in Dublin today.
The base case is about 45 billion euros, the figures show.  The euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, at which banks
say they see each other lending for three months rose almost 1
basis point to 0.892 percent, the third consecutive gain, data
from the European Banking Federation showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  