-- Glut of Asia-Route Oil Tankers to Middle East Tanker  Trims Owner Returns
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-09-30T15:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/glut-of-asia-route-oil-tankers-to-middle-east-tanker-trims-owner-returns.html
Income from hauling Middle East
crude oil to Asia, the world’s busiest route for supertankers,
headed for the biggest weekly retreat in three weeks because of
a surplus of ships for hire.  Returns  for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on the
industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route fell 13 percent
to $7,383 a day, according to the London-based Baltic Exchange.
That extended this week’s slide to 17 percent. The vessels must
earn $11,601 a day to pay crew, insurance, repairs and running
costs, Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. estimates.  “Tonnage continues to build up,” Imarex Asia Pte, a unit
of Oslo-based freight-derivatives broker Imarex ASA, said in an
e-mailed report today. An additional 10 VLCCs are available over
the next four weeks, taking the number to 106 vessels, it said.  A  surplus of ships  in the region expanded to 28 percent on
Sept. 28 from 20 percent a week earlier, according to Bloomberg
News surveys of owners and brokers.  The exchange’s benchmark  Worldscale rate  on the Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route slid 1.5 percent to 46.42 points. The
price is used to settle freight derivatives. Rental income is
then calculated by subtracting fuel and port costs, meaning
returns and the Worldscale rate tend not to move in alignment.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the  Worldscale Association  in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a wider measure of crude oil
transportation costs, fell 0.6 percent to 686 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 