-- MGM Resorts CEO Murren Sees ‘Very Solid’ October in Las Vegas
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-09-30T14:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/mgm-resorts-ceo-murren-sees-very-solid-october-in-las-vegas.html
MGM Resorts International , the
biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip, projects a
“very solid” October as conventions return and vacationers
help fill the city with last-minute bookings.  “The convention business looks very healthy, the consumer,
based on rooms booked in that 30-day window, looks like he and
she wants to come out here and have a little fun,” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Jim Murren  said in an interview.  The durability remains to be seen, Murren said. Year-to-
date travel through the Las Vegas airport is down 2.4 percent as
of August, the Clark County Department of Aviation said
yesterday. While international visitors are increasing, spending
by U.S. tourists is still weak, Murren said.  “We all are frustrated about the degree of the recovery
and the very slow pace,” Murren said.  MGM Resorts predicted on its last three earnings conference
calls that its overall Las Vegas room revenue, a measure known
as revpar, would increase in the second half of 2010 from the
same period a year earlier.  “It’s yet to be seen,” Murren said when asked about his
confidence in the forecast. “We haven’t finished the year yet,
I think the trend is in that direction,” led by stronger rates
at higher-end resorts like Bellagio.  Resorts in the largest U.S. casino and conference market
are struggling to raise prices after slashing rates during a
record two-year slump. MGM Resorts added almost 6,000 rooms when
it opened  CityCenter ’s three hotels in December.  CityCenter Occupancy  The CityCenter venture with Dubai World became profitable
in the third quarter after losses for the first six months,
Murren said. That’s in line with prior predictions of second-
half profitability.  Occupancy at the $8.5 billion hotel, condominium and mall
development, which pushed  MGM Resorts  to the brink of insolvency
last year, exceeded 80 percent in the third quarter with help
from conventions, Murren said. The partners had to contribute
more money to CityCenter last quarter, when it was assigned an
equity book value of $2.65 billion.  “CityCenter’s profitable now, it’s been profitable all
quarter,” Murren said. “We didn’t do as well as I hoped we
would do when we first opened.”  MGM’s chief reiterated his  forecast  that the Las Vegas-
based company’s convention revenue will rise “at least” 20
percent next year at its wholly owned resorts, with 13 percent
to 14 percent of its total rooms booked for business events.  “We’re winning more than our fair share, and our market
share has moved up,” Murren said. Convention room rates for
2011 are “absolutely higher” than this year, he said.  MGM Resorts added 13 cents to $11.36 at 10:41 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Shares of the company, in
which  Kirk Kerkorian  holds a 37 percent stake, have gained 23
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in Las Vegas at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  