-- Gol May Boost Boeing Orders on Brazil Boom, World Cup
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2010-09-30T20:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/gol-may-boost-boeing-737-orders-on-brazilian-economy-world-cup.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA ,
South America’s second-biggest airline, may buy more Boeing Co.
737 planes to meet demand spurred by Brazilian economic growth
and an influx of visitors for the World Cup and Olympics.  Gol, based in Sao Paulo, will review fleet requirements in
coming months and could sell shares or raise debt in the second
half of next year to fund the purchases, Chief Financial Officer
 Leonardo Pereira  said yesterday in an interview in London.  The Brazilian economy, Latin America’s largest, will grow
7.5 percent this year, according to economists in a Sept. 27
central bank survey. Gol based its current fleet plan on growth
of 4 percent over the next five years, Pereira said, adding that
extra planes would add seats in time for Brazil’s 2014 World Cup
soccer tournament and the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.  “If Brazil continues to grow at a faster pace than we
thought, we’ll have to review our fleet plan,” Pereira said at
London’s Heathrow airport, where he spoke at a low-cost airline
conference. “2014 adds an additional component to this review,
because 2014 and 2016 are going to be big events. And if you
want to order a plane for 2014, you have to do it today.”  Gol has ordered a total of 127 Boeing 737 Next Generation
jetliners since 2004 and is due to increase the fleet by three
or four planes a year until the deliveries are complete by 2016,
according to Pereira. The carrier also has options to purchase
40 more 737s and these could be converted to firm contracts if
it decides to boost the fleet further.  Shares or Debt  “If we have an accelerated growth plan, one of the things
we might consider would be selling shares,” the CFO said.
“We’ll start receiving new planes at the middle or end of 2011,
so any sale of  debt or shares  would be mid-2011 and not
before.”  Gol was founded in 2001 and  acquired  unprofitable rival
Varig, once Brazil’s biggest airline, in 2007. Tam SA, the
country’s current No. 1, agreed to be bought by Lan Airlines SA
of Chile on Aug. 13.  Gol  fell 1.4 percent to 25.95 reais at the close of trading
in Sao Paulo at 4 p.m. New York time.  The stock has risen 10 percent since the day before Lan
agreed to buy Tam, a move Pereira said isn’t a “threat,”
because Gol is focused more on domestic and regional services
than on international routes.  ‘Rational Player’  Lan is also “very conscious” of its high margins, with an
operating profit last year equal to 13 percent of sales, and
won’t want to flood the market with capacity, the finance chief
said. Neither is the Chilean carrier likely to risk undermining
its investment grade  BBB  credit ranking from Fitch Ratings.  “It’s probably going to be healthy for the industry in
Brazil,” he said. “Most likely, they will be a rational
player.”  Pereira said Gol isn’t planning to join an alliance in the
near future, though with Lan a member of Oneworld and Tam in
rival Star, one of the groupings will lose its South American
representative when the merger is completed.  “If there are advantages in joining an alliance a couple
of years down the line, we may consider it,” he said, “But
today our model is to build this portfolio of bilateral
agreements.”  Aerolineas Argentinas SA will sign up to the SkyTeam group
this year, two people with knowledge of the agreement said this
month. That may compromise Gol’s relationship with SkyTeam
members Air France-KLM Group and Delta Air Lines Inc., two of
the six carriers with which the company has bilateral alliances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  