-- Gold May Extend Its Advance on Demand for Wealth Protection, Survey Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-09-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/gold-may-advance-on-demand-for-wealth-protection-survey-shows.html
Gold, which rose to a record this
week, may extend its advance as investors seek a protection of
wealth and an alternative to a weakening dollar, a survey found.  Sixteen of 23 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 70 percent, said the metal will gain next week.
Four forecast lower prices and three were neutral. Gold for
December delivery was up 0.3 percent for this week at $1,302.50
an ounce at noon yesterday on the Comex in New York after
touching an all-time high of $1,317.50 earlier in the day.  The dollar yesterday slid to a five-month low against the
euro and slumped last month on bets that the Federal Reserve
will ease monetary policy further to bolster the slowing U.S.
economy. Ireland’s central bank yesterday said Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. and Allied Irish Banks Plc may need as much as 14.4
billion euros ($19.6 billion) in extra capital.  “Gold remains the asset of choice as inflation
expectations and, similarly, economic concerns continue to haunt
market participants,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at
VTB Capital in London. “Very few will be ready to call it a top
just yet, along with expectations for a weaker dollar.”  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling that most respondents expect a
decline. The green line shows the gold price. The data shown are
as of Sept. 24.  The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 190 of 330 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 16  Bearish : 4  Neutral : 3  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 