-- Google's YouTube Signs Deal With French Agency to Pay for Musicians' Work
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-09-30T15:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/google-s-youtube-reaches-content-agreement-with-french-musicians-agency.html
Google Inc. ’s YouTube unit signed a
deal with the main French music-rights collection agency to pay
artists for use of their works.  YouTube will compensate content creators represented by
 Sacem , a Paris-based organization that collects royalties on
behalf of more than 100,000 members, for works viewed in France
through 2012, the two sides said in a statement today.  “We are in discussions with similar companies in other
countries,” said  Christophe Muller , director of partnerships
for YouTube in Europe and the Middle East. France is the eighth
country where YouTube has such deals with local rights agencies.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is working to
improve its relationship with French industry groups and
regulators after a series of battles over privacy and access to
copyrighted content. This month, after meeting with President
 Nicolas Sarkozy,  Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  promised
that Google, owner of the world’s largest search engine, will
increase investment in France.  In a separate move, German music rights collection agency
GEMA said today it is pursuing its case before the Hamburg
Regional Court against Google over artists’ works on YouTube
after losing a request for a preliminary ruling on Aug. 27.  “We have always been open to a mutually-acceptable deal
with GEMA, but its licensing costs remain cost prohibitive,”
YouTube said in an e-mailed statement. “When we pushed for
further discussions, GEMA refused to speak with us and instead
took us to court.”  Music Tracking  The same German court ruled against YouTube this month over
broadcasts of copyrighted material. Sacem is one of seven rights
collection agencies supporting GEMA’s suit. GEMA tracks how
protected music is used in Germany on behalf of collectors in
other countries, such as Sacem.  “Over the last month, there have been tensions between
GEMA and YouTube” over the withdrawal of videos, said Bernard
Miyet, chief executive officer of Sacem, at a press conference
announcing the deal. “We hope that in Germany, for the sake of
all, there will be an agreement reached between GEMA and
YouTube.”  Sacem and YouTube will collaborate to track how often
viewers click on videos to renegotiate the compensation
agreement for a successor deal after the new contract ends in
2012.  Miyet said competition regulations prevented Sacem from
consulting with collection societies in other countries on how
they reached their own deals with YouTube, and prohibit him from
disclosing the financial terms of Sacem’s own deal. Muller said
the French deal most closely resembled one YouTube made in
Italy.  European Union regulators ruled in July 2008 that royalty-
collecting groups had to remove restrictions on licensing,
enabling broadcasters to get pan-European rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 