-- Greek Bonds Advance for First Time Since Debt Crisis Began: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-09-30T23:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/greek-bonds-advance-for-first-time-since-debt-crisis-began-euro-credit.html
Greek bonds were the top performers
in Europe last quarter, gaining for the first time since the
sovereign debt crisis began, as investors bet that record high
yields more than compensate for the possibility of a default.  Investors made money on Greek bonds for the first time
since the third quarter of 2009, garnering a total return of 3.9
percent in the three months ended Sept. 29, indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies show. The yield  premium  for 10-year Greek bonds was
818 basis points more than Germany, the most of any euro nation.  “The selling has stopped, and with yields at these levels,
that’s all you need to make a good return,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed markets debt strategy at ING Groep NV
in Amsterdam. “The outlook for Greece hasn’t materially changed,
but Greek bonds offer great returns if investors are prepared to
hold on for a reasonable period of time.”  Greek markets have been battered since the end of last year
when the newly-elected Pasok government said the budget deficit
was twice as big as the previous administration indicated. The
disclosure forced Greece to tap a 110 billion-euro ($150 billion)
loan facility in April from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund after being shut out of the debt market.  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  has until Oct. 4
to draft a budget that convinces investors he can resume
borrowing in the bond market. He said as recently as Sept. 9
that he’s reconsidering a plan to increase sales taxes next year
because it may hinder growth.  Shrinking Deficit  The  budget deficit  shrank 32 percent in the first eight
months of 2010 as the government cut expenses such as wages and
pensions to counter the effects of tax evasion, an inefficient
tax collection process and a shrinking economy.  The deficit-reduction program “hinges critically on
improving tax compliance,” the IMF said on Sept. 14. Greek
revenue from taxes is among the lowest in the EU at 32.6 percent
of gross domestic product, compared with an average 39.3 percent
in the EU-27, according to a 2009 Eurostat report.  “If Greece succeeds in reaching deficit targets in 2011,
it could mean a smooth return to the primary markets for
funding,” said  Ioannis Sokos , an interest-rate strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in London. “Clearly, tax revenue collection will
be the key.”  Credit-default swaps on Greece were the best-performing
sovereign debt insurance contracts in the world this month among
developed economies, according to data provider CMA. Swaps for
the nation also fell by the most among peers in the third
quarter. During the same periods, derivatives for Ireland and
Portugal increased by the most in the world, CMA prices show.  Swaps on Greece remain the second-most expensive in the
world after Venezuela at 772 basis points.  Buy Recommendations  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank by market value,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., ING and Societe Generale SA are
advising clients to purchase securities sold by Greece.  Goldman Sachs and HSBC recommend Greek 30-year bonds with
prices just above 50 percent of face value. Societe Generale
advises buying three-year Greek notes, betting a rally in two-
year debt will extend to longer-dated securities.  Norway’s $450 billion sovereign-wealth fund, the world’s
second biggest, has purchased Greek securities.  Investors should buy two-year Greek notes and hold them for
nine months as the  higher yield  should allow them to outperform
equivalent German government notes, even if the spread widens by
as much as 320 basis points, ING’s Garvey said on Sept. 27.  ‘High Risk’  Purchasing Greek bonds remains difficult because of the
difference in price between buying and selling them, known as
the bid-ask spread. Citigroup Inc. was offering to buy 10-year
Greek bonds at a yield of 10.89 percent yesterday and sell them
at 9.99 percent, meaning the yield would have to fall 90 basis
points for the purchaser to break-even on the trade before
coupon payments, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a high-risk trade,” Garvey said. “The bid-ask
spread means you can’t get in today and out tomorrow unless
there’s been a decent move, and the volatility means you could
be forced to mark to market in the short term and take a loss.”  Papaconstantinou said last week during a speech in Berlin
that Greek risk is “massively overpriced” as investors remain
skeptical about plans to reduce the deficit to 8.1 percent of
GDP this year and 2.6 percent in 2014 from 13.6 percent in 2009.  The government is struggling to meet some of its targets.
Net ordinary budget revenue rose 3.4 percent this year through
August, compared with the targeted annual increase of 13.7
percent, the Finance Ministry said on Sept. 20.  Borrowing Costs  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said Sept. 21 that Greece
would like to pay less than the 5 percent that the IMF-EU loans
cost. The country sold six-month Treasury bills in September to
yield 4.82 percent, more than 10 times what Germany pays for
similar securities. The country hasn’t sold 12-month bills since
April, when the yield was then 4.85 percent.  “There’s no need to do a longer period when you’re not
happy with the interest rates available,” Papaconstantinou said
on Sept. 8.  Greece has to meet quarterly targets to receive loan
installments. Short-dated bonds have rallied since mid-August
after the EU and IMF said in the first review that Greece had
made a strong start in the deficit-cutting program, allowing the
release of a second installment of aid. Two-year yields declined
to 8.7 percent from 11.6 percent in the past month.  “Assuming Greece is on track and preparing to return to
primary markets, there will be a critical point at the end of
2011 where Greece could ask for an extension of the repayment
schedule of the EU/IMF loans,” BNP Paribas’s Sokos said. “That
would make it easier for investors to feel confident about
Greece and start purchasing bonds again.”  EU-IMF  The EU-IMF agreement obliges Papaconstantinou to produce
6.6 billion euros of extra revenue and spending cuts of 2.6
billion euros next year to reduce the deficit. This year, he
pledged 4.6 billion euros of cuts, while revenue measures added
1.3 billion euros.  “The focus on 2011 will be to deliver on the revenue side,
which for any country is difficult, much less Greece,” said
 Anke Richter , a strategist at Conduit Capital Markets in London.
“Without any progress there, it’s hard to imagine investors
will have the confidence to give Greece money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  