-- ICAP Forecasts Full-Year Profit to Be in Line With Estimated $527 Million
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-09-30T07:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/icap-forecasts-full-year-profit-to-be-in-line-with-estimated-527-million.html
ICAP Plc , the world’s largest
broker of transactions between banks, said it expects full-year
profit will be in line with analysts’ estimates and that half-
year revenue will increase about 9 percent from a year earlier.  Analysts’  expectations  of profit before tax, amortization
and impairments, ICAP’s preferred measure, of 333 million pounds
($527 million) to 357 million pounds for the year to March 2011
are “reasonable,” the London-based broker said in a statement
today. Revenue growth was driven by interest-rate and foreign-
exchange volatility, the company said.  “Overall, this six-month period has seen active trading in
many financial markets compared with the same period the
previous year,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael Spencer  said in
the statement. “In particular, these conditions produced active
high frequency markets which benefited electronic broking and
post-trade processing.”  ICAP , which said today its interest rate derivatives,
commodities and emerging-markets businesses performed
“particularly well,” has dropped 1 percent this year. The
broker’s shares fell 10 pence, or 2.2 percent, to 427.8 pence at
8:14 a.m. in London, valuing the broker at about 2.8 billion
pounds.  Swaps Market  The company opened an electronic market for interest-rate
swaps on Sept. 6, handling more than 10 billion euros of trades
in its first week.  “Trading volumes have exceeded our expectations,” ICAP
said. The nominal value of trades on the platform is more than
45 billion euros to date, it said.  ICAP, which today said it’s focusing on growing internally
rather than through acquisitions, said it welcomed a Singapore
court’s decision to restrain an unnamed competitor from hiring a
group of its employees.  Papers filed with the Singapore High Court this month
showed the broker is suing 38 of its dealers and Swiss rival
 Compagnie Financiere Tradition SA  in a bid to halt the
defections.  While the effect of the affair is “somewhat uncertain,”
the broker said it doesn’t view it as being “material for the
purposes of ICAP’s results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  