-- Ice Rink, St. Louis Arch Tapped to Fight Urban Blight: Review
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/ice-rink-st-louis-arch-tapped-to-fight-urban-blight-james-s-russell.html
If all goes according to plan, the
fabled Gateway Arch in St. Louis, Missouri, will celebrate its
50th anniversary in the year 2015 in a new setting including an
ice rink.  The National Park Service and the CityArchRiver 2015
Foundation, a bi-state public-private partnership, held a
contest -- “The City and the Arch and the River 2015
International Design Competition” -- for the refurbishment
commission. They asked five finalists to extend the benign
influence of the arch into shattered city neighborhoods and
across the river.  The winner, announced last week, was  Michael Van Valkenburgh , leading an impressive team of architects, engineers
and consultants.  I recently walked around the Gateway Arch and looked at the
Van Valkenburgh plans. I made my way toward the center of the
arch, clambering over a hump of grass, to find a broad flat lawn
spreading out below me and the arch’s haunches framing the
swirling expanse of the Mississippi. A dogged rumble came from
tugboats shoving barges upriver.  Designed by Eero Saarinen, the 630-foot-high stainless-
steel arch stands in the  Jefferson National Expansion Memorial ,
a landscape-design masterpiece by Dan Kiley. The park itself
sits amid the spaghetti of freeways. The Mississippi River laps
at a drag strip posing as a city street.  Saarinen and Kiley created a stirring image of the river’s
majesty and the immensity and industry of American aspiration.  Effect Ruined  Regrettably, the blueprint by Van Valkenburgh, a New York
City landscape architect, would ruin the effect. The plans call
for inserting a glassy, grand entrance to the Museum of Westward
Expansion, a structure the size of a football field that sits
below the arch.  The new entrance turns the arch, river and grounds into a
backdrop. It’s one reason I wished the jury had selected the
superior approach of teams led by Stuttgart, Germany, architect
 Stefan Behnisch  or the New York duo of  Marion Weiss and Michael
Manfredi .  Both teams opened the museum to the arch and river. The
Behnisch team proposed a river-crossing gondola offering a
knockout view of city, river and arch. Weiss/Manfredi drew a
dramatically undulating landscape for East St. Louis that would
be a visitor must-see.  Think of Van Valkenburgh as an urban surgeon wielding
skating rinks and playgrounds. His team plans to operate on the
barrier where two freeways intersect at the southern edge of the
arch grounds. He would slip fingers of greenery amid the
concrete columns, dotted with the skating rink that becomes a
beer garden in the summer, a farmer’s market, bike trails, art
installations and food vendors.  Gentrifying Area  Van Valkenburgh hopes that closer park and neighborhood
links will kindle renewal of the dignified but semi-abandoned
warehouses in an ostensibly gentrifying area known as Choteau’s
Landing.  The team deploys similar tactics on the north side of the
arch grounds, in this case linking the arch to Laclede’s
Landing. This is a warehouse and entertainment district
brutalized by parking lots and two misbegotten gambling casinos,
one shuttered. The tools: sensuous paths slithering around
playgrounds, a river-view amphitheater, and an ecology center.  The Illinois side of the Mississippi is a much larger mess,
with high levees, and more roads and rails barricading the
riverside. A pitiful geyser surrounded by chain-link fencing
spurts occasionally.  Beyond, East St. Louis has for decades receded into weed-
filled blocks crossed by ghost streets.  Treetop Walkways  The Van Valkenburgh team turns a ratty forest into a nature
park with treetop walkways that take gorgeous advantage of the
best views of the arch. Still, I wish they hadn’t ignored the
sad fountain.  Can skating and eco-education hope to reverse the effects
of long-term economic forces and decades of wrong-headed urban
renewal?  I say yes, with caveats. Punching through the physical
barriers around the arch could assemble a waterfront with enough
cultural critical mass to spur investment and invite the four
million annual visitors to linger.  But the ear-splitting rails and roads and the enormous
scale of urban decay won’t succumb to Van Valkenburgh’s modest
but too tentative, prettifying approach. He must learn from his
competitors and be as bold as Saarinen and Kiley were.  ( James S. Russell  writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 