-- Haarde Brands His Indictment `Absurd,' Blames Banks for Iceland's Crisis
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-09-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/iceland-s-ex-premier-brands-indictment-against-him-absurd-blames-banks.html
Iceland’s former Prime Minister
 Geir H. Haarde , the first government leader to be indicted for
economic mismanagement during the financial crisis, said he is
the victim of political revenge and blamed the island’s banks
for the collapse.  Haarde called the charges “absurd” and predicted he will
be “vindicated at the end of the day,” in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Mark Crumpton yesterday. “The crisis was
not due to political decisions. It was partly the banks’ own
doing.” While “political mistakes were made,” the charges are
a case of “political opponents settling scores.”  The 2008 banking failure forced the island, the world’s
fifth-richest per capita a year earlier, to turn to the
 International Monetary Fund  for help and sent the krona plunging
as much as 80 percent against the euro in the offshore market.
Lawmakers had been debating the issue of whether to move against
individual political leaders since a parliamentary committee on
Sept. 11 recommended the four be charged for “negligence.”  Parliament voted 33 to 30 to charge Haarde in Reykjavik on
Sept. 28. Lawmakers decided not to charge former Finance
Minister  Arni M. Mathiesen , former Business Minister  Bjorgvin G. Sigurdsson  and former Foreign Minister  Ingibjorg Solrun Gisladottir . The indictment is the first time a special court
set up in 1905 to hear such cases will be convened.  ‘Violations’  Haarde, 59, who was prime minister from 2006 until the
beginning of 2009, must be held responsible for “violations
committed from February 2008 through the beginning of October of
the same year, by intent or gross neglect, mostly violations
against the laws of ministerial responsibility” as well as
breaches of the penal code, the committee of nine lawmakers
said. The same charges were brought against the other three.  Haarde said “everyone was aware” the island’s banks grew
too big and neither the government nor the central bank foresaw
the economic collapse. Still, he said, “hindsight shows many
things could have been done differently” though bringing
charges against him will set a “terrible precedent.”  The government of Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir , in
office since January last year, is struggling to rebuild the
crippled economy as Icelanders come to terms with spiralling
debt burdens and real incomes reduced by 20.3 percent last year.  The committee was appointed after a separate commission
investigating the causes of the 2008 crisis in April found that
the government, central bank and financial regulator had all
failed to address some of the factors that exacerbated the
collapse.  Oddsson  The commission had suggested previous central bank governor
 David Oddsson  as well as former head of the Financial
Supervisory Authority  Jonas Fr. Jonsson  acted negligently in the
years leading up to the meltdown, according to the April report.  Jonsson and Oddsson, who now runs the country’s second-
biggest newspaper Morgunbladid, escaped legal action when the
state prosecutor said in June the Special Investigation
Commission’s findings didn’t warrant a criminal probe.  Oddsson was head of government from 1991 until 2004, making
him Iceland’s longest-serving Prime Minister and the principal
architect of the privatization of the island’s banks. Haarde
served as Finance Minister from 1998 until 2005.  The commission alleged that Haarde, Sigurdsson and
Mathiesen didn’t exert enough pressure on the banks to shrink
their balance sheets after they amassed debts equivalent to 10
times Iceland’s economic output, a development the commission
said was key in fuelling the financial collapse.  $86 Billion  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Landsbanki Islands hf  and  Glitnir Bank
hf  all collapsed within weeks of each other in October 2008
after they were unable to secure enough short-term funds to
continue their operations. The state was forced to step in and
take control of the domestic assets to create new local units.
The banks’ failures left creditors trying to recoup a total of
$86 billion.  The committee had also recommended the former ministers be
charged for failing to ensure that Landsbanki created a U.K.
subsidiary when selling its Icesave accounts there -- a measure
that would have forced the British government to cover depositor
claims, it said.  Iceland’s government has yet to settle a dispute with the
U.K. and Dutch over how to settle $5.1 billion in depositor
funds stemming from the failure of Landsbanki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  