-- Tiger Woods, Stricker to Play Poulter, Fisher on First Day of Ryder Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-09-30T18:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/tiger-woods-stricker-to-play-poulter-fisher-on-first-day-of-ryder-cup.html
U.S. captain  Corey Pavin  turned to
 Phil Mickelson  and  Dustin Johnson  instead of  Tiger Woods  to open
his team’s defense of golf’s Ryder Cup.  Mickelson and Johnson will meet England’s  Lee Westwood  and
Germany’s  Martin Kaymer  as the 38th edition of golf’s top
international team competition begins tomorrow at Celtic Manor
in Newport, Wales. Woods will play the third match with  Steve Stricker  against Englishmen  Ian Poulter  and  Ross Fisher .  “Phil and Dustin are playing great golf right now and they
love to play golf together,” Pavin said at a news conference
after announcing the opening fourball pairings.  The U.S. and European teams will play fourballs, in which
each golfer plays his own ball with the lowest score winning the
hole, tomorrow morning. They’ll then meet in foursomes, or
alternating shots with the same ball, in the afternoon. Play
begins at 7:45 a.m. U.K. time.  Stewart Cink  and  Matt Kuchar  will meet Northern Ireland’s
 Graeme McDowell  and  Rory McIlroy  in the morning’s second match,
with Ryder Cup rookies  Bubba Watson  and  Jeff Overton  playing
England’s  Luke Donald  and Ireland’s  Padraig Harrington  in the
final game.  “Matt Kuchar is playing great this year and Stewart is a
major winner,” McDowell told reporters. “Myself and Rory have
a big game on our hands tomorrow but we will be trying our best
to get that point for Europe as soon as possible.”  ‘Hidden’ Tiger  The pairing of Woods and Stricker wasn’t surprising after
they won all four of their matches in last year’s Presidents
Cup, when the U.S. plays an international team, but their
placing is. Woods, who was winless in 11 events this season, has
traditionally been in the opening Ryder Cup group for the U.S.  “I was expecting Tiger to go first or fourth,” Europe
captain  Colin Montgomerie  said in a press conference. “I think
Tiger being hidden is a different move.”  Pavin didn’t go into much detail behind his thinking and
said that Woods was fine with it.  “He’s been saying the same thing since I asked him if he
wanted to play on the team as a (captain’s) pick,” Pavin said.
“He just said, ‘Whatever you want me to do, I’ll do.’”  Poulter, who led Europe with four points when it lost to
the U.S. two years ago, said he’s looking forward to the
matchup.  “Tiger and Stricker, if there was a match you are going to
want to play it is their best two players,” he said. “It’s
going to be a hell of a match. I cannot wait.”  Pavin left  Jim Furyk , who won $11 million from this month’s
U.S. PGA Tour Championship and the season-long FedEx Cup, and
 Hunter Mahan , who went 5-0 in 2008, out of the morning matches.  Furyk’s Success  “He was counting his money and he’s been very tired,”
Pavin laughed when asked about Furyk’s omission. “You’ll see
him out in the afternoon.”  There will be another round of fourballs and foursomes in
two days time before the final 12 singles matches on Oct. 3. The
U.S. needs 14 of the possible 28 points to retain the Cup, while
Europe needs 14 ½ for victory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 