-- Novozymes, Disney, ACS:Law, Entrepreneur Media: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-09-30T11:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/lilly-boston-scientific-hp-abs-intellectual-property.html
Eli Lilly & Co. , the world’s
biggest maker of psychiatric drugs, sued two U.K. units of drug
distributor  Celesio AG  for allegedly infringing its patent for
the drug Zyprexa two years ago.  Zyprexa was Lilly’s top-selling drug last year with
$4.92 billion in sales, according to a regulatory filing. It’s
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the
treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.  Celesio’s  Lloyds Pharmacy  and Aah Pharmaceuticals
businesses sold about 800,000 tablets of generic Zyprexa before
agreeing in 2008 to halt sales, Eli Lilly said in a complaint
filed in the High Court in London on Aug. 18 and made public
last week.  Eli Lilly, based in Indianapolis, took legal action two
years ago against “a number of companies” to stop sales of the
generic known as olanzapine, according to a September 28
e-mailed statement from Edward Sagebiel, an Eli Lilly spokesman.
The sales ended after Eli Lilly’s patent expiration won an
extension until Sept. 26, 2011, according to the complaint.  The lawsuit “has been undertaken by Lilly to obtain its
damages as a result of the sale of those products” in 2008,
Sagebiel said.  Lloyds Pharmacy agreed to halt the sales “and hold the
remainder of the stock in quarantine,” Sarah Stokes, a
spokeswoman for Lloyds Pharmacy, said in an e-mail. The lawsuit
relates to a single batch of olanzapine that Lloyds Pharmacy
purchased and the company is no longer selling it, she said.  Dean Enon, a spokesman for Coventry, England-based Aah
Pharmaceuticals, referred calls to Stokes.  On Sept. 10 Lilly won reversal of a ruling that granted
class-action status to a suit by pension funds, unions and
insurers who alleged that improper marketing of Zyprexa, its
schizophrenia treatment, raised their costs.  The patent case is Eli Lilly v. AAH Pharmaceuticals, Lloyds
Pharmacy, High Court of London, Chancery Division, HC10C02699.  Boston Scientific Claims Rivals Infringe U.S. Stent Patents  Boston Scientific Corp. , the maker of heart devices second
in size only to  Medtronic Inc. , sued Cook Group Inc., TaeWoong
Medical Co. and EndoChoice Inc. over mesh tubes used in
minimally invasive surgery.  Boston Scientific claims the tiny tubes that prop open
arteries and are used in endoscopies are infringing at least
three patents. The complaint, filed Sept. 27 in federal court in
Boston, targets Evolution stents made by closely held Cook
Group; TaeWoong’s Niti-S; and the Bonastent made by EndoChoice
and South Korean partners Standard Sci-Tech Inc. and Sewoon
Medical Co.  Boston Scientific makes the WallFlex stent and related
delivery system. The products are used in endoscopy products for
the treatment of diseases of the digestive system, according to
the complaint. The patents relate to types of stents that work
better when inserted, for instance, in the esophagus.  The company’s endoscopy unit generated $134 million in U.S.
sales in the second quarter, driven largely by the U.S.
introduction of the WallFlex binary stent system and continued
sales of the WallFlex esophageal stent, Boston Scientific said
in an Aug. 5 regulatory filing.  Boston Scientific, based in Natick, Massachusetts, is
seeking unspecified cash compensation and an order that would
prevent further use of its inventions. Three patents were
asserted against all of the companies, and a fourth, for a self-
expanding esophageal stent, was asserted only against
Bloomington, Indiana-based Cook.  The disputed patents -- 6,007,574, 6,533,810, 6,818,015,
and 5,876,448 -- were issued between March 1999 and November
2004.  In April the Bonastent received U.S. Food and Drug
Administration clearance, according to a statement from
Alpharetta, Georgia-based EndoChoice. Officials at Cook and
EndoChoice didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking
comment. Officials at  TaeWoong  and Standard Sci-Tech couldn’t be
reached.  Closely held TaeWoong is based in Goyang-Si, South Korea,
and Standard Sci-Tech is based in Seoul, according to the
complaint.  Boston Scientific is represented by  Denise W. DeFranco ,  Kia
L. Freeman ,  Matthew Van Eman ,  J. Michael Jakes  and  Leslie I.
Bookoff  of Washington’s  Finnegan Henderson Farabow Garrett &
Dunner LLP .  The case is Boston Scientific Corp. v. Cook Inc.,
10cv11646, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Mary Kay Claims Product Description Copyrights Infringed  Mary Kay Inc. , a multilevel marketing cosmetics company,
sued a Canadian website operator for copyright infringement.  The suit alleged that Jessica Online of Carleton Place,
Ontario, infringes the Addison, Texas-based company’s copyrights
by publishing product descriptions that are the same as those
Mary Kay uses. The product descriptions are registered with the
U.S. Copyright Office, according to the complaint filed Sept. 28
in federal court in Dallas.  Mary Kay products are sold through consultants who call on
consumers at their homes.  Although a disclaimer on the  Jessicasonline.blogspot.com 
site specifies there is no affiliation with the Texas company,
Mary Kay products are pictured and sold there. Jessica Online
also has a  listing  on Facebook Inc.’s social media site.  At the Jessicasonline.com website, the source of the Mary
Kay products is explained as purchased “from consultants who
have decided to discontinue their sales career, and have chosen
to liquidate their inventory at a reduced price. I pass those
savings on to all of you.”  Mary Kay claims it’s suffered “substantial and irreparable
harm” by Jessica Online. Customers are confused and the
websites are deriving “income and profits” from the
infringement of the product-description copyrights, according to
court papers.  The company also alleges its trademarks are infringed by
their unauthorized use on Jessica Online websites. The
Jessicasonline.com website does contain a notice that the sales
of the Mary Kay products on the site are “neither affiliated
nor endorsed by Mary Kay” and that “Mary Kay is a registered
trademark.”  Jessica Online didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The Texas cosmetics company asked the court to bar the
defendant from operating its website to sell Mary Kay products
and from future infringement of its copyrights and trademarks.  Additionally, it seeks seizure of the “unlawfully
obtained” Mary Kay products, and awards of money damages, the
websites’ profits related to the alleged infringement, and
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Mary Kay is represented by  Christopher J. Schwegmann  and
 John T. Cox III  of Dallas-based  Lynn Tillotson Pinker & Cox LLP .  The case is Mary Kay Inc. v. Jessica Online, 3:10-cv-01944-
K, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For copyright news, click here.  Trademark  HP’s Palmpad Trademark Once Covered a Tandy Corp. Laptop  Hewlett-Packard Co., the world’s largest computer maker,
said yesterday it would sell a device called the “Palmpad,”
using technology from its Palm Inc.  acquisition  earlier this
year.  HP has hired 200 people for the Palm business since the
takeover was completed in July,  Todd Bradley , who oversees the
division said yesterday.  The name for the product surfaced in a July 9 HP
application that was filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office to register “Palmpad” for use with computers and a
range of other mobile electronic devices.  A New York resident filed an application four days later to
register the term for a hand pad for support when using a
keyboard, laptop and other electric typing devices that require
repetitive motions, according to the patent office database.  An earlier trademark for “PalmPad” for hand-held
computers was registered in 1993, and later canceled. That mark
belonged to Grid Systems Corp., a unit of  RadioShack Corp. ’s
predecessor Tandy Corp. According to the patent office database,
the hand-held computers for which the term was registered had
the capacity to recognize and store characters written on the
screen with a stylus.  Surgeon Certification Board Sues Ex-Physician for Infringement  The American Board of Surgery Inc., a 73-year-old physician
certification board, filed a second trademark infringement suit
against a Las Vegas resident who no longer has a license to
practice medicine.  The suit, filed Sept. 24 in federal court in Philadelphia,
accused Keith A. Lasko of creating entities similar in name to
the ABS and selling physicians illegitimate certifications and
the right to list “letters” after their names.  Codefendants with Lasko are the Academy of Surgery and
American Council of General Surgeons and the American Council of
Surgical Specialists, entities the ABS said Lasko created. He is
accused of operating a website,  www.AmericanAcademyofSurgery.org 
that is similar in name to ABS.  When accessed yesterday, the website linked to the American
Council of General Surgeons, of Falls Church, Virginia.
According to the site, the organization exists “to promote
humanitarian, ethical, moral and family values in surgery and
all aspects of medicine.” That site contains a link to the
“American Council of Surgical Specialists,” which takes the
user to the “National Board of Adult Medicine.”  According to National Board of Adult Medicine’s mission
statement posted on the website, it will “never take away any
physician’s certification or ever threaten any physician with
ethical disciplining or any other form of threat or censure or
interference.”  Lasko, who received his medical degree from the  Far Eastern
University - Dr. Nicanor Reyes Medical Foundation  in the
Philippines, lost his licenses to practice medicine in
California,  according to  the website of the Medical Board of
California. Additionally, in 1997, the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration revoked a certificate permitting Lasko to
dispense prescription drugs,  according to a 1997 notice  in the
Federal Register.  The board previously sued Lasko and his American Board of
General Surgery for trademark infringement in the same court in
April 2010. In that case, the court entered a default judgment
against his board, and Lasko is appealing a court’s refusal to
dismiss him as a defendant.  Lasko is unrepresented by counsel.  According to papers filed in the previous case, Lasko
claims he was never properly served with a complaint, and that
the suit violates his freedom of religion.  He said in court filings he is an ordained minister and the
suit was aimed at punishing him “from seeking new members to
his ministry and having them promise to observe the ten
commandments and the golden role and to promote to promote
humanitarian religions and traditional Christian values and
family values.”  ABS asked the court to order Lasko to quit using the names
“American Academy of Surgery and American Council of General
Surgeons and American Academy of Surgical Specialists” and to
quit all operation of “purported medical organizations that
sell certifications or membership for money without regard to
the physicians’ qualifications,” and all use of several
websites.  The board also seeks attorney fees, litigation costs and
money damages, including extra damages to punish Lasko for his
alleged infringement. ABS also seeks Lasko’s profits
attributable to these actions.  In both cases the board is represented by  Gregory J.
Wartman  of Philadelphia’s  Saul Ewing LLP .  The new case against Lasko is American Board of Surgery
Inc. v. Lasko, 2:10-cv-05010-MSG, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia). The previous case is
American Board of Surgery Inc. v. Lasko, 2:10-cv-01857-MSG, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Texas Judge From Busy Patent Court to Retire, Join Son’s Firm  U.S. District Judge T. John Ward  is retiring from the bench
to join his son’s law firm.  Judge Ward, who was appointed to the bench in 1999 by
President Bill Clinton, hears cases in the Eastern District of
Texas, Texas, a popular venue for patent-infringement cases.
According to the Pacer database of federal case filings, 375
patent cases were filed in federal court in that district
between Jan. 1 and yesterday.  In an e-mail yesterday, his son,  T. John “Johnny” Ward
Jr. , who is a partner in the  Ward & Smith Law Firm  of Marshall,
confirmed that Judge Ward will be joining the firm.  According to the Ward & Smith website, the firm does patent
infringement, oil and gas and other commercial litigation, in
addition to plaintiffs personal injury work.  Judge Ward, a Texas native, has an undergraduate degree
from Texas Tech University and a law degree from Baylor
University. He served as a legislative drafter for the Texas
Legislative Council and an assistant county attorney for Texas’
Lubbock County before entering private practice in 1968.  He practiced law at the Texas firms of Sharp, Ward Price &
Searcy and Brown McCarroll & Oaks Hartline before he was named
to the bench. Judge Ward was born in 1943.  Foley Adds Cleantech IP Specialist From Wolf Greenfield  Foley & Lardner LLP  hired Joseph Teja Jr. for its IP
practice, the Milwaukee-based firm said in a  statement .  Teja  is joining from Boston’s  Wolf, Greenfield & Sacks PC ,
where he was co-chairman of the firm’s cleantech practice.  He does both transactional work and litigation for clients
in the electrical engineering, computer science, physics and
clean-energy fields. Before he was a lawyer he was a researcher
at Hoechst Celanese Corp., and an electrical engineer at
Rheometrics Inc.  Teja has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey and a master’s
degree in electrical engineering and computer science from
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has a law degree from
Suffolk University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 