-- Impala Platinum May Buy Royal Bafokeng Unit to Access to South Africa Mine
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-09-30T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/impala-platinum-may-buy-royal-bafokeng-unit-to-get-access-to-s-africa-mine.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. ,
which said today it’s in talks on a possible transaction, may be
planning to acquire Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. to gain access
to the company’s South African mine, according to fund managers.  “It looks like Impala is making the offer,”  Andrew Joannou , a fund manager at Cape Town-based Afena Capital, said
today by telephone. “The property is adjacent to theirs and
they can access the property pretty well from Impala’s side.”  Royal Bafokeng, South Africa’s largest black-owned platinum
miner, suspended plans to sell shares on Johannesburg’s stock
exchange today after saying stockholders received an unsolicited
bid for its mine. Purchasing Royal Bafokeng would allow Impala
to benefit from plans to double production at the mine, as
demand increases for the metal used in jewelry and pollution-
control devices.  Royal Bafokeng Platinum, a unit of Royal Bafokeng Holdings
Ltd., holds 67 percent of the Bafokeng Rasimone mine and  Anglo
Platinum  owns the rest. Royal Bafokeng Holdings is controlled by
Royal Bafokeng Nation, which represents a 300,000-strong
community in South Africa and also holds 13.4 percent of Impala.  A deal “makes sense to Implats,”  Sasha Naryshkine ,
investment manager at Johannesburg-based Vestact, said today by
telephone. The Bafokeng have used platinum as a “vehicle” to
diversify into various industries, Naryshkine said.  Demand to Rise  Consumption of the metal will outpace supply in 2012 to
2015, after being balanced in 2011, Macquarie Bank said last
week in a report. Impala, the world’s second-biggest producer of
platinum, said Aug. 26 it sees a global deficit of 170,000
ounces this year.  David Brown , chief executive officer of Impala, wasn’t
available for comment when Bloomberg News called his office.  Anna Mulholland, a spokeswoman for Anglo Platinum, said the
company couldn’t confirm the identity of the bidder.  Impala  climbed 2 percent to 180 rand at the 5 p.m. close of
trade in Johannesburg.  Anglo Platinum  advanced 0.5 percent to
661 rand.  The Bafokeng Rasimone mine, next to Impala’s Rustenburg
operations in South Africa’s North West province, will be able
to produce twice its current 200,000 ounces a year after a
second shaft is dug, Royal Bafokeng Holdings CEO  Niall Carroll 
said June 23.  Buy Back Land  The Bafokeng community uses revenue from mining rights to
build roads, run schools and electrify villages. Its people
labored in diamond mines almost 150 years ago and pooled funds
to buy back land expropriated during white rule. The land is now
the site of the Impala Lease Area mine, the world’s biggest
platinum operation.  Royal Bafokeng has 18 investments valued at more than 30
billion rand ($4.3 billion) in businesses from mobile phones to
insurance. The community, led by  King Leruo Molotlegi , who
succeeded his brother seven years ago, converted rights to
royalties from Impala’s mine into a stake in the company in
2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 