-- Ayodhya Dispute Heads for Top Court After Order to Divide Land
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-10-01T10:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/india-court-divides-ayodhya-land-among-hindu-groups-muslims-lawyers-say.html
India has responded in a “respectful
and dignified” way to a court verdict dividing a disputed
religious site between Hindus and Muslims, Home Minister
 Palaniappan Chidambaram  said today.  “The law and order situation throughout the country has
been extremely peaceful,” Chidambaram said at a regular
ministry briefing in the capital, New Delhi. The 1992
destruction of a 16th-century mosque on the land in the northern
town of Ayodhya triggered deadly riots that left 2,000 people
dead.  Two of three judges of the Allahabad High court ruled in
findings posted on the  high court’s website  that not less than a
third of the site where the Babri Masjid was razed -- and which
Hindus believe to be the birthplace of their god Ram - - should
be handed to groups representing Muslims. The rest is to be
divided between two Hindu organizations.  India deployed 200,000 police in Uttar Pradesh state,
banned bulk mobile-phone messaging, and kept the air force on
standby to prevent unrest after the judgment.  Chidambaram said he expected appeals against yesterday’s
verdict will be filed in the next “few days and weeks.” The
Sunni Waqf Board, representing Muslims, has said it will
challenge the court order in the  Supreme Court . The division of
the land was stayed for three months.  “The judgment is indeed an important document. But it is
not operational,” Chidambaram said. “It’s a fair assumption
that the Supreme Court will pass some interim orders.”  Temple Evidence  All three judges said there was evidence to show that the
site had been used by both religions in the past. Two said the
mosque had been built over the ruins of a Hindu temple. One
judge, Dharam Veer Sharma, said the disputed site was proven to
be where Ram was born.  Schools, markets and businesses reopened today as fears of
violence subsided, though security personnel throughout the
country remained on roads and near religious buildings.  The ruling “is the culmination of a long judicial process
involving a sensitive matter,” Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
said in a statement yesterday, calling on people to maintain
peace and harmony. “The correct conclusion, at this stage, is
that the status quo will be maintained until the cases are taken
up by the Supreme Court.”  Before the court ruling, the government had urged residents
in the world’s biggest democracy not to tarnish the nation’s
image as an emerging economy. Leaders from both the communities
have appealed to people not to see the verdict as a victory or
defeat for either side.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  