-- India Insiders Selling Stocks at Fastest Pace Since Sensex Peak
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-10-01T11:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/india-insiders-dump-priciest-bric-stocks-at-fastest-pace-since-sensex-peak.html
India’s company executives are
selling shares at the fastest pace since prices peaked 2 1/2
years ago, just as foreign investors pour record  amounts  of
money into the best-performing major emerging market.  Insiders of  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  companies
made at least 110 stock sales last quarter for a combined $21
million, according to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. The
last time the number of sales was this high, in the fourth
quarter of 2007, the  Sensex  sank 23 percent in three months.  Housing Development Finance Corp.  Executive Director V.
 Srinivasa Rangan  and  Larsen & Toubro Ltd.  board member
 Krishnamurthi Venkataramanan  sold as $11.5 billion of foreign
inflows spurred a 13 percent jump in the Sensex to the highest
level versus profit  estimates  since January. Indian stocks will
return an average 1 percent in 12 months, compared with 7
percent in China and at least 20 percent in Brazil and Russia,
more than 2,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We consider the market to be expensive,” said  Jonathan Pines , the London-based director of emerging markets at Hermes
Fund Managers Ltd., which oversees about $2.5 billion in stocks
and has “underweight” holdings of Indian shares in its global
emerging market and emerging Asia funds. “Increases in Indian
insider selling could be especially significant.”  The Sensex climbed 1.9 percent to 20,445.04, its highest
since January 2008.  Best Information  Company officers and directors boosted their stock sales by
197 percent during the past three months from the same quarter a
year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sales outnumbered
purchases by 14-to-1, compared with an average ratio of 7-to-1
during the past three years, the data show.  The transactions may signal share  prices  have climbed too
high because executives have the best access to information to
gauge their company’s value, said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at securities firm SMC Global Ltd. in New Delhi.  A surge in insider sales during the final three months of
2007 foreshadowed a  peak  in the 30-stock Sensex index at
20,873.33 on Jan. 8, 2008. The measure dropped 23 percent the
following three months, twice the 11 percent decline in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index .  The Sensex, which plunged to as low as 8,160.40 during the
depths of the global financial crisis last year, has rallied for
a record seven straight quarters to 20,069.12 yesterday, about 4
percent below its all-time high. The gauge has gained 15 percent
this year as foreign inflows topped $18 billion on speculation
surging consumer demand will boost  earnings  even as global
growth slows, according to data from the Securities and Exchange
Board of India compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Still Bullish’  Russia’s  Micex Index  climbed 6.2 percent this year and
Brazil’s  Bovespa Index  increased 1.2 percent. China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  retreated 19 percent.  India’s economy, which relies on exports for less than 20
percent of its output, expanded 8.8 percent in the three months
through June, the fastest rate in 2 1/2 years. Sensex company
earnings during the period jumped 40 percent, exceeding
analysts’ estimates by an average 7.5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Asia’s third-biggest economy will grow at least 8 percent
during the next five years, almost double the 4.5 percent
average expansion for the global economy, the International
Monetary Fund estimated in April.  ‘Standing Out’  “I would expect some insider selling given that people
haven’t seen these levels in a while,” said  Sam Mahtani , who
helps oversee about $2.5 billion as a director of emerging-
market equities at F&C Asset Management Plc in London. “We’re
still bullish on the outlook for the Indian market and see
upside on a 12-month view. In this environment where growth is
slowing around the world, India is standing out.”  The Bovespa is still 6.4 percent below its May 2008 peak
after gaining 13 percent last quarter, while the Micex needs to
rise 37 percent to reach its all-time high and the Shanghai
Composite needs to surge 129 percent. The Shanghai gauge climbed
11 percent the past three months, while the Micex increased 10
percent and the  MSCI Emerging Index  advanced 17 percent.  The Sensex’s 12-month forward price-earnings ratio of 17 is
the highest level since July versus the Micex, which trades for
6.7 times profits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
India’s benchmark index is valued at a 32 percent premium to the
 Shanghai Composite  gauge, near the biggest difference in 14
months, the data show. The Sensex is the most expensive equity
index among the world’s 20 largest markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Jhunjhunwala’s Surprise  The Indian market is “relatively expensive” based on
estimated earnings,  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion
as executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd., said
on Sept. 29 in Istanbul. Billionaire investor  Rakesh Jhunjhunwala  said he’s “cautious” on the Indian market in the
short term, though he still expects a “multiyear” rally.  “Markets are going at a pace that is surprising me,”
Jhunjhunwala, named by Forbes magazine as the  Warren Buffett  of
India after turning a $100 investment into $1 billion over two
decades, said at an investor event organized by Bloomberg-UTV in
Mumbai on Sept. 27.  HDFC’s Rangan sold about 50,000 shares of India’s largest
mortgage lender in five transactions last quarter and made no
open-market purchases, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Rangan’s latest sale was 10,000 shares at the start of last
week, when the stock  traded  at about 720 rupees ($16), the data
show.  Officers, Directors  HDFC officers and directors sold at least 111,500 shares in
the quarter as the stock climbed 25 percent and touched a record
high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Insider purchases
amounted to 20,000 shares during the period, the data show.  Some HDFC officers sold shares to “generate funds” as
part of their employee stock ownership plans, said Mahesh Shah,
a company spokesman. He declined to comment on specific
transactions.  Larsen & Toubro’s Venkataramanan, the company’s president
of engineering and construction projects and a member of the
board of  directors , sold at least 40,000 shares since June,
including 6,000 shares on Sept. 21, according to data  compiled 
by Bloomberg.  ‘Fair Value’  The sales were his biggest since February 2007, the data
show. Shares of Larsen & Toubro, India’s biggest engineering
company, climbed 14 percent last quarter and are trading at 23
times  earnings estimates , more than double the 11 times ratio
for global industrial companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. D. Morada, a spokesman for Larsen & Toubro, declined
to comment.  “The executives are running the company, so naturally they
know the fair value,” said Thunuguntla of SMC Global, which was
ranked by Dun & Bradstreet as the nation’s fourth-largest
brokerage in 2008. “It shows that these guys are thinking that
markets have moved ahead of fundamentals and valuations are at a
point where it makes more sense selling than buying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  