-- India Minerals Group `Hopeful' Karnataka State to Overturn Ore Export Ban
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-09-30T13:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/india-minerals-group-hopeful-karnataka-state-to-overturn-ore-export-ban.html
The Federation of Indian Mineral
Industries, a minerals industry group in New Delhi, is
“hopeful” the state of Karnataka will overturn a ban on iron
ore exports next month.  The southern state, the country’s second-largest producing
region, banned exports as of July 26. A lifting of the ban may
benefit Sesa Goa Ltd. and NMDC Ltd., the country’s biggest
producers. India is the world’s third largest exporter of iron
ore used to make steel.  “We from the industry side feel this is not tenable,”
R.K. Sharma, secretary general of the  federation , said today in
an interview at a Steel Business Briefing conference in London.
“It’s a decision which is beyond the purview of the state
government. I’m very hopeful because we are against the ban. I
think it should be out next month.”  The ban hasn’t curbed exports significantly because
production is limited during the monsoon season, Sharma said.
The region exports about 30 million metric tons a year, he said.  A ruling on the export ban may be made by the High Court of
Karnataka in about 10 to 15 days, he said.  India, which increased freight charges and taxes on ore
exports to boost local supplies and curb costs, may consider a
nationwide ban on ore exports “if needed,” Steel Minister
Virbhadra Singh said on May 19. India raised the export tax on
ore lumps to 15 percent from 10 percent and introduced a 5
percent tax on ore fines in December.  Australia and Brazil are the biggest iron ore exporting
countries. China is the world’s biggest consumer.  The Federation of Indian Mineral Industries is an industry
lobby group seeking to promote the interest of miners. The group
was established in 1966 and is now has 350 members, according
to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  