-- Indonesia Revives Sukuk Market Two Months After Failures: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2010-09-30T08:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/indonesia-revives-sukuk-market-two-months-after-failures-islamic-finance.html
Indonesia, the world’s most-
populous Muslim nation, is reviving sales of Islamic bonds two
months after consecutive auctions fell short of target because
of concern over insufficient trading volume.  The Finance Ministry said this week it will offer 1
trillion rupiah ($112 million) of sukuk on Oct. 5, with
 maturities  of five years to 20 years and coupons ranging from
8.8 percent to 10.25 percent. The government sold 246 billion
rupiah of sukuk on July 13, 75 percent less than planned, with
debt due in 2030 priced to yield 9.94 percent, compared with
9.66 percent for similar-maturity conventional debt. The
government, which rejected bids as high as 10.75 percent, also
failed to sell notes at an auction on July 27.  “The main problem in sukuk auctions is liquidity,”  Handy Yunianto , a fixed-income analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas in
Jakarta, a unit of Indonesia’s largest lender, said in an
interview yesterday. “The investors will be demanding a premium
of as much as 50 basis points” over non-Islamic debt, he said.  Southeast Asia’s largest economy, home to more than 192
million Muslims, is seeking to develop its Islamic finance
industry to catch up with Malaysia, the world’s biggest sukuk
market. Issuance of Islamic bonds from Asia may reach $2.1
billion in the fourth quarter, or about 60 percent of the volume
announced in the Persian Gulf, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Indonesia’s finance ministry is seeking to spur growth in
the market after sales dropped 9 percent in the first four
months of the year from 2009, government data show. The
Religious Affairs Ministry, which manages money collected from
Muslims to fund pilgrimages to Mecca, will buy 2 trillion rupiah
of the debt in a private placement next month,  Rahmat Waluyanto ,
director-general of the Debt Management Office, said in an
interview in Jakarta yesterday.  Underperformance  Twenty-year conventional debt from Indonesia outperformed
holders of sukuk in the past quarter. Indonesia’s 10.5 percent
non-Islamic debt due August 2030 returned 15 percent, compared
with a 13 percent gain in Islamic notes maturing in March 2030.
Yields on conventional bonds dropped 137 basis points, or 1.37
percentage point, to 8.48 percent, while the sukuk yield fell
114 basis points to 8.65 percent over the same period.  Indonesia also aims to sell its second global Islamic bond
in the first half of 2011, after postponing the plans on
expectations domestic issuance would be sufficient to meet a
budget deficit, Waluyanto said. The government estimates the gap
will widen to 2.1 percent of gross domestic product this year
from 1.6 percent last year.  Dollar Sales  Indonesia, rated BB by Standard & Poor’s, raised $650
million in its first dollar sukuk sale last year. The 8.8
percent bonds maturing in April 2014 handed investors a 5.2
percent return this quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The yield, which was as high as 8.63 percent in April 2009, fell
to 2.72 percent today.  Malaysia’s 3.928 percent dollar sukuk, rated A- by S&P,
gained 4.5 percent this quarter. The yield on the securities
dropped 85 basis points to 2.66 percent over the same period,
according to prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Shariah-compliant bonds, which pay returns from assets to
avoid breaking the religion’s ban on interest, returned 4.9
percent this quarter, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index , while debt in developing markets gained 8.2
percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index 
shows. Global sales of sukuk fell 23 percent to $10.9 billion in
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government plans to issue 17 trillion rupiah of debt by
the end of November, including sukuk, yen-denominated bonds and
conventional government bonds,  Bhimantara Widyajala , a director
at the Finance Ministry’s debt management office, told reporters
in Jakarta today.  Book Building  The finance ministry may negotiate rates with potential
investors through so-called book-building rather than in an
auction to achieve lower yields,  Dahlan Siamat , director of
Islamic financing, said in an interview on July 8.  “Sukuk is not that liquid,”  Edhi Santoso Widjojo ,
president director at PT AXA Management Indonesia, who manages
$1.1 billion of assets, said in an interview from Jakarta
yesterday. He said he would buy only if returns are attractive.  The ministry raised 15.07 trillion rupiah selling sukuk in
the first four months of the year, according to its debt
management office. It sold 16.55 trillion rupiah in the whole of
2009. Malaysia issued 15 billion ringgit ($4.7 billion) in five
sukuk sales until July this year, government data show.  Indonesia’s Islamic banking assets totaled $8 billion at
the end of last year, 2.9 percent of its total,  Mulya Siregar , a
director of Islamic banking at the central bank, said in an Aug.
17 interview. Malaysia’s $93 billion of Shariah-compliant assets
account for 19.6 percent of the industry, according to Bank
Negara Malaysia’s website.  “The government will continue to add to the number of
sukuk issuances to further boost the liquidity in the secondary
market,” Waluyanto said. The Religious Affairs Ministry, which
last bought 336 billion rupiah of sukuk on Aug. 26, will
probably buy more from the Finance Ministry next year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore   kqayum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 