-- Inflation Quickens 3.6 Percent in South Korea, Fastest Pace in 17 Months
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-10-01T01:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/inflation-quickens-in-south-korea-rising-at-the-fastest-pace-in-17-months.html
South Korea’s consumer prices
increased more than projected, rising at the fastest pace in 17
months, bolstering the case for the central bank to raise
borrowing costs.  The  consumer price index  climbed 3.6 percent in September
from a year earlier, accelerating from 2.6 percent in the
previous month, the statistics office said in Gwacheon today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists
was for a 2.9 percent gain. Prices rose 1.1 percent from August,
the biggest monthly gain since March 2003.  Inflation may ease to the low end of the 3 percent range in 
the fourth quarter, Finance Ministry Director General Yoon Jong 
Won told reporters today. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo 
has signaled he may add to July’s interest-rate increase, while 
saying normalizing the benchmark will take some time as the bank 
must be sure of the world recovery.  “The big jump in inflation is temporary and will likely
ease in October,” said Lee Sang Jae, an economist at Hyundai
Securities Co. in Seoul. “Still, price pressures are building
up as the economy continues to recover with a rise in public
utility charges.” He expects the central bank to raise
borrowing costs this month.  Won Gains  The won advanced 0.4 percent to 1,135.45 per dollar as of
10:22 a.m. in Seoul, the strongest level since May. It capped a
monthly advance of 4.6 percent yesterday, the biggest in a year.
The benchmark  Kospi  stock index climbed 0.4 percent to 1,879.92.  The policy board aims to keep inflation at between 2
percent and 4 percent on average through 2012. Kim left the
benchmark rate at 2.25 percent in August and September,
following a 0.25 percentage point increase in July from 2
percent. That move was the first advance since the global
financial crisis.  A separate report today showed that South Korea’s exports
grew 17.2 percent from a year earlier in September, the slowest
gain in 11 months. The nation’s holiday season shuttered some
factories during the period.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government increased power and
gas tariffs over August and September due to elevated commodity
costs. That may add about 0.1 percentage point to inflation, the
finance ministry said in July.  Volatile Prices  Inflation is set to exceed 3 percent in the fourth quarter,
boosted by an increase in utility and commodity costs, the Bank
of Korea said in a report released to lawmakers yesterday.  Prices in October will still be volatile due to a poor
vegetable crop amid bad weather conditions, Yoon said today.  The expected inflation rate over the next year was 3.2
percent in September, unchanged from the previous month,
according to a recent central bank survey.  Core prices, which exclude oil and food, rose 1.9 percent
in September from a year earlier after a 1.8 percent gain in
August. Prices for agricultural, dairy and fisheries goods
surged 21.1 percent, and oil products climbed 3.4 percent,
today’s report showed.  Prices for services, which account for 60 percent of the
consumer price index, gained 2 percent from a year earlier.  The economy expanded 7.6 percent in the first half, the
fastest pace in a decade, as reviving overseas demand buoyed
earnings at companies including Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s
largest automaker.  The Bank of Korea forecasts Asia’s fourth-largest economy
will expand 5.9 percent over 2010, before growth cools to a 4.5
percent pace in 2011. The policy board next meets to review
borrowing costs on Oct. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  