-- Goldman Sachs's Ingrassia Says Boardrooms Are More Optimistic Than Public
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-09-30T19:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/ingrassia-sees-more-optimism-in-corporate-boardrooms-than-public.html
Corporate boards are more
optimistic about prospects for the U.S. economy than the general
public is, said  Timothy J. Ingrassia , head of mergers and
acquisitions in the Americas for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “I do think there’s a little more optimism in the
boardroom than you read in the newspapers,” Ingrassia, 46, said
at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York today. “We’ve
sensed a significant pickup in the brainstorming and white-
boarding around activity that gives us some optimism about the
merger market looking forward.”  The third quarter was the busiest in two years for mergers,
with $566.5 billion of announced transactions, according to data
compiled by  Bloomberg. BHP Billiton Ltd.  made an unsolicited $40
billion offer for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Sanofi-
Aventis SA began its pursuit of Genzyme Corp. for at least $18.5
billion, and Intel Corp. announced its largest acquisition, the
$7.7 billion takeover of security-software maker McAfee Inc.  With almost $3 trillion of cash, companies drove a 60
percent increase in takeovers from a year ago, Bloomberg data
show. Record-low borrowing costs encouraged dealmaking as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index headed for its best September since
1939. Even more important will be the pace of economic recovery,
 Peter Weinberg , founding partner of Perella Weinberg Partners
LP, said today at the conference.  Question Mark  “The big question mark is, where are we going and where is
the economy going,” Weinberg, 53, said. “The success of any
merger will be determined more so by the environment than by the
deal price. Even though there are many factors that suggest a
significant increase in activity, there’s still one big question
out there that’s on everybody’s mind.”  The U.S. economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, marking the start of a slowdown in growth that
has concerned the Federal Reserve. That’s down from a 3.7
percent rate in the first quarter and 5 percent in last year’s
fourth quarter.  “In boardrooms, there is a reluctance to get involved in
significant transactions because of the lack of certainty,”
 Martin Lipton , 79, founding partner of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &
Katz, said at the conference. “I personally doubt there will be
great increases in activity in M&A until we have a restoration
of confidence as to where the economy is going.”  ‘Real Health’  The financial system is in a slow state of recovery and
areas such as basic middle-market lending are “a very, very
long way from real health,” Evercore Partners Inc. Chairman
 Roger Altman , 64, said.  Commercial and industrial loans at U.S. banks fell 24
percent from their 2008 peak to $1.24 trillion as of August,
according to Federal Reserve data.  Completed global deals were $1.16 trillion so far this
year, up 3.6 percent from a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Total announced takeovers were $1.49
trillion in the first nine months of 2010, compared with $1.76
trillion in all of 2009.  Financial institutions and health-care companies will be
among the most active sectors, Weinberg said.  Lazard Ltd. Vice Chairman  Gary W. Parr  said the pace of
financial-industry takeovers will be held back by doubts over
the value of bank assets and questions about new capital
requirements from regulators.  New Capital  Banks worldwide will need $500 billion to $1 trillion of
new capital over the next few years after having raised about
$1.6 trillion since the financial crisis, Parr said. Regulators
may push for higher capital levels faster than proposals from
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which phase in the
new requirements from 2013 to 2023, he said.  “A lot of regulators around the world are applying pressure
to their regulated entities and saying that we want you to be
better capitalized sooner,” Parr said. Banks could get the
capital from  earnings  if given enough time, as U.S. and European
lenders together generate about $400 billion a year in net
income, Parr said.  Tony James , president of Blackstone Group LP, said there
isn’t enough capital available from investors to fund all the
opportunities he sees in the market, while Carlyle Group co-
founder  David Rubenstein  said private-equity firms are having to
cut their fees as fundraising becomes more difficult.  Thomas Barrack , chairman of private-equity firm Colony
Capital LLC, said his best investment opportunities can be found
in the U.S.  S&P Rally  The  S&P 500 Index  rallied 80 percent from its bear market
low in March 2009 through April 23 of this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities then
retreated 16 percent through July 2 and has since rebounded 12
percent.  “They are more confident that we’ll be in a sluggish
environment as opposed to a double-dip,” said  Blair Effron , co-
founder of Centerview Partners. “If you ask most companies,
they’ll say that the next five years will be much more difficult
than the five years before the downturn.”  Wall Street will probably have to eliminate about 80,000
jobs in coming months and year-end bonuses will “disappoint
dramatically,”  Meredith Whitney , founder of Meredith Whitney
Advisory Group, said today in a separate interview on Bloomberg
Radio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 