-- Interactive Brokers CEO Threatens to Curtail Market Making in U.S. Options
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/interactive-brokers-ceo-threatens-to-curtail-market-making-in-u-s-options.html
Interactive Brokers Group Inc . may
withdraw from some options market making because its regulatory
obligations allow firms with the fastest computers to take
advantage of the company, Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Peterffy  said.  Most exchanges require market makers to provide bids and
offers in options across many strike prices and maturities.
Because the contracts are derivatives whose value is tied to
stocks or exchange-traded funds, market makers must constantly
update quotes to reflect price fluctuations in the underlying
security.  Interactive Brokers provides bids and offers for investors
to trade against in about 300,000 products in the U.S., Peterffy
said. His company isn’t able to update options prices fast
enough to prevent high-frequency trading firms from profiting
from inefficiencies when they’re too high or low given moves in
the stock market.  “If there are no changes in the regulations, then we may
discontinue as market makers in certain products on certain
exchanges,” Peterffy, the company’s chairman who founded
Interactive Brokers in 1977, said yesterday. “High-frequency
trading firms are looking at the same input variables and it
takes them much less time to pick off a handful of quotes that
haven’t yet moved than it takes us to move the quotes.”  The Wall Street Journal first reported Peterffy’s view
yesterday.  He urged the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to
adopt more stringent rules for firms that provide liquidity and
encourage high-frequency traders to become registered market
makers, meaning they would face quoting obligations.  New Mandates  The SEC and exchanges are considering new mandates for
market makers in the wake of the May 6 plunge that briefly
erased $862 billion in equity value in about 20 minutes. Firms
that buy and sell options contracts face more requirements than
most market makers in equities.  Peterffy said he expects that regulators and exchanges will
propose adjustments to market-making rules within six weeks.
Interactive Brokers and other market makers lose money to
certain activity by high-frequency firms that profit from their
requirement to supply bids and offers, Peterffy said.  “We will see whether those changes in regulation are
sufficient for us to continue as market makers in everything we
are market makers in today,” he said.  Interactive Broker’s  profit  has fallen for six straight
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pretax income
from the company’s Timber Hill market-making unit declined 97
percent last quarter to $3.9 million. That marks the smallest
quarterly amount since the Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm’s
2007 initial public offering, Bloomberg data show.  Automated Strategies  Faster trading and the rise of automated strategies have
increased competition for market makers during the past decade.
The move to trade some options in penny increments has also hurt
the profitability of traditional market-making firms.  LaBranche & Co. Inc. withdrew as one of the main market
makers on the New York Stock Exchange in January. The company
was the largest firm required to provide liquidity on the NYSE
Euronext-owned exchange in 2008. Amsterdam-based Van der Moolen
Holding NV sold its New York specialist business in December
2007 to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in New York., which
London-based Barclays Plc acquired in September 2008.  High-frequency trading firms operate “without the
significant regulatory burdens and costs borne by registered
broker-dealer market makers,” Peterffy  said  June 22 during a
meeting to discuss the May 6 plunge. The event was arranged by
the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “Since they have low regulatory overhead, no market-making
obligations, and few restrictions on their trading, they are
free to take market share from registered broker-dealer market
makers in placid markets, and then withdraw or disappear
entirely in times of increased volatility or serious market
breaks,” he said in June. “In a trend that accelerated over
the past 12-18 months, market makers have been considerably
weakened by competition from high-frequency traders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 