-- Introduction of Lead Futures in China May Boost LME Trading, Exchange Says
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-09-30T10:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/introduction-of-lead-futures-in-china-may-boost-lme-trading-exchange-says.html
The start of lead futures in China
is “good news” for the London Metal Exchange, as it may lure
more investors to trade contracts on the bourse, according to
Liz Milan, managing director for LME Asia.  Asian trading volumes on the LME’s benchmark three-month
contracts have increased “significantly” in the past three
years, Milan said, referring to transactions on the exchange’s
Select electronic system between 1 a.m. and 7 a.m. London time.  Almost 30 percent of all electronic trading for three-month
zinc futures, for example, takes place during Asian time,
because of increased arbitrage trading, Milan said from
Singapore. That compares with zero percent in 2007, she said.
Asian trading accounts for about 20 percent of volume for the
LME three-month copper contract and 15 percent for nickel, she
said. Arbitrage traders try to profit by buying metal in London
and selling it in Shanghai, exploiting a gap in prices.  “The introduction of lead futures in China can only be
good for the LME,” Milan said in a Sept. 28 interview. So-
called Asian trades account for about 5 percent of total LME
trading volume, she said.  China, the world’s biggest producer and consumer of the
metal used in batteries, may launch lead futures as early as
December, offering smelters an investment tool to hedge risk,
according to the  China Futures Association .  “The launch of lead futures paves the way for base metals
index futures, by which market participants can hedge all the
other small metals,” Zhang Yisheng, vice chairman of the
association, said Sept. 12.  Producers sometimes sell their future production to lock-in
higher prices, while consumers buy their future needs to reduce
the risk of price fluctuations.  Arbitrage Opportunity  Lead, the second-worst performer on the London Metal
Exchange after zinc, has dropped 6.6 percent this year as
imports by China tumbled and domestic output surged.  Copper, aluminum and zinc are the base metals currently
traded on the Shanghai Futures Exchange. The exchange may
introduce a range of new futures, including silver and crude
oil, the China Securities Journal reported in December.  “The introduction of lead futures will give traders in
China another opportunity for arbitrage, just like in copper,
zinc and even aluminum,” said Yang Zhenqiang, an analyst at
First Futures Brokerage Co. “It makes sense to have lead
futures in China because we’re the world’s largest maker and
user.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  