-- IPO Backlog Creates Buyer ‘Opportunity’, KKR Says
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-09-30T20:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/ipo-backlog-creates-buyer-opportunity-kkr-says-update1-.html
A wave of private equity-backed
companies looking to go public will give investors the chance to
buy shares at a discount, said Craig Farr, head of capital
markets at KKR & Co.  More than half the companies that submitted plans for U.S.
initial public offerings in 2010 have yet to complete them after
48 percent of this year’s IPOs left buyers with losses. While 69
percent of the deals raised less than sought, private equity
funds are still seeking to sell holdings after the financial
crisis blocked them from exiting investments.  “The market knows that over time we’re going to have to
bring most of those assets to market because they’re not going
to be strategic assets given they’re usually the leaders in that
industry,” Farr said at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in  New
York  today. “So in many ways it’s an opportunity for the market
to buy an industry-leading franchise at a discount.”  Farr was hired by New York-based KKR in 2006 to help build
the underwriting business for the firm founded in 1976 by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts . He previously spent 12 years at New
York-based Citigroup Inc., where he served as co-head of North
American  equity capital markets .  Postponed IPOs  At least 45 companies have postponed or withdrawn U.S.
initial sales this year amid concern that the recovery from the
longest recession since the Great Depression is deteriorating.  NXP Semiconductors NV, the Eindhoven, Netherlands-based
chipmaker owned by KKR and Bain Capital LLC, cut the price of
its U.S. IPO by as much as 33 percent in August before
completing the $476 million sale.  Graham Packaging Co., the York, Pennsylvania-based maker of
plastic containers owned by  Blackstone Group LP  of New York,
reduced the size of its IPO by 55 percent in February.  Leveraged buyout funds, which spent a record $1.6 trillion
on deals from 2005 to 2007, are selling assets in initial share
sales after returning less money to clients last year than any
time since at least 2000, according to data compiled by London-
based Preqin Ltd.  ‘Out of Whack’  “The challenge we’ve been through has been a real
differing of opinion on the price the IPO market wants to pay
for assets and the price that we want to sell them at,” KKR’s
Farr said. “It was way out of whack six months ago, which was
why you saw sponsors thinking that we could sell deals at a
certain level, the market at a very different level, and deals
getting pulled.”  Nielsen Holdings BV, the New York-based television-audience
rating company owned by KKR, Thomas H. Lee Partners LP of  Boston , Blackstone and Washington-based  Carlyle Group , is aiming
to raise $2 billion in an IPO, according to an  SEC filing .  HCA Inc., the hospital chain bought four years ago in a $33
billion LBO led by KKR and Boston-based Bain, filed in May to
sell as much as $4.6 billion. The Nashville, Tennessee-based
company’s U.S. IPO would be the largest since  Visa Inc . of  San
Francisco  raised $19.7 billion in March 2008.  Liberty Mutual Agency Corp. of Boston yesterday pulled what
would have been the biggest U.S. IPO of 2010. The second-largest
writer of property and casualty insurance distributed through
independent agencies in the U.S. was seeking $1.3 billion.  ‘Substantial Backlog’  The postponement was a setback for an IPO market that had
started to rebound this month, as offerings from  China ’s  SouFun
Holdings Ltd . and Country Style Cooking Restaurant Chain Co.
posted first-day rallies of at least 47 percent.  A lot of companies “don’t need to go public” because they
don’t have the immediate financial need to do so, Jim Forbes,
global principal investments executive at Bank of America Corp.,
said at the summit. “You don’t want to be a price taker when
you go into the market. That’s why we’ve built up this
substantial backlog.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 