-- Iran Says Dollar Rate Vs. Rial to Weaken; Chamber Links Sanctions, Trading
-- B y   A l i   S h e i k h o l e s l a m i   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-09-30T15:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/iran-says-dollar-rial-market-rate-to-weaken-by-next-week-mehr-reports.html
The Iranian Central Bank said the
U.S. dollar will slide to a “market rate” of 10,600 rials by
next week, following a report by Tehran’s Chamber of Commerce
that international sanctions on the country’s nuclear program
may have prompted banks to halt trading in its currency.  “The dollar price will definitely go back to normal by
next week,” Central Bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani was cited as
saying by the state-run  Mehr  news agency today.  The “market rate” is 12,100 rials today, according to the
economic newspaper  Donya-e Eqtesad . Today’s official rate is
10,198 rials, according to the Central Bank’s website. The
lowest official dollar-rial rate in the past year was 9,834 on
March 18, while the highest was 10,507 on June 7, according to
the  bank’s website .  Mehr yesterday cited Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi as
saying the Central Bank will offer buyers unlimited amounts of
foreign currency and gold starting today, as prices rose.  “Some see the surge in the foreign currency market as
being linked with the global market but other reports say the
issue is linked with the strenthening of sanctions against
Iran,” the Chamber of Commerce said in a report published
yesterday on the organization’s website.  Two State Banks  “In the past few days, the United Arab Emirates’ central
bank has almost halted the currency exchanges of two Iranian
state banks that have branches in Dubai, Melli Bank and Saderat
Bank,"  Pedram Soltani, a Chamber of Commerce member, was cited
as saying in the report. "They are now seriously being
controlled and their currency trading has almost stopped. A
large part of Iran’s currency exchange took place via these
banks.”  Banks in Iran refused to sell foreign currency today, with
the exception of a few branches that sold a maximum of $500 at a
rate of 10,500 rials to travelers who showed they had airline
tickets and passports, Agence France-Presse reported.  Iran is under sanctions by the United Nations, the U.S. and
the European Union over its refusal to curtail its nuclear
program. The U.S. and many of its allies allege the program is
cover for weapons development, which Iran denies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ali Sheikholeslami in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 