-- Irish `Groundhog Day' Leaves Lenihan Battling Biggest Deficit
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-10-01T07:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/ireland-s-groundhog-day-leaves-lenihan-battling-biggest-budget-deficit.html
It must feel like deja vu for
taxpayers and investors in Ireland.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said yesterday he cleaned up
the mess left by “reckless” bankers. Now he has to turn back
to tackling the largest budget deficit in the history of the
euro region after the premium bondholders demand to buy Irish
debt climbed to a record this week.  “It’s a bit like groundhog day, like you’ve been on the
wrong road and have to come back and start all over again,”
said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in
Dublin. “It’s a long way home.”  Ireland was among the first countries to react to the
global credit crisis, avoiding going the way of Iceland, or
later Greece, by bolstering its banks and then cutting spending
and raising taxes. As what was Europe’s fastest-growing economy
as recently as 2006 buckles under the weight of bank debt, the
nation once more is trying to stave off financial ruin.  The government is taking control of Allied Irish Banks Plc
and injecting extra cash into the previously nationalized Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., raising the cost of the rescue to as much as
50 billion euros ($68 billion), Lenihan said yesterday.  “The Irish people are entitled to be angry with the
bankers, who lent recklessly over a considerable period of time
in the earlier part of this decade,” Lenihan said at a press
conference in Dublin yesterday.  Chips Are Down  The yield spread between  Irish  and German 10-year bonds
advanced to a record of 449 basis points on Sept. 28, and
narrowed yesterday to 429 points. The increase occurred after
Standard & Poor’s cut Ireland’s credit rating one step to AA- on
Aug. 24, citing the costs of the bank bailout.  Lenihan is also planning more cuts to avoid becoming the
first government after Greece to tap the 750 billion-euro rescue
pool set up by the European Union and International Monetary
Fund. The Irish budget deficit will reach about 32 percent of
gross domestic product this year, more than 10 times the limit
for euro members and compared with a government projection of
11.6 percent in December. It was 14.3 percent in 2009.  “In poker parlance, Ireland has put all its chips on the
table in an attempt to eliminate any further speculation on the
Irish banks,”  Michael Cummins , an analyst at Dublin-based Glas
Securities, said in a note to clients. “The focus now shifts
onto future austerity measures.”  IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Ireland
won’t need a rescue package from other euro-area countries,
Handelsblatt newspaper reported today, citing an interview.  Political Costs  With the largest deficit among the 16 countries in the euro
region, Ireland in early 2009 raised income tax and cut pay for
state workers by an average 13 percent.  Further cuts will face more resistance from voters and
taxpayers. The bailout might cost 1.5 billion euros in interest
a year, Lenihan said. That’s equivalent to 375 euros for each of
Ireland’s roughly 4 million citizens and the overall bank rescue
bill might total as much as a third of the  Irish economy .  “The political costs may be bigger than the financial
cost,”  Philip Lane , an economics professor at Trinity College
Dublin, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “When
you are telling the health sector there are going to be various
kinds of cutbacks, it is something that is going to hammer every
government for the next 10 years.”  Ireland has injected about 33 billion euros into banks and
building societies so far.  ‘Worst Budget’  Anglo Irish  may need up to an additional 6.4 billion euros
of capital, rising by another 5 billion euros in the event of
unexpected losses, the government said yesterday. Irish
Nationwide Building Society may need another 2.7 billion euros.  “Irish people now face the worst budget in Irish
history,” said  Michael Noonan , finance spokesman for the
biggest opposition party, Fine Gael. “This pain will be
inflicted on them because Brian Lenihan and his government made
a catastrophic bad call on Anglo Irish Bank.”  Lawmakers backing the government have already signaled they
won’t support planned cuts. Independent lawmaker Noel Grealish
withdrew his support last week for the government because of
planned health cuts in the west of Ireland, where his
constituency is located.  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen’s  Fianna Fail-led coalition has
77 seats in parliament and can count on the support of six other
lawmakers in the house without Grealish’s vote. The government
needs 82 votes to maintain a majority in parliament.  “The Celtic tiger wasn’t for everybody, it was for the
wealthy,” said Jonathan Hanna, 29, a community worker
demonstrating outside Dublin’s parliament. “I know we have to
make cuts, but the poor have already given their cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  