-- Treasuries, Gold Fall on Reduced Bets Fed Will Need to Purchase More Debt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-09-30T20:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/irish-spanish-bonds-rally-stocks-decline-u-s-index-futures-fluctuate.html
Treasuries and gold dropped, while
U.S. stocks fell on the final day of the equity market’s biggest
September rally since 1939, as improving economic data damped
speculation the Federal Reserve will need to buy more debt to
safeguard the recovery.  The drop in Treasuries sent the yield on the  benchmark  10-
year note 2 basis points higher to 2.52 percent. The S&P 500
slipped 0.3 percent to 1,141.2 at 4 p.m. in New York, leaving it
up 8.8 percent for the month and 11 percent higher for the third
quarter. Gold retreated from a record as the dollar rebounded
from a five-month low versus the euro.  U.S. government data showed a bigger-than-projected  drop  in
weekly jobless claims and second-quarter economic growth that
was faster than previously estimated, while a private report
said business activity unexpectedly accelerated in September.
The data may be easing pressure on Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
to start another round of debt purchases, or quantitative easing,
in order to bolster growth.  “Equities and Treasuries have been higher on the notion of
quantitative easing,” said  Mark Luschini , chief investment
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which oversees $50
billion in Philadelphia. “Now that it may not happen as soon as
investors expected, or at all, it takes at least one form of
buying out of the marketplace. It’s helping unwind a little bit
of that trade.”  All 10 industry groups in the S&P 500 advanced in September
and all 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed in
the month. Some of the month’s best-performing groups were the
biggest drags on the market today.  September Rally  Technology companies lost 0.6 percent today to trim their
September rally to 11 percent, the biggest among 10 groups.
Apple Inc. fell 1.3 percent and  Caterpillar Inc. , the Dow’s
best-performing stock this month, dropped 1.6 percent for the
second-biggest retreat in the 30-stock gauge after American
Express Co.  Even after September’s rally, the S&P 500’s valuation of
12.5 times projected earnings over the next 12 months compares
with a 16.5 average since 1954 using reported results, according
to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Treasury
notes over 2-year debt widened to 2.09 percentage points,
reflecting less concern the U.S. economic recovery is stalling.
The spread was 2.03 percentage points on Sept. 28, the narrowest
this month on a closing basis.  Economic Data  The Labor Department said initial jobless claims fell by
16,000 to 453,000 last week, lower than the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The U.S. economy grew at
a 1.7 percent annual rate last quarter, Commerce Department data
showed, faster than the 1.6 percent estimated last month. The
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business
barometer unexpectedly accelerated.  The dollar strengthened against 8 major counterparts and
was trading little changed at $1.3635 versus the euro after
reaching to $1.3683 earlier, the weakest since April 12.  Yields on Spanish and Irish bonds fell 8 basis points and
22 basis points respectively amid speculation the nations are
containing their debt crises. Ireland’s government is preparing
to take majority control of Allied Irish Banks Plc and pump
extra cash into Anglo Irish Bank Corp. to draw a line under its
financial crisis. Moody’s Investors Service said the outlook for
Spain is steady after lowering its credit rating one level.  “Today has been positive in terms of clarifying some of
the unknowns in the market,” said Zoso Davies, a credit
strategist at Barclays Capital in London. “We have moved past a
number of short-term stumbling blocks and some hurdles have been
removed. Questions are being answered and that should give the
market confidence to take a slightly longer-term view.”  Irish-German Spread  Irish 10-year government bonds yields fell 17 basis points
relative to German bunds for a so-called yield spread of 429
basis points, after reaching a record 454 basis points yesterday.
The Spanish-German 10-year yield spread narrowed 9 basis points
to 186 basis points, while the  Portuguese-German spread 
decreased 17 basis points to 429 points. The 10-year German bund
yield rose 4 basis points to 2.28 percent.  European stocks retreated for a fourth day, trimming the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s biggest quarterly advance in
a year to 6.7 percent.  Allied Irish Banks Plc slid 8.2 percent. Compass Group Plc
declined 3.8 percent as the world’s largest catering company’s
forecasts missed some analysts’ estimates. Fiat SpA led auto
stocks higher after predicting an annual profit.  Asian, Emerging Markets  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  slumped 0.9 percent, the
biggest drop in three weeks. Nintendo Co., the world’s largest
maker of portable video-game machines, tumbled 9.3 percent after
cutting its profit forecast. Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., the world’s No. 1 lender by market value, slumped
3.2 percent in Hong Kong after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sold a
stake.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.5 percent, poised
to close at the highest level since June 2008. Turkey’s ISE
National 100 Index rose to a record after Templeton Asset
Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius  said yesterday the firm plans to
invest $250 million in Turkish equities “very soon.”  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  jumped 1.7 percent, the
biggest gain since Aug. 16, after Citigroup Inc. analysts said
new government measures to tame real-estate prices have
“partially settled” policy uncertainties.  Gold futures slipped 0.1 percent to settle at $1,309.60 an
ounce after touching a record $1,317.50 on the Comex in New York.
Crude oil for November delivery surged 2.7 percent to $79.97 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil reached $80.18,
the highest price since Aug. 11, in electronic trading after the
close as today’s economic data spurred speculation demand may
improve.  To contact the reporter on this story
Michael P. Regan in New York at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 