-- Italian Inflation Rate Drops to Three-Month Low of 1.6 Percent This Month
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-09-30T09:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/italian-inflation-rate-drops-to-three-month-low-of-1-6-percent-this-month.html
Italy’s  inflation rate  fell in
September to a three-month low as transportation costs eased
after the peak summer vacation period.  The  inflation rate  based on European Union measurements
declined to 1.6 percent from 1.8 percent in August, the Rome-
based national statistics office Istat said in a preliminary
report today. The rate was lower than the median  forecast  of 1.8
percent by 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Prices  rose
0.5 percent from the previous month, less than the 0.7 percent
estimated by economists.  Italy is one of Europe’s top tourism destination and the
industry accounts for more than 10 percent of gross domestic
product. The end of the summer-vacation period tends to lead to
a decline in transportation costs, which reflects cheaper prices
for holiday packages after August.  The decline in Italy’s rate contrasted with European
inflation, which accelerated 1.8 percent in September from 1.6
percent in August, a separate report released by the European
Union statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  Based on  Italian methodology , prices fell 0.2 percent in
September from the previous month and gained 1.6 percent  from a
year earlier , Istat said. The cost of transportation fell 1.7
percent from August, and communication declined 1.3 percent,
according to the report.  Producer prices rose 0.2 in August  from the previous month 
and 3.7 percent  from a year earlier , Istat said yesterday.  Italian household confidence  unexpectedly rose this month
to the highest since April as consumers grew more optimistic
about their finances and the outlook for jobs, Rome-based  Isae
Institute  said on Sept. 28.  Final Italian consumer-price data will be released Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  