-- Mitsubishi UFJ, JBIC to Lend $750 Million for Mitsui's Projects in Mexico
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-09-30T00:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/mitsubishi-ufj-jbic-to-lend-750-million-for-mitsui-s-projects-in-mexico.html
The  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  and the country’s three biggest banks signed a loan
for a $1.2 billion acquisition by Mitsui & Co. and Tokyo Gas Co.
of power-plant and natural-gas pipeline assets in Mexico.  State-controlled overseas lender JBIC, with the banking
units of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial Group Inc., will
offer $750 million to a Mexican venture formed by Mitsui and
Tokyo Gas, JBIC said in a statement in Tokyo today.  The loan is part of JBIC’s plan to expand financing for
overseas power, water supply, rail and other infrastructure
projects invested by Japanese companies. The country’s
utilities and trading houses are increasing asset purchases
abroad to counter slowing sales growth at home as the
population shrinks.  MT Falcon Holdings Co., the venture 70 percent owned by
Mitsui, completed the $1.2 billion deal in June to buy five
power plants with a combined capacity of 2,233 megawatts, and a
54-kilometer (34-mile) gas pipeline in Mexico from Barcelona-
based  Gas Natural SDG SA , Spain’s largest gas supplier.  Electricity generated from the five plants is sold to
Mexico’s state-owned utility, Comision Federal de Electricidad,
under the 25-year sales contracts, Mitsui and Tokyo Gas said
last December. The loan will be repaid using income from power
sales by the venture, according to the JBIC statement.  Tokyo Gas  is Japan’s largest distributor of natural gas,
supplying the fuel to more than 10 million customers in the
capital and surrounding prefectures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 