-- Japan Sold $25 Billion in Yen in First Currency Intervention in Six Years
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-01T03:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/japan-sold-25-billion-in-yen-in-first-currency-intervention-in-six-years.html
Japan sold 2.12 trillion yen ($25
billion) in the month through Sept. 28, the Ministry of Finance
said in Tokyo yesterday, as the nation attempted to weaken its
currency to preserve an export-led recovery.  The yen rose to a 15-year high against the dollar on Sept.
15, prompting the Japanese government to intervene in the
foreign-exchange market for the first time since 2004. The yen
has risen 12 percent against the dollar this year, the best
performance among 16 major counterparts, as concern the U.S.
economic recovery will slow and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
will worsen boosted demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  “The number exceeded expectations somewhat and may add to
speculation they intervened more than once,” said  Takashi Kudo ,
general manager of market information service at NTT SmartTrade
Inc., a unit of Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in Tokyo.
“If the market gets the impression that they will continue to
step in, that’s a positive for easing the yen’s gains. And
exporters may not need to buy the yen in a hurry.”  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  today reiterated the
government’s resolve to take bold action on the yen if
necessary. Vice Finance Minister  Mitsuru Sakurai  yesterday said
he expects the Bank of Japan to make appropriate policy
decisions at a monetary policy meeting next week, an indication
the government wants the central bank to do its part in
supporting growth.  ‘Ball Is Back’  “The ball is back in the BOJ’s court,” said  Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior economist in Tokyo at the Daiwa Institute of
Research, a unit of Japan’s second-biggest brokerage. “U.S.
policy makers are mulling over a long-term, deliberate monetary
easing. The BOJ’s policy needs to keep up with that outlook at
least. Otherwise, the yen will remain in an uptrend.”  The central bank is expected to increase on Oct. 5 its 30-
trillion yen credit program for lenders to encourage bank
lending and reduce demand for yen, 14 of 17 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News said. One economist forecasts the bank to cut
the overnight loan rate to zero from 0.1 percent and buy more
government bonds.  Deposits of financial institutions held at the BOJ climbed
by 2 trillion yen to 17.1 trillion yen on Sept. 17, the central
bank said that day, stoking speculation Japan had intervened by
that amount and left the extra funds in the market.  The yen appreciated to 82.88 to the dollar on Sept. 15, the
strongest since May 1995, prompting policy makers to intervene.
It fell by more than 3 percent that day, the sharpest slump
since November 2008, as the government announced it had sold the
currency.  BOJ Steps  Japan’s currency has since recovered most of those losses,
trading as strong as 83.17 to the dollar in Tokyo yesterday.
It’s gained 11 percent against the greenback this year.  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  signaled this week the
central bank is prepared to take more credit-easing steps should
the strengthening currency become a risk to the country’s
growth.  “We will watch how the yen’s strength is affecting the
economy, and if it becomes a downside risk we will take action
in a timely and appropriate manner,” Shirakawa said on Sept. 27
in Osaka, western Japan.  Global risk aversion this year has driven gains in the yen,
which tends to strengthen during economic turmoil as Japan’s
trade surplus makes it less reliant on foreign capital. A
stronger domestic currency hurts the overseas competitiveness of
Japanese exporters.  Tankan Forecast  The Tankan  index  of sentiment among large manufacturers
climbed 7 points in September to a level of 8, the BOJ said this
week. The figure was the smallest improvement in six quarters
and compares with a 15-point increase in June. Confidence will
fall to minus 1 in December, the report said. The companies
predicted the yen will average 89.44 per dollar in the six
months ending March 2011, according to the survey.  “They still have abundant resources for intervention and
will likely continue to step in,” said  Masahide Tanaka , a
senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest bank. “They will not let the yen rise
beyond 80 against the dollar, which would severely damp
sentiment among companies.”  Government data this week showed  exports  grew at the
slowest pace this year in August, suggesting the yen’s strength
may be hurting earnings at companies such as  Nissan Motor Inc. 
and  Canon Inc.   Profit Impact  Even 90 yen to the dollar may not be weak enough to prevent
production from draining out of the country,  Toshiyuki Shiga ,
chairman of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, said
on Sept. 16. Many automakers are basing profit forecasts on the
90 yen rate, and the currency should revert to that level or
weaker, said Shiga, who is also chief operating officer at
Nissan, Japan’s third-biggest carmaker.  Canon, which is based in Tokyo and is the world’s largest
camera maker, estimates that  operating profit  will shrink by 4.7
billion yen for every 1 yen the currency strengthens beyond 90
per dollar in the second half of 2010.  Japan hadn’t intervened in the currency market since March
2004, when the yen traded at about 109 per dollar. The Bank of
Japan, acting on behest of the Ministry of Finance, sold 14.8
trillion yen in the first three months of 2004 following record
sales of 20.4 trillion yen in 2003.  The action failed to keep the currency from rising to
102.63 to the dollar by the end of that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ronnie Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 