-- Japan to Slash U.S. Corn Stockpiles as Country Aims to Cut Import Reliance
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2010-09-30T02:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/japan-to-slash-stockpiles-of-u-s-corn-as-country-tackles-import-reliance.html
Japan, the world’s biggest corn 
buyer, will slash its stockpiles of corn and sorghum by 33
percent next fiscal year, cutting U.S. imports, as the 
country aims to boost feed rice output to reduce its reliance
on overseas supplies.  The country’s corn and sorghum inventories will drop to
400,000 metric tons, from 600,000 tons in the year ending March
31, said Eri Utamaru, assistant director at the livestock
production and feed division of the  Ministry of Agriculture ,
Forestry and Fisheries. Corn represents about 90 percent of
Japan’s feed grains stored for this year, she said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday.  Japan is aiming to boost feed-rice production by tenfold to
700,000 tons a year within the next decade on concern that
growth in China, an expanding global population and improving
diets will tighten supplies. The government also wants to
promote the use of waste materials from Japanese food processors,
aiming to replace 630,000 tons of corn in feed annually by the
year ending March 2021.  “Japan is enhancing the role of its rice as an alternative
to U.S. corn,” said  Nobuyuki Chino , president of Unipac Grain
Ltd. in Tokyo. “Competition between Japan and other corn buyers
intensified” as China became a net importer this year and
Russia’s ban on grain exports following its worst drought in 50
years prompted countries such as South Korea and Egypt to seek
alternative supplies from the U.S., the largest exporter of corn
and wheat, he said.  Japan imported 11 million tons of feed corn last year, 96
percent of it from the U.S. Corn futures in Chicago climbed to a
two-year high of $5.2875 a bushel on Sept. 27 and traded at
$5.05 at 10:31 a.m. Tokyo time.  Import Costs  The cost of importing U.S. corn into Japan has increased to
about 25,000 yen ($298) per ton, including  freight , Chino said.
In December, import costs averaged about 20,000 yen, according
to the Feed Supply Stabilization Organization, a Tokyo-based
industry group.  The agriculture ministry plans to boost cash payments to
domestic growers of rice, wheat and five other crops by 42
percent to 796 billion yen next fiscal year as it expands an
income-support program to improve food self-sufficiency. Japan
produces 40 percent of its food, the lowest level among
industrialized nations, according to the ministry.  The ministry plans to cut its budget for stockpiling feed
corn and sorghum by 34 percent to 2.75 billion yen next fiscal
year, said Utamaru at the livestock division.  “Even if we reduce inventories, that won’t hurt stability
in feed-grain supplies,” she said. “We expect more products to
come from domestic growers.”  Feed Barley  Imports of feed barley and wheat through state tenders may
expand this fiscal year, helping to stabilize supply, as the
ministry boosted purchasing opportunities for feed mills and
trading houses, Utamaru said.  The ministry, which previously held feed-grain import
tenders twice a month, began holding the events every week from
July, responding to industry requests.  Japan imported 1.35 million tons of feed grains through
state tenders last fiscal year, of which 1.22 million tons was
barley and the rest was wheat.  “Imports may increase by about 100,000 tons this fiscal
year as we increased tenders,” Utamaru said.  Japan imports rice, wheat and barley under the state
trading system to stabilize supplies. For corn, Japanese feed
mills purchase the grain through trading companies in private
deals with shippers such as Cargill Inc.  For feed-use grains, the ministry holds tenders under the
so-called simultaneous buy-and-sell system, in which end-users
and trading companies jointly bid for supplies of any origin and
quality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Yasumasa Song  in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 