-- Japan Factory Production Unexpectedly Fell in August
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-09-30T01:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/japan-factory-output-unexpectedly-fell-in-august-adding-to-signs-of-slump.html
Japan’s industrial production
unexpectedly fell in August, adding to concerns the nation’s
export-led recovery is slowing.  Factory output decreased 0.3 percent from July, the third
monthly decline, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today. The
median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 1.1 percent gain.  Signs of diminished global demand and the yen’s
appreciation are threatening earnings of companies from Murata
Manufacturing Co. to Nissan Motor Co. Exports grew the least
this year in August and the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey
yesterday showed companies forecast pessimists will outnumber
optimists by year-end.  “This number was pretty disappointing,” said  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist at Nikko Cordial Securities in
Tokyo. “It clearly shows decelerating overseas demand is
weighing on output.”  The yen traded at 83.65 per dollar at 10:10 a.m. in Tokyo
from 83.77 before the report was published. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average fell 0.4 percent.  A separate report today showed that retail sales advanced
4.3 percent last month, smaller than the 4.7 percent increased
forecast in the median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Consumption has been supported by last-minute demand for
cars ahead of the expiry of a government incentive program as
well as purchases of products such as air conditioners amid the
nation’s hottest summer in more than a century.  ‘Lot of Uncertainty’  Discounting for stimulus measures   consumer spending  isn’t
that strong,”  Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in Tokyo, said before the report. “Jobs
haven’t returned, and there’s a lot of uncertainty about the
outlook given the stock declines.”  The Tankan survey yesterday showed that an index of
confidence among large manufacturers is expected to fall to
minus 1 in December, after it rose to 8 in September.  Automakers appear to be especially concerned about the
outlook and expect the Tankan index for the sector to decline 38
points in three months’ time, the biggest drop for the industry
since the central bank started tracking confidence by sector in
1992.  Manufacturers said they plan to cut output 0.1 percent this
month and 2.9 percent in October, a government survey included
in today’s report showed, led by transportation industries.
Should the forecasts be realized, output will slip for the first
time in six quarters, the ministry said.  Eliminate Workers  Murata Manufacturing, an electronics components maker, will
eliminate most of its temporary workforce and increase
production overseas as the yen’s strength compels it to reduce
costs, President Tsuneo Murata said this week.  Japan’s authorities intervened in  currency markets  for the
first time since 2004 this month as the yen’s advance to a 15-
year high against the dollar threatens profits of exporters.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has asked his ministers to compile
additional measures to supplement a stimulus package he unveiled
on Sept. 10 to help the economy. The extra budget for this
fiscal year may be as much as 4.6 trillion yen, a government
official said on the condition of anonymity earlier this week.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board will deliberate
policy at a meeting on Oct. 4-5. He reiterated this week that
the bank stands ready to take action when necessary. They last
eased policy by expanding a credit lending program to 30
trillion yen ($357 billion) on Aug. 30.  “Downside risks to Japan’s economy are growing,” said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at Citigroup Global Markets
Japan Inc. in Tokyo. “We don’t expect a double-dip recession,
but the economy may temporarily shrink in the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  