-- Asian Stocks Climb, Set for Fifth Weekly Gain, on China Manufacturing Data
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-10-01T10:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/japan-australia-stock-index-futures-gain-on-positive-u-s-economic-data.html
Asian  stocks  rose, driving the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to a fifth consecutive weekly advance, as
faster-than-estimated growth in Chinese manufacturing bolstered
confidence in the global economy.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company, and
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. climbed 1 percent or more in Sydney as
the manufacturing data boosted oil and copper prices. Shinhan
Financial Group Co. led gains by South Korean banks on
speculation fourth-quarter earnings will improve.  Genting
Singapore Plc , the owner of one of two casino resorts in the
city-state, surged 7.5 percent after OCBC Investment Research
raised its share-price forecast.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.6 percent to 127.04 as
of 7:19 p.m. in Tokyo, with about four shares advancing for
every three that fell. The index has increased 1.2 percent this
week. It gained 8.4 percent in September, the  largest monthly
advance  since July 2009. The 12 percent climb in the three
months ended yesterday was the biggest quarterly increase of the
past year.  “The global economy looks OK, but there are risks for
people to get worried about,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps
manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“New risks are developing at the moment, and investors remain
cautious despite an improving trend in markets over the last
four to six weeks.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 0.4 percent,
recovering from a 0.1 percent drop caused by a strengthening
yen. India’s Sensitive Index climbed 1.9 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi index increased 0.2 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
dropped 0.1 percent.  U.S. Economy  Markets were closed in Hong Kong today, and are shut in
China for a week for public holidays.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.6
percent. The gauge fell 0.3 percent yesterday, trimming its
biggest September gain since 1939, as investors sold some of the
month’s best-performing shares amid speculation improving
economic data will reduce the need for the Federal Reserve to
stimulate growth.  U.S. stocks climbed yesterday morning after data showed the
economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter,
faster than the 1.6 percent previously estimated. Initial
jobless claims fell to 453,000 in the week ended Sept. 25, less
than the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
 business barometer  climbed to 60.4 in September, exceeding the
highest estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Oil, Copper Prices  BHP Billiton advanced 1.4 percent to A$39.46. Woodside
Petroleum gained 1 percent to A$44.30. Inpex Corp. Japan’s
largest oil explorer, jumped 2.5 percent to 403,000 yen.  Crude oil futures in New York rose 1.1 percent in after-
hours trading, after jumping 2.7 percent yesterday to a seven-
week high of $79.97 a barrel. Copper futures on the London Metal
Exchange added as much as 1.7 percent.  Commodity prices climbed on speculation demand in China
will rise after a report today from the country’s logistics
federation and statistics bureau showed a  purchasing managers’
index  rose to 53.8 from 51.7 in August, beating the median
forecast of 52.5 in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists.  The data reinforce evidence from a separate purchasing
manager survey two days ago that China’s industries are gearing
up again after the economy slowed in the second quarter. Japan’s
statistics office said today that deflation moderated in August
and the unemployment rate decreased.  Stock Valuations  The MSCI gauge has advanced 5.5 percent this year on
speculation growth in corporate profits will weather Europe’s
debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price inflation and
concern about the pace of a U.S. economic rebound. Stocks in the
gauge trade at 14.3 times  estimated profit  on average, near the
highest level in seven weeks.  In Singapore,  Genting  jumped 7.5 percent to S$2 after OCBC
Investment Research raised its share-price forecast to S$2.38
from S$1.85 and maintained its “buy” rating.  Shinhan Financial , South Korea’s largest financial company
by market value, gained 5.3 percent to 45,950 won in Seoul. KB
Financial Group Inc. added 1.9 percent to 49,950 won, and
Industrial Bank of Korea climbed 5.1 percent to 16,400 won, the
highest since August 2008.  “Investors seem to expect bank earnings to improve from
the fourth quarter,” said  Hong Hun Pio , an analyst at KTB
Securities Co. “Concerns have eased over further increases in
provisions against construction and other corporate loans.”  ‘We Downgrade’  In Tokyo, Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Japan’s third-
biggest publicly traded bank, fell 2.5 percent to 119 yen and
Resona Holdings Inc. lost 2.5 percent to 730 yen after Morgan
Stanley MUFG Securities Co. cut their ratings to
“underweight.”  “Although downside is limited, we expect the stocks to
underperform the sector,”  Graeme Knowd  and  Takaaki Nishino ,
analysts at the brokerage, said in a report dated yesterday.
“We downgrade Resona because of concerns about the quality of
capital.”  Banks  led declines  in Australia, where the S&P/ASX Index
dropped following last month’s 4.1 percent gain. Westpac Banking
Corp. and National Australia Bank Ltd. fell 1.3 percent after
climbing more than 7 percent in September. Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. retreated 0.7 percent.  “September returns from Aussie equities in U.S.-dollar
terms have been spectacular and they’re being locked in,” said
 Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about $1.6 billion at Platypus
Asset Management in Sydney.  Hon Hai Precision  The Australian dollar climbed 8.6 percent against the U.S.
dollar in September, its biggest monthly advance since May 2009.
That amplifies returns from Australian stocks for U.S. investors
who convert the gains into their home currency.  Westpac was the  heaviest single drag  on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index today, followed by Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.,
Mizuho and National Australia Bank.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. , the world’s largest
contract maker of electronics, fell the most in four weeks in
Taipei after the company sold $1 billion of bonds that can be
converted into shares. The stock lost 2.6 percent to NT$114.50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 