-- Japan's Government Bonds Drop on Stock Gains, China's Manufacturing Report
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-10-01T06:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/japan-s-bonds-heading-for-third-weekly-gain-on-boj-meeting-u-s-economy.html
Japan’s 10-year  bonds  fell for a
second day as data showed China’s manufacturing expanded at the
fastest pace in four months, curbing demand for safer assets.  Benchmark  debt  pared a weekly gain after stocks rebounded
from the biggest slump in three weeks and reports indicated
Japan’s deflation moderated and its unemployment rate fell.
Economy Minister Banri Kaieda said he expects the government and
Bank of Japan to work together to stop deflation and improve the
job market.  “Bond demand is sapped by the resilience of the stock
market,” said  Ayako Sera , who helps oversee about $310 billion
in Tokyo as a strategist at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. “The
manufacturing report has confirmed China’s economy is unlikely
to lose steam.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond rose three basis
points to 0.96 percent as of 3:04 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
yield on the 1 percent note due September 2020 fell 0.275 yen to
100.363. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery dropped 0.1 to
143.32 at the close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average rose 0.4 percent after losing 2 percent yesterday,
the most since Sept. 8.  China’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8 in
September, the logistics federation and statistics bureau said
in an e-mail today. That was the most since May and surpassed
the 52.5 estimated by economists. China was Japan’s biggest
export market by the value of products shipped during the first
half of 2010,  data  from Japan’s Ministry of Finance show.  China’s Economy  The benchmark 10-year yield has lost 3.5 basis points since
Sept. 24, set for a third weekly decline.  Bonds gained earlier this week on speculation Bank of Japan
policy makers will discuss further easing measures when they
gather for a two-day policy meeting on Oct. 4. The central bank
will boost a 30 trillion yen ($359 billion) credit program at
the meeting to encourage lending, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh food slid 1 percent
in August from a year earlier after falling 1.1 percent in July,
the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo. The jobless rate fell
to 5.1 percent from 5.2 percent, it said.  “I hope the BOJ will make efforts to address the
challenges of overcoming deflation and striding for maximum
employment by doing what it can” with the government, Economy
Minister Kaieda said at a press conference in Tokyo today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 