-- Japan May Spend on Rare Earths After China's Curtail Exports, Ohata Says
-- B y   G o   O n o m i t s u   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-09-30T06:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/japan-may-spend-on-rare-earths-after-china-s-curtail-exports-ohata-says.html
Japan may budget measures to secure
supplies of rare earths after China curtailed exports of the
minerals, said Japan’s Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata .  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry “hopes” to
ask for a supplementary budget to secure stable rare earth
supplies, Ohata told Jiji Press today. The comments were
confirmed by a ministry spokesman, who didn’t want to be
identified.  Ties between China and Japan soured this month over the
detention of a Chinese boat captain whose ship collided with two
Japanese Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters. Japanese
Economy Minister Banri Kaieda Tuesday said China’s “de facto”
export ban on rare earths, metals used to make parts of hybrid
cars, missiles and televisions, will hurt its economy.  China ended an effective ban on rare-earth exports to Japan
when it began accepting customs applications, the Asahi
newspaper  reported  yesteday, citing unidentified Japanese
companies. Exports resumed to at least one Japanese company’s
subsidiary in Malaysia, the paper  reported  today.  China hasn’t allowed regular shipments to resume, the
International Herald Tribune reported today, citing three
unidentified rare-earth industry officials.  Tadashi Kurakata, general manager of Advanced Material
Japan, a Tokyo-based trading house that specializes in rare
earths, said today that he couldn’t confirm whether China had
resumed exports.  Japan’s trade ministry is investigating China’s effective
ban on rare earths. The government will check with about 30
companies including users and trading houses to confirm whether
China has banned the shipments, Tsutomu Murasaki, director of
the non-ferrous metals division, said Sept. 28.  The ministry plans to release the results of its
investigation next week, the spokesman said.  Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp., which manages
the nation’s strategic metals including rare earths, hasn’t
disclosed stockpile details of each mineral since early this
year, according to spokesman Kazuhiro Uematsu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Go Onomitsu  in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net  