-- Jordan Hires Banks to Manage Bond Sale, Finance Minister Abu Hammour Says
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-09-30T14:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/jordan-hires-banks-to-manage-bond-sale-finance-minister-says.html
Jordan hired JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
 HSBC Holdings Plc , Credit Suisse Group AG and Arab Bank Plc to
manage the sale of a Eurobond, Finance Minister  Mohammad Abu Hammour  said today.  In an August interview, Abu Hammour said the government
planned a $500 million bond issue maturing in five years by the
fourth quarter of this year to help finance the nation’s budget
deficit. The government selected Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s to rate the issue, he said in a telephone
interview today.  Last month, the minister said Jordan wanted to finance the
budget deficit externally rather than internally, “leaving the
liquidity in the local market for the private sector.” Jordan
imports more than 90 percent of its oil and typically relies on
foreign investment and grants to finance its budget deficit.
Economic growth may reach 4 percent this year,  Abu Hammour  said
in May, compared with an  International Monetary Fund  forecast of
about 3.4 percent.  Foreign grants to the country more than doubled in the
first seven months of the year to 208 million dinars ($294
million), from 103 million dinars in the same period in 2009,
the  Ministry of Finance  said in a  preliminary report  earlier
this month.  Narrowing Deficit  The kingdom’s budget deficit narrowed to 281 million dinars
in the seven months after receipt of the grants, compared with a
deficit of 641 million dinars for the previous year. The
projected  budget deficit for this year after grants is about 1
billion dinars, or 6 percent of gross domestic product, down
from about 9 percent last year.  Jordan’s long-term foreign currency debt is rated Ba2 at
Moody’s Investors Service and BB at Standard & Poor’s, the
second highest junk ranking.  Jordan’s foreign  debt  increased by 1.6 percent to 3.93
billion dinars in the first seven months of the year, the
Ministry of Finance said in a  report  this month. Domestic  debt 
increased 10.6 percent to 6.4 billion dinars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  