-- JPMorgan Regains Top Spot as California Technology Debt Seller
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/jpmorgan-regains-top-spot-as-california-technology-debt-seller.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  leapfrogged
six competitors including Bank of America Corp. to become this
year’s top underwriter for California technology companies, amid
a jump in borrowing for acquisitions and stock buybacks.  JPMorgan has underwritten $3.08 billion in bonds for the
state’s computer and software makers, winning a 31 percent
share, the largest controlled by a firm since 2007, when it and
Citigroup Inc. split about 80 percent of the market, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. JPMorgan was in a sixth-place tie in
2008 and tied for seventh in 2009.  Borrowing by companies including  Hewlett- Packard Co.  and
Adobe Systems Inc. has climbed this year as they seek growth and
look to shore up stock prices after the economic slump. The New
York-based bank, traditionally the national leader in corporate
debt underwriting, is winning business in the state after
navigating the global credit crisis without a quarterly loss.  “JPMorgan came out of the financial crisis with a much
stronger franchise in investment banking, partly because of its
acquisition of Bear Stearns, but also because of the strength of
its balance sheet and  management ,”  Darrell Duffie , a Stanford
University professor of finance, said in an e-mail. “These
days, no corporate CFO would ever be criticized by the board or
CEO for choosing JPMorgan as its underwriter.”  Citigroup, based in New York, ranks second in California
this year through Sept. 15 after underwriting $1.55 billion,
Bloomberg data show. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America is third with $1.38 billion.  Marketing Advantage  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities in Lutz,
Florida, said underwriters rely on high rankings to win more
business.  “Being No. 1 is very important in a given sector,” Bove
said in a phone interview. “They go out and say, ‘We’re on top,
and therefore you should do business with us.’ It’s a major part
of the marketing approach that they use.”  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.
Citigroup spokeswoman  Danielle Romero-Apsilos  and Bank of
America spokesman  Kerrie McHugh  also declined to comment.  Borrowing by California technology companies slumped last
year as they shored up their balance sheets and reduced debt
levels in the wake of the credit crisis. Yields on investment-
grade corporate bonds are now the lowest since daily records
began on Oct. 31, 1986, and companies are borrowing again.  More Acquisitions  The 159 acquisitions announced by those companies this year
total $16.7 billion, according to Bloomberg data. That compares
with 152 deals worth $14.6 billion in the same period last year.  At today’s interest rates, financing debt can make more
sense than spending cash, said  Mark MacLennan , head of corporate
finance for Santa Clara, California-based Silicon Valley Bank.  “A lot of companies are sitting on huge cash reserves, but
one thing you need to analyze is, where are those cash
reserves?” he said. “Are they domestic cash or foreign cash
that might have tax ramifications if you repatriate it?”  Microsoft Corp. , the world’s largest software maker, sold
$4.75 billion of bonds earlier this month and may use the
proceeds to fund stock buybacks and acquisitions, the company
said Sept. 22 in a regulatory filing. The company plans to pay
for dividends and stock repurchases because much of its cash is
held overseas, a person familiar with the matter said earlier
this month. Microsoft would have to pay taxes if it brought cash
held abroad to the U.S.  HP’s Debt  HP, the largest personal computer maker, issued debt
through JPMorgan this month totaling about $3 billion.  Gina Tyler , a spokeswoman for HP, declined to comment on why it chose
the bank, saying the company doesn’t talk about outside vendors.  Palo Alto-based HP announced plans to acquire Palm Inc. for
$1.2 billion in April, followed by 3Par Inc. for $2.35 billion
and ArcSight Inc. for $1.5 billion this month.  Other companies are plowing money raised into their own
stock, MacLennan said.  “Companies’ perceptions are that their shares are probably
on the cheap side, debt interest rates are definitely on the
cheap side, and why not use that to buy back shares or potential
acquisitions?” he said.  U.S. companies have announced $258 billion in buybacks
through Sept. 20, compared with $52 billion in the first three
quarters of 2009, according to data compiled by Birinyi
Associates Inc. The almost fivefold increase is the largest for
any January-to-September period since at least 2000, when the
Westport, Connecticut-based research firm started tracking the
data.  JPMorgan is the largest underwriter of U.S. bonds, with 699
issues this year totaling $171 billion. The bank also held the
top spot in 2009 and 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  The bank has underwritten 11 debt issues this year for
California-based technology companies, including  Adobe , Advanced
Micro Devices Inc., Brocade Communications Systems Inc., Maxim
Integrated Products Inc. and Oracle Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net . 