-- Judge Requests More Detail Before Deciding Drill Ban
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   M .   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2010-09-30T17:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/judge-requests-more-detail-by-oct-11-before-deciding-drill-ban-challenge.html
U.S. regulators and the oil
industry have until Oct. 11 to answer U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman ’s questions before he decides whether to reject or
uphold the offshore drilling ban, Feldman ordered today.  Feldman today asked both sides for more evidence and legal
opinions before he determines if Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  properly issued a second drilling ban on July 12 after
Feldman struck down the first one, finding it arbitrary and
overly broad. Feldman conducted a two-hour hearing in New
Orleans yesterday on the industry’s challenge to the U.S. ban.  The judge has repeatedly cited Salazar’s public statements
and congressional testimony, made within hours of Feldman’s
overthrow of the first drilling ban on June 22, as indicators
that Salazar may not have followed federal laws requiring him to
reanalyze the situation, using new evidence, before issuing new
drilling restrictions.  “What other evidence, if any, exists to establish that the
secretary had decided to issue a second blanket moratorium even
before initiating the process of assembling new supporting
information?” Feldman asked lawyers for both sides. “Is this
sufficient under the case precedents to establish that the
secretary’s decision to issue the second moratorium was
arbitrary, capricious and an abuse of discretion?”  Worst Spill  Salazar said he followed the rules and acted within his
authority by halting drilling until Nov. 30, to give regulators
time to study improvements to drilling practices and spill-
response capabilities following the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history.  President  Barack Obama  imposed the initial drilling
suspension following the  BP Plc  oil spill, caused by the sinking
of the Deepwater Horizon rig off the Louisiana coast in April.  Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other offshore service
and supply companies sued U.S. regulators, including Salazar, in
June. The companies were joined by Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , who argued the regional economy would suffer irreparable
economic harm from the drilling suspension.  Feldman threw out the ban as too far-reaching and barred
the government from enforcing it. Within hours of that decision,
Salazar said publicly that he would find another way to keep the
deep-water rigs idle, even as he complied with Feldman’s ruling.  New Limits  On July 12, Salazar issued new limits on deep-water
drilling, while appealing Feldman’s decision scrapping the first
ban. Salazar also asked the appeals court in New Orleans to find
the Hornbeck suit irrelevant because the new rules superseded
the scrapped ban. Yesterday, the appellate court sided with the
government and said the lawsuit challenging the first ban was
“legally and practically dead” because the first ban no longer
technically exists.  Ensco Offshore Co. filed a separate lawsuit directly
challenging Salazar’s new moratorium, calling it a “mirror
image” of the overturned ban.  Ensco spokesman Sean O’Neill didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment on the judge’s order. Interior Department
spokeswoman  Kendra Barkoff  declined to comment by e-mail.  The cases are Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-1941,
and Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01663,
both in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans). The appeal case is Hornbeck v. Salazar, 10-30585, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 