-- Juventus Ties Manchester City in Europa League, Champion Atletico Is Held
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-10-01T08:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/juventus-ties-manchester-city-in-europa-league-champion-atletico-is-held.html
Juventus earned a 1-1 draw at
Manchester City last night in the second round of group games in
soccer’s Europa League, while defending champion Atletico Madrid
tied 1-1 at home by Bayer Leverkusen.  Liverpool, which has won Europe’s second-tier club
competition a record three times along with Juventus, played to
a scoreless draw at Utrecht. Napoli secured a 3-3 tie at Steaua
Bucharest in the other Group K game to leave the English team
two points ahead of its Italian and Dutch rivals atop the table
with four points.  At the City of Manchester Stadium,  Vincenzo Iaquinta  put
Juventus ahead after 10 minutes and Adam Johnson tied it 27
minutes later.  Juventus came closest to scoring the winning goal, with
four minutes remaining.  Gareth Barry  shoved Iaquinta to the
ground from behind about 25 yards from goal and  Alessandro del Piero ’s resulting free kick came down off the crossbar and
bounced back into play off the goal line.  The result snapped a seven-game losing run for Juventus in
England. The Turin-based club is still seeking its first win in
the country since 1996.  Lech Poznan and City are tied on four points at the top of
Group A, with Juventus two points behind. Poznan beat visiting
Red Bull Salzburg 2-0 in the other game.  After losing its opening match, Atletico needed a 51st-
minute penalty kick by  Simao  to earn a home draw against
Leverkusen, which took a 39th-minute lead through Eren Derdiyok.  Rosenborg beat visiting Aris Salonika 2-1 in the other
Group B game to leave Atletico at the bottom of the pool with
one point. Leverkusen leads with four points, one more than the
other two teams.  In Group L, two-time European champion Porto and Besiktas
have the maximum six points. Porto won 1-0 at CSKA Sofia and
Besiktas was a 2-1 victor at Rapid Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  