-- Barker, Budd to Start at Credit Suisse as Bank Hires Former BOE Officials
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   E .   F r a z e r
-- 2010-09-30T09:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/kate-barker-alan-budd-join-credit-suisse-fixed-income-research.html
Credit Suisse Group AG hired former
Bank of England policy makers  Kate Barker  and  Alan Budd  as
senior advisers in its fixed-income research division.  Barker and Budd will start their roles tomorrow and will
work with  Robert Barrie , head of European economics, and Credit
Suisse’s economics and research teams, the Zurich-based bank
said in an e-mailed statement in London today.  Barker left the Bank of England in May after being the only
external policy maker on the Monetary Policy Committee to have
served three three-year terms. Budd, who is returning to Credit
 Suisse  after joining the bank in 1999, recently helped set up
the U.K.’s new independent fiscal watchdog, the Office for
Budget Responsibility.  “As the longest-serving external appointee to the U.K.
Monetary Policy Committee, Kate has a unique insight into the
formation of monetary policy,” Barrie, a former Treasury
official, said in the statement. “We look forward to her
sharing the benefit of her experience with our clients.”  Budd, a former chief economist at the U.K. Treasury, ran
the OBR as interim chairman from its creation after Britain’s
May 6 general election until August. He joined the MPC in
December 1997, shortly after the central bank gained
independence from the government, and left in May 1999.  “We are delighted to welcome Sir Alan back to Credit
Suisse following his break to return to public service,” Barrie
said.  Barker, a former economist at the Confederation of British
Industry, the U.K.’s biggest business lobby, specialized in
the housing market during her time at the central bank. She
published reports for the former Labour government on housing
supply and land-use planning.  Barker told CNBC television last week that the case for the
Bank of England to add further stimulus to the economy is
looking “less certain” because of concern on  inflation . “As
the economy stands today, it’s an open question,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Michelle E. Frazer  in London at 
 mfrazer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  