-- Kenya's Economic Growth Accelerated to 5.4 Percent in the Second Quarter
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-09-30T15:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/kenyan-economy-expanded-by-5-4-in-second-quarter-on-agricultural-output.html
Kenya’s economic growth accelerated
in the second quarter after seasonal rains ended a drought and
boosted agricultural production and hydroelectric generation.  Gross domestic product expanded an annual 5.4 percent,
compared with a revised 4.8 percent in the previous three
months, the Nairobi-based  Kenya National Bureau of Statistics 
said in a statement handed to reporters today. On a seasonally
adjusted basis, the economy grew 0.2 percent from the previous
quarter, it said.  “This is better than the best market estimate,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , an independent financial analyst, said by phone from the
capital, Nairobi, today. “It puts the country in line for GDP
growth of between 5 percent and 5.5 percent for the full year.”  East Africa’s largest economy grew only 2.6 percent last
year and 1.7 percent in 2008, partly due to a drought that hit
agriculture, which accounts for a quarter of GDP. The  Central
Bank of Kenya  has lowered its benchmark interest by 2.5
percentage points to 6 percent in six reductions since the start
of 2009 to revive growth.  The expansion in GDP in the second quarter was helped by
low interest rates, slow inflation and increased output of
affordable electricity, the statement said.  In the period, agriculture expanded 5.8 percent, extending
gains recorded in the first quarter. Kenya, the world’s largest
exporter of black tea, had the highest production of the leaf in
the year through June since 2007, the statement said.  Electricity and water expanded 14.4 percent, partly due to
rains which re-filled dams powering hydroelectric plants and
also because geothermal power output rose, the statement said.  Financial services, an industry that posted “strong”
growth in the last four quarters, grew 16 percent as credit was
extended to businesses and households, it said.  Kenya’s Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said last week that
he expects expansion to exceed the government’s target of 4.5
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 