-- Kenya's Retail Confidence Index Advanced in September on Improved Outlook
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-09-30T09:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/kenya-s-retail-confidence-index-advanced-in-september-on-improved-outlook.html
Kenya’s retail confidence surged in
the third quarter as economic prospects improved with the
ratification of a new constitution and increased sales, a survey
showed.  The retailer confidence index compiled by  TNS Research
International East Africa  jumped to 150.7 in September from
113.7 in June, Melissa Baker, chief executive officer of the
market research company, told reporters today in Nairobi, the
capital. The poll of 500 businesspeople in September had a
margin of error of 4 percentage points, she said.  Confidence in East Africa’s largest economy got a boost
from expectations a new constitution signed into law in August
will help tackle corruption and ease political risks, Baker
said. The measure reflects retailers’ views on business
conditions, security and companies’ revenue performance, she
said.  “There is a continued increase in optimism among retailers
about the future of Kenya, which may have been stimulated by
ratification of the new constitution coupled with political
stability,” Anna Ndungu, TNS Research International’s director
of retail trade research for Africa, said at the same event.  Four of every five businesspeople polled expect profits to
grow in the next six months compared with 66 percent in June,
Ndungu said. Sales are already expanding, she said.  Eighty-nine percent of retailers feel optimistic about the
future, the majority of them citing the new constitution as a
key reason, compared with 84 percent a quarter earlier, said
Ndungu.  TNS began the index in October 2009, Baker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 