-- Kerviel Faces Less Jail Time Than Madoff or Leeson If Convicted
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-01T08:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/kerviel-faces-less-jail-time-than-madoff-or-leeson-if-convicted.html
If  Jerome Kerviel  is convicted next
week of causing  Societe Generale SA ’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.5
billion) loss, he won’t face the kind of sentences given to
financial felons such as  Bernard Madoff  -- or even  Nick Leeson .  French prosecutors are seeking a four-year sentence and, if
convicted, he is unlikely to serve more than two years in jail,
lawyers said. The sentencing rules in France contrast with those
in the U.S. and U.K. where authorities are increasingly trying
to make examples of white-collar criminals.  Kerviel, 33, “would face a substantial amount of jail
time” in the U.S., said  Ira Sorkin , the lawyer who represented
Madoff last year when the con man was sentenced to 150 years in
prison for running a Ponzi scheme that cost investors $20
billion. “The amount of money involved would kick this up. Ten
to 20 years would not shock anyone.”  Kerviel’s unauthorized bets on futures, hidden with faked
hedges to minimize the apparent risk, reached 50 billion euros
before Societe Generale realized what the trader was doing and
began unwinding his positions. At his June trial, Kerviel
admitted to lying to his colleagues and exceeding his trading
limits, but argued that his superiors were aware of his actions.  Judge Dominique Pauthe, who led the three-judge panel at
the trial in Paris, will announce the verdict and any sentence
on Oct. 5.  Hiding  Kerviel’s defense struggled to rebut prosecution claims
that he knew his actions were wrong and the former trader is
likely to be found guilty of some charges by the court, said
 Stephane Bonifassi , a white-collar defense lawyer in Paris, who
wasn’t involved in the case.  The defense “had problems with the fact he didn’t prove he
had authorization” to make the trades, Bonifassi said. “He hid
what he was doing.”  Kerviel lawyer  Olivier Metzner  declined to comment ahead of
the verdict as did Societe Generale lawyer  Jean Veil .  While prosecutors sought a four-year term, lawyers said
it’s unlikely he will serve that much time in jail.  The three-judge panel will issue a verdict and set the
punishment, which for a first-time offender such as Kerviel is
typically less than the maximum under the criminal code.
Prosecutors didn’t seek the maximum five years in prison they
could have under the law.  In France, “there is the feeling that prison should be
about allowing people to amend themselves,” Bonifassi said.  Leeson, Hamanaka  Even outside the U.S., financial crime is dealt with more
harshly than in France. Nick Leeson was sentenced in 1995 to 6
1/2 years in a Singapore jail for the 862 million pounds ($1.36
billion) in trading losses that bought down Barings Plc. In
Japan,  Yasuo Hamanaka  was sentenced to eight years in prison for
hiding $2.6 billion in copper trading losses during the 1990s at
Sumitomo Corp.  Leeson’s sentence was worse than his defense team hoped
he’d get, said  Stephen Pollard , his London-based lawyer. He
agreed to extradition from Germany if prosecutors pursued two
charges carrying an eight-year maximum. The eight months he
spent in a German jail while the transfer was negotiated counted
as time served so he ultimately served two-thirds of the
sentence.  The number of years “is potentially a misleading
comparator,” said Pollard. The sentence should be compared to
the local maximum available for the charges, not sentences in
other countries.  Allied Irish Banks  In another U.S. case,  John Rusnak  was sentenced to 7 1/2
years in 2003 for concealing $691 million in losses at  Allied
Irish Banks Plc . The penalty was part of a plea bargain reached
before sentencing guidelines were made optional and has become
the “over-under level” by which other white-collar jail terms
are assessed, his lawyer, David Irwin, said.  Given the amount of money Societe Generale lost, a four-
year sentence “is extremely light,” Irwin said. In the U.S.,
Kerviel’s sentence “would be a huge number, at least 20
years.”  In the U.K., the Financial Services Authority has been
“quicker to sanction the institution rather than the
individual,” said Robert Falkner, a litigator with Reed Smith.
Still, London-based broker  Jonathan Bunn  was sentenced in July
to 2 1/2 years for unauthorized trades losing 2.7 million pounds
for Lewis Charles Securities Ltd.  ‘Egregious’ Case  Falkner said Kerviel would receive between five and 10
years in Britain, because it was an “egregious” case.  In France, four years would be “a very harsh sentence,”
Bonifassi said. “Even for horrendous crimes, murdering kids,
killing cops, you look at 30 years jail time. No one ever dies
in jail in France.”  There are several issues that differentiate French criminal
sentences from the U.S., lawyers said.  The law sets a maximum jail term and otherwise judges
impose penalties without regard to how their peers have
sanctioned similar crimes. Their U.S. counterparts use
guidelines set by Congress as a matrix to determine what
punishment is appropriate.  A French “judge is free to choose the penalty he wants,”
said Matthieu Bonduelle, a judge and secretary general of the
Paris-based  Magistrates’ Union . “The prosecution asks,
recommends, but it’s just a request. The judge decides in light
of the affair and the people in front of him.”  Early Release  Even if Kerviel is sentenced to the full four years
prosecutors seek, the five weeks he was detained during the
investigation would be deducted and he would be eligible for
release after serving half his jail term.  “It’s all but certain he won’t do four years in prison,”
Bonduelle said.  While early release isn’t uncommon elsewhere, prisoners can
be freed much sooner in France. The U.S. requires federal
prisoners serve 85 percent of their sentence.  Leeson served 3 1/2 years of his term; Hamanaka was in jail
for seven of his eight-year sentence and Rusnak almost six of
his 7 1/2-year term.  “Basically it’s a free ride in France,” Bonifassi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 