-- Kim Jong Il Stacks Octogenarians Around Son in North Korea Succession Plan
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2010-10-01T07:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/kim-jong-il-stacks-octogenarians-around-son-in-north-korea-succession-plan.html
Kim Jong Il , North Korea’s ailing 68-
year-old leader, urged ally China in August to help him “hand
over  to the rising generation .” This week he installed a set of
leaders whose average age is 77.  He did appoint his youngest  son ,  Kim Jong Un , to his first
party post amid speculation the younger Kim, reported to be in
his late 20s, was the likely heir. Most top jobs, though, were
filled by  cadres  two generations older at the meeting of the
ruling Workers’ Party of Korea, the first in three decades.  The younger Kim, reported by South Korean and American
media to have been educated in Switzerland and to be a fan of
the National Basketball Association, thus may govern with people
who fought for his grandfather against the U.S.-led forces in
the Korean War.  “Kim Jong Il tried to set the groundwork for transferring
power to his son, while showing his power remains intact, backed
by the loyalty of the old guard,” said  Yang Moo Jin , a
professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul.
The leader “can’t abandon his father’s people.”  Kim Jong Il also promoted a handful of allies from his own
generation to act as guardians, such as party functionary  Choe Ryong Hae , 60, and career soldier Ri Yong Ho, 67. That should
buy the heir time to cement his power base and learn the ropes
of government, said Georgy Toloraya, a professor who studies
North Korea at the Russian Academy of Science in Moscow.  Professional Help  “He will be assisted by professionals like Ri,” Toloraya
said. “Elder leaders won’t be inclined to challenge his
authority unless he takes some reckless steps.”  The elder Kim began his ascent through the party 30 years
before the death of his father, the nation’s  founder ,  Kim Il Sung . This transition may have less time. The dictator looked
thin and gaunt in a  photograph  published yesterday that also
showed Kim Jong Un in public for the first time.  Kim Jong Il’s sister, Kim Kyong Hui, 64, was elected as a
permanent member of the Politburo. Her husband,  Jang Song Thaek ,
64, was promoted to vice chairman of the National Defense
Commission in June, making him the No. 2 government official. At
this week’s party meeting, Jang was also appointed as an
alternate member of the Politburo and a member of the Central
Military Commission.  “These are the people who will be Kim Jong Un’s guards
until he rises to the throne,” Yang said. The younger Kim
attended school in German-speaking Switzerland and followed the
NBA, the Washington Post reported in July 2009.  Pioneer’s Role  In the  photo session  with the new Politburo members, Kim
Jong Il said he believed they would “play their pioneer’s role
in the revolution,” the Korean Central News Agency said.  Yang Hyong Sop , elected as one of the 17 permanent members
of the party’s Politburo, the nation’s most powerful body, turns
85 today, according to official biographies of the Politburo
members published by KCNA. When fellow Politburo members  Choe Yong Rim  and  Choe Thae Bok  turn 80 in the following two months,
the number of octogenarians in the group will rise to 10.  Kim Jong Il remains the second-youngest permanent Politburo
member. In a regime where falling from favor can lead to a death
penalty, members’ longevity may signal a lack of opposition to
the son’s ascent.  Fatal Failures  Pak Nam Gi, director of the party’s financial planning
office, was executed this year for his role in a botched
currency revaluation, according to South Korea’s Yonhap News and
Free North Korea Radio. Railway Minister  Kim Yong Sam  was  shot 
after hungry workers stole metal and sold it for scrap, Radio
Free Asia reported.  So Kwan Hui , the party secretary for
agricultural affairs, was executed in 1997 after famine killed
millions of people, South Korea’s Chosun Ilbo newspaper said.  Ri  and Choe Ryong Hae are both younger than their leader.  Vice Marshal Ri was elected to one of the five positions on
the presidium of the  Politburo , headed by Kim Jong Il. He was
also named vice chairman of the Central Military Commission,
where he’ll sit alongside Kim Jong Un.  Choe is a provincial party chief whose father fought
alongside Kim Il Sung in northern China, according to the older
Kim’s  memoirs . Together with Kim Jong Un, Choe was named a four-
star general on the eve of this week’s party meeting.  Choe was among the group that visited China in late August
with Kim Jong Il. China is North Korea’s largest trading partner
and main political ally, having fought alongside the North and
against the U.S. in the 1950-1953 Korean War.  Trip to China  North Korea sent a Workers’ Party delegation led by Choe
Thae Bok to Beijing yesterday, KCNA reported, with no reference
to other officials on the trip. Kim Jong Il’s second trip to
China this year in August had sparked speculation he may have
sought the ally’s endorsement of his son as the heir.  While China and North Korea share similar political systems,
the Chinese Communist Party insists its Politburo officials
retire before 70. China’s President and Secretary General of the
Communist Party  Hu Jintao  is 67, ruling him out of standing for
any new position when the party convenes in 2012.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story
Bomi Lim at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net 
 Ben Richardson  at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  