-- Kingfisher Hires Former SpiceJet Chief as CEO; Wins Debt Revamp Approval
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-09-30T11:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/kingfisher-airlines-appoints-former-spicejet-chief-sanjay-aggarwal-as-ceo.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. , India’s
second-biggest domestic carrier, named  Sanjay Aggarwal  as chief
executive officer and won central bank approval to restructure
debts as its seeks to end a run of six annual losses.  Aggarwal , ex-CEO of budget carrier SpiceJet Ltd., will take
over at Kingfisher immediately, the carrier said in a statement
today. Former CEO, billionaire founder  Vijay Mallya , will remain
as chairman.  Kingfisher rose in Mumbai trading, reversing earlier losses,
after announcing the appointment and the debt-restructuring
approval, which will help cut interest costs by as much as 11
percent, according to Mallya. The carrier has struggled to turn
rising demand into profit because of competition from budget
carriers including SpiceJet and costs from buying new planes.  Banks will likely agree to the loan-restructuring plan
within a month, Mallya said today at a shareholders meeting in
Bangalore. The airline also got a two-year moratorium from banks
on loan repayments, he said.  Kingfisher had  net debts  of 77.2 billion rupees ($1.72
billion) as of March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The carrier also plans to sell global depository receipts to
raise funds, Mallya said.  The airline  rose  1.4 percent to 74.15 rupees at the close
of trading in Mumbai after earlier falling as much as 3.6
percent. The shares have gained 17 percent this year.  Aggarwal, SpiceJet  Aggarwal returned SpiceJet to  profit  last fiscal year, the
only listed Indian carrier to avoid a loss in the period. He
quit the New Delhi-based carrier after billionaire  Kalanithi Maran  bought a stake in June.  Kingfisher narrowed its fiscal first-quarter loss to 1.87
billion rupees from 2.37 billion rupees a year earlier as it
cuts services to pare costs. The airline reduced capacity by 20
percent on domestic routes and 6 percent on international routes,
according to a July investor presentation on its website.  The carrier, which aims to join the  Oneworld  alliance next
year, has also reduced its number of leased planes and
expatriate pilots, according to the same presentation.  India’s airlines may narrow their combined losses to $400
million this year from $1.7 billion a year earlier as the global
economic rebound revives travel demand, according to the
International Air Transport Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net 
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  