-- Kiwi Dollar Moves Driven by Risk Appetite Post-Crisis, Central Bank Says
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-09-30T05:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/kiwi-dollar-moves-driven-by-risk-appetite-post-crisis-central-bank-says.html
The New Zealand dollar has been
driven more by risk appetite than interest-rate differentials
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. as
volatility in markets increased, the nation’s central bank said.  Demand for the so-called kiwi may wane if rates remain
“well below” those in Australia and Brazil, according to a
report authored by Enzo Cassino and Zoe Wallis from the Reserve
Bank of New Zealand’s financial markets department. On average,
the currency has moved in line with its yield difference over
the U.S. 50 percent of the time, while it’s influenced by
commodity prices 30 percent of the time and risk appetite in the
remaining periods, the report said.  “Recently, however, the risk regime has been dominant on a
much more regular basis over the crisis period,” the analysts
wrote. “The increasing volatility in financial markets over the
crisis period has seen traders reduce their search for yield,
and instead be more commonly driven by risk appetite.”  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 7.5 percent this quarter to
73.59 U.S. cents as of 2:22 p.m. in Sydney. Gains have lagged
behind the Australian currency’s 15 percent advance as the
larger South Pacific nation’s economy skirted the global
recession and demand for its commodities drove growth.  The kiwi is getting “less attention” than peers in
Australia and Brazil amid thinner liquidity and lower relative
borrowing costs, the bank said. Turnover volume in the New
Zealand dollar market has declined by about 30 percent from that
seen in the 2005 to 2007 period, the report said, citing a
central bank survey of domestic banks.  Benchmark rates are 3 percent in New Zealand, compared with
4.5 percent in Australia and 10.75 percent in Brazil, attracting
so-called carry-trade investments in the nations’ assets, using
low-cost funds borrowed in the U.S. and Japan.  “The impact of the carry trade on the value of the New
Zealand dollar appears to have diminished,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 