-- Korean Won Set for Best Month in a Year on Pickup in Yuan Gains, Inflows
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-09-30T01:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/korean-won-set-for-best-month-in-a-year-on-pickup-in-yuan-gains-inflows.html
South Korea’s won was headed for
its biggest monthly gain in a year after a pickup in yuan
appreciation made policy makers more tolerant of gains and an
improving economy spurred demand for the nation’s assets.  The currency has strengthened 5 percent since the end of
August, Asia’s best performance, and yesterday hit a four-month
high of 1,139.84 per dollar. The  Kospi  index yesterday closed at
its highest level since May 2008, supported by foreigners’ net
share purchases this month of more than $3.4 billion.  “The yuan moving to flexibility in combination with
attractive local rates in the won and a stable growth story is
behind it all,” said  Douglas Borthwick , Stamford, Connecticut-
based managing director and head of foreign-exchange trading at
Faros Trading LLC. “Foreign inflows continue to be a factor in
won strength, as noted in the performance in the Kospi.”  The won traded at 1,141 per dollar as of 10:04 a.m. in
Seoul, 0.1 percent stronger than yesterday’s closing level,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s poised for a 6.2
percent gain this quarter. China’s yuan has gained 1.8 percent
this month versus the greenback, accounting for the bulk of its
2.1 percent advance since a two-year peg ended on June 19.  The Chinese government will “further improve” its
exchange rate mechanism and “increase the flexibility” of the
yuan, the People’s Bank of China said yesterday in a statement
on its website. The U.S. House of Representatives voted 348-79
yesterday for a measure that would let domestic companies
petition for duties on imports from China to compensate for the
effect of a weak yuan.  Inflows, Surplus  Overseas investors  bought  more Korean shares than they sold
today for a 12th day, the longest buying streak since April,
exchange data show. Bank of Korea official Lee Young Bog said
yesterday the nation’s current-account surplus, which tracks net
inflows from trade in goods and services, could be more than the
full-year prediction of $21 billion by September.  South Korea’s three-year bonds were little changed after
yesterday climbing to their highest level since the current
benchmark note was issued more than three months ago. The yield
on the 3.75 percent debt due June 2013 was 3.34 percent, one
basis point higher than yesterday’s close, according to Korea
Stock Exchange. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 