-- Kubilius Says Euro Is `Best Outcome' for Lithuania Even Amid Debt Crisis
-- B y   B o   N i e l s e n   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2010-09-30T08:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/kubilius-says-euro-is-best-outcome-for-lithuania-even-amid-debt-crisis.html
Lithuania wants to join the euro
“as soon as possible” even as members of the currency bloc
struggle through the region’s sovereign debt crisis, Lithuanian
Prime Minister  Andrius Kubilius  said.  “We have a very clear goal to join the euro as soon as
possible,” Kubilius said yesterday in an interview in
Copenhagen. “The best outcome is to join the euro even with the
euro’s problems at the moment.”  Lithuania was the first country to have its bid to adopt
the euro rejected in 2006 because its inflation rate was too
high. The budget deficit, which was 8.9 percent of  gross
domestic product  last year, almost three times the European
Union limit, is now the biggest hurdle to the currency switch.  The government aims to slash the shortfall to about 5.6
percent of GDP in 2011 by controlling spending, boosting revenue
from state-owned enterprises and cracking down on the shadow
economy to increase tax collection, Kubilius said. Lithuania has
set a target of joining the euro in 2014.  The  Economy Ministry  and Kubilius have backed a plan to
improve returns from state assets by pulling its 300 companies
into a single holding, shielding them from political influence
and increasing transparency. Finance Minister  Ingrida Simonyte 
said Sept. 15 the overhaul of state enterprises may raise 1.5
billion litai ($590 million) for the budget in two years.  The proposal has been criticized by both the ruling
coalition and the opposition.  “The holding structure is not the issue,” Kubilius said.
“We want to introduce better corporate governance in the state-
owned companies. The consolidation of assets into one company is
a not a goal, it’s a tactical move.”  ‘Steady’ Recovery  Lithuania’s economy, which shrank 15 percent last year,
will expand 1.5 percent to 2 percent in 2010, driven by exports,
Kubilius said. Exports increased 32.5 percent from a year
earlier in July on fuels and plastics, the statistics office
said Sept. 9.  “The recovery is really very steady,” Kubilius said.
“Next year will be easier.”  The  Finance Ministry  estimates growth may average 1.6
percent this year.  The government has “very limited instruments” to stem
rising food prices, Kubilius said. The Finance Ministry said
Sept. 7 that consumer prices may rise 1.1 percent this year,
reversing an earlier forecast for deflation.  “Inflation is not a problem yet,” Kubilius said. “We
don’t see objective reasons for a big increase in inflation.
We’re asking our competitive authorities to look into the
market. We’ll try to make sure that somebody doesn’t use factors
like the climate to increase prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net 
 Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  