-- Nabucco Says Iraq Probably `Most Real' Supplier for Natural-Gas Pipeline
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-09-30T12:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/nabucco-says-iraq-probably-most-real-supplier-for-natural-gas-pipeline.html
The Nabucco natural-gas pipeline
venture sees Iraq as the “most real” supplier for the link
designed to ship fuel from the Caspian Sea to Europe.  Iraq is bigger and less dependent on Russia than
Turkmenistan or Azerbaijan, Head of Corporate Affairs Dimitar
Abadjiev told reporters in Bucharest today. “That’s why I
expect to have the first gas from Iraq,” he said.  The 7.9 billion-euro ($10.8 billion) pipeline is designed
to carry gas more than 3,300 kilometers (2,050 miles) from
Turkey to Austria to reduce Europe’s dependence on Russia. The
venture on Sept. 6 said it may get as much as 4 billion euros in
loans from the  World Bank , the  European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development  and the European Investment Bank.  The World Bank, EBRD and EIB are scheduled to make an
announcement on financing in the second half of 2011, Abadjiev
said. Construction will start immediately after, he said.  Nabucco must consider using Iranian gas in the link,
Turkey’s Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said today in Istanbul. If
the venture is a commercial one, then the origin of gas
shouldn’t matter, he said.  The venture said in August that it plans feeder pipelines
from Georgia and Iraq and has decided against a link to the
country’s border with Iran “due to the current political
situation.”  Domestic Needs  The pipeline is in preliminary talks with Iraqi authorities
via  RWE AG , which is among Nabucco’s shareholders, Abadjiev
said. It also is in talks with Egypt, he said.  RWE, Germany’s second-largest utility, in August signed a
cooperation agreement with the Kurdistan Regional Government to
help develop the Iraqi region’s gas distribution network.  “Before any export, our gas will be used to meet the needs
of the people of the Kurdistan region and neighboring areas,”
KRG Prime Minister  Barham Salih  said in an Aug. 26  statement 
posted on the regional government’s website.  The Iraqi Oil Ministry responded with a  statement  on its
website “stressing that Iraq is exporting crude oil and gas
through the Iraqi oil marketing company exclusively and there is
not any other party authorized to sign contracts with
international companies.”  Shah Deniz  “When it comes to exports of gas, Iraq is one Iraq,”
 Ashti Hawrami , minister of natural resources for KRG, said in an
interview in Istanbul today. “There will be no problem with
regard to Kurdish region exporting gas” to Nabucco.  Nabucco shareholders  Mol Nyrt . of Hungary and Austria’s  OMV
AG  each bought a 10 percent stake in Dana Gas PJSC’s Iraqi unit,
Pearl Petroleum, in May 2009 as part of a plan to supply the
pipeline.  Nabucco expects to get 10 billion cubic meters from Iraq
and 8 billion cubic meters from Azerbaijan’s Shah Deniz field,
Abadjiev said.  He is “optimistic” that negotiations with Shah Deniz will
be fruitful, as it has an interest in diversification and in
having access to European markets, Abadjiev said.  “This isn’t only a question of price,” he said, adding
that Russia was betting on price in regard to Shah Deniz.  Negotiations with Shah Deniz will start in November, at the
same time as the venture commences the so-called “open
season,” which the project’s planners will use to gauge
interest in gas supplies from potential customers.  Nabucco partners, which also include Bulgargaz EAD,
Romania’s  Transgaz SA  and Ankara-based Botas, will decide on the
investment next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  