-- Namibian Uranium Output Rose in Second Quarter on Demand From China, India
-- B y   C h a m w e   K a i r a
-- 2010-09-30T15:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/namibian-uranium-output-rose-on-china-india-demand-update1-.html
Namibian uranium concentrate
production jumped in the second quarter on higher demand from
China and India, the southern African country’s central bank
said.  Namibia, Africa’s second biggest producer of uranium, mined
18 percent more of the nuclear fuel in the three months through
June compared with a year earlier, the Windhoek-based Bank of
Namibia said in a  quarterly report  published on its website
today. Production increased by 9.9 percent from the first
quarter, it said, without giving figures.  “The demand for uranium continued to be high, emanated
mostly from China, India and South Korea, coupled with planned
nuclear plant programs across the globe due to increased demand
for clean energy,” the central bank said.  Namibian uranium output may quadruple by 2015 as new mines
are opened by companies including  Extract Resources Ltd ., more
than doubling the metal’s contribution to the economy,
Investment House Namibia, a Windhoek-based brokerage, said on
May 18. The industry accounted for 5.6 percent of Namibia’s
gross domestic product in 2009.  A recovery in mining is expected to help Namibia’s economy
rebound from last year’s contraction, to grow an estimated 4.2
percent in 2010, the central bank said.  Paladin Energy Ltd.  and
 Rio Tinto Group  operate uranium mines in the country.  Zinc concentrate production rose by 9.1 percent in the
second quarter compared with a year earlier and by 6.5 percent
from the first three months of this year, the central bank said.
Refined zinc production increased 1.7 percent to 38,159 metric
tons.  “The rise in zinc production was due to the continued
favorable international price of zinc, coupled with continued
demand of base metals especially by China and India,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chamwe Kaira in Windhoek via Johannesburg at 
pmrichardson@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  