-- NEC Bid $1 Billion for Cogent Before 3M, Filing Shows
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/nec-corp-made-1-billion-buyout-bid-for-cogent-delaware-court-papers-say.html
Cogent Inc. , the fingerprint-
identification systems maker being acquired by  3M Co. , received
a more-than $1 billion buyout bid from  NEC Corp. , according to
court papers.  3M, the maker of products including anti-counterfeiting
laminates, agreed Aug. 30 to buy Pasadena, California-based
Cogent for $10.50 a share for a total of $943 million. Cogent
investors sued in Delaware Chancery Court alleging the company’s
officials didn’t get enough for shareholders and unfairly
structured the deal to deter other bidders.  NEC, Japan’s largest maker of personal computers, bid as
much as $12 a share before Cogent’s board agreed to St. Paul,
Minnesota-based 3M’s offer, Cogent shareholders said in a court
filing unsealed yesterday. Cogent officials had said they’d
received a bid from an unidentified bidder identified only as
“Company D.”  “From talking to industry sources and analysts and
investors, I think the consensus was that it was NEC but nobody
had that confirmed,” said  Brent D. Cann , a partner at Pointer
Capital, which with affiliate Atlantic Investment Co. holds the
third largest Cogent stake. “Nothing surprises me at this point
coming out on this story. Everything you hear about this is just
shady.”  Cogent climbed as much as 2.8 percent to $10.94 after
regular trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday, before
settling back down to $10.64 at 5:35 p.m.  3M  fell 46 cents to
$86.71 at 4 p.m. yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading .  Company D  “Plaintiffs have identified NEC” as Company D, investors
said in the court filing. They said NEC’s offer was “subject
only to a short period to complete its due diligence.”  A phone call to Cogent’s chief executive officer,  Ming Hsieh , wasn’t immediately returned.  Donna Fleming Runyon , a 3M
spokeswoman, also didn’t return call for comment.  A representative of Tokyo-based NEC couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment yesterday.  Cogent makes fingerprint and palm-print identification
systems that allow customers to electronically capture print
images, encode prints into files and compare them to a database
containing potentially millions of prints.  Cogent investors are scheduled to ask Chancery Court Judge
 Donald Parsons  today to block 3M’s bid at a hearing in
Wilmington, Delaware. The court filing was unsealed at the
request of Bloomberg News.  Cogent executives “pushed through the deal with 3M to
obtain significant financial benefits for themselves that will
not be shared with the public shareholders of Cogent,” the
lawyers said in the filings.  3M said in a Sept. 10 statement that it had commenced a
tender offer for Cogent and that the offer expires at midnight
on Oct. 7.  The case is In Re Cogent Inc. Shareholders Litigation,
Consolidated CA 5780-VCP, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 