-- NeuroSky MindWave Headset Reads Minds, Picks Movie Plot Twists
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-01T05:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/neurosky-s-mindwave-headset-reads-minds-to-determine-movies-plot-twists.html
Every  Sylvester Stallone  fan knows
that Rocky Balboa wins the final match against Ivan Drago in the
classic 1985 film “Rocky IV.”  If you were watching the movie while wearing a MindWave
headset, the bout could go either way. Concentrate hard enough
on the fight scene, and Rocky knocks out Drago. Lose focus, and
the victory goes to the ruthless Russian.  MindWave is a new device that literally reads minds,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 4 issue. Developed by
NeuroSky, a closely held company in San Jose, California, the
headset features an electrode that rests on the forehead and
detects the minuscule electrical impulses generated inside the
brain as it experiences thoughts and emotions. Those brain waves
are relayed by a radio signal to a computer, where they’re
interpreted by software.  “My wife and daughter love ‘Avatar,’” said NeuroSky’s
Chief Executive Officer Stanley Yang. (Spoiler Alert) “Every
time they watched it they said, ‘I wish  Sigourney Weaver  had
lived.’ That would be a fun experience if you could see it
actually happen because you wished it.”  Though  James Cameron  hasn’t come calling yet, cinephiles
can soon test-drive a MindWave. On Nov. 11, NeuroSky will start
selling a $99 kit for use at home. The package will include a
headset and a CD-ROM with a brief training program and a short
video, produced by London studio  Treite Labs . Treite developed
the Myndplay software that interprets signals from the headset
and adjusts the story to match the viewer’s thoughts. The
company is producing several more short films for MindWave that
will be available for download, Treite Managing Director Tre
Azam said. The library will be limited to short films for the
foreseeable future.  “You have to take baby steps first,” Yang said.  Mental Tricks  NeuroSky’s technology has been used since mid-2009 in toys
like  Mattel Inc. ’s Mindflex and  Uncle Milton Industries Inc. ’s
Star Wars Force Trainer, both of which let kids mentally
manipulate a small ball while it floats on a cushion of air.
Medical researchers are experimenting with similar systems to
allow disabled patients to control wheelchairs, prosthetics and
computers with their thoughts.  When NeuroSky demonstrated the MindWave system for a
Bloomberg Businessweek reporter, the Treite videos weren’t
ready, so the company re-edited old films, including “Rocky
IV,” to create multiple endings. In a pivotal scene from the
1994 hit-man thriller “The Professional,” one of the heroes
aims her sniper rifle at a bad guy. The viewer ensures a kill
shot by staying relaxed, the ideal mind state for steady hands
and accurate shooting. Too much intensity and she misses.  Original Films  Yang’s aspiration is for movie studios to produce original
films tailored to the technology. Ultimately, he said, theaters
will be able to read the minds of an entire audience, whose
thoughts would influence the feature film in progress.  Getting to that point is a challenge, in part because
theaters would need to purchase headsets and digital projectors
capable of picking up radio signals. Studios would have to film
multiple story lines and endings, said Nathan Mayfield, co-
founder of  Hoodlum , a production company that creates
interactive games and videos.  “You’re halving your value in some ways” by creating two
versions of the same show or movie, he said.  David Westendorf, NeuroSky’s vice president for marketing,
admits it’s a long road to Hollywood success, and it will take
at least two years to get a feature film into theaters.  “You have to evangelize,” he said, “and get the right
producers and have the right spitball sessions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Aley at   jaley@bloomberg.net  