-- New Zealand's Home Building Approvals, Confidence Suggest Slow Recovery
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-09-30T06:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/new-zealand-s-home-building-approvals-confidence-suggest-slow-recovery.html
New Zealand’s home-building
approvals slumped to a 13-month low and business confidence slid
for a fifth month, adding to signs of a slow economic recovery
this year.  Permits  plunged 17.8 percent in August from July,
Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington today, citing
seasonally adjusted figures. An ANZ National Bank Ltd.  survey 
this month showed 14 percent of firms expect the economy will be
stronger in a year’s time, down from 16 percent in August.  Falling construction, exports and bank lending add to signs
New Zealand’s expansion is moderating, held back by declining
business and consumer confidence even before the impact of the
country’s worst earthquake in 80 years. The economy grew less
than economists expected in the second quarter and the central
bank paused rate increases this month due to the growth outlook.  “Today’s figures again reflect an economy that is under
some duress,” said  Stephen Toplis , head of research at Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “We remain comfortable with our
view that the Reserve Bank will not need to raise rates until
March.”  The local dollar declined, falling to as low as 73.49 U.S.
cents from 73.75 cents immediately before the building approvals
report. It bought 73.59 cents at 5:15 p.m. in Wellington. The
benchmark  NZX 50  stock index slid 1.5 percent, the biggest drop
in four months.  Lending to Households  New Zealand lending to households rose 0.1 percent in
August, the slowest pace in five months, according to central
bank data published yesterday.  Exports , which make up 30 percent
of the economy, fell in August to a nine-month low, according to
government figures released this week.  Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  on Sept. 16 left the
official cash rate unchanged at 3 percent and revised down his
growth forecasts, saying the household sector remains cautious.
The economy expanded 0.2 percent in the three months ended June
30, less than Bollard’s predicted 0.9 percent growth.  Fewer New Zealand companies are optimistic about the
economy and firms are scaling back hiring and investment
intentions,  ANZ National Bank  said.  Its survey of 506 firms showed those planning to hire
workers about equal those who may fire staff, and a net 1.9
percent intend to increase investment. After seasonal
adjustments, the number of companies expecting their own sales
to improve in the next year fell to 19 percent from 28 percent
in August.  The trend for building approvals excluding apartments has
been falling since March, the  statistics agency  said today.  Economists prefer to look at figures excluding apartments,
which are volatile. There were 36 consents for apartments in
August, down from 203 in July.  Approvals excluding apartments rose 28 percent in the year
ended Aug. 31 from the year earlier, today’s report showed. Even
so, the total is down 19 percent from the year through August
2008, before New Zealand entered its worst  recession  in three
decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  