-- Nissan to Buy More Foreign Parts After Yen Surge, Palmer Says
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-09-30T16:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/nissan-plans-to-buy-more-foreign-parts-after-yen-s-increase-palmer-says.html
Nissan Motor Co.  is seeking to buy
more foreign parts for its Japanese-made cars as the strong yen
hurts export profitability, Senior Vice President  Andy Palmer 
said in an interview.  Nissan wants parts billed in other currencies to account
for 35 percent to 40 percent of purchasing for models such as
the Cube mini, which currently has almost no foreign content,
Palmer said today at the Paris Motor Show. The carmaker is
holding back sales of some models until that happens, he said.  “We either increase the non-yen content or we close
factories,” Palmer said. “We never imagined that the yen would
go to 85 to the dollar -- in our worst nightmares it was 90.”  The Japanese currency has gained 11 percent against the
dollar this year, slashing the value of overseas sales and
profit margins on cars that incur manufacturing costs in yen.
The yen’s surge has hurt earnings from sales of key models such
as the Rogue in the U.S. and X-Trail in Europe, as well as the
luxury Infiniti brand’s exports.  A replacement for the current X-Trail model, due around
2013, is likely to be manufactured in China as well as Japan,
Palmer said.  Besides the push to use more foreign parts, Nissan is
putting the brake on sales of some Japanese-made models,
Executive Vice President  Colin Dodge  said today. Production of
the X-Trail is down about 30 percent year-on-year as the
carmaker focuses marketing and incentive spending on more
profitable sales, he in an interview.  Cube, Juke  The Cube will likely miss its original full-year volume
target as Nissan refrains from promoting it overseas, Palmer
said. “We’re currently not making any money on it.”  For Europe and the U.S., Nissan is ramping up output of
locally assembled models to fill the gaps, with production of
the Qashqai and Juke SUVs in Sunderland, England, now running at
full tilt on three shifts.  The carmaker is targeting record deliveries of 3.8 million
vehicles this year, Dodge said today. “We may even do
significantly better than that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 