-- Nomura Lures 5.5% of Investment Limit for China Fund (Correct)
-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-10-01T08:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/nomura-asset-fund-bets-chinese-tourists-will-boost-japan-s-consumer-stocks.html
(Corrects quote in fourth paragraph of story published Sept.
30.)  Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s
largest brokerage, attracted 5.5 percent of a limit it set for a
mutual fund investing in companies that benefit from spending by
Chinese tourists.  The fund, which began operations today, gathered about 4.4
billion yen ($56.7 million), Yuka Sasaki, the assistant manager
of Nomura Asset Management Co.’s corporate planning department,
wrote in an e-mail. Nomura Asset had set an 80 billion yen limit,
according to a prospectus for the closed fund. The company had
marketed the fund between Sept. 21 and Sept. 29.  While the fund follows a relaxation on July 1 of Japanese
rules for Chinese tourist visas, its start came amid soured
relations between the nations. Diplomatic tensions have arisen
over the detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose
vessel collided with two Japanese Coast Guard ships on Sept. 7
near a chain of islands claimed by both countries.  “The timing was not good, so the result was regrettable,”
for the new fund, said Kazuhito Suzuki, a strategist in Tokyo at
Shinkin Asset Management Co., which oversees about $3.9 billion.
“The territorial dispute and current relationship between Japan
and China dulled individual investors’ appetite.”  China released three of four Japanese detained last week
for allegedly videotaping military targets, Japan’s Foreign
Minister Seiji Maehara said in parliament today. Japan last week
released the captain of the Chinese fishing trawler. Japan’s
Prime Minister Naoto Kan said on Sept. 28 there is no plan “at
this point” to meet with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao at an Asia-
Europe summit next week to help mend relations.  Customers’ Needs  The amount invested with Nomura’s new fund “is the result
of customers’ needs,” said Kaori Taguchi, a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman. “If we consider the recent market condition, 4.4
billion yen is not that small. We are not aware that investors
didn’t buy because of the current Japan-China dispute.”  A sale for a fund related to Japanese stocks by Nomura in
March drew 33.4 billion yen, or about 26 percent of the upper
limit of 130 billion yen set for the product, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nomura’s new fund will buy shares in consumer-related
stocks, including department stores, cosmetics producers and
electronic products in anticipation of rising tourist numbers,
Satoshi Tsuji, senior marketing executive of Nomura Asset, said
before the sale amount was announced.  In August, a record 171,800 Chinese tourists visited Japan,
according to the Japan National Tourism Organization, a
government agency aimed at attracting more tourists. July saw a
59 percent jump to 165,100 from the previous month. In the six
months through June, before the visa rules were relaxed, Japan
had a total of 704,500 Chinese tourists.  Spending More  “Spending by Chinese tourists has risen along with an
increase in the number of Chinese tourists,” Tsuji said. “The
theme gives investors another view of Japanese stocks.”  Chinese tourists spend an average 250,000 yen each,
Chiwoong Lee, an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in
a report dated July 5. Total spending may expand by about 51
billion yen based on an assumption that the number of Chinese
tourists will double and spending will decline 75 percent from
the current average, he wrote.  Masatomo Azuma, a fund manager at Nomura Asset, said the
companies they invest in will be disclosed in a monthly report
at the end of October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net . 