-- Novartis to Pay $422.5 Million to Resolve U.S. Trileptal Marketing Probes
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-30T19:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/novartis-agrees-to-pay-422-5-million-to-end-trileptal-probes-in-the-u-s-.html
A U.S. unit of  Novartis AG , the
Swiss drugmaker, agreed to pay $422.5 million to resolve
criminal and civil investigations into the marketing of its
epilepsy drug Trileptal.  Novartis Pharmaceuticals said in a statement that it will
plead guilty to a misdemeanor in federal court in Philadelphia
and pay a $185 million fine. The company also agreed to pay
$237.5 million to resolve civil allegations over promoting
Trileptal for uses not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, and for paying kickbacks to doctors to prescribe
that drug and five others.  “The goal was to enhance profits through improper
marketing,” U.S. Attorney Zane Memeger said in an interview
after a news conference in Philadelphia. The company, he said,
was driven by greed.  The civil settlement resolves lawsuits filed by four
whistleblowers under the federal False Claims Act, which lets
private citizens sue on behalf of the government and share in
recoveries. On Sept. 15, a  Forest Laboratories Inc.  unit agreed
to plead guilty and pay $313 million in a whistleblower case
over its Levothroid thyroid drug, and  Allergan Inc.  agreed
Sept. 1 to plead guilty and pay $600 million to resolve civil
and criminal probes over its drug Botox.  Novartis, which first said in January that it would plead
guilty, signed a five-year corporate integrity agreement with
the inspector general of the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services.  ‘High Standards’  “NPC will continue its commitment to high standards of
ethical business conduct and regulatory compliance in the sale
and marketing of our products,”  Andy Wyss , president of
Novartis Pharmaceuticals, said in a statement.  Novartis  will plead guilty to introducing misbranded drugs
into interstate commerce from July 2000 to December 2001.  The company got FDA approval in January 2000 to use
Trileptal for epilepsy, and was disappointed with sales,
according to the criminal charge. From July 2000 to June 2004,
the company promoted the product for bipolar disorder and
neuropathic pain, which involved far more patients, prosecutors
said.  Novartis “trained, managed, and rewarded its sales staff
for these off-label promotional efforts,” including using
medical professionals to urge doctors to prescribe off-label,
according to the criminal charge. The campaign allowed the
company to reap “hundreds of millions of dollars” in profit.  Doctor Kickbacks  The company paid  kickbacks  to encourage doctors to
prescribe Trileptal, as well as Diovan, Exforge, Tekturna,
Zelnorm, and Sandostatin, according to the civil allegations.
Trileptal had sales of $295 million in 2009 and Diovan, a
hypertension drug and the company’s top medicine, had sales of
$6 billion.  The settlement resolves lawsuits by four whistleblowers,
including Jeremy Garrity, who will split $25.7 million. Garrity,
who worked in the cardiovascular division, alleged the company
made excess payments disguised as consulting fees or honoraria.
He also claimed that Novartis recruited doctors with a high
volume of prescriptions for its speakers bureau.  “As long as they had a prescription pad and were willing
to prescribe our products, they qualified as Novartis
speakers,” Garrity said in a statement by his law firm, Nolan &
Auerbach in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “The company’s illegal
practices were snowballing and nobody was stepping up to stop
them.”  Medicaid Share  State Medicaid programs will receive $88.2 million of the
civil settlement.  “Novartis clearly had a systematic plan of bribing doctors
in order to increase sales,” said  Patrick Burns , a spokesman
for  Taxpayers Against Fraud , a Washington nonprofit advocate for
the False Claims Act.  “Not only did it steal from American taxpayers, it put
patients at risk because doctors were prescribing medications
for bipolar disorder that were not approved for that disorder
and did not work as well as other medications that were
approved,” he said in a phone interview.  The whistleblower lawsuits, made public today, were filed
in federal court in Florida in 2003, and in Philadelphia in
2004, 2006 and 2008.  The cases are United States ex rel. Jim Austin v. Novartis
Pharmaceuticals Corp., 03-cv-01551, United States District
Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa); United States ex rel.
Steve McKee v. Novartis, 04-cv-01664, United States ex rel.
Daryl Copeland v. Novartis, 06-cv-01630, and United States ex
rel. Jeremy Garrity v. Novartis, 08-cv-02588, all in United
States District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Philadelphia at 
 schurch@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 