-- NWR Says Polish Mine May Yield More Coal Reserves Than Originally Forecast
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2010-09-30T07:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/nwr-says-polish-mine-may-yield-more-coal-reserves-than-originally-forecast.html
New World Resources NV , the largest
Czech supplier of coking coal to steelmakers, estimates it can
get more than a quarter extra of the commodity out of the
shallower levels at a mine in Poland compared with original
estimates.  “The latest rough data indicate that these levels may
contain some 50 million tons of probably mostly coking coal,”
Chief Operating Officer  Jan Fabian  said in an interview the
company’s OKD unit offices in Ostrava, Czech Republic. “We
originally expected to find predominantly thermal coal there so
these findings are quite interesting for us.”  Worldwide demand for coking coal, a steelmaking raw
material, will be 916 million metric tons this year, outpacing
production of 909 million tons, London-based Metal Bulletin said
in a report in June. Prices of the commodity will peak in eight
years after which a market deficit will be plugged by supplies
from Australia, Mozambique and Mongolia, the report said.  New World Resources, which already received a license to
mine 190 million tons of coking coal at deeper levels at the
mine in Debiensko, Poland, have asked the government there to
widen a license also for exploitation of coal at shallower
levels at the site. The Amsterdam-based miner is conducting a 25
million euro ($33.7 million)-definitive feasibility study for
opening the mine at Debiensko.  The outcome will provide the company with a more exact
capital expenditure estimate, detailed engineering and limit the
execution risk.  “With the crisis we decided to look in more detail at the
project and reassess our possibilities,” Fabian said. “With
this plan we’ll get to the coal faster and start generating cash
sooner.”  NWR estimates the mining costs at Debiensko to be as much
as 25 percent less than the 70 euros to 75 euros per mined ton
at its existing mines, Fabian said. The company plans to start
mining first coal at the site in 2016 and produce two to three
million tons annually, the executive said. New technology at the
mine is helping reduce costs there.  NWR operates four mines and two coking facilities in the
Upper Silesian basin, where about 15 percent of commodity’s
resources lie in the eastern part of the Czech Republic and
about 85 percent in Poland.  The miner, which sells the commodity to clients like
 Arcelor Mittal , the world largest steelmaker, is also “looking
at” the sale of Polish mine assets in the region by the
government.  “We are carefully following it,” Fabian said. “In case
there’s a privatization of further coal assets we’re holding a
pool of cash at our immediate disposal.” NWR would like to
control majority stakes in such assets, Fabian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lenka Ponikelska  in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  