-- Obama Confronts Doubtful  U.S. Voters During Cross-Country Campaign Swing
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/obama-confronts-doubtful-u-s-voters-during-cross-country-campaign-swing.html
President  Barack Obama  confronted
the doubts and concerns of voters, including his supporters,
during a four-state campaign swing this week, as he worked to
spur the fortunes of Democrats in this year’s congressional
elections.  Obama challenged Democrats to get “fired up” in the face
of Republican enthusiasm, while taking questions from voters
about the slow progress of mending the economy and changing the
tone in Washington.  “People are frustrated,” Obama said last night at his
final event in Richmond, Virginia. “All the good feeling that
we had coming into the campaign’s dissipated.”  The president took to the road as political analysts such
as the non-partisan Cook Political  Report  say Republicans have
an opportunity to take control of the U.S. House of
Representatives and gain seats in the Senate.  “We cannot let that happen, we cannot sit this out,”
Obama told a crowd, estimated by police at more than 25,000
people, at the University of Wisconsin in Madison on Sept. 28.  To speak directly to voters in recent weeks, Obama has
turned to backyard events where he fields questions from local
residents. On his latest trip, he visited Albuquerque, New
Mexico, Des Moines, Iowa, and Richmond, where the event was
moved indoors because of rain.  Obama said the small gatherings were an opportunity for him
to listen and escape the “bubble” of Washington.  “If you’ve got good ideas, I need to hear them,” he said
in Richmond.  ‘Losing Hope’  The format opened him up to questions such as one from a
women in Des Moines, who told the president her son “campaigned
fiercely for you” in the 2008 election, yet he and his friends
are “losing their hope” as they struggle to find jobs.  “This generation that is coming of age is going through
the toughest economy of any generation since the 1930s,” Obama
said. While initiatives on education and health care will help
them in the future, “it’s going to take some time” before the
economy is back at full strength, he said.  “Over the next couple of years, you’re going to start
seeing steadily the economy improving,” Obama, 49, said. “And
if young people like your son are prepared, if they’re focused
and equipped, they’re going to be able to find a good job.”  Steve Duprey , an adviser to Republican  John McCain ’s 2008
presidential campaign, said the unscripted exchanges can help
garner voters’ respect, at the risk of making news that
overshadows the day’s message.  “It can give message people lots of Rolaids moments,”
Duprey said.  Question on Religion  In Albuquerque, for example, Obama was sidetracked from his
message on the economy when he was asked about his religion.  “I’m a Christian by choice,” Obama said, explaining that
the teachings of Jesus Christ reflected the way he wanted to
lead his life. “I think my public service is part of that
effort to express my Christian faith,” he said.  In Des Moines, the owner of a small business questioned the
president’s push to allow tax cuts to expire for the 3 percent
of individual taxpayers who earn more than $200,000 a year, and
said taxes and regulation are “strangling” job creation.  The U.S. can’t afford to keep the lower rates passed under
former President  George W. Bush  for the wealthiest taxpayers,
Obama said.  ‘Return to Civility’  A business owner in Richmond asked Obama if there was
“hope” for a return to civility in the nation’s political
discourse, because “it’s hard to have that faith right now.”  “A lot of people were inspired by our campaign because we
tried to maintain a very civil tone,” Obama replied. “I will
tell you that changing the culture in Washington is very hard,
and I’ve seen it these last two years.”  Obama also criticized Republican proposals to cut taxes
while shrinking the deficit because “the math doesn’t add up”
without addressing spending reductions.  In Des Moines, he said ‘tough choices’’ still need to be
made on taxes and the budget in the months ahead.  “We’re not going to be able to solve our big problems
unless we honestly address them,” Obama said. “We can’t
pretend that there are shortcuts.”  Biggest Issue  The economy is the biggest issue for voters in the November
election and Republicans are campaigning against Obama’s
policies.  The recession, which ended in June 2009, led to the loss of
more than 8 million jobs, drove the unemployment rate close to a
26-year high and contributed to a 26 percent decline in the
median home price. Consumer spending, which accounts for about
70 percent of the economy, last year declined the most since
1942.  At each of his stops, Obama said his administration had
made some progress in turning the economy around, though much
work remained to be done.  “We stepped in and we stopped the bleeding,” he said in
Des Moines. “The challenges the economy faces are still great,
and they’re not going to go away tomorrow or the next day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Richmond, Virginia, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  