-- Obama May Propose Auto-Fuel Standard Topping 60 MPG, Groups Say
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-09-30T21:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/obama-may-propose-auto-fuel-standard-topping-60-mpg-groups-say.html
The  Obama  administration may
recommend that automakers increase the fuel economy of their
vehicles to as much as 62 miles per gallon, almost double the
current goals, by 2025, two environmentalists said.  The U.S. may announce as soon as tomorrow a goal to raise
fuel economy 3 percent to 6 percent a year starting in 2017,
according to  Dan Becker  of the Safe Climate Campaign and  Roland Hwang  of the Natural Resources Defense Council. A 3 percent
boost would result in a fuel-economy standard of 47 mpg by 2025
and 6 percent would push the level to 62 mpg, they said today in
interviews. Becker said his comments are based on knowledge of
deliberations within the government.  “It should be 6 percent because that is consistent with
the best technology,” Becker, director of the Washington-based
Safe Climate and former head of the Sierra Club’s global warming
program, said in an interview. “It’s auto mechanics. It can be
done and has to be done.”  Environmentalists are pressing for more aggressive fuel-
economy targets after President Barack Obama in a rule last
April required automakers to meet 5 percent annual increases,
building to 35.5 mpg for 2016 models. In May, Obama ordered his
administration to release a timeline and potential targets for
2017-2025 models.  Olivia Alair , a Transportation Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on potential mileage targets. The department
includes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration,
which helps craft the mileage standard.  The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the Washington
trade group for companies including  General Motors Co. , Chrysler
Group LLC and  Ford Motor Co. , declined to speculate on the
targets Obama may announce.  ‘Affordable Cost’  “We’re hopeful that the notice recognizes the challenges
and the cost associated with introducing advance-technology
vehicles,” said  Charles Territo , the alliance spokesman. “It
is important that manufacturers have the necessary lead times
needed to implement new technologies at an affordable cost.”  By releasing a target range, the administration would
signal its plans for fuel-economy targets, while crafting of a
final rule with specific goals for light vehicles is still
months away.  The Natural Resources Defense Council, based in New York,
has conducted an analysis showing a 60 mpg standard can be set
with a U.S. vehicle fleet that is 55 percent hybrids, 15 percent
plug-in electrics and 30 percent advanced-gasoline cars, said
Hwang, the group’s transportation program director.  “There’s pretty much a widespread expectation that the
proposal will include a range of 3 to 6 percent,” Hwang said.
“Our own analysis shows the higher end is achievable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 