-- Mondo TV May Expand Turner Deal to New Markets, Raise Forecasts, CFO Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-09-30T09:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/mondo-tv-may-expand-turner-deal-to-new-markets-raise-forecasts-cfo-says.html
Mondo TV SpA , the Italian producer
of television cartoons including “ Angel’s Friends ,” is in talks
to expand a deal with Turner Broadcasting System Inc. and may
raise forecasts for next year and 2012, Chief Financial Officer
Carlo Marchetti said.  Mondo this week signed an accord with Turner, a unit of
 Time Warner Inc. , for the rights to air the “ Puppy in My
Pocket”  series in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The
cartoon, co-produced with toymakers  MEG  and Giochi Preziosi SpA,
will be broadcast on Turner channels Boomerang and Cartoon
Network beginning in mid-2011.  The deal with Turner will boost Mondo’s sales, prompting
the Rome-based company to consider raising forecasts for the
next two years, the CFO said in a phone interview.  “We’re now discussing with them expanding rights for this
series to Asia and Latin America,” Marchetti said. “The bulk
of revenue from ‘Puppy’ will be in 2011 and 2012.”  Mondo TV, which is expanding beyond production and moving
into licensing to boost sales, opened an agency in Milan this
month to sell license and merchandising rights for toys, school
products and food. The move will also allow Mondo TV to save on
commissions to licensing agencies, the CFO said  “Our business is changing,” Marchetti said. “In the
future, licensing revenue will exceed TV sales.”  Mondo forecasts that its value of production, which
includes revenue and the capitalization of animated series
created internally, will almost double this year to about 20.1
million euros ($27 million), according to a March business plan.
The company projects net income of 1.8 million euros in 2010.  New Forecasts  “Year-end net income should be substantially in line with
our forecast,” Marchetti said, adding that “we may be slightly
below our 2010 target for the value of production.”  The company expects production value to rise to 25.2
million euros and 26.7 million euros respectively in 2011 and
2012. “We’re working to update our forecasts by the end of this
year and they may be raised as licensing and recent accords will
have a positive impact on revenue and margins,” the CFO said.  The family of founder Orlando Corradi, which owns about 65
percent of Mondo, “thinks the stock is significantly
undervalued,” Marchetti said. “They’re seeking to bring out
the value of shares and the recent accords should help.”  Mondo  shares  fell 14.5 cents, or 2.2 percent, to 6.56 euros
as of 11:20 a.m. in Milan. The stock has dropped 12 percent this
year.  Family Stake  The family may consider reducing its stake “if approached
by a major player that could create synergies,” the CFO said.
“At the moment there is nothing.”  Mondo TV plans to resume paying a dividend in coming
years, with a policy of distributing 50 percent of net income to
shareholders, Marchetti said. It last paid a dividend in 2005,
according to  Bloomberg data .  The company, which is currently working on 20 productions,
will continue working with TV companies such as Italy’s RAI SpA,
 Societe Television Francaise 1 , owner of France’s most popular
TV channel,  Mediaset SpA  and Germany’s ZDF to co-produce
cartoons, Marchetti said.  Mondo TV is also in talks with Sky Italia Srl, News Corp.’s
Italian satellite-broadcasting division, to open a channel on
the platform next year, the CFO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 