-- London Tube Strike Looms as No Further Negotiations Are Planned
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-10-01T08:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/london-tube-strike-looks-likely-as-no-further-negotiations-are-scheduled.html
Unions representing around 10,000
London Underground workers are preparing to go ahead with a 24-
hour strike, the second in under a month, that will disrupt the
travel plans of 3.5 million commuters on Monday.  The unions will start the action from 6:29 p.m. on Oct. 3
in a dispute over safety and staffing levels. More than 100
additional buses and capacity for more than 10,000 extra river
journeys have been organized for the strike period,  Transport
for London  said in an e-mailed statement.  ACAS, the U.K.’s state-funded mediator, “has been in close
contact with London Underground, the  Rail, Maritime and
Transport Union  and the  Transport Salaried Staffs’ Association 
over the past few days to establish whether there is common
ground to restart formal talks,” it said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. No meetings are planned at present, ACAS
said.  The RMT said it remained available for talks.  TfL  said it
is “ready for constructive discussions,” and that it is doing
“everything possible” to avoid disruption in the capital.  The London  Evening Standard  said yesterday TfL was
considering a court action to stop the strike, citing “senior
sources” within the organization.  “There are no plans for a legal challenge,” TfL
spokesman Matt Brown said in a telephone interview today.
“There is contact between us and the union but so far there are
no ACAS official sit-down talks booked.”  Travel Plans  If the strike goes ahead, it will be the fifth to shut
London Underground since 2002 and will disrupt travel for the
3.5 million people who use the subway, or Tube, each working
day.  During a 24-hour action last month, Londoners took to
boats, bikes, and taxis to get to work. A day’s strike may cost
businesses 48 million pounds ($75.4 million), according to the
London Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Two more 24-hour
strikes are planned for Nov. 2 and Nov. 28.  “This strike is pointless, and I hope that this time --
when Londoners beat the strike once again -- the RMT and TSSA
leaderships will see sense and return to talks to avert further
disruption,” London’s Mayor,  Boris Johnson , said in the TfL
statement.  Only one in every 20 Tube journeys now involves a visit to
a ticket office, according to London Underground, which wants to
cut staff and office hours. The decline has been spurred by the
introduction of Oyster travel cards, which open gates
automatically after being charged with credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 