-- London Underground May Resume Talks With Unions Before Strike at Weekend
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-09-30T12:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/london-underground-may-reopen-talks-with-unions-ahead-of-24-hour-strike.html
Unions representing around 10,000
London Underground workers are prepared to resume talks ahead of
a 24-hour strike that is due to begin this weekend.  Negotiations between London Underground and the  Rail,
Maritime and Transport Union  and the  Transport Salaried Staffs’
Association  to resolve the dispute over job cuts and safety
broke down on Sept. 22 after six hours of talks.  “We understand from ACAS that they have received
indication from the leaderships of the RMT and TSSA that they
may be prepared to meet for discussions,”  Transport for London 
spokeswoman Tracey O’Brien said in an e-mailed statement. “We
are seeking to establish through ACAS when discussion could take
place to try to avoid this completely unnecessary disruption to
Londoners.”  RMT spokesman Geoff Martin said that the unions are
prepared to meet with London Underground, though “no talks are
boxed in at the moment.”  The unions refused an invitation to resume talks on Sept.
24, Transport for London said in a statement on its website.  The strike is due to begin on Oct. 3 with a 24-hour walk
out by London Underground workers at 6:29 p.m. with former
Metronet maintenance staff joining them about half an hour
later. Another 24-hour strike by nearly 200 Alstom-Metro train
maintenance workers is scheduled to begin on Oct. 4 at 7 pm.  London’s 3.5 million Tube travelers took to boats, bikes,
taxis and their own two feet earlier this month when the first
of the four 24-hour strikes began. Two further strikes are
planned for Nov. 2 and Nov. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 