-- Hong Kong Put Options Jump After Hang Seng Index Reached Eight-Month High
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-09-30T20:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/hong-kong-put-options-jump-after-hang-seng-index-reached-eight-month-high.html
Trading of bearish  options  on Hong
Kong stocks jumped to 14 times the four-week average in U.S.
trading yesterday as investors boosted buying of contracts that
protect against a decline.  More than 10,000 puts to sell the iShares MSCI Hong Kong
Index Fund changed hands yesterday, 206 times the number of
calls to buy, as the ETF climbed 0.4 percent to $17.99 in New
York. Almost all of that volume was concentrated in two trades
of March $16 puts and March $17 puts. The ETF hasn’t closed
below $16 since Aug. 31. Since then, it has rallied 13 percent.  “There was substantial put-buying, indicating a bet on a
lower index, increased  market volatility  and a general change in
direction from the last month to month and a half,” said  Ophir Gottlieb , head of client services at Livevol Inc., a San
Francisco-based provider of options market analytics.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index increased 1.2 percent to a
 nine-month high  yesterday, leading gains in Asian benchmarks,
after Chinese manufacturing rose for a second month, adding to
signs that the world’s fastest-growing major economy is
stabilizing. The gauge fell 0.1 percent today. The Hong Kong ETF
rose 0.8 percent to $18.14 as of 4 p.m. in New York.  All but two of 40 stocks tracked by the ETF have risen this
month, led by gains of more than 20 percent for Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. and New World
Development Co. The Hang Seng has rallied 18 percent since
falling to a six-month low in May, outpacing a 13 percent rally
for the MSCI World Index during the same period.  “Someone is likely hedging the gains they’ve had,” said
 Jason Roelke , head of derivative sales at Jefferies Group Inc.
in New York. The investor is “buying puts on one of the more
recent better-performing assets.”  The total combined open interest for the ETF’s March puts
was 197 before yesterday, and more than 99 percent of the March
$16 puts and March $17 puts changed hands on the ask price,
indicating that almost all of yesterday’s trades were initiated
by buyers creating new bearish positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 