-- Hong Kong Bank Stocks Fall, led by ICBC; Sun Hung Kai Advances
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-09-30T09:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/hong-kong-stocks-fall-led-by-banks-as-icbc-drops-chalco-slips.html
Hong Kong bank  stocks  fell after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sold a stake in  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. , overshadowing advances by the city’s real-
estate companies.  ICBC lost 3.2 percent after Goldman Sachs sold 3.04 billion
of its shares.  China Construction Bank Corp. , the nation’s No. 2
lender by market value, sank 0.4 percent. China Resources Land
Ltd. fell 4.4 percent, leading declines by Chinese developers,
after Credit Suisse Group AG said investors should continue
reducing holdings of the shares. Their Hong Kong-based peers
gained after  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.  bought land in a
government sale for more than analysts estimated.  “The Goldman Sachs sale of ICBC caused panic about
mainland banks,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at Fulbright
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The overall mood in the market
this month was good, but Chinese developers are having no luck
with the government trying to cool property prices.”  The  Hang Seng Index  dropped 0.1 percent to 22,358.17 at the
close, reducing its September gain to 8.9 percent. That’s the
biggest monthly advance since July 2009. About as many stocks
dropped as advanced on the 45-member gauge. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares of Chinese companies
declined 0.2 percent to 12,406.10.  ICBC fell 3.2 percent to HK$5.78 after Goldman Sachs sold a
stake in the world’s largest lender by market value for HK$17.45
billion ($2.25 billion). The brokerage sold 3.04 billion ICBC
shares at HK$5.74 each, according to a sale document sent to
fund managers.  Developers Drop  China Construction Bank lost 0.4 percent to HK$6.80.  Bank
of China Ltd. , the nation’s fourth-largest lender by market
value, dropped 0.5 percent to HK$4.07, and Bank of
Communications Co. slid 0.5 percent to HK$8.39. A measure of
finance companies including banks was the biggest drag on the
Hang Seng Index.  The stock gauge has surged 11 percent in the past three
months as corporate earnings and economic reports boosted
confidence the global recovery will not falter. That’s the
biggest quarterly increase since the three months ended Sept. 30
last year. Stocks in the index trade at an average 14.4 times
 estimated earnings , compared with about 13.3 times on June 30.  Developers with projects in China dropped.  China Resources
Land  slumped 4.4 percent to HK$15.78. China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd., controlled by the nation’s construction
ministry, fell 2.4 percent to HK$16.42. Guangzhou R&F Properties
Co., the biggest real-estate company in the southern Chinese
city, declined 2.2 percent to HK$10.90.  Property Tax  Hong Kong-listed developers are likely to fall more than
those traded on the mainland as China’s measures to cool the
property market announced yesterday are “not yet reflected,”
according to a report by Credit Suisse analysts. China Resources,
China Overseas Land and Guangzhou R&F are among those with
“higher risks,” the report said.  China will speed up the introduction of a trial property
tax in some cities and then expand the levy to the whole country
to curb rising real-estate prices, the government said, without
giving a timetable.  The state also asked commercial banks to stop offering
loans to buyers of third homes and extended a 30 percent down-
payment requirement to all first-home buyers, according to a
statement posted on the government website.  Hong Kong-based developers climbed after a parcel of land
was sold for a higher than estimated price yesterday.  Sun Hung
Kai Properties , the city’s biggest developer, jumped 3 percent
to HK$134 after buying a site in the Fan Ling district for
HK$459 million, more than the HK$370 million median estimate of
five analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Index Leader  Hang Lung Properties Ltd., which receives 84 percent of its
revenue from Hong Kong, increased 2.7 percent to HK$37.90, and
 New World Development Ltd. , controlled by billionaire Cheng Yu-
tung, advanced 4 percent to HK$15.64. The top five gains on the
Hang Seng Index were Hong Kong-based companies with businesses
related to property.  “Local property developers are offsetting some of the
declines today,” said Fulbright’s Lun.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , known as Chalco, tumbled 4.2
percent to HK$7.32. The stock climbed 8.8 percent in the past
two days on plans by its parent to invest in rare-earth projects.
The stock’s 14-day relative strength index, a moving average
based on gains and falls, rose to 80 yesterday, the highest
level in more than two years. Readings above 70 indicate a price
may be poised to fall.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index were little changed at
22,328.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 