-- Monsoon Rainfall in India Best in Three Years as La Nina Event Strengthens
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-09-30T09:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/monsoon-in-india-best-in-3-years-as-la-nina-strengthens-increases-rain.html
Monsoon  rainfall in India, set to
be the best in three years, will help the nation’s 235 million
farmers harvest record crops of rice, corn, cotton and oilseeds,
lowering food  inflation  from near a two-month high.  The country got 911 millimeters (35.9 inches) of rainfall
between June 1 and Sept. 29 after the La Nina event increased
precipitation in August and September, exceeding the 50-year
average of 889.2 millimeters, according to data from the  India
Meteorological Department . That’s the heaviest since 2007 and
matches the agency’s forecast in June.  Increased farm output may cool inflation that has prompted
India’s central bank to increase rates five times this year and
ensure food security at a time when adverse weather has damaged
grains and oilseeds crops from Russia to Canada. A drought last
year forced Asia’s second-fastest-growing major economy to make
record imports of edible oils, sugar and pulses.  “There are global uncertainties with regard to food crops
after Russia and Ukraine banned grain exports because of dry
weather,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist with Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Mumbai. “A good harvest here will ensure that India is
not affected by it.”  Rice has gained 29 percent in Chicago since the end of June,
partly because floods in Pakistan curbed production, and reached
the highest in almost five months on Sept. 28. Soybeans reached
a 15-month high this week on concern dryness may delay sowing in
Brazil and Argentina, the top suppliers after the U.S., and a
cold snap harms the crop in China, the biggest user.  Wheat prices have surged 42 percent since the end of June
after Russia’s worst drought in five decades, and corn is set
for the best quarterly advance in almost four years. Sugar has
jumped 79 percent since reaching a 13-month low on May 7.  Price Concern  In India, an index measuring wholesale prices of products
including lentils, rice and vegetables climbed 16.44 percent in
the week ended Sept. 18 from a year ago, a trade ministry report
showed in New Delhi today. The price situation in the country
remains a concern and the central bank will respond to contain
it, central bank’s Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said yesterday.  “Food inflation should come down to low single-digit once
the harvest begins in full swing from November,” Varma said.
“Higher local production of sugar and wheat will ensure India
doesn’t import inflation.”  Production of grains sown at the start of the country’s
June to September rainy season may rise to 114.63 million tons,
from 103.84 million tons a year earlier, according to the farm
ministry. Output of oilseeds such as peanuts and sunflower may
rise to 17.3 million tons from 15.7 million tons a year earlier,
the ministry said. The corn crop may be in excess of 20 million
tons, according to Adani Enterprises Ltd., India’s top non-state
trader of farm goods.  Sugar output may be 25.5 million tons in the 2010-11 season
starting tomorrow, the highest in three years, according to the
Indian Sugar Mills Association.  Grain Belt  India’s northwest region, including the main wheat-growing
states of Punjab and Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, the top cane-
grower, got 13 percent more rain than normal, the bureau said.
Showers in the central states, the nation’s biggest producer of
soybeans, were 4 percent above normal.  “The late withdrawal in monsoon will ensure that we have a
good winter crop, including wheat,” said Varma said. The wheat
harvest may be a record 82 million tons this year, according to
Farm Secretary  P.K. Basu .  Rain over the southern peninsula was 18 percent more than
normal until yesterday and the eastern states, which account for
more than 70 percent of the nation’s tea output, had a deficit
of 18 percent, data from the forecaster show.  India’s monsoon season runs from June 1 to Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 