-- Tony Curtis, Hollywood Heartthrob Who Donned Skirt, Dies at 85
-- B y   K a t h r y n   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-30T10:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/tony-curtis-movie-heartthrob-who-donned-skirt-dies-at-85-sky-news-says.html
Tony Curtis , the 1950s Hollywood
heartthrob who won acclaim as a sleazy press agent in “Sweet
Smell of Success” and earned stardom as a skirt-wearing
saxophone player in “Some Like It Hot,” has died. He was 85.  The star died in his bed at his Las Vegas home, according
to a statement by the Clark County coroner’s office.   Curtis  appeared  in 90 movies and was nominated once for an
Academy Award, for  Stanley Kramer ’s “ The Defiant Ones ” (1958).
Curtis impressed critics in the film about a prison escape,
playing a convict shackled to a black inmate ( Sidney Poitier ) he
despises until they forge a bond fleeing through the U.S. South.  A year later, Curtis co-starred with  Marilyn Monroe  and
 Jack Lemmon  in “ Some Like It Hot ,” the Billy Wilder comedy
about two musicians who hide from the Chicago mob by donning
dresses and joining an all-female band. In 2000, the American
Film Institute called it the  funniest U.S. movie  ever made.  Handsome and athletic, Curtis had no trouble finding roles
or women when he arrived in Hollywood in 1948. Three years later
he married actress  Janet Leigh , with whom he appeared in a few
movies and produced daughters Jamie Lee and Kelly Lee, both
actresses.  Famed for his face, mocked for his New York accent, Curtis
thought his acting had been underrated. “Because he was so
handsome and successful, a lot of recognition was denied him,”
 Jamie Lee Curtis  told her father’s biographer.  The actor, born in Manhattan on June 3, 1925, was
originally named Bernard Schwartz, the son of Hungarian
immigrants Manuel and Helen Schwartz.  Rough Neighborhoods  His father was a tailor who moved his shop and family
between Manhattan and the Bronx. In his first  memoir , “Tony
Curtis: The Autobiography,” the actor described a transient
childhood in rough neighborhoods that were often hostile to
Jews.  From his earliest memory, Curtis recalled being enthralled
by movies. When slapped by his mother, the would-be actor
shielded his face because he needed “to protect the only gift I
felt God had given me,” he wrote.  He enrolled in a high school on Manhattan’s Lower East Side
because a friend said they would be among more Jewish students
there. The friend, Gene Singer, also suggested he study acting.  “He never seemed like a Bernie Schwartz. It just didn’t
quite fit. His whole persona was ‘Tony Curtis’ even then,”
Singer told Barry Paris, who collaborated on the actor’s
autobiography.  Acting Classes  Curtis joined the U.S. Navy in 1943, serving in the South
Pacific during World War II. After the war, he took acting
classes at the Dramatic Workshop of the  New School , whose other
students then included  Walter Matthau ,  Harry Belafonte  and Bea
Arthur.  Curtis was in an off-Broadway production of “Golden Boy”
when he was spotted by a talent agent who signed him to a
contract at Universal Pictures.  He made his film debut in “Criss Cross” in 1949. Two
years later he became a box-office smash hit as fans flocked to
see him as the bare-chested, swash-buckling hero in “ The Prince
Who Was a Thief .” Some critics said he sounded like a prince
from the Bronx.  Curtis was more serious about acting than indicated by his
high-energy parts or such early films as “I Was a Shoplifter”
and “Son of Ali Baba.”  After filming “Houdini” with Janet Leigh, Curtis found
critical esteem with “ Trapeze ” (1956). He built his reputation
in a three-year period with “ Sweet Smell of Success ” (1957),
“The Defiant Ones” and “Some Like It Hot.” (His  Cary Grant 
parody in the latter became a classic that was often mimicked.)  Lemmon’s Praise  Years later, Jack Lemmon noted in an interview the
difficulty of acting in movies, where there are few rehearsals
and scenes are routinely shot out of sequence. Curtis had a rare
mastery, he said.  “He’s the only guy I know who learned his craft
successfully -- literally, learned how to act --- on film,”
Lemmon said.  For “The Defiant Ones,” Curtis insisted that Poitier
receive equal billing and not a “supporting” credit in their
portrayals of the chained convicts with a mutual cause. “That’s
how I got top billing for the first time in my life,” Poitier
said. “I think that speaks a lot of him.”  Both earned Oscar nominations for best actor, probably
splitting the vote.  David Niven  won the award that year for
“Separate Tables.”  Other notable early movies by Curtis included “Spartacus”
and “The Great Impostor,” both in 1960. Then, after a string
of lesser movies that Curtis said were done for the money, he
won favorable notice in the role of a true-life mass murderer in
“ The Boston Strangler ” (1968).  Model Couple  Curtis and Leigh, popularly viewed as a model Hollywood
couple, were divorced in 1962. The next year Curtis married
German actress  Christine Kaufmann . Two daughters, Alexandra and
Allegra, were born before the couple divorced in 1968.  He then married Leslie Allen, a 23-year-old model, with
whom he had two sons, Nicholas and Benjamin. (Nicholas died in
1994 of a heroin overdose.) That marriage ended in divorce, as
did his fourth one, to Lisa Deutsch, a lawyer. His last
marriage, in 1998, to equestrian Jill VandenBerg, became his
longest.  High Life  Curtis lived on a grand scale over the years. He bought an
18-room Hollywood villa in 1966 with four acres and a garage
that sheltered the actor’s new Lincoln Continental, a 1934
Rolls-Royce, a 1937 Bentley, and a 1935 Duesenberg, among his 
other cars.  To meet financial obligations that included mounting child-
custody payments, Curtis said he took roles whether scripts were
good or bad. He also supported his mother and a brother who
spent his adult life mostly in mental institutions and died in
1992.  Curtis began using cocaine in 1974, triggering a dependency 
to which he added sleeping pills, stimulants and much alcohol. 
His low point came in 1980 while in a  Neil Simon  play, “I 
Ought to Be in Pictures,” when he often slept under a blanket 
in the backseat of his car, he said.  He entered the Betty Ford Center in 1984 and returned to
the clinic the next year before recovering to work in movies and
television again. He played in films into his late 70s and
appeared in a musical version of “Some Like It Hot” during a
national tour in 2002.  A lifelong artist, Curtis painted in acrylic and assembled
box constructions. He used a personal  website  to sell his
creations. The Butler Institute of American Art in Ohio mounted
an exhibition of his work in 1992.  His second  memoir , published in 2008, detailed his
friendships and loves with Hollywood’s biggest names.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathryn Harris at  kathrynh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 