-- Orascom’s Djezzy Reassessed for $230 Million in Tax
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2010-09-30T13:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/orascom-s-djezzy-gets-230-million-in-tax-reassessment-update1-.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE  said
that its Algerian unit Djezzy received an initial tax
reassessment for $230 million for 2008 and 2009, and it will
take legal steps to dispute the figure.  Orascom  “completely” objects to the preliminary
reevaluation of income by the tax authorities, it said in a
statement to the Egyptian exchange today. Orascom is the Middle
East’s biggest publicly traded mobile-phone operator by users.  “The reassessment is based on an untrue allegation that
Orascom Telecom Algerie did not keep sound records for the years
2008 and 2009,” the Cairo-based company said. It added that the
company’s financial records were audited by KPMG and local
auditors. Orascom has the right to respond to the tax
authority’s notification within 40 days before receiving a final
tax reassessment for those two years, it said.  Algeria’s action is the latest in a legal dispute between
Orascom and the government of the North African country, which
has said that it wants to buy Djezzy. Last year, Algerian tax
authorities hit the unit with a backdated tax bill of $596.6
million for 2004 to 2007, a decision that Orascom is fighting.  Since then, the Algerian central bank has banned the unit
from transferring money abroad and customs authorities have
blocked the release of essential equipment, according to the
minutes of an Aug. 11 Orascom Telecom board meeting released
last week.  Merger Talks  The latest dispute comes amid talks between Weather
Investments SpA, which controls Orascom, and Russian operator
VimpelCom Ltd. to merge telecommunications assets. Analysts
including ING Groep’s  Dalibor Vavruska  have questioned whether
the two companies can reach an agreement without clarity on the
future of Djezzy.  Algerian police summoned Djezzy Chief Executive Officer
 Tamer El Mahdy  for questioning over suspected violations in
financial transfers, the company said yesterday.  “We deny these accusations,” El Mahdy told Al Arabiya
television in an interview aired today. “We have given some
clarification to enlighten” the authorities, he said.  The Algerian government expressed interest in buying Djezzy
after it blocked its sale to MTN Ltd. Its decision to prevent
the sale foiled the Johannesburg-based operator’s plans to buy
several of Orascom’s African assets.  The government has appointed a committee to evaluate Djezzy
and expects to buy the unit by the end of the year,
Communications Minister  Moussa Benhammadi  said this month.  “Vimpelcom and the Russians could possibly play some kind
of mediation role in this in October, but otherwise it is hard
to see now Orascom getting anything close to what would have
been a fair price before these troubles started,” Vavruska said
today by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Galal  in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net 
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  