-- Morgan Stanley's Roach Calls Yuan Legislation Bad Economics, Bad Politics
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-09-30T13:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/morgan-stanley-s-roach-calls-yuan-legislation-bad-economics-bad-politics.html
The U.S. House of Representatives’
measure passed yesterday, aimed at pushing up the value of the
yuan, is “bad politics” and “bad economics,” said  Stephen S. Roach , non-executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia.  “It’s an important step on the road to a very
confrontational approach between Washington and China,” Roach
said today on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene . “It’s bad politics, it’s bad economics, it’s not the
right way to deal with this.”  The House of Representatives voted yesterday for a measure
that would let domestic companies petition for duties on Chinese
 imports  to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan. Roach said
the currency charge against China was “ridiculous,” and its
government has said the legislation would do nothing to cut the
U.S. trade deficit and would only risk harming growth.  “Why can’t we rise to the competitive challenge as we have
always done in the past rather than go after them with some
ridiculous currency charge,” Roach said. “This is not a good
approach for an American economy that needs jobs. We’re going at
this the wrong way.”  China, the U.S.’s third largest export market, should be
encouraged to boost private consumption, said Roach, who added
this could be a “huge opportunity” for the U.S.  The U.S. is enduring persistently high  unemployment  and a
surge this year in the trade deficit with China, which rose 27
percent to $25.9 billion in July from a year ago.  “The big issue in America is jobs,” Roach said. “If we
can drive exports into that market that’s how we can compete and
grow ourselves.”  The issue may become a point of contention at the meeting
of Group of 20 nations leaders in Seoul in November, Roach said.  “When you have a tough global environment, nobody wants
their currency to get stronger,” he said. “It’s going to be a
pretty contentious debate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  