-- Morocco EU1 Billion Bond Sale Aims to Diversify Borrowing, Mezouar Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2010-09-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/morocco-says-1-billion-euro-bond-sale-aims-to-diversify-state-borrowings.html
Morocco will sell 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion) of 10-year bonds in its first sovereign debt
offer since 2007 to reduce its reliance on local borrowing and
may tap international markets again next year, a government
minister said.  Domestic borrowing makes up 77 percent of Morocco’s total
debt, a rate the government plans to reduce by two percentage
points, Economy and Finance Minister  Salaheddine Mezouar  said in
a telephone interview from London yesterday.  “We want to create a kind of balance,” he said. “This
will reduce the pressure on domestic financing.”  The government has hired  HSBC Plc ,  Barclays Bank Plc  and
Natixis to manage the Oct. 5 sale. The bonds will have a yield
of 4.5 percent, and bids have been received for more than twice
the amount offered, the minister said.  Morocco’s economy relies on agriculture, tourism and
phosphate exports. Gross domestic product is expected to expand
4 percent in 2010, according to the central bank.  “This is an opportunity for us to gauge what investors
think of the Moroccan economy,” Mezouar said. “It is also to
reduce our reliance on domestic borrowing.”  The government forecasts economic growth to reach 5 percent
in 2011, increasing by 0.5 percent annually through 2013,
Mezouar said.  Fifty-seven percent of investors who subscribed to the bond
offering were from Europe, while 19 percent were from the Middle
East and North Africa, he said. The minister didn’t rule out
tapping international markets for bonds again next year.  “This is not unlikely,” he said. “It is linked to the
general situation of the financial market and with the available
opportunities.”  The size of Morocco’s last Eurobond in 2007 was 500 million
euros, the minister said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirchberg@bloomberg.net . 