-- Mortgage Bonds Slump in U.S. as Policy Concern Trumps Analysis
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-09-30T16:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/mortgage-bonds-slump-by-most-since-2008-as-policy-concern-trumps-analysis.html
Government-backed mortgage bonds
are poised to underperform Treasuries this month by the most
since the height of the global financial crisis, roiled by
speculation about potential public policy changes and a wave of
home refinancings spurred by record-low  interest rates .  Securities guaranteed by government-supported  Fannie Mae ,
 Freddie Mac  or federal agency Ginnie Mae returned 54 basis
points, or 0.54 percentage point, less than U.S. debt this
month, Barclays Capital  index  data show. It’s the worst relative
performance since November 2008.  The $5.4 trillion market is being challenged by speculation
the Federal Reserve may boost Treasury  purchases  and the U.S.
may loosen Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  refinancing  standards,
 Eugene   Flood , chief executive officer of Smith Breeden
Associates Inc., said Sept. 28 at Bloomberg News headquarters in
New York. The Obama administration and lawmakers are also
drawing attention to the companies’ undecided futures, he said.  “With all that uncertainty, it makes it difficult to
invest through our traditional bottom-up analysis,” said Flood,
whose Chapel Hill, North Carolina-based fixed-income firm
oversees $8 billion. “We’d rather stay neutral to slightly
defensive on the sector, rather than the overweights that we
usually have.”  Reversal from First Half  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae’s so-called agency
mortgage bonds beat Treasuries with similar expected durations
by 119 basis points in the first seven months of this year as
investors sought U.S. debt with little credit risk and higher
yields than Treasuries amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  In the past two months, investors in the home-loan
securities have lost 0.25 percent even as Treasury prices
rallied and in some cases pushed yields to record lows. Mortgage
bonds trimmed this year’s returns to 5.09 percent, the data
show.  The Fed said this month it’s willing to ease monetary
policy further, after last month saying it would use proceeds
from $1.25 trillion in  mortgage bond  holdings to buy Treasuries,
a decision that helped shift relative demand for the two types
of debt.  The further yields fall, the more of a “headwind” the
mortgage-bond market faces from the “shadow inventory” of
securities held by the Fed, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts in New
York led by  Matthew Jozoff  wrote in a Sept. 24 report. Lower
rates boost home refinancings as borrowers pay down loans within
bonds owned by the Fed. The process also adds additional
securities backed by new loans to the market.  Climbing Yields  Yields  on Washington-based Fannie Mae’s 30-year, fixed-rate
current-coupon securities have climbed from a record low of 3.29
percent on Aug. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields reached 3.45 percent as of 10 a.m. in New York, after
falling from this year’s high of 4.67 percent on April 5. The
current-coupon securities most affect home loan rates because
they trade closest to face value.  The difference between yields on the debt and 10-year
Treasuries widened to 89 basis points, up from 82 basis points
on Aug. 31 and a record low of 54 basis points on July 30,
Bloomberg data show.  The  average rate  on a 30-year mortgage matched a record low
4.32 percent this week, according to McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac. Rates near record lows helped push a Mortgage
Banker Association index of refinancing applications to the
highest in almost 16 months.  Refinancing Hurts  Mortgage refinancing can hurt bondholders by returning
their money more quickly than anticipated and depriving them of
expected interest payments. That’s particularly punitive if
investors paid more than face value for their securities as they
sought relatively high coupons.  August prepayment reports showed mortgages with relatively
low rates refinancing faster than some analysts expected, in
some cases outpacing refinancings on higher interest loans.  Legislation announced by California Democratic Congressman
 Dennis Cardoza  reminded bondholders that policy makers may seek
to help borrowers previously blocked from refinancing because
the value of their homes has fallen too much or because they
don’t meet tighter lending standards enacted by banks after the
financial crisis.  “Nothing would provide a quicker, substantive boost to the
weak recovery than more refis,” Cardoza said in a Sept. 29
statement about his push to streamline refinancing requirements
and cut borrower fees for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans.  Congress this month also held two hearings on the future of
the U.S. mortgage-finance system, focusing on Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, which have drawn almost $150 billion of taxpayer
capital since being seized in 2008. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who last month said the U.S. won’t back away from
its companies’ obligations, promised to deliver a plan for them
in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  