-- Lost Tax Break for Artists Donations ’Robs’ U.S., Lawmaker Says
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/lost-tax-break-for-artists-donating-work-is-robbing-u-s-lawmaker-says.html
While Congress debates tax cuts,
U.S. artists wonder if they’ll ever get the same tax break
extended to the people who buy their work.  Ninety lawmakers are co-sponsoring legislation introduced
by Representative  John Lewis  of Georgia and 23 senators are
backing Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont’s measure to change the
tax code so that artists can take a deduction for the fair
market value of their work when they donate it to a museum, as
collectors do.  Before a 1969 change in the tax code, artists did enjoy the
same tax benefits as collectors. Now they can deduct only the
cost of tools used to create the piece of art, like brushes and
canvas.  Representative Lewis, who sits on the tax-writing House
Ways and Means Committee, said in an e-mail that “the current
tax code has the end result of robbing this nation of so many
highly celebrated works.”  In the three years up to 1969, according to art-advocacy
group  Americans for the Arts , the  Museum of Modern Art  in New
York received 321 gifts from artists; in the three years after,
the museum received only 28 works from artists -- a drop of more
than 90 percent.  Supporters of the tax break hope to use the weak economy to
bolster their case that donations to museums will increase if
artists have an incentive to part with their paintings, books
and musical compositions.  While the economic climate might be ripe for the artist’s
argument, the political climate isn’t.  ‘Everybody Upset’  “The idea of tax cuts now has everybody upset,” said
Washington-based contemporary artist  Sam Gilliam , whose colorful
draped and folded canvases and fabrics sell for $50,000 to
$90,000. “How can you possibly solve the problem for artists
when the president can’t solve the problem for the country?”  Gilliam’s studio is a large, sparsely furnished space just
off Washington’s U street corridor, a thriving area of
galleries, shops and restaurants.  During an interview there, the artist said he went to
Capitol Hill four years ago to lobby lawmakers. Now he’s
disillusioned.  “If I made automobiles, I would be honored. If I were an
investor, I would be honored. But if you’re an artist you
aren’t,” said Gilliam, 76.  Artists backing the legislation are seeking a “double
benefit,” said  Wendy Gerzog , a law professor at the  University
of Baltimore . She said that instead of selling their work --
their primary source of income -- they would get the benefit of
not having to pay income tax plus a tax deduction. She said
collectors use after-tax money to purchase art, so it isn’t a
fair comparison.  ‘Incorrect Premise’  “Ms. Gerzog’s point is based on an incorrect premise,” said
 Mia Brownell , 39, an emerging artist living in New Rochelle, New
York. Her paintings of still-life elements mixed with swirling
strands of DNA sell for $1,000 to $20,000.  “Most artists do not sell their work as their primary
source of income,” said Brownell, whose husband is also an
artist. “I teach in order to live. My sales, if I’m lucky, cover
the cost of running a studio and developing my career. There are
only a handful of artists that sell enough to live on.”  As for the “double benefit” Gerzog mentioned, Brownell
said, “That’s a laugh. My husband and I currently pay income tax
in three states. We live in New York but travel to New Jersey
and Connecticut to teach.”  ‘Ultimate Beneficiary’  “The public is the ultimate beneficiary here,” said  Roland Augustine , co-founder of the  Luhring Augustine Gallery  in New
York. “Changing the law will broaden collections and make it so
that institutions will have to put less money into acquisitions
and can use that money for education and exhibitions.”  “Acquisition budgets are at an all-time low in this
environment,” said Laura Millin, executive director at the
 Missoula Art Museum , a small contemporary-art museum in Montana
whose budget has been cut by 20 percent since the recession set
in. Its acquisition budget is about $6,000 this year, she said.  Contemporary artist  Anne Appleby  wants to make a $60,000
gift of paintings, drawings and prints to the museum but she
says she can’t afford to unless she gets a tax deduction, Millin
said.  Appleby’s gift “would put this little museum on the map
nationally,” said Millin, adding that the tax code leaves “all
museums at a great disadvantage, but I think a small museum is
going to be hurt even worse because resources are so limited.”  Buys vs. Donations  Last year U.S. museums bought, on average, 91 works apiece,
down from 126 in 2005. The vast majority -- 782 pieces per
museum -- were donations, according to Andy Finch, co-director
of government affairs at the  Association of Art Museum
Directors .  Brownell said that since her New York solo show opened at
Sloan Fine Art two weeks ago, “I have been approached by three
not-for-profit charities for donations of artwork. Although I
wished I could help all three, I could not afford to do so.”  She settled eventually on the  Rema Hort Mann Foundation ,
which provides support for cancer sufferers and for artists in
need of funds. She reserved a small $900 painting for the
foundation’s coming benefit auction.  “I don¹t decide whether to give based on a deduction, but
not being able to get a deduction is a financial burden that I
have to take into account,” Brownell said.  “There’s no doubt that the window is closing for this
Congress, but it’s not shut yet,” said Finch of the Association
of Art Museum Directors. “If a bill comes to the Senate floor
that is open to amendments -- a big if, as you recall from the
’don’t ask’ fight last week -- then there is still an
opportunity to pursue. We continue to talk, most recently to
Senate Finance staff. No door is definitively shut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  