-- Total, Shell, Eni to End Iran Investments, U.S. Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   A l i   S h e i k h o l e s l a m i
-- 2010-10-01T03:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/total-shell-eni-will-end-investments-in-iran-s-energy-sector-u-s-says.html
Expanded U.S. sanctions on Iran and
businesses active there have prompted four of Europe’s five
biggest oil companies to stop investing in the Persian Gulf
state, the State Department said yesterday.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , France’s  Total SA , Italy’s  Eni SpA 
and Norway’s  Statoil ASA  are “in the process of terminating”
their activities in Iran, according to the State Department.  “There is a real recognition that the U.S. is very serious,
and many companies are trying to cut their losses,”  Suzanne Maloney , a former State Department official who is now a senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said in an
interview. The sanctions exceed “anything Iran has faced even
in the darkest moments of history.”  President  Barack Obama  in July signed a law broadening the
scope of sanctions against Iran, giving the U.S. the power to
punish foreign suppliers of gasoline to Iran, the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-biggest producer. Under
those measures, companies may commit to winding down their
business and are allowed to continue work on legally binding
existing contracts.  U.S. Deputy Secretary of State  James Steinberg  said the
pledge from the European energy companies means they are
“eligible” to avoid U.S. sanctions aimed at pressuring Iran to
enter negotiations over its nuclear ambitions.  Inpex Corp. , Japan’s biggest energy explorer, is
considering withdrawing from the Azadegan oil project in Iran,
Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata  said in Tokyo today. The company
isn’t a target of U.S. sanctions on Iran and Japan’s government
won’t interfere in the decision, he said.  International Sanctions  Iran is subject to international sanctions for its nuclear
program, which the U.S. and the United Nations’ International
Atomic Energy Agency have said is cover for the development of
atomic weapons. Iran has said it needs the technology to advance
efforts to generate electricity and for other civilian purposes
such as medical research.  Shell, based in The Hague, and Madrid-based  Repsol YPF SA 
have abandoned negotiations to help expand natural gas output
from Iran’s South Pars field, the State Department said in a
fact sheet distributed yesterday.  Shell, Total,  BP Plc ,  OAO Lukoil , Glencore International AG,
Vitol SA and Trafigura AG are among the companies that have
halted sales of refined fuels such as gasoline and jet fuel to
the Islamic nation, according to the fact sheet.  “At the heart of the statute is the commitment not to
engage in any new business,” State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday.  Energy Trader  The U.S. also announced that it is imposing sanctions on
the Iranian energy-trading company  Naftiran  Intertrade Co., also
known as Nico. The Lausanne, Switzerland-based company is
involved in the trading of oil and refined products and seeks to
invest in energy projects, according to its website.  “The nature of the effect we are trying to produce is not
to take down the Iranian economy or harm ordinary Iranians,”
Steinberg said. “What we are looking at is direct impact on the
kind of people who can make significant investments in their
energy sector.”  A spokeswoman for Rome-based Eni declined to comment on the
U.S. announcement. Eni Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni 
said in February that the company would reduce its presence in
the Islamic republic, although it wouldn’t pull out of existing
projects.  No Investments  “Our position has been firm since 2008, when we declared
we would not make any new investments in Iran,” said Baard Glad
Pedersen, a spokesman for Statoil, which is based in Oslo. The
company has a few technical advisers on the South Pars gas
project in the country for a limited period under existing
contracts, he said.  Total spokeswoman  Phenelope Semavoine  declined to comment.
Calls to Shell’s press office weren’t answered.  Seifollah Jashnsaz , Nico’s managing director, headed the
National Iranian Oil Co. prior to this post.  Petropars ,
 Petroiran  and Iranian Oil Company U.K. Ltd. are subsidiaries of
Nico. National Iranian Oil Co. allocated more than 13 projects
to Nico for financing in 2009, according to the company’s
website.  Calls made to the mobile phone of Iranian foreign ministry
spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  and to Nico after working hours
yesterday weren’t answered.  An advocate for sanctions against Iran said the Obama
administration should take tougher action.  “I support sanctions against Iranian-government controlled
entities operating in Europe,” Mark Dubowitz, executive
director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in
Washington, wrote in an e-mail. “I am disappointed in the Obama
administration’s decision to sanction only one company, while
ignoring the many foreign energy firms that are violating U.S.
laws.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  