-- Hotel Developer Cohen Denies Hiding Flatotel Proceeds, Assets from IRS
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2010-09-30T21:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/hotel-developer-cohen-takes-witness-stand-to-deny-criminal-tax-charges.html
Hotel developer Mauricio Cohen
Assor took the witness stand today at his criminal trial to deny
he cheated the Internal Revenue Service.  Cohen, 77, and his son,  Leon Cohen Levy , 46, are on trial
in federal court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on charges of
conspiring to defraud the IRS and filing false tax returns that
hid income and more than $150 million in assets. Cohen built
hotels in Europe under the “ Flatotel ” brand, as well as one in
New York, which was sold in 2000.  Prosecutors accused Cohen and his son of failing to declare
$33 million in proceeds from that sale, and of using offshore
corporations to hide their assets from the IRS. Cohen told
jurors that he was the manager, not the owner, of the companies,
including the one that owned Flatotel, and so he didn’t owe
taxes.  “Just like if you see Mr. Hilton walking into a hotel,
everybody thinks he is the owner, but it is a franchise and many
people are owners,” Cohen said. “Just like the employees of
Flatotel saw me walking around supervising and they would think
I was the owner. I used to smile when my friends would say I was
the owner because I was not the owner.”  Prosecutors said Cohen and his son put $33 million in
proceeds from the New York Flatotel sale in a Swiss account of
 HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest bank by market value, and
failed to tell the IRS.  Homes, Yacht, Cars  They also are accused of hiding ownership of two Miami
Beach homes once valued at $26 million and $20 million, while
failing to declare $45 million in investments, commercial
properties worth $55 million, a yacht, and cars including a
Rolls-Royce Phantom, a Porsche Carrera GT and a Ferrari
Testarossa.  Cohen spoke in French, testifying through an interpreter.
He was born in Algiers, spent most of his life in France, and
retired to Monaco, his attorney  Michael Pasano  had told jurors.  Cohen testified that he started out making $10,000 a year,
and the most he made in salary was $45,000. He said he named a
yacht after his wife even though it was owned by a corporation
he started with a partner to sell timeshares in yachts.  “I put my wife’s name on the boats because I love my wife
very much,” he said. “The client could change the name” once
they bought the boat, he said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Jeffrey Neiman  questioned Cohen
about his claim that he didn’t own anything even though he was
successful in all of his ventures.  ‘Died in Misery’  “Sir, there are painters who have died in misery and yet
they have been very successful in their lives,” Cohen said. “I
was never owner of anything.”  Cohen said he was merely the franchisee of the Flatotel
brand.  “I was the face of the company,” he said.  “It’s not because I don’t like being the owner that I’m
not the owner,” he testified. “I’m not the owner because I’m
not the owner.”  He defended his testimony that he never made more than
$45,000 a year.  “I don’t need large sums of money,” he said.  Neiman asked: “Your testimony is that you don’t own the
house you live in and designed, the boat named after your wife
or the car with the vanity plate?”  “Indeed,” responded Cohen, who finished his testimony
today.
 responded.  Leon Cohen Levy will testify when the trial resumes Oct. 4,
Pasano said.  The case is USA v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Susannah Nesmith  in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 