-- Tour de France Champion Is Suspended on Doping Test
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-09-30T15:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/tour-de-france-winner-contador-is-suspended-after-positive-test-for-drugs.html
Three-time Tour de France champion
 Alberto Contador  was suspended after testing positive for a
banned substance in winning this year’s race. He said it’s a
“clear case” of food contamination.  The Spaniard’s urine sample on the last rest day of the
three-week event showed a “very small concentration” of
clenbuterol, the International Cycling Union, or UCI, said in a
statement. Clenbuterol treats respiratory disorders such as
asthma and can increase aerobic capacity by increasing the flow
of oxygen in the bloodstream.  The amount found was 1/400th of what World Anti-Doping
Agency laboratories are required to detect, the UCI said.
Contador said the positive test came after he ate beef brought
by a friend from Spain. Two doctors who work for cycling
authorities said in interviews the amount wouldn’t have been
enough to boost his performance.  “I’m sad, disappointed but with my head held high,”
Contador told reporters at a hotel in his hometown of Pinto on
the outskirts of Madrid. “It’s a clear case of food
contamination. I won’t tolerate any sanction.”  It’s the latest scandal involving the Tour de France. The
2006 winner  Floyd Landis  became the first rider to be stripped
of the title when he was found to have elevated levels of
synthetic testosterone near the end of the race. Landis denied
doping until this year when he confessed to cheating several
times during his career.  More Research  Paris-based Amaury Sport Organisation, which runs the Tour
de France, said in a statement Contador’s case requires more
scientific research before “any conclusion’” is reached. The
Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI said it suspended Contador pending
the work that “may take some time.”  “The UCI continues working with the scientific support of
WADA to analyze all the elements that are relevant to the
case,” the organization said.  Contador said he was brought the meat by Jose Luis Lopez
Cerron, who organizes Spain’s Vuelta a Castilla y Leon, and was
among five members of his Astana squad to eat it after it was
prepared by a team chef. He said the other four riders weren’t
tested on the same day.  Contador spent the last rest day on July 21 at a three-star
Novotel hotel in a suburb of Pau, southwest France. At the time,
Contador led by 8 seconds over  Andy Schleck . Luxembourg’s
Schleck said the following day was his last chance to win the
race on a climb to the Col du Tourmalet mountain pass.  Tour Victory  Contador matched several attacks by Schleck on the ascent,
ending right behind him. As expected, Contador extended his
overall lead in a time trial two days later to win by 39
seconds.  The amount of the drug in Contador’s urine would have been
too small to boost his riding, according to two doctors who work
for cycling authorities.  One of the doctors said it was “impossible” the amount of
clenbuterol could boost performance and the other said he would
“doubt very much” it would have helped Contador’s aerobic
capacity. The doctors spoke on condition of anonymity because
they said they may become involved in the UCI’s investigation.  The drug is illegally used to bulk up cattle, and several
athletes have defended themselves after testing positive by
saying they ingested it by eating meat or in a food supplement,
according to the doctors.  Contador’s friend Lopez Cerron said in a phone interview he
bought 3.5 kilos of beef in Irun, northern Spain, on the way to
the Tour following a request by Astana chef Paco Olalla. He gave
the receipt to the team to claim back as expenses, he said.  Landis Excuses  Landis offered several explanations in the days after his
failed drug test at the 2006 race became public, including
drinking whisky. “My version won’t change in any
circumstance,” Contador said, his voice breaking up with
emotion.  Contador rode for Kazakhstan-backed Astana since 2008. Last
month, he agreed to join former Tour de France winner  Bjarne Riis ’s Team Saxo Bank on a two-year contract from 2011. Contador
was among nine riders excluded from the 2006 Tour after being
linked to a blood-doping ring by Spanish police. He was later
cleared of wrongdoing.  Swimmer  Jessica Hardy  left the U.S. Olympic team in 2008
after testing positive for clenbuterol and eventually got a one-
year suspension.  Athletes in tennis, weightlifting and rugby also have
tested positive for the substance. In 1997, Djamolidine
Abdoujaparov of Uzbekistan was expelled from the Tour de France
after testing positive for clenbuterol.  Two More Cases  Also today, the UCI said Tour of Spain runner-up Ezequiel
Mosquera tested positive for a banned substance. He and a second
Spanish rider, David Garcia Da Pena, had an “adverse analytical
finding” of hydroxyethyl starch in urine samples taken Sept.
16, the UCI said.  Mosquera will hold a news conference in his hometown of
Teo, Spain, today and Garcia Da Pena may release a statement,
Pepe Xagaros, a spokesman for their Xacobeo-Galicia team, said
by phone. The team has no immediate comment, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  