-- House Republicans Plot Budget Strategy to Scuttle Obama's Health Overhaul
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/house-republicans-plot-budget-strategy-to-scuttle-obama-s-health-overhaul.html
A push by Republicans to scuttle
the  U.S. health overhaul  by denying funding through the House’s
constitutional control over appropriations is gaining momentum.  Representative  Todd Tiahrt  of Kansas, the senior Republican
on the House Appropriations subcommittee, said the “defunding”
strategy “is a very serious idea” that’s gaining support among
party members emboldened by the response of constituents in
their home areas, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 4
issue. “There is definitely going to be a run at it,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Polls have suggested Republicans may win a majority in the
House in the Nov. 2 mid-term elections. Unless they also capture
the Senate -- unlikely, according to surveys -- repeal
legislation isn’t expected to pass both houses and reach
President  Barack Obama ’s desk despite the Republican “Pledge to
America,” that lists repeal as a top priority.  Repeal is “easy to understand if you’re an angry voter”
as Republicans prepare to confront Obama in his 2012 re-election
campaign, said  Robert J. Blendon , a professor at Harvard
University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, who directs the school’s
Opinion Research Program.  In the meantime, the strategy to attack funding for the
overhaul promises to produce a year of political skirmishing.
The White House says denial of money would block consumer
protections and deprive senior citizens of added Medicare
benefits. A funding stalemate may spur a government shutdown and
produce a backlash against Republicans, said  Joseph A. Antos , an
American Enterprise Institute scholar and overhaul critic.  ‘Can’t Defund All’  “You can’t defund all of it,” said Antos, who also is an
adviser to the Congressional Budget Office, in an interview.  The Congressional Budget Office  estimates  it will take as
much as $20 billion over the next decade to build federal
agencies and programs required by the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. The law is designed to add as many as 32
million people to the insurance rolls by 2014. In February, with
the new House seated, Republicans expect Obama to use his budget
message to press Congress for more money to implement the law in
2012.  Under the legislation, the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services must establish health insurance exchanges for
consumers to use to buy coverage, manage an expansion of the
Medicaid program and increase regulation of insurers. HHS and
the IRS will have to determine who is eligible for tax credits
to purchase insurance.  Jessica Santillo, a spokeswoman for the agency, didn’t
respond to requests for estimates of how much it will cost to
implement the health law through 2012, or an accounting of how
much the department has spent already.  Possible Targets  John Murray, a spokesman for Representative  Eric Cantor  of
Virginia, the second-ranking Republican in the House, said that
if control of the House flips, possible targets for defunding
may be the insurance exchanges, the new agency set up under the
law to compare different drugs’ effectiveness and any added
staffing that may be sought to manage coverage expansions.  By vetoing spending measures that don’t include money for
the law, Obama may set up a situation similar to the 1995
government shutdown triggered by a spending dispute between the
then Republican-controlled Congress and Democratic President
 Bill Clinton .  That shutdown hurt the Republicans, who lost congressional
seats in 1996.  James T. Walsh , a former Republican chairman of
Tiahrt’s panel, said Republicans could dodge blame this time by
portraying Obama as the instigator.  “If the president precipitates that, then the president
precipitated it,” said Walsh, who is now a lobbyist for the
Washington firm K&L Gates. Republicans should just “go about
their business,” he said.  Limiting Government Size  Tiahrt said a shutdown wouldn’t necessarily be bad,
considering the enthusiasm among Tea Party and Republican
activists for limiting the size of government.  The prospect of Congress changing hands the year after
passing a law as complex as the overhaul, then attempting to
defund the law’s implementation may be unprecedented, said  Paul Van de Water , a health-care expert at the nonprofit Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington, D.C.  “I can’t think of any previous attempt to kill a major
presidential initiative by not funding it,” he said in an e-
mail.  Election Polling  The election tracking services  RealClearPolitics.com  and
 FiveThirtyEight.com  each project a Republican takeover of the
House. RealClearPolitics gives the party a 4.3 percentage point
lead on the generic congressional ballot, which measures
Americans’ choices without naming specific candidates.
FiveThirtyEight.com, owned by the New York Times Co., says
Republicans have a 65 percent chance of winning the House and
only an 18 percent chance of winning the Senate.  If Republicans take control, Murray said the first step
would almost certainly be a formal repeal vote.  Beyond that, Republicans will use the defunding strategy
among their options to fight the overhaul, Murray said. Senator
 Orrin Hatch  of Utah has proposed legislation to repeal the
requirement that most Americans obtain insurance, while Senator
 Sam Brownback  of Kansas has said he would seek to reverse cuts
in  Medicare spending , required to help pay the $938 billion cost
of the law.  Republicans may also use legislation unrelated to the
health law as a vehicle to change the statute, Murray said.
Congress must act almost every year to avert scheduled cuts in
Medicare’s physician fees, because doctors threaten to drop out
of the program. Temporary legislation to postpone a 21.2 percent
cut in doctors’ pay expires on Nov. 30.  House Democratic Leader  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland rejected the
notion Republicans will take control of the chamber, adding
efforts to repeal the health law should alarm voters.  “Republicans are saying they want to take us back to the
days when children with pre-existing conditions were denied
coverage, people lost their insurance when they got sick and
insurance companies were in control of Americans’ health care,”
Hoyer of Maryland said through a spokesman, Daniel Reilly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Wayne  in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 