-- Toyota Motor's 2010 China Car Sales May Overtake Europe's for First Time
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2010-09-30T06:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/toyota-s-2010-china-sales-may-overtake-europe-s-for-first-time.html
Toyota Motor Corp. ’s sales in China
may overtake those in Europe for the first time this year.  The world’s biggest carmaker expects sales in Europe to
reach 800,000 units in 2010, down 10 percent from 886,000
vehicles last year,  Didier Leroy , president of Toyota’s European
unit said in Paris yesterday.  The forecast contrasts with the carmaker’s plan to boost
deliveries in China 13 percent this year to more than 800,000
vehicles, outlined by  Masahiro Kato , president of the company’s
China business, on Aug. 24. In the past, Toyota’s sales in China
have never exceeded deliveries in Europe, said  Shiori Hashimoto ,
a spokeswoman in Tokyo.  “Toyota’s China share will remain about 5 percent, and as
the market grows, sales will approach 1 million units” within a
few years, said  Mamoru Kato , a Nagoya, Japan-based auto analyst
at Tokai Tokyo Research Center. “Meanwhile, the European market
is not growing.”  The Japanese automaker and rivals including General Motors
Co. and Nissan Motor Co. are expanding in China as economic
growth boosts car buying in the world’s largest vehicle market.
Passenger-car deliveries in China accelerated in August, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said Sept. 9, and
sales in the nation are on course to outstrip the U.S. for a
second year.  Toyota’s China sales still lag behind those in North
America and Japan.  Verso, Wish  The automaker, based in Toyota City, Japan, slipped 2.5
percent to close at 2,998 yen in Tokyo.  To boost sales, Toyota plans to make its Verso and Wish
compact minivans in China with local partners in 2011, and will
also import the luxury Alphard, a larger minivan,  Marvin Zhu , a
senior analyst at J.D. Power & Associates, said in a report this
month. The Verso will be produced with Guangzhou Automobile
Group Co. in Guangdong province, while the Wish will be
manufactured with China FAW Group Corp, Shanghai-based Zhu said.  Industry-wide vehicle sales in western Europe will dip 8.2
percent this year to 12.5 million units, the lowest figure since
1995, according to consulting company IHS Automotive. Sales will
likely be little changed next year, according to  Ian Fletcher ,
an IHS analyst in London.  The decline is largely due to the end of government
incentives in countries including Germany, the U.K. and Italy,
which prompted many consumers to push forward their car
purchases, Fletcher said.  Toyota is introducing new hybrid models in Europe as new
emissions regulations from 2014 may benefit hybrid and electric
cars over diesel-powered vehicles. The carmaker started selling
the U.K.-built Auris hybrid in Europe in July and will begin
building a small hybrid model in France from 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  