-- Toys `R' Us Hiring Binge a Drop in Payroll Bucket: Chart of the Day
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2010-09-30T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/toys-r-us-hiring-binge-may-be-a-drop-in-payroll-bucket-chart-of-the-day.html
Assuming all merchants follow Toys
“R” Us Inc.’s lead, U.S. retail payrolls during the holiday
season will still fall short of the levels seen before the 2007-
2009 recession, RBC Capital Markets Corp. senior economist Tom
Porcelli said.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows holiday hiring totals for the
period from October to December under what Porcelli called the
“generous assumption” that all retailers boost payrolls by 29
percent. That’s the equivalent of the 45,000 increase in staff
that Toys “R” Us, based in Wayne, New Jersey, said this week
it plans for the holidays in a bid to boost sales.  “Let’s not get too excited about what on the surface seems
like a pretty meaningful increase,” Porcelli said in an
interview. “We are poised for another lackluster seasonal
employment boost from retailers.” He said a Toys-“R”-Us-like
hiring binge would lead to a “modest increase” of about 25,000
a month in total payrolls over the period on a seasonally
adjusted basis.  Porcelli said the U.S. economy needs to accelerate to bring
down the jobless rate, which is projected to average 9.6 percent
this year, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News this month. While companies have
added jobs every month this year, the breadth has been limited,
with most of the gains in health care and business services,
Porcelli said.  Adding to the skepticism, on the same day Toys “R” Us
said it was adding more seasonal employees than last year, Best
Buy Co. said it was holding holiday hiring steady compared with
2009. Macy’s Inc. last week said it would hire about 65,000
holiday workers, a “slight increase” from previous years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Courtney Schlisserman in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net 
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  