-- Pakistan Plans Wheat, Cotton, Sugar Futures to Lure Overseas Investment
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2010-09-30T03:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/pakistan-plans-wheat-cotton-sugar-futures-to-lure-overseas-investment.html
Pakistan plans to introduce futures
contracts in cotton, wheat, sugar and corn as early as this year
to support growers and attract foreign investment, the head of
the  National Commodity Exchange Ltd.  said.  “Sugar futures may begin in the next two months, while the
rest of the three may take till June,” said  Samir Ahmed , who is
managing director of the commodity exchange. “The contracts
will help bring consistency in local prices, benefiting growers.
Initially, we will deal with as much as 5 percent of the crop,
but later will include entire harvests.”  Pakistan’s deadliest floods this year ruined crops worth
281.6 billion rupees ($3.27 billion), destroying rice, cotton
and sugar, Farm Minister  Nazar Muhammad Gondal  said Sept. 28. By
ripping out crops, stores and 4,000 kilometers of roads, the
inundation boosted food prices and may push annual inflation to
20 percent, according to Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani . The
National Commodity Exchange Ltd. already trades rice, gold and
crude oil futures. Trading jumped to more than 20 billion rupees
($231.9 million) this week, the highest since 2007.  “Futures contracts will end the practice of market
manipulation in which growers were always paid less than what
their crop was worth by influential farmers,” said Zairuf
Chhotani, a commodities analyst with IGI Finex Securities Ltd.
“Futures will allow the small man to take positions even before
the crop is sown, and sell it to the highest bidder.”  Investor confidence in commodities is growing and the
bourse also plans to start futures contracts in zinc, steel and
copper, Ahmed said in an interview yesterday. With the floods
receding, he hopes the waters will reinvigorate the earth.  Fertile Land  “There is fertile land and it will bear us more fruit in
the coming year,” he said.  The country lost 2.39 million metric tons of rice and 10.4
million tons of standing sugar cane because of the floods,
Gondal said in an interview in Islamabad. The nation may also
import 2.8 million bales of cotton, he said.  Exports from Pakistan, the world’s third-biggest rice
supplier, may plunge 35 percent to 3 million tons in the year
started July 1 from 4.6 million tons the previous year,
according to Malik Jahangir, chairman of the Rice Exporters
Association of Pakistan, on Sept. 1.  Wheat and rice are the two staples for Pakistan’s people,
and the government and international relief agencies have found
it hard to provide food for affected areas. The United Nations
said damage to infrastructure may hurt farmers for years.  Cotton  The country, the third-largest cotton user, may import 50
percent more this year, said an industry official Sept. 21.
Imports may reach 3 million bales, up from 2 million last year,
according to Muhammad Arshad, a vice president at the Pakistan
Central Cotton committee, a government-supported organization.  The nation is also Asia’s third-biggest sugar user and may
import 1 million tons next year after the floods damaged 15
percent of the cane crop, a farmers’ group said this month.  Sugar mills may produce 3 million tons against a target of
3.5 million tons in 2011 because less cane will be available,
said Ibrahim Mughal, chairman of the Agri Forum Pakistan. “That
means we would need to import 1 million tons of raw or refined
sugar to meet demand,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 japooole4@bloomberg.net  