-- Pakistan Says Inflation May Quicken, Signaling Rates May Increase Further
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-30T04:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/pakistan-says-inflation-may-quicken-signaling-rate-increases-may-continue.html
Pakistan’s inflation, Asia’s
fastest, will accelerate even as economic growth slows, the
central bank said, signaling that its second interest-rate
increase in two months may not be the last.  “The recent catastrophic floods have serious implications
for macroeconomic stability and growth prospects,” the State
Bank of Pakistan said in a statement from Karachi yesterday,
raising its benchmark interest rate to a 17-month high of 13.5
percent from 13 percent. “Inflation will increase further,
accompanied by a drop in economic growth.”  Pakistan Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  estimates
the floods may stoke inflation to as high as 20 percent and curb
economic expansion to 2.5 percent in the year through June.
 Shahid Kardar , who was named central bank governor this month,
said his primary task is to cool inflation.  “Given the current outlook on inflation and the deficit,
we are projecting the discount rate at 14.5 percent by the end
of June,”  Mustafa Pasha , an economist at BMA Funds Ltd. in
Karachi, said after the rate decision.  Pakistan’s benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange 100  index ,
which has climbed 6.6 percent this year, fell as much as 0.5
percent to 9,976.42 at 9:30 a.m. local time.  “The decision will hurt market sentiment a little,” said
 Nasim Beg , who oversees the equivalent of $185 million in stocks
and bonds at Arif Habib Investments Ltd. in Karachi. “An
increase wasn’t unexpected but there was still a hope the
central bank would keep the rate unchanged.”  Nationwide Floods  The floods first struck the western province of Baluchistan
on July 22 before inundating Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab and
Sindh, the country’s most populous  provinces .  The government estimates the floods damaged $3.3 billion of
crops, causing food shortages. Pakistan will harvest 4.4 million
metric tons of rice in the 12 months starting Nov. 1, down 35
percent from the previous year, according to a report by a unit
of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Gilani said Sept. 1 the calamity has destroyed 4,000
kilometers of roads and 1,000 bridges, pushing up the cost of
delivering goods and services. He estimated the inflation rate
will climb to between 15 percent and 20 percent.  Consumer prices in Pakistan rose 13.23 percent in August,
the highest inflation rate among 17 economies in the Asia
Pacific tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank in July raised its benchmark for the first
time since November 2008, citing “risks to the inflation
outlook” after the government increased power tariffs. Since
then the country has been hit by the nation’s worst floods in
its 63-year history.  Gilani estimates the disaster may shave 2 percentage points
off economic growth this year. Toyota Motor Corp. and Unilever
affiliates in Pakistan said last month the floods may sap growth
and force production cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  