-- Pakistan Halts Supplies to Nato Afghan Mission After Three Soldiers Killed
-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-09-30T18:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/pakistan-blocks-nato-afghan-supplies-after-air-strike-kills-three-soldiers.html
Pakistan blocked the passage of
supplies for NATO troops fighting in Afghanistan after an air
strike killed three of its soldiers, government officials in its
northwestern border region said.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization acknowledged its
forces entered Pakistan’s airspace as part of a raid on
insurgents and responded to small arms fire, NATO’s
International Security Assistance Force said in a statement.
NATO and Pakistani officials are investigating the incident.  Supply trucks had been ordered to halt, said Umair Khan, a
government official in Pakistan’s Khyber Agency, through which
equipment for international troops fighting the Afghan Taliban
flows. Half of all war supplies to Afghanistan pass through
Pakistan, the U.S. military’s Transportation Command says, at a
rate of 580 truckloads per day.  The incident underscores tensions between the U.S. and
Pakistani armed forces after the American military escalated the
number of missile strikes against Taliban and al-Qaeda militants
in northwest Pakistan’s tribal region this month. Today’s
incident took place in Pakistan’s Upper Kurram region.  NATO forces called in air support for a raid on insurgents
in Paktia province, an eastern Afghan region bordering Pakistan.
The NATO aircraft “received what the crews assessed as
effective small-arms fire” from within Pakistan.  Pakistani authorities cited an incursion by two helicopters
at a border outpost manned by six soldiers.  Still in Effect  “The block at the northern border crossing does appear to
still be in effect,” said NATO spokesman First Lieutenant
Raymond Geoffroy in an e-mail. “We are working with Pakistan
authorities to address their concerns over recent border issues
and we hope to resolve the matter soon.”  Pentagon spokesman  Colonel David Lapan  told reporters today
that the closure of the northern route isn’t having an impact on
supply of U.S. and NATO troops because the coalition has other
land and air avenues into Afghanistan, including a land route in
southern Afghanistan that remains open.  “We don’t put all our eggs in one basket,” Lapan said.  In today’s incident, soldiers “retaliated through rifle
fire to indicate that the helicopters were crossing into our
territory,” Pakistan’s Inter Services Public Relations said in
a statement. “Instead of heeding to the warning, helicopters
went to fire two missiles, destroying the post.”  Killed, Injured  In addition to the three who were killed, another three
soldiers were injured in the attack. Pakistan this week vowed to
retaliate if raids by U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan spilled
over into its territory.  NATO said that its ISAF forces and Pakistani officials were
carrying out a joint investigation. Pakistan will determine its
response after the probe, foreign ministry spokesman Abdul Basit
told reporters in Islamabad today.  “ISAF conveys our sincere condolences to the Pakistani
military and the families of those who were killed or injured,”
NATO said in a statement.  Pakistan’s  Foreign Ministry on Sept. 27 protested after air
strikes on its soil by NATO helicopters reportedly killed more
than 50 people. It called the military action a violation of the
 United Nations  mandate for U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan.  Under Attack  An “air weapons team” killed more than 30 insurgents
after Afghan security forces came under fire from the Pakistani
side of the border, ISAF said on Sept. 28. Helicopters sent to
assess the fighting came under attack and retaliated, leaving
several more militants dead, it said.  “Initial reports indicate no civilians were injured or
killed during the operation. At no time during the engagement
did ground forces cross into Pakistan territory,” ISAF said in
the  statement posted  on its website.  Pakistan’s army began an offensive against militants based
in its rugged northwestern provinces last October. From the
Taliban stronghold of South Waziristan, fighting has now spread
to six tribal agencies in the region.  The U.S. wants Pakistan to target groups based in the
remaining region, North Waziristan, that have attacked
international troops in Afghanistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rupert  in Islamabad, at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 