-- Panasonic, Whirlpool Unit Settle Price-Fixing Case
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-09-30T17:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/panasonic-whirlpool-unit-to-pay-140-9-million-in-u-s-price-fixing-probe.html
Panasonic Corp.  and a  Whirlpool
Corp.  unit agreed to plead guilty and pay $140.9 million in
fines in a price-fixing case, the U.S. Justice Department said.  The $91.8 million fine of Suwanee, Georgia-based  Embraco 
North America Inc., the Whirlpool unit, resulted in Whirlpool
lowering its earnings estimate to $7.80 to $8.30 a share for
2010. The company had predicted earnings of $9 to $9.50 a share,
according to a company statement. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
had estimated $9.50 a share on average. Whirlpool fell 29 cents
to $80.46 at 1:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  In a statement, Osaka, Japan-based Panasonic said its $49.1
million fine wouldn’t have a “material effect” on the fiscal
year that ends March 31.  Panasonic and  Embraco  conspired to fix prices for
refrigerant compressors in the U.S. and elsewhere, the
department said today in a press release. The compressors pump
high-pressure vapor that cools refrigerators and freezers.  Christine Varney , who heads the department’s antitrust
division, said the plea agreement resolves the first charges
brought in a broader investigation into the refrigerant
compressors market.  “We are committed to investigating and bringing to justice
those who engage in this kind of international price fixing,”
she said in a statement.  Agreeing to Meetings  The conspiracy began as early as 2004 and involved Embraco,
Panasonic and other conspirators agreeing in meetings and
conversations to set prices, the department said.  “The DOJ recognized Embraco’s substantial assistance in
the investigation and agreed not to bring further charges
against Embraco or any related entities for any conspiracy
involving compressor pricing,” Whirlpool said in a regulatory
filing.  In its statement, Whirlpool said on Oct. 27 it will
announce its third-quarter results and review its business
outlook for the year.  Panasonic said in a statement it is cooperating with the
investigation and “entered into the plea agreement after
carefully taking into consideration the applicable laws and
related regulations, the facts and other factors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  