-- Patinkin’s Hack Mines Anne Frank Diary; Irwin Mugs: S.F. Stage
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/patinkin-s-hack-mines-anne-frank-diary-for-gold-irwin-mugs-s-f-theater.html
In Rinne Groff’s new drama
“Compulsion,” at California’s  Berkeley Repertory Theatre , a
World War II reporter who witnessed the liberation of the camps
has returned to New York to make his name as a serious writer.  Seeing in Anne Frank’s diary the kernel of a Broadway hit,
the writer, Sid Silver, contacts the girl’s father, Otto Frank,
helps to arrange for its publication by Doubleday and writes a
rave review of the book for the New York Times.  We come in on the story when things start to spin out of
control for grumpy Sid, played by  Mandy Patinkin  as a guy with a
chip on his shoulder. (Sid is a fictional stand-in for the real-
life writer Meyer Levin.)  The Doubleday executives at first seem to support Sid, with
one saying he “can’t think of a single writer -- Jewish, or
whatever you want to call it” better qualified to review the
diary.  Later, an assistant, Miss Mermin, shows Sid a proposed ad
for the diary and explains how “the advertising department said
they didn’t want readers to think they were in for something
depressing.”  As the meetings drag on -- first about the diary’s
publication, then about choosing a playwright and producer for
the stage adaptation -- Sid grows increasingly combative and
paranoid as he realizes he’s being squeezed out.  “At every turn so far, they’ve de-Judaized the thing!” he
exclaims in frustration after his script for the play is turned
down by Otto, presumably on advice of the Doubleday executives
and the tough-as-nails Miss Mermin (Hannah Cabell), who calls
Sid a loser.  Hellman Plots  Patinkin delivers an in-your-face performance in this
cleverly staged production. Sometimes he’s the tough reporter,
sometimes he’s close to a raving lunatic, muttering about
 Lillian Hellman  plotting against him.  Patinkin is matched by the two other cast members: Cabell,
who also plays Sid’s French wife, and Matte Osian, who portrays
the Doubleday executives as well as the director of Sid’s play
when it’s produced in Israel.  Patinkin is aided by a second cast, a group of almost life-
size puppets who appear as Anne, Otto, Sid and others. The
illusions created by the marionettes (voiced by Cabell and
Osian) give the show a spooky edge. It’s stage business that
tugs at you -- helping the show, directed by Oskar Eustis, touch
on serious issues without becoming too pedantic.  Through Oct. 31 at 2025 Addison St. Information: +1-510-
647-2949;  http://www.berkeleyrep.org .  (The play is a co-production of  Yale Repertory Theatre  and
New York’s  Public Theater , where Eustis is artistic director. It
opens at the Public on Feb. 1, 2011.)
Rating: ***  Clowning Around  Across the bay in San Francisco, the actor-director-clown
 Bill Irwin  has revived his 1994 version of Moliere’s “The
Tricks of Scapin,” a comedy of scheming servants who get the
best of their rich and clueless masters.  There’s no shortage of laughs in this slick show at
 American Conservatory Theater , where the tone is more tongue-in-
cheek than faithful rendering of the 1671 original. Irwin and
co-adaptor Mark O’Donnell shamelessly borrow from vaudeville,
movies (one servant riffs on  Robert De Niro’s  “You talkin’ to
me?” line from “Taxi Driver”) and contemporary culture to
update its commedia dell’arte roots.)  Aided by a two-man band, a colorful Renaissance-street set
designed by Erik Flatmo, and a versatile cast from A.C.T.’s
resident company, this “Scapin” keeps Irwin as the center of
attention. He’s always clowning around, talking to the audience,
slipping into soft-shoe dance numbers, mugging and generally
showing off.  Through Oct. 23 at 415 Geary St., San Francisco.
Information: +1-415-749-2228;  http://www.act-sf.org .
Rating: ** 1/2  ( Stephen West  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
 Stephen West  in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 