-- Peeved Housekeeper Is $119 Million Problem: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-09-30T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/peeved-housekeeper-is-119-million-problem-margaret-carlson.html
Since the continent shifted and
everything not nailed down fell into California, many cultural
phenomena have started there: right turns on red, the revolt
against property taxes, casual Fridays, Lindsay Lohan’s
meltdown.  Not all to the good, and neither is this one:  Meg Whitman ,
the former chief executive officer of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , set a record
last week for personal spending on a campaign, reaching $119
million so far in her bid to be California’s next governor.
After winning the Republican nomination, she promised to spend
whatever it took to defeat her Democratic opponent,  Jerry Brown .  Give Whitman credit. The election isn’t over yet and she
has already kept that promise.  It used to be that self-financed candidates looked like
Richie Rich: a little bit spoiled and a little bit bored. They
had to explain buying themselves friends and votes. In the last
nine years,  according to  the non-profit National Institute on
Money in State Politics, only 11 percent of state and federal
candidates who supplied the majority of their own campaign funds
have won.  Profligacy is no longer a liability. To the contrary,
corporate titans are the new outsiders.  Didn’t vote much before shooting for high political office?
No big deal. That shows just how politically pure Whitman is. In
this year’s toxic environment, to vote is to be incriminated in
the election of the bums already in office.  Whitman has airbrushed the blemishes in her career, notably
the black eye of having EBay overpay for Skype, the Internet
telephone service.  Housekeeper’s Hit  Two days ago, she survived a rather bland debate with the
more-skillful Brown. Yesterday she was hit with something that’s
knocked others from government, including nominees of the last
three presidents.  Nicky Diaz, Whitman’s housekeeper for nine years, came
forward to say she has been in the U.S. illegally and claimed
Whitman had to be aware of that fact while employing her.  Diaz’s lawyer,  Gloria Allred , threw the kitchen sink at
Whitman, describing her as an abusive employer, without offering
proof. No matter -- the serious part here is hiring someone who
turns out to be an illegal immigrant, since the employer has a
clear obligation to demand proof of legal status.  When Whitman began her campaign for governor, realizing
having an illegal alien on board was a liability, she terminated
Diaz -- “throwing me away like a piece of garbage,” as Diaz
put it. Whitman, in a statement, said she fired Diaz in June
2009 because that’s when Diaz “confessed that she was an
illegal worker.” Allred said Diaz also is seeking back wages
and unpaid reimbursement for expenses.  Impression Forming  Whatever the truth, the tale of Whitman’s housekeeper
bolsters the impression that Whitman is not the gentlewoman she
seems to be. The New York Times reported in June that an EBay
employee who claimed an angry Whitman had forcefully pushed her
in 2007 won a private settlement that may have reached six
figures.  In the campaign, Whitman has shifted to the right on
immigration, expressing sympathy for  Arizona ’s plight and
subsequent crackdown. Diaz’s timing was impeccable: in the
debate one night earlier, Whitman had said employers should be
held accountable for hiring undocumented workers.  The hallmark of the multimillionaire candidate is to avoid
uncontrolled situations, such as a debate, where your words can
come back to haunt you. A sound studio is the self-funder’s
preferred venue, 30 seconds the favored time limit. Whitman
campaigns primarily by filming ads in a studio with a script and
no pesky reporters around.  The Coming Ad  Watch for Whitman to whitewash the housekeeper issue with
an ad featuring farm workers, all properly documented, with
their children running out of an impressive-looking charter
school in crisp uniforms at 3 p.m.  As with self-help and surfer music,  California  is at the
center of a craze sweeping the nation.  Wisconsin Democratic Senator  Russ Feingold , the champion of
campaign finance reform back when Arizona Republican  John McCain 
still copped to being a maverick, is now  facing defeat  at the
hands of  Ron Johnson , a businessman who spent millions to win
the Republican nomination. In  Florida , the former head of
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.,  Rick Scott , now the Republican
nominee for governor, has so many ads up he’s begun the latest
round with, “Me again.”  And back in California,  Carly Fiorina , former Hewlett-
Packard Co. CEO, has spent $5 million extolling her management
skills, which included overseeing the outsourcing of thousands
of thousands of jobs while the company  upgraded  its corporate
jet fleet and she bought herself a yacht. The fortune she’s
drawing on to fund her campaign includes the golden parachute
she received after she was booted out.  Connecticut Apogee  In staid Connecticut, Republican Senate candidate  Linda McMahon  makes Whitman and Fiorina look like Rebecca One and Two
of Sunnybrook Farm.  She made her money taking a stodgy wrestling operation and
lit on the easiest way in America to get rich: selling porn.
Hers was soft and involved family members acting out in the
ring, a spectacle overshadowed at times by the taint of steroids
and the continuing tragedy of wrestlers dying young.  President  Barack Obama  visited Connecticut to help the
state’s Democratic attorney general,  Richard Blumenthal , pull
out a win over McMahon. It’s too close to call.  If  Major League Baseball  or the  National Football League 
were looking for a new commissioner, they would surely shun
McMahon. But voters looking for a senator? It’s a sad reflection
on us all that money makes that possible.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  