-- Arthur Penn Immortalized ‘Bonnie and Clyde,’ Staged ‘Miracle’
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/penn-immortalized-bonnie-and-clyde-pulled-off-miracle-appreciation.html
Although  Arthur Penn  was most
celebrated as the director of “Bonnie and Clyde,” his long,
distinguished career included at least five other enduring
films.  Penn, who died Tuesday a day after his 88th birthday,
started out as a TV director in the 1950s and made his mark in
1958 with his debut feature, “The Left Handed Gun.” Adapted
from a television play by  Gore Vidal  and starring  Paul Newman  as
Billy the Kid, the movie had an explosiveness and psychosexual
tension that was radically different from the more elegiac
westerns like “Shane” then in favor.  “The Left Handed Gun” had a major influence on Sam
Peckinpah (“Ride the High Country,” “The Wild Bunch”) and,
in its split-second eruptions of violence, was a precursor of
“Bonnie and Clyde.”  Despite its excellence, “The Left Handed Gun” was a
commercial flop. Penn, who by this time also had a flourishing
career on Broadway, did not make another film until “The
Miracle Worker” (1962), which he had first staged for the
theater. It’s one of the most powerful, and least stagy,
dramatic adaptations ever filmed.  Mumbling Beatty  Penn was almost universally admired by actors and
actresses.  Anne Bancroft  and  Patty Duke  both won Oscars for “The
Miracle Worker.” Years later, upon receiving a lifetime
achievement award from a Los Angeles film critics group, Penn
declared that Bancroft, whom he also directed on stage in “The
Miracle Worker” and “Two for the Seesaw,” was the greatest
actress he ever worked with.  Penn’s next film, “Mickey One” (1965), was an existential
crime thriller about a nightclub comic, played by  Warren Beatty 
in his mumbly, pregnant-pause mode. Penn had a penchant for
artiness and “Mickey One,” which plunders a grab bag of
stylistic tricks from French New Wave filmmakers like Truffaut
and Godard, is nothing if not nouveau.  A year later Penn made “The Chase,” starring  Marlon Brando  as the sheriff in a corrupt Texas town.  Lillian Hellman 
claimed her script was taken away from her and reshaped beyond
redemption. Nobody -- not even the French -- has ever made any
large claims for this film.  “Bonnie and Clyde” (1967) brought out the best in Penn.
The film made stars of Beatty and  Faye Dunaway , and boosted the
careers of  Estelle Parsons ,  Gene Hackman  and Michael J. Pollard.
The script by David Newman and  Robert Benton  (with some
uncredited rewrites by  Robert Towne ) was astounding, and Penn
knew exactly what to do with it.  Hoffman’s Centenarian  “Bonnie and Clyde” has become such an iconic American
film that we are in danger of taking it for granted. But its
power is undiminished. Despite all the violence in movies, this
is one of the few where we feel its consequences in our marrow.  Penn’s “Alice’s Restaurant” (1969), loosely based on the
 Arlo Guthrie  song, is one of the sweetest films from that era
and among the few to capture its forlorn waywardness and
idealism. Seen today, it’s both artifact and exemplar.  “Little Big Man” (1970) stars  Dustin Hoffman  as a 121-
year-old man reminiscing on his frontier exploits as a survivor
of Custer’s Last Stand. Based on the Thomas Berger novel, it’s
really about Vietnam; the Indians are stand-ins for the
Vietnamese. Hugely ambitious and overlong, it nevertheless has
sequences, like the raid on the Indian village, that are
breathtakingly harrowing. And, like “Bonnie and Clyde,” it has
a mournful feeling for the American past.  ‘Night Moves’  “Night Moves” (1975), from a script by Alan Sharp, stars
Hackman as an L.A. private eye with a bad marriage who tracks a
nubile  Melanie Griffith  to the Florida Keys. It’s a moody-blues
thriller that, like “Mickey One,” feels more European than
American. It’s a much more successful film, though. Edgy and
languorous, it quickly became a cult film.  Penn’s last remarkable movie was “Missouri Breaks”
(1976), a Western starring  Jack Nicholson  as a horse thief and
Marlon Brando as the hired gun who harries him. It’s one of
Brando’s most audacious performances, mixing macho guile with
transvestism. (At one point he disguises himself as a woman.)  Penn’s jumble of tones, from slapstick to blood-red
realism, turned off audiences and baffled most critics. Seen
today, it’s that very mixture that makes it so compelling.  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 