-- Philadelphia Inquirer Publisher Wins Court Permission to Exit Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-30T19:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/philadelphia-inquirer-publisher-wins-court-permission-to-exit-bankruptcy.html
The  Philadelphia Inquirer  and its
sister publication won court permission to exit bankruptcy, one
week after lenders won an auction for the newspapers.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stephen Raslavich  today approved the
reorganization plan of Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, owner of the
Inquirer and Philadelphia Daily News. The approval in
Philadelphia was the last major court ruling lenders needed to
complete the purchase. They aim to resolve a dispute with the
Teamsters union before taking ownership by Oct. 8,  Fred Hodara ,
an attorney for the lenders, said in an interview.  “I presume after all that has happened people will keep
the corks in their champagne bottles at this juncture,”
Raslavich said in court.  The plan was the second Raslavich approved that includes a
sale to lenders. The previous sale was canceled by the lenders
just before it was set to close because the Teamsters refused to
sign a new contract that replaced their pensions with a 401(k)
plan.  The other 15 newspaper unions agreed to new contracts that
include concessions designed to save the company money, Hodara
said. The lenders won a Sept. 23 auction for the newspapers with
an offer of $105 million, outbidding  Raymond Perelman , father of
billionaire  Ronald Perelman .  Mailers Union  Earlier this week, the lenders were concerned that a union
for mailers might not honor the new contract, Hodara said. The
head of the union then sent the lenders a letter saying his
group intended to honor the agreement, Hodara said. The mailers
earlier voted in favor of the new contract.  Philadelphia Newspapers filed for bankruptcy in February
2009, blaming the recession and a decline in advertising. The
filing came more than two years after public relations executive
 Brian Tierney  and local investors including the Carpenters Union
pension fund bought the company.  Philadelphia Newspapers listed assets and debt of as much
as $500 million each in court papers.  The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 